-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Forza Motorsport 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/forzamotorsport2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A phenomenal driving model that's appealing to both beginners and experts.
 Races just feel right, from the great car physics to the top-notch opponent artificial intelligence.
 framerate consistently holds steady at a brisk 60 frames per second.
 Tons of cars to buy and modes to race them in.
 Customization is ridiculously deep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing sound effects aren't as varied as they could be.
 Could have used a few more tracks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.0, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 9,953 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Forza 2 delivers on nearly every aspect you'd want in a Forza sequel. It drives incredibly, it's 
 wonderfully presented, and it's rich with modes and features. 

  It's exceedingly rare when you can say that a driving game is built for everybody. Considering 
 how splintered the driving-game audience can be, with the hardcore sim-savvy fans on one side and 
 the more casual, arcade-oriented crowd on the other, most games that have tried to appeal to both 
 markets haven't pulled it off. However, Microsoft's Forza Motorsport for the Xbox flew in the face 
 of other such failures. It created a game that was both easily accessible and remarkably deep, 
 with a challenge level so scalable that you'd be hard pressed not to find some setting you liked. 
 Now, Forza has come to the Xbox 360, and expectations are understandably high. In most regards, 
 Forza Motorsport 2 delivers on those expectations. Not only does it continue to improve and tweak 
 an already fantastic driving model, but it also piles on more cars, more tracks, more modes, and 
 more features than you'll know what to do with. That's not to call the game flawless, but for every 
 little quirk that pops up in Forza 2, there are a myriad of awesome elements to make those issues 
 practically irrelevant.  

          Forza makes its debut on the 360, and what a debut it is.     

  Forza 2 cobbles together 
 more than 300 cars from 50 major manufactures; a ton of licensed, aftermarket parts and upgrades; 
 and 12 racing environments, several of which are real-world tracks like Laguna Seca, Mugello, Sebring, 
 and the dastardly Nrburgring. It's a healthy jump in content over the original Forza, especially 
 with the cars. Looking down the list, you'll race in everything from a Volkswagen Golf or Mini 
 Cooper to top-of-the-line Ferraris, McLarens, and Saleens. It's a huge list, with tons of custom-built 
 variations on popular rides and exceedingly fast racers. Between the 12 tracks, 47 different ribbons 
 are available, meaning many of the tracks can be raced through a host of different ways. The best 
 tracks in the game tend to be the ones based on real life. A couple of the tracks can be real snoozers, 
 but even they have a ribbon or two that can be fun, given the right situation.  

  None of those cars would make a bit of difference if the game didn't drive well -- so it's good that 
 it does. Cars are built out in such a way that they all have an individual feel on the track. Of 
 course, you'll feel the difference between an Enzo and a Beetle, but you even feel the differences 
 between a Beetle and a Golf. No two cars feel quite alike, and that's understandable given the 
 wide variety of statistics and parts unique to each car. In nearly every case, cars feel just right 
 as they speed around the track. Each car's physics are spot-on, and you almost never get the feeling 
 that the car you're driving isn't behaving true to life. The only time the physics get a little 
 wonky is with collisions. Basic bumps and rubs look and feel right, but big head-on collisions 
 seem oddly understated.  

  Another thing that sets all the different cars apart from one another is the new performance index 
 rating system. Cars are still classified through a lettered system (D-class cars are the lower 
 end of stock, store-bought rides; S class is all high-performance vehicles; and so on) , but the 
 new performance index now separates out cars within their own class by assigning each a numerical 
 value based on individual stats in speed, acceleration, braking, and the like. Upgrading cars with 
 new parts boosts the PI, and if you go over a certain number, the car will actually move into a 
 new letter class. Seeing the PI of opponent cars versus your own lets you know exactly what you're 
 up against and, in some cases, if you need to spend some cash before you're able to compete.  

 
          The new braking-only driving line aid is a fantastic addition. So is the option to force 
 players not to use driving aids during online play.     

  What primarily makes Forza 2 such a joy to drive is the way you can scale the difficulty to your 
 own skill level. If you're a novice player and don't know a Gran Turismo from a Need for Speed, 
 Forza 2 eases you into simulation driving nicely with several driving-assist features. There are 
 basic ones, like stability control, antilock braking, and traction control that all work to keep 
 your car on the road without too much duress. The big feature in the original Forza was the dynamic 
 driving line assist, which essentially put a big line of color-coded arrows along the track (green 
 means accelerate, yellow means slow down, red means brake) , dictating the ideal driving path. This 
 same line is present in Forza 2, but there's also a modified version of it that only shows braking 
 spots. This ends up being the ideal line to use, as the original line has a tendency to become 
 something of a crutch. Here, you're really only getting help with the turns, and once you've run 
 a track a few times, you can usually get a good feel for where every ideal spot for deceleration 
 is. If you're already into the hardcore driving sim genre, these features probably sound more annoying 
 than anything else. Fortunately, you can turn it all off and get the full, realistic driving experience 
 if you like. Doing so does make the game significantly more difficult, so consider yourself warned. 

  Even with all the assists turned on, careful driving is a must in Forza 2. Take a turn slightly 
 too fast, and you're spinning out in the rough. Likewise, driving too passively will drop you down 
 in placings fast, as the artificial intelligence will capitalize quickly. That's what you'd want 
 in opponent AI, of course, and in most every situation, opponent drivers behave smartly. Unless 
 you give them a reason to, opponents rarely bump or slam into you; instead, they concede corners 
 if they can't pass you cleanly. And if you happen to start slamming around like bumper cars, the 
 AI will adjust accordingly, with more easily intimidated opponents backing off and more aggressive 
 opponents knocking you off the track if they get the chance. Generally though, they'll stick to 
 their racing lines and drive professionally. In a sense, you know the AI is good because you don't 
 find yourself thinking about the other cars much, except at moments where you're fixing to pass 
 them or one of them is aiming to pass you.  

  There's more to Forza 2's driving model than great physics and smart AI. The driving interface 
 is another huge factor in what makes the game so enjoyable. While driving, you can bring up a variety 
 of different menus that show where your car is damaged, the temperature of your tires, and even 
 some advanced telemetry data that might look like gobbledygook to a more casual player, but these 
 give fantastic insight into the performance and status of your car for those who know how to read 
 it. These options are what sets Forza 2 apart from other games of this type.  

  Perhaps the best overall aspect of Forza 2 is that it gives you so many ways to experience its 
 fantastic driving model. You can start out participating in exhibition races or time trials, hop 
 online to take on the rest of the world, or dive right into career mode, which is the true meat 
 of the game. Career mode starts you out picking a region to call your home, with options of North 
 America, Asia, and Europe. Specifying a region essentially dictates what brands of cars you want 
 to establish a relationship with early on, and you'll quickly find yourself earning discounts with 
 automakers from your region.  

          With over 300 cars in the game, it'll take you a while to collect 'em all.     

  With 
 a region picked out and your first car bought, you'll be presented with only a few unlocked racing 
 series and a driver level of one. From here, it's race, race, race. The career mode is where you 
 earn all your cash and boost your driver level. Boosting your cash flow lets you buy new cars and 
 part upgrades, while upping your driver level earns more discounts on cars and unlocks new races 
 to take part in.  

  What's neat about the career mode is that it finds ways to keep the progression fresh, even if 
 it is putting you on the same courses again and again for dozens of hours. You'll encounter region-specific 
 races, class-specific races, ones limited to certain levels of horsepower, and the ever-sadistic 
 endurance races that have you racing on the same course for far, far longer than the average five- 
 to six-lap endeavor. The lack of track variety starts to wear after a bit, especially considering 
 how long the career mode is, but there's enough variety to the types of races to keep you very 
 much interested in finishing your career.     

  The slightly goofy thing about career mode is that you can buy your way to victory as you please. 
 Since you get a quick look at what your opponents are rolling with before a race, you can simply 
 take your qualifying car, boost it to the hilt, and smoke the competition from the get-go. Now, 
 that doesn't work in every situation. Some races require cars of very specific speeds and performance 
 indexes to enter, so you have limits on what you can do. Even still, if you know how to work within 
 those limits when upgrading, you can usually outclass the competition. If you find this a cheap 
 practice and prefer to drive more evenly matched cars, you certainly can. But if you just want 
 to get through the career, it's not hard to upgrade your way to relatively easy victories.  

          The amount of decal customization available in this game borders on insane.     

 
  If you get tired of beating up the AI and still need to earn more money, you can hop online and 
 take part in online career races, which earn you cash just as in the offline career races. These 
 are the equivalent of standard ranked matches on Xbox Live, though the host does have more control 
 over the settings of a race. Apart from the standard track and laps info, hosts can exclude certain 
 car classes and even force any of the individual driving aids off for all racers in a match, including 
 the driving line. Once you hop into an online race, you'll find a smooth experience. We rarely 
 ran into any noticeable lag during our online matches, and though there were a few crash-happy 
 online racers, you can most often weed out those players by forcing off some of the driving assists. 

  There's far more to the online mode than basic races. Microsoft is hosting weekly tournaments for 
 various car classes that anyone can attempt to get in on. The system for tournaments is pretty 
 awesome. You simply sign up for a tournament that hasn't started yet by doing a qualifying lap 
 on the first-round track. Depending on the number of overall slots for the tournament, the number 
 of players with the top qualifying times equal to the number of available slots gets in. From there, 
 you race one round a day and progress depending on your placing within the race. As cool as the 
 tournaments are, there is one odd thing about them, namely that it's not entirely clear why some 
 racers progress and others do not. There was one instance during our testing that we showed up 
 for a race with only one other opponent (there were supposed to be four racers total) , and even 
 though the two of us completed our race, we didn't move on to the next round. The other tournament 
 we ran didn't give us any problems and we progressed normally, but it would be nice if the interface 
 did a bit more to show why one racer is progressing versus another.  

  There is also a very strong community element to Forza 2. Apart from being able to take in-game 
 photos of your races and upload them to the Forza Web site, you can gift and sell cars online. 
 Gifting a car is as simple as picking a car, picking someone on your friends list, and sending 
 it off. Selling cars has seen an upgrade from the original game. Instead of only being able to 
 hook up in lobbies and sell cars at set prices, you can now put your rides up for auction to the 
 entire Forza community. You just select a car from your garage, set a price, and hope someone's 
 willing to bid. And if you're the bidder, you just put money down and hope for the best. The only 
 issues with car auctioning are on the bidder's side. There's no way to set the maximum price you're 
 willing to pay,  la eBay, so if you're in a battle with someone over a car, you'll have to keep 
 going back and forth until one of you gives up or runs out of available money.  

          Online tournaments are a cool new addition.     

  If you want to sell a ride online, 
 you're going to want to do some customizing -- and not just in performance parts. Forza 2 has a huge 
 visual customization element to it that is both amazing and incredibly daunting at the same time. 
 The customization mode uses a layering system that lets you stack shapes on top of one another 
 as well as resize and move them as you see fit. There are limits to the number of layers you can 
 make, but it's a very high one. Just looking at the mode wouldn't give you the impression that 
 it was all that impressive, but after seeing some of the absolutely bananas cars people have already 
 made, you realize there's way, way more to it than first glance reveals. Not everyone is going 
 to have the patience to make these painstakingly detailed decals, but for those who do, there's 
 a lot to work with here.  

  Even if you don't slap a bunch of anime girls or Pringles logos all over your car, the stock rides 
 look exceptional. Nearly all of the game's graphical oomph is in the car models. They look and 
 move incredibly realistically, and the game's nice use of lighting and reflection gives the cars 
 even more of a gorgeous sheen. Sometimes that sheen is slightly rebuffed when you notice a bit 
 of aliasing around the edges of the cars while playing with a high-definition display, but apart 
 from that, it's hard to find much fault with the car models. There's even damage modeling to enjoy, 
 though it's not exactly elaborate. Bumpers will sheer off, fenders will dent, paint will chip, 
 mirrors and wings will fall off, and so on. But there's no truly horrific crash damage. Going head-on 
 into a wall at 150mph doesn't result in much more damage than you'd accrue when banging into an 
 opponent's hatchback at 50mph. Still, what damage modeling the game does offer looks good, and 
 it's nice that it's there at all. And if you happen to have simulation damage turned on, big wrecks 
 will pretty much break your car, making it nearly undriveable. So even if the outward damage isn't 
 terribly impactful, you can still screw up your car royally if you're not careful.  

  Somewhat less impressive, though still attractive, are the tracks. If you get an up-close-and-personal 
 look at some of the ground textures, foliage, or other set pieces scattered around a track, they 
 won't look so hot. But then, if you're getting an up-close look at these pieces, you're probably 
 doing something wrong. The scenery is meant to stay to the periphery while you whip by at ridiculous 
 speeds, and in that context, it all looks great. And that's the thing of it, really. You don't 
 spend much time looking at the track backgrounds because the sense of speed is so phenomenal. It 
 helps that Forza 2 runs at a solid 60 frames per second, with almost no hiccups to speak of. That 
 fast frame rate, combined with some really fast cars, creates a sense of speed that can be breathtaking 
 at times. If the trade-off for not having exceptionally detailed track environments is the game 
 running at a constant 60 fps, that's fair enough.  

  The last thing of note about the visual presentation is the camera angles, or lack thereof. The 
 game does feature four camera angles, two outside the car, one on the hood, and one at bumper level, 
 and these all work great. The bummer is that there's no cockpit camera view. Games like Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 and Test Drive Unlimited both had full-on cockpit camera views with individually 
 modeled dashboards for each car, so it's disappointing that there isn't any such option here.  
        The car models are about as sharp as you could hope for.     

  On the audio front, engine sounds are crisp and clear, as are the other peripheral sounds of a 
 race, from tires squealing around the track to bumpers cracking as they hit up against one another. 
 If there's any flaw to be found with the audio effects, it's that there just isn't enough variety 
 to them. Many of the engines sound nearly identical to one another, even in instances where it 
 seems like more differentiation ought to be present. The sounds themselves are often excellent, 
 but some dissimilarity in effects would have been beneficial. Though there's no in-game music (unless 
 you're running a custom soundtrack, of course) , the game features an excellent array of licensed 
 tracks for the menus from artists like the Chemical Brothers, The Crystal Method, Bloc Party, Prodigy, 
 CSS, LCD Soundsystem, and more.  

  What Forza 2 ultimately achieves is the precise brand of evolution you'd want from a sequel to 
 the original Forza. The driving model has been made even better with the tweaks and adjustments 
 made to it, and the features set is so remarkably deep that you're likely to lose large chunks 
 of your free time buying, customizing, and racing your favorite cars. It's a testament to the original 
 Forza's design that this sequel can feel both so much like the original and yet so much better 
 at the same time. If you've got even an inkling of a theory that you might like driving games, 
 you need to play Forza 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (532 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  WOW!! 123. I have unlocked Maserati Gran Tourismo, Porsche 911 GT2, Audi a6, R8, Mercedes Benz 
 C63 AMG, CL63 AMG, SL 63 AMG as well as Ferrari F430, Lamborghini Gallardo spyder. Rolls Royce 
 Phantom is so fast in this action packed game. 
  
  Lots of things to enjoy about this masterpiece that is slightly but harshing overrated and underrated 
 by Halo players on Xbox live. I also in real life have a Bentley Contentital GT and a BMW x5 and 
 a BMW m3. 
  
  Class D: Standard production cars including the Ford Focus SVT and the Volkswagen Golf GTI 
  
 Class C: Sport production cars including the Audi S4 and the Nissan Fairlady Z 
  Class B: Performance production cars including the Porsche Cayman S and the Aston Martin V12 Vanquish 
 
  Class A: Above average-performance production cars including the Chevrolet Corvette Z06 and the 
 TVR Tuscan R 
  Class S: High-performance production cars like the Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren and the Porsche Carrera 
 GT 
  Class U: Ultra performance-class cars. Only two cars are U-Class when stock without the downloadable 
 content: the Chrysler ME Four-Twelve concept car, and the TVR Cerbera Speed 12. The Koenigsegg 
 CCGT, Ferrari FXX, Ferrari F50 GT, Maserati MC12 Corsa and Ferrari F40 Competizione are available 
 as extra-cost downloadable content. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds9anderon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  There are alot of cars, you can do alot to them. However I dont think I will ever find a better 
 racing game than Gran Turismo. Also there is really no good racing wheel for xbox. The new wireless 
 one is pretty good but I want something with a sequential gearbox. The best wheel out there is 
 the Logitech G25 for PS3. Now back to the game itself. I'm slightly dissapointed as far as in game 
 music, I end up turning my ipod on during races... Also the graphics aren't as good as I expected. 
 When you are just viewing a car they are excellent, but the cars tend to loose some of their shape 
 when you start driving. The driving simulation however, is really realistic (minus the fact that 
 there is no clutch for manual mode) and the damage is also realistic. The career mode is fun and 
 online play is competitive and also fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic experience awaits as you begin your career with Forza Motorsport 2, still the optimum 
 racing simulation available on Xbox after 2+ years on store shelves. The game features an amazingly 
 realistic physics engine with tuning accuracy in the realm of awe. Car models have been designed 
 with precision and the sleek presentation of the tracks and customization is threatening to all 
 other racers. Also featured is a perfectly composed soundtrack with songs appropriate for the genre 
 and timing that allows them to never become annoying or repetitive. What is truly the most amazing 
 feature of the game is the sheer selection of vehicles attainable through racing and acquiring 
 credits. Purchasing parts and upgrades for them is what provides motivation for the player to advance 
 him or herself within the game and continue to place highly in all races. A balanced earnings system 
 and challenging yet fair opposing AI help make Forza the leading racer available. Customization 
 for each car to the heart's content is, once seen, perhaps the most unbelievable aspect of the 
 game and provides for unlimited replayability and bragging rights on and off the track, and in 
 or out of the auction house. Forza Motorsport 2 is, by far, the most immersive and addicting simulation 
 racing game on console and should be purchased by any hardcore driver immediately. This game is 
 definitely one of a kind... at least until Forza 3 is revealed. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n4styg1t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  Forza two was touted as a simulater to rival and better the gran turismo series. A great effort 
 has been made in the game and will have you playing for hours
  
  Gameplay:
  Great physics on the cars and a sense of realism that is definatly in the vain of GT3 and other 
 racing games. Its great to have damage and the A. I. of the other drivers is slightly better than 
 in GT series (never played the ps3 versions) . The thing I was looking for is realism and a challenge 
 and I feel that forza delivers this, however, its just not quite as good as gran turismo. Sometimes 
 the cars swing in ways that seems unnatural, you can fling cars round corners at high speeds with 
 little consequence and the lap times on various circuits would be impossible in real life.
  My friend who is a professional race car driver pointed out to me the flaws in this game but he 
 is also a secret Playstation fanboy so I guess we cant take too much from this :)
  
  Graphics + sound:
  Nice backgrounds and car design but theres something not quite right, GT on 
 the ps2 seemed to have more graphical prowess from my memory, So I blew the dust off my ps2 and 
 had a little go. My memory wasn't wrong! The lighting in GT is better, the road surfaces and generall 
 feel is better as well. Not cool when this is a last gen game!
  The sound also fails for me, it sounds tinny and not enough variation in the engine noices.
  
 
  Conclusion
  Reading my review I have been extremly harsh on the game and that is simply because I brought the 
 game in hope of a replacement for GT. I've realised now that this game is infact great and noone 
 should be put off by my constant comparisons. I have battered this game non-stop this month and 
 have enjoyed it immensly. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rmpltzr
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what game called "Forza 2" the reviewer played before saying the game had good AI. 
 Slowing down when you block and occassionally swerving to avoid the player dpes not make good AI.
 
  
  One thing that really shows the terrible AI in the game is the idiotic decision to leave qualifying 
 out of the game, leaving your car's ranking as the sole factor in deciding your starting position.
 
  
  When racing R1 cars, I consistently have to restart 5-10 times before I can finally get the breaks 
 I need and put together a good race. I can't run a qualifying session and earn a higher starting 
 spot, so I'm usually made to make my way to the front. Which would be fine if not for the atrocious 
 computer cars. The computer opponents slam me under braking when I'm ahead or slam the brakes in 
 the middle of the turns when I'm following. I usually end up crashing and either restarting the 
 race, or turning off my xbox.
  
  Passing is extremely difficult because the AI somehow always manages to be faster than me on the 
 straits, forcing me to make up time in the corners. However, the leading cars get in my way in 
 the turns, then accelerate away down the strait. If I lay back before the turns and give myself 
 some distance so I can make a run through the turn, I am either rammed by a following car, or I 
 end up pulling alongside an opponent on the strait, leaving the AI car the choice of either driving 
 back by or pushing me off the road.
  
  Forza 2 is almost unplayable at the higher levels, particularly with the R1 cars. So if you like 
 playing with prototype sports cars, try another game or get ready for a lot of headaches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  Yes, yes... let's get it over with. Forza is the 360's answer to Gran Turismo. Both games aspire 
 to be racing simulators, but by design choice or technical limitations, both fall short. Yet they 
 offer so much more than the typical arcade racers where you can bounce off walls and cars and still 
 win races. If you like a more true-to-life racing experience, then this is the way to go.
  
  Forza 2 offers dozens of real-world cars, both production models and track-bred racecars. You 
 can compete on a whole list of actual tracks as well as a few fictional locations. With the exception 
 of the snake-themed fictional testing grounds, the tracks can all be a lot of fun. Which car you 
 like to drive will depend on your tastes. But there's more than enough here where you'll find more 
 than one you can call a favorite.
  
  Typical to the genre, you have to complete lists of varied races. As you win the entry level races, 
 you can progress to the more difficult challenges. And you win cars as though they were give-aways. 
 While these aspects of the game are entirely unrealistic, they do push you to complete the races 
 presented, and award you, Diablo-style, with shiny loot very often.
  
  The racing physics are commendable, and require some driving skill and concentration. If you were 
 weaned on the NFS franchise, you may not like this style of racing at all. Good driving is rewarded, 
 and bouncing off of everything will lose you races and leave you with a broken car. And speaking 
 of that, there is car damage. You can set the level, but at the highest setting, you can literally 
 knock yourself out of the race. However, a truly realistic level of damage is missing.
  
  The game is well put together. graphics are top notch and the sound of cars, engine, and everything 
 else is great. The interface is easy to use. You can play alone against the AI, or on Live with 
 friends or strangers. And there are some great online features such as Forza TV and the tournament 
 system.
  
  But there are a few things missing from the game. Forza 2 could have garnered a 10 in my book if 
 it included a few extra features. Such as more on track competitors... between 20-40 would be more 
 realistic. Instead of lists of varied races to complete, how about race seasons... you know, like 
 real racing. A realistic level of damage would have been nice. Oh, and how about penalties, yellow 
 flags, pit stops with a crew, and a few other things missing from the real racing experience. I'm 
 not saying the game needs to be so difficult you can't play and enjoy it. But if Forza 2 is shooting 
 to be a sim, then it needs to actually simulate the racing experience.
  
  So, for a near-sim racing experience, Forza 2 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdevine22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:23 am PT
Review:  Have you played Gran Tourismo one the PSone or PS2 (or PS3 for that matter) and said to yourself, 
 "Man, this is the best car sim ever"? If so, than proceed to buy Forza 2 because it blows the GT 
 series away (IMHO) . Don't buy this game if you want the car you drive not to realistically break 
 when you wreck it, or if you want points for making the biggest wreck ever, but buy this game if 
 you really want to feel the difference in handling while driving any one of the seemingly hundreds 
 of available cars in Forza 2. The GT series may ultimately be a little more "sim-y" than Forza, 
 but Forza has the physics nailed down a little tighter that GT. (again, IMHO) So that being said, 
 I also think if you like the online aspect to these games nowadays, LIVE is the way to go, and 
 no LIVE for GT (obviously) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teraphinx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  After swearing by Gran Turismo - and then to Need For speed when I discovered that - I thought 
 Realism was a thing of the past - but obviously not when it comes to forza. Forza brings a sense 
 of real life to the racing simulator - with it's in depth detail and it's complex tuning system 
 it allows you to adjust your car to whatever track you're about to race.
  At first handling the car seemed sluggish and slow for what it was - but then I realised - when 
 you're zooming down the highway on NFS: MW you don't realised that ISN'T what it'd actually look 
 like from inside a car - you wouldn't slide the way you do on NFS.
  But forza however seems to grapple this problem quite well.
  However, Cashflow is something we 
 all need more of - this is quite apparent at first in forza - 1000cr? one race? or 7000cr? 11 Laps?!? 
 what the hell - some of these tracks seem like marathons and they aren't even the endurance tracks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davery2003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  As someone who races go-karts, is a keen driver and avidly watches all forms of motor racing, I 
 am always keen to try out new racing sims. To my mind, there is no better way to kill some time 
 than pounding round race tracks in a variety of high-performance racing cars. Forza Motorsport 
 2 is the first racing game I've tried on the Xbox 360, and given the review on Gamespot and favourable 
 comments I had high hopes that it would be in the GTR/Grand Prix 4/Grand Prix Legends mould of 
 great racing games. Unfortunately, those hopes have not been met for some quite silly reasons.
 
  
  It would be wrong to suggest it's all bad, though. There are a wide range of cars to choose from, 
 ranging from standard hatchbacks to classic 60s sportscars to Le Mans prototypes, and most things 
 inbetween. All the cars are fantastically modelled - the best I've seen on a console to date - 
 and in the case of the racing models the liveries are some of the sharpest I've seen. The tracks 
 are also very well laid out, faithful to the original circuits they are based on - and in the case 
 of the from-scratch tracks, varied enough to keep you interested. Finally, the AI is commendable 
 for trying a variety of different overtaking manoeuvres, and not falling into the trap of always 
 succeeding.
  
  Sadly, these strong positives are let down by some rather disappointing problems. When all the 
 driving aids are turned off, on a standard Xbox 360 controller the game becomes almost unplayable 
 with the more powerful cars. Cars change direction too slowly to avoid running wide, grip levels 
 are woeful (as demonstrated by several instances where I have managed to get cars to wheelspin 
 in 3rd and 4th gears on bone-dry circuits - ?!) , the brakes vary from not working at all to locking 
 up and should the car get sideways it is near-impossible to correct the slide without going off 
 or losing several places to wheelspin. To make things worse, the AI cars seem to be made of concrete 
 - should you clip one from behind, they will carry on as normal while your car inexplicably spins 
 (NB - in real life, this doesn't happen) , whereas if they should hit you (as happens a fair bit 
 under braking and at the start) expect to end up in the barrier. The gravel traps, meanwhile, seem 
 to have the same properties as superglue: even running two wheels over them will dramatically slow 
 the car down, and I have witnessed cars going from over 150mph to 20mph in less time than an F1 
 car takes to do that.
  
  My biggest criticism, however, lies with the absolutely, positively stupid Penalty system. On paper 
 it's simple enough - go off the tarmac or hit a barrier (or other car) and you will incur a time 
 penalty. The problem is that it has absolutely no distinction between when you hit a car and when 
 another car hits you - on both occasions, you will incur a time penalty. The most ridiculous example 
 of this came in one race where the car in front braked more heavily than I expected, and I slowed 
 down accordingly. The AI car behind didn't, hit my rear bumper and earned ME a 0.2-second time 
 penalty. Ridiculous is not the word. This, coupled with the excruciating driving experience and 
 other problems, make what is a fun game with less powerful cars and driving aids an act of self-inflicted 
 torture with more powerful cars and no driving aids.
  
  In short, a very, very frustrating game which could so easily be less so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Rock
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is a good game with online being its best feature. As i said in the deck though 
 is its so boring after a while. You get really bored of going round in the endurance races and 
 start thinking of what to do to make the time pass quicker.
  
  Career mode is very long im only about 70% through at the moment so its a very long maybe even 
 too long a game.
  
  Exhibition mode is just 1 race on every track getting medals same as career really but with out 
 all the prizes.
  
  So overall this is a very good game but not quite PGR or Burnout standard. 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  Matt Moore nintendo_rock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  
  I bought it, as I do with all driving games that might be good. But this one, I don't like it!
 
  
  It's a trully arcade style game. I might have hundreds of cars to choose from, and I really like 
 to spend hours driving dream machines! But not in this game. It's a very poor driving experience.
 
  
  As I tried the game for the 1st time, I've choosen a Golf Gti for a start and give it a try.. My 
 1st impression was bad, I didn't felt any connecting with the car and so I didn't felt any driving 
 experience.. Why? Because when you turn the wheel, put throttle all away down or run fast thru 
 corners, all the physics are wrong! You don't really get the feeling of driving a car!
  
  When I decide to try out more cars, the experience turned much worst! I went for the Audi S4 and 
 I went thru all the bad experience again, and I didn't felt any diference between the 2 cars, only 
 if I look to the speedmeter I night find who's faster!
  
  After that I tried Ferrari's, McLaren's, Porsche's and what a dissapointment! They all drive de 
 same way, they all feel bad, I don't feel in anyway connected with the driving and the experience 
 is way far from being realistic. I tried all kinds of driving, smooth, crazy or middle.. But nothing 
 is well made.. Crazy driving showed me that you can do a 30mph corner in an Enzo and in the end 
 of the corner put full throttle and not getting crashed! You don't even get any kind of decent 
 oversteer!
  
  It' amazing how you only find diferences between a Golf gti and a Ferrari Enzo in speed! All the 
 rest seems quite de same, and driving feels bad in every case.
  
  So, here we have a game with hundreds of realistic cars to whatch... Pretty cars to whatch, but 
 not to drive or feel the driving.
  
  That why codemasters do games like Grid.. They put less cars, because they really try to understand 
 the different physics of each model and deliver that to consumers.
  
  I know this game is a must for any person who love cars... But not for someone like me who really 
 love cars and driving... This driving is rubish thanks to codemasters, that show how it's done.
 
  
  Remember, if you want a good driving game, go for codemasters - grid ou dirt -... If you like to 
 play with hundreds of cars, that all feel the same, buy this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hachtman
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm really into racing games and especially realistic ones so after reading reviews and seeing 
 such high ratings for Forza 2 i decided to give it a go.
  
  The graphics are very good, the sounds are good, the variation of cars and tracks is good but there's 
 no substance in the gameplay. After the first few tournaments it begins to get repetitive and i 
 lost my will to continue with the game. There seems to be no real sense of speed or enjoyment and 
 although the cars are massively customizable you rarely find yourself with enough cash to buy new 
 cars or even upgrade them unless you've paid a ridiculous amount for an Xbox live Gold membership. 
 The achievements system in my opinion also makes the game tedious as the average achievement is 
 worth about 5G.
  
  To me the main factor i look for in gaming is fun, no matter how realistic the game is it has to 
 be enjoyable to play and worth the money you pay for it as well as rewarding to play.
  
  After all this is my opinion but i was hugely disappointed by the game. Luckily it was given to 
 me by a friend so i didn't waste my own cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niches_hugic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game the controls are nice and easy, pretty good selection of cars (age wise) , 
 and GREAT track selection. My biggest problem with this game is that all the cars are very similar 
 no open wheel cars (F1 style, Seven, Atom...) , if there where a wider variety of cars I would have 
 given it a 10. Multiplayer isn't very good off-line but the career game is awesome and long. The 
 only problem I have with the single player is that the computer drivers are kind of stupid (they 
 always follow the same line even when you try and pass them) . I love the Idea of the online auction 
 house (even though I haven't used it yet) . I don't have xbox live so I don't know how good it is 
 online but it should be much better vs. 7 human drivers. Over all this is a great game that I would 
 suggest for any racing fan to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Forza is an excellent game the graphics are amazing, well everything is amazing about that game. 
 The multiplayer is very very good because theres an auction house and it can relly help you out 
 with your career because you can buy cars there, and you can use them in your career. About the 
 career i think it is really good because there is lots of things to do on it like races and there 
 is a lot of cars from all around the world. Its very good how they layed the career out because 
 you have to win races to get points and then you go up levels and then you unlock more and more 
 things like cars and different difficulty and tracks. I rated it 9.5 because its a fantastic game 
 and i just love it, so if you wanted to go and buy it i wopuld recommend you to get it.
  
  I HOPE YOU HAVE ENJOYED MY REVIEW ABOUT FORZA 2 IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ASK SEND ME A MESSAGE 
 
  THANX!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2, the sequel to Forza Motorsport for the original xbox is a racing simulator 
 that has almost everything you can think of in it.
  
  You can customize your car from thousands of possibilities, there are thousands of graphics and 
 combinations so you can personalize it however you want. The damage and physics are all there, 
 from cosmetic damage to higher difficulty in AI and so on.
  
  There are over 300 cars in Forza and they are divided into six production classes and four racing 
 classes. The classes are Class D, Class C, Class B, Class A, Class S, Class U, for production classes. 
 The race classes are Class R4, Class R3, Class R2, and Class R1. You can upgrade all cars with 
 new parts except for the race classes. There are 14 tracks total but feels like more because some 
 are backwards and changed around.
  
  There are lots of races and events to keep you very busy. If you like cars this is a game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  nice presentation in my opinoun one of the best racing games for the 360 or at least the most realistic 
 fans of granturismo will definitly like this game but still this game is good but it doest compare 
 to granturismo but still for the 360 its really good but I'll start out by saying die hard fans 
 of games like burnout and flat out probebly wont care for the game to much forza 2 relies hevely 
 on realism so its more for the car enthusiest forza 2 greatly improves on forza one with more cars 
 more modes and alot more ways to custimize your collection of cars which is one way I think the 
 game surpasses granturismo because of the ability to custimize the look of your car with diffrent 
 designs and decals and the ability to alter color of your vheciles in many diffrent ways the downside 
 to the game is that it can be frustrating adapting and making the transition from acrade smash 
 em up driving games to the realistic car game some may consider a game like this to real and will 
 lose intrest but for people who truly love cars this is the game to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Other game developers could learn from this gem.
  
  I should have posted review long ago but i was to busy playing it.
  
  I was instantly hooked 
 on this game even more then i ever been with GT series on ps, it's just amazing level of customization 
 available for cars and selection of toys to choose from.
  
  It's one of the games I'm happy to take few days of work just to play ha ha ha, it will provide 
 many upon many hours of racing and it never gets boring.
  
  I love the idea that you can design cool looking paint job and then put the car up for the auction 
 just awesome idea, it s also cool to look at some awesome design that other people have posted 
 on auctions.
  
  There are few things i found missing like no option to use G25 wheel why not what's wrong, also 
 there is s13 s14 and s15 but what happened to 180sx type x.
  
  The game is so close to perfection it's just amazing, just few thing its needs
  1 Option to adjust 
 boost controller
  2 Drag racing  with some of the real drag cars
  3 Drifting Jap style 
  4 How about some night street illegal drifting and racing Jap style mix 
 in some of the TXR game play in to the series.
  I know I'm dreaming but who knows 
  
  I can't wait for the new on just hope you can transfer your garage and money to forza3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  I got this game bundled into my xbox 360 last xmas and i played on it only once and thought it 
 was just to hard to control and never bothered with it again until last week. I was reading about 
 how great this game was so i thought id give it another go and im so happy i did. The controls 
 take a bit of time to get used to but once you've mastered that then you'll love it. The first 
 thing you notice about this game is how gorgeous the graphics are, now im a girl so i dont see or 
 play many car games but i was blown away with the graphics, a definite 10/10 for that. 
  
  The amount of car customization is amazing to, you can change just about everything on your car, 
 i managed to turn my mini cooper into a gorgeous pink flowery babe mobile lol! Its so much fun 
 painting your car and adding stuff to it. 
  
  Like i said before the controls can be difficult especially if your not used to driving games and 
 you will probably lose the first few races but dont let that put you off. Keep at it and you'll 
 be winning in no time! Now i have only completed a few races on this since i just started so i 
 cant say what all the tracks are like but the ones iv been on have been great so far. I would definatly 
 recommend this game to people who dont really like racing games because i didnt like racing games 
 until i went on this. I would have given this game 10/10 but it just loses out on it because i 
 think the sound isnt all that great. But overall its a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeHawke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all, the cars, the tracks, and most importantly the game play that every driving 
 simulator enthusiast wants. Whether its spending hours on adjusting your cars vinyl/ tuning setup, 
 Forza can rarely get old once you start playing it. The graphics are far superior than other other 
 racing game that is out on the 360 and is one of the key factors when you are adding body kits 
 and vinyl decals to your car.
  
  The game at the beginning is very easy and allows to run through it pretty fast but once you get 
 to about the 25 level and up your going to spending a lot of time on your 360. This is no 2 or 
 3 minute per race game like nfs, some races like the endurance races can last a half hour or longer 
 so get your pop and chips handy. 
  
  To be honest ive played the game for 20 hours or more and im still stuck on level 30 because im 
 too figity to sit around and do a 10 lap race, not that it takes that long im just not able to 
 sit around that long and have to take breaks in between. Other than that the game is great and 
 is a must own for any racing fan period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone321
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  First let me say.. GT2 was my second favorite PS1 game.. 3 was ok and 4 was a bit better...
  
  I was extremely weary of buying this game, I thought it was a GT ripoff. I was bored one night 
 so I downloaded the demo... After playing it, this game became a must buy...
  
  What is good about the game?
  It allows you, yes YOU to truly set the difficulty.. Want the game 
 to be easy? Turn on all the driving assists, and blammo you're almost a F1 racer... Want something 
 to brag about? Shut them all off and you'll start to wonder how anyone can keeps Lambo under control 
 in a turn. 
  
  What the game does better then GT 5 prologue...
  Damage.. damage... and damage... Also the cars do not feel so "sterile".
  
  What I hope they 
 improve on in the next game.
  More weird cars please. Give me a Volvo 240D I can put a V8 in, and.. well you get the idea.
 
  
  In closing.. arcade racers.. This is a Racing SIM... It's meant to be as close to real as possible... 
 Turn the racing line on if you're having trouble. I can't wait for 3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cELsius89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the first Forza Motorsport but if it's in anyway similiar to it's sequel, it 
 must be an amazing game. Amazing is the perfect word to describe Forza 2. It's graphics are awesome 
 to look at. The sun shining on the track and making it bathe in light. Though there is quite a 
 amount of lighting and reflections from the cars but nothing that will make you distracted from 
 the thing you should be concetrated on. Driving.
  The gameplay is just brilliant and I've only played this with the pad. I can't even imagine how 
 good it would be with a wheel. The controls feel just right when you go and drive the first time 
 and it doesn't take long to master them.
  There's also a good way to set your car and the opponents cars so that you won't be two laps behind 
 them or leading by a whole lap. Even people who haven't played a racing game before can set all 
 the driving aids on, automatic gearbox and the opponents skill level so that they can feel the 
 thrill of driving.
  The sounds on the cars really give you the feel you're driving a car with a V10 engine instead 
 of a 2T lawn mower.
  Then the content. My god there's just loads of it. There's a staggering amount of races versus 
 the AI, there's multiplayer, you can just get money and buy all those cars you've been dreaming 
 of, watch the pro racers drive through Forza TV and then tune and paint your cars.
  Forza Motorsport 2 is one of the best racing games for the Xbox 360, if not the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay. When i bought my 360 about a year ago, i received Forza as a free game. i had only played 
 it for about one minute once since then. but i got bored one day and decided to give it a fair 
 chance. and let me tell you, i missed out on a long time of a great game. it is one of if not the 
 most addictive video game that i can remember. It has great graphics, outstanding features, and 
 a real life effect to it. there are endless amounts of cars and designs and you can basically do 
 whatever you want with the car. It's very realistic, and very challenging. you just don't want 
 to stop. after you win one car, you want more and more. even the minute features are outstanding. 
 
  
  All in all, Forza Motorsport 2 is a head turning and surprising video game that gets two thumbs 
 way up from me. if you havn't played this before, it is very cheap and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is just the best racing game i have ever played. I myself am not a big fan of racing 
 games but i saw the 9.2 gamespot score and the 19.99$ on the shelves i just could resist.
  
  This purchase could not make me happier. It has awesome graphics, awesome cars and best of 
 all awesome driving. The controls are amazing, they work with your hands and everything.
  
  The only thing i don't like is how you pretty much go to a sudden stop when you hit sand. The loading 
 times can be frustrating but they are bareable.
  
  I love the customization to the cars and how if you put an exhaust on it, it changes the noise 
 on the car which is probably the most realistic thing i have ever seen.
  
  I love how they have DLC for this game which includes cars and tracks, that is awesome.
  
  
 I love the damage on the cars, it makes it even more realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloboy10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Forza is amazing it has the most detailed graphics and realistic handling. You can express your 
 inner artist by designing custom paint jobs for your cars. You can modify them to the extreme you 
 can get body kits for your cars and lots of racing bits and bobs necessary for your racing career.
 
  There are loads of events to race in like proving grounds, Amateur events. professional events and 
 the Grueling Long Endurance races that can last up to an hour of racing but you get tons of credits 
 for beating an endurance race and you get awarded a car you can't buy but once you unlock it you 
 can buy it whenever. You can pick 3 regions Europe, America and Asia they all have different awards 
 like when you level up your driver level by earning money racing you get awards for reaching it 
 you get cars and discounts leveling up your cars will give you discounts on specific parts. You 
 can play multiplayer with friends and when you have XBOX LIVE you can visit the auction house to 
 bid on other Forza racers cars from all around the globe its like eBay at the auction house. Forza 
 is truly a spectacular amazing awesome racing game its the best racing game ever (so far) . If you 
 own this game then you own the best racing game of the lot and it is a great buy so if your looking 
 for a extreme racing game then take a look into this game a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ47
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  So, you want to race huh? Think again. This game is not your average simulator racing game. This 
 takes racing to a whole new level of graphics, simulation, cars, and everything else. Look out 
 Gran Turismo, you have some competition.
  The first things first; the game play. This game has a major learning curve. Very difficult to 
 pick up, however, once you get good, it becomes very hard to put down. The steering is very sensitive 
 and very life like. Not even Gran Turismo got this close to simulation. There are plenty of cars 
 to indulge your racing fever into. Almost every car that existed at the time of the games development, 
 you will probably find it in this game. You can also go online (of course you have to have gold 
 member) and race your friends, sell some cars, bid on cars, or try your hand at the new (not really) 
 fever surrounding this game, drifting. But that is not all, you can customize your car down to 
 the smallest detail. It is very difficult at first, however, it doesn't take long to pick up on 
 it. You can make your own vinyls down to the color, shape, and size of each layer. Then you have 
 upgrading your car with performance enhancers, or change the tunings of the car itself, such as 
 brake sensitivity to tire pressure.
  Then, there are the graphics. This game is so life like, I forgot I was playing a game. If you 
 have a steering wheel set for the Xbox 360, it makes the experience that much better. The graphics 
 are stunning with very few flaws. The cars look like the actual thing, rather then box cars from 
 the original Gran Turismo (no back stabbing, just comparing graphics, not game play) . Even the 
 damage (yes, you can DESTROY your car, but you have to pay for that with your own money) is realistic.
 
  So is this game worth the 50 bones they ask for it? Yes. This game is an excellent and a must-own 
 for any Xbox 360 owner. Everything about this game redefines racing simulation to a whole new level. 
 I give this game a 9 out of 10 for a great game, yet a huge learning curve and a steep price that 
 won't seem to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimcdonald
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Very good game. Almost impossible to complete all achievements due to the 1 million online credit 
 deal. It is very difficult to get into a race online. You would have to work with 4-5 friends to 
 ever finish it. Other than that, the achievements keep you coming back. It seems like the last 
 few series you have to complete (in professional series especially) you race the same 7-8 tracks. 
 It has a lot of available tracks just doesn't spread them out very well. The auction house is a 
 lot of fun and helps you collect all of the cars. The car design feature is very good and it is 
 amazing to see some of the art that people put on their cars. I don't have the patience to do it, 
 but so people do it very well. I can't wait until Forza 4 comes out because I have heard it will 
 be bigger and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomCrooze313
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 has been out for a long time, however there are still no racing sims to replace it. Sure 
 PGR4 has spectacular visuals and good driving mechanics, while forza's visuals are out of date; 
 however Forza's customization is what makes it worth buying in a second and playing until your 
 Xbox dies.... again. (you know it will) The game also features a HUGE variety of cars, from everyday 
 drivers, to the most exotic sports cars you've never seen, they are all in this game. And if the 
 gargantuan number of cars featured at launch aren't enough there are even a few car packs to be 
 had on Xbox Live. The only complaint I could possibly have is that the real world tracks can get 
 a bit repetitive but there are some on Live for download and hopefully a few more on the way. (maybe 
 not anymore, but I can dream : ) People looking for an arcadey, NFS clone will not enjoy this game 
 in the slightest, though the mechanics are very good, it is as close to driving a real car as a 
 game has come thus far. (to my knowledge) Therefore a steep learning curve will discourage anyone 
 not willing to be patient and master the controls for a few hours. So, if you are a racing fan, 
 and you don't own this game, you should be ashamed of yourself. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is probably a car racing fan's dream come true. You've got Lambogani's, you've a Ferrari. 
 There is way, WAY more to list from. Not only does it have a fabolous car selections but it also 
 has car customizations which allow you to customize your cars however way you want it to look like. 
 Your probably thinking, so.. customization isn't really fun. Heck yea it is! There is a deep customization, 
 I can't imagine how many ways your car can look. The sound effects on this game is amazing, but 
 it needs some work of the variety of the soundings on different cars. The multiplayer was great, 
 match up against a foe or your friend on an online race. The bad thing about this game was that 
 it could've added a bit more maps so that the gameplay wouldn't get so much repetitive. But Overall 
 this game is what a car racing fan's dream is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the best racing game ever. The graphics are greatly improved. Excellent physics. Tons and 
 tons of cars to choose from and upgrade. The customization is really good and improved from Forza 
 Motorsport. The achievements are really fun to get and take a while. I recommend this game to everybody 
 who likes racing games. This game can be pretty easy at times. Better than PGR. I hope that they 
 make a forza motorsport 3. 9.5 stars out of 10. 9.5 stars out of 10. Forza Motorsport 2.
  
  
  This is the best racing game ever. The graphics are greatly improved. Excellent physics. Tons 
 and tons of cars to choose from and upgrade. The customization is really good and improved from 
 Forza Motorsport. The achievements are really fun to get and take a while. I recommend this game 
 to everybody who likes racing games. This game can be pretty easy at times. Better than PGR. I 
 hope that they make a forza motorsport 3. 9.5 stars out of 10. 9.5 stars out of 10. Forza Motorsport 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best.
  the graphics are amazing and i can't wait untill the third one will release.
  there are many 
 different cars from all over the world.
  you need to collect cr to level up and be a really good races.
  The achivements are good but 
 are very hard to achive. love this game are actually my favourite racing game.
  there are something special with the game that i don't know what it is that makes it great. 
 
  You can play exhibion games and time trials.
  exhibion games: you have 15 courses that you can unlock when you win a race you unlock a new course. 
 it's just a simple race pretty easy to win all of them. like quickplay on any other games.
  time trials: there are 25 courses you have to beat the time that they say that you have to beat 
 you can drive around untill you beat the record and choose to end race.
  get this game if you don't have it.
  //bob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is insanely fun. It's probably one of the most realistic racing games there 
 is and honestly... I'm not a racing game fan or sports gamer for that matter. The replay on this 
 game is out the roof 11/10. I've had it for a long time and still play it often. You get realistic 
 racing with customizability to your vehicles and loads of awesome cars. You start low with one 
 car and soon own a fleet of completely customizable cars and move on to race performance cars at 
 some point. The one downfall I could find is that you'll find yourself redoing races in order to 
 make enough cash to buy your next car but the funny thing is the races are lots of fun.
  
  Graphics: 10 - the graphics for the cars and racing forums are excellent.
  
  Sound: 9.5 - I 
 love the music and would like to find some of the songs on .mp3's just to listen to some of them. 
 The cars progress in sound from factory to suped up racing machines.
  
  Difficulty: 8 - The game has a pretty decent learning curve. My 7 yo boy could pick it up and race 
 decently enough, however, he'd find himself in the walls most of the time but it didn't stop him 
 from having fun. It's difficult enough to keep even some of the more hardcore people challenged.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10 - I don't give out ratings of 10 unless I feel a game deserves it. I will still be 
 playing this game 5-10 years from now unless Forza 3 comes out and I'll buy that one too.
  
  Overall: 9.5-10 easily. The game is that worth it. Playing people online would make this game 
 that much more fun if you ask me although I've never tried it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMADEUM
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  If you don't want a game that is realistic, then this isn't for you. I remember when i first played 
 it, I was like "what is this junk?" because i was used to playing need for speed where you can 
 pull 200MPH U-turns without any consequences, but in this game, it is very un-forgiving. The AI 
 are amazing. If you say really roughed one of them up when you passed them, they will do the same 
 if they can pass you, and if you try and pass them again, it wont be so easy. This game has a great 
 selection of cars, but the speed is directed towards, of course, the European exotic cars, and 
 the other cars are not quite as fast as they are in real life. For instance, there is a Hennessey 
 Viper in this game, which is the current world record holder of 0-220MPH, but in this game it only 
 has an accel. rating of about 8.5 if i am correct, and they Enzo, which has a 0-60 time of 3.3 
 secs has a accel. rating of about 9. So the stats are a little bit un-fair, but this game is still 
 incredible.
  
  I do not have X-Box live, it doesnt work where i live = ( so I do not have very much exp online 
 with my custom cars, but i have raced on my friend's x-box live on forza, and it is just amazing.
 
  
  Get this game, you will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticR83r
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  this over all the worst racing game ive ever played in my life ive had more fun playing hot wheels 
 and that game is pretty bad. the cars they put on there seem slower then they really r u start 
 off with crap cars. atleats with hot wheels u allways have a half disent car same with nfs midnight 
 club pgr and grid. the game is teribble the turing in the game is terible the traks r terible the 
 only thing worth looking at is the graphics which r pretty kool and looking at the cars to refreash 
 ur mind on all the different cars but over all the game is one of the worst games i have ever played 
 in my life it is so boring i literly fell alsleep playing it. it was about 10 olclock and i can 
 be awake playing video hames till about midnihgt if u want to start playing racing games i suggest 
 that u start of with midnight club or pgr for starter game races this is defently not the the game 
 for u its way to slow and its hard because of the terible turning in the cars and how slow ur going 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kor3y_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I had Forza 2 the day it came out. It was an amazing racing game and, for me, is the best on the 
 Xbox 360 and possibly the best ever. It really is that good.
  It features over 300 full licensed cars, albeit some of them are tuned versions of other cars, 
 12 racing places, most of them real-world places e. g Laguna Seca, most of which can be driven in 
 a variety of different routes and one of the most extensive customisation abilities. Forza 2 gives 
 you a paint option which you can create all kinds of different paint-jobs and, if you're good enough, 
 real-life racing liveries.
  I've had the game for over a year now and I am still playing it on a regular basis. It revitalises 
 your racing enthusiasm when you build a car from scratch and nurture it to become a race-winner. 
 The game also feature online tournaments which have a knock-out stage layout in which over 64 competitors 
 battle it out to become the fastest.
  Forza 2 is an excellent racing simulation and is well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingwarlord18
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  a great game excellent graphics best way to race for fun or for money. so if you have the money 
 for the game get up and get it its worth the money so listen to me and buy  
 why wait and just read the review stop reading this and get up seriously i bought so it most be 
 good because im not realy a true gamer but i love games i will tell you that one so go and buy 
 it so i buy cars and i sell them at the auction house how cool is that. like i have a nissan S13 
 tuned up to go 240 mph. i love my porshe carrera you can race for pink slips or u can race for fun 
 you have a selection of cars. you have bodykits, rims, the whole nine yards you can combined paint 
 job ideas every thing im not gunna stop saying this its a exellent game for friends and famaliy 
 so buy the game you will love it and buy the wheel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpwasel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised at how well this game is done. I picked a good time to buy it, right when they came 
 out with the version that has a bonus disc of all the downloadable content. I never figured this 
 game was that great... guess I should've played it for myself. It's got all the great features of 
 Gran Turismo, with much more. I love how the career can mix with the online playing. The damage 
 and physics make you really really want to stay inside the lines... which is what I'm after in a 
 racing game. Great simulation... I will be buying Forza3 when it hits the shelves!
  
  Gran Turismo has long been the title for why I chose playstation. Gran Turismo #1 is why I bought 
 a ps-one. Gran Tursimo #3 is why I bought a ps2. With Forza2 here, and Forza3 coming. I doubt I'll 
 be buying a ps3. Yeah, I know it's awesome and it has Blue Ray... but whatever. Blue Ray can wait 
 and the ps3 hardware doesn't have a significant enough difference to make me buy another system. 
 We'll just have to see what happens when the next gen systems come out though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjohn88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  It is simply the best realistic racing experience out there. No its not super flashy, no you can't 
 go 0-60 in two seconds with rechargeable nos, and no there's no rap soundtrack banging in the background. 
 This is a simulation game, its hard and not for those who need handicap to stay in first place. 
 Now that I got that out of the, here is the review for the game.
  
  Forza's only real competitor is Grand Turismo, and obviously since it is on the lastest generation 
 console you can expect it to be better in almost everyway possible.
  
  The game play is phenomenal. The Xbox triggers really come alive when you only want to apply a 
 certain amount of gas and a certain amount of brake for those smooth cornering perfection. In this 
 version they show you lines for the course to give you the best and quickest route to use and also 
 very handy is the acceleration and braking lines. These lines teach newer and even veteran players 
 how to tackle the trickiest areas without constant trial and error. And no one, and I mean NO ONE 
 can complain about the graphics. Every single car looks awesome and if you have a HDTV you'll agree 
 that I don't even have to say anything else. Speaking of the cars theres a lot of them. Not only 
 the stock models but special models can be won in single player from top modding companies such 
 as top secret. Also each car really does feel different. You'll notice that Porches will oversteer, 
 american cars handle like **** and car that is AWD will feel more stable. All of the different 
 feelings make every single car unique. Don't like your settings? Change them! but good luck doing 
 that, besides the part where you just beef up you're car with better brakes, lighter weight, and 
 bigger turbo; you'll notice you can even change your camber settings, downforce, grip etc. With 
 the right settings you can set up your very own drift car, drag car, or just a plain track car. 
 Overall its just awesome. however there is a reason its not a perfect 10. The single player. My 
 god does it take forever to "beat." I have no personally finished every race but I don't have top 
 to do 20 million endurance races and whats the point of having the automatic driver? I want to 
 earn my racing titles. Also there isn't much incentive to play the single player, no real plot. 
 They just say "hey you won gold again, heres a new car." it gets kind of troublesome.
  
  The online play is fantastic but its hard to find people who actually want to race seriously and 
 compete with one another. But its like that with any game.
  
  And last, and maybe least, is the damage. Yes the damage of the vehicle affects performance but 
 the actual outside of the car doesn't look as damaged and the crashes don't look too spectacular. 
 I know this isn't burnout but the crashes and exterior damage needs to look a little more realistic.
 
  
  other than that this game is great. if you're impatient or you don't like simulation games THIS 
 IS NOT FOR YOU! get yourself need for speed carbon and enjoy that, but for those who really love 
 cars and accuracy, this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer19888
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  awsome game. a 10/10 game. couldn't expect anymore. so many cars. so many tracks. very easy game 
 after you get used to the controls and how the car handles. each car handls differently. dont care 
 much about graphics but they are good. realistic features and cars really put this game to life 
 . you can get hooked fast on it. i put over 100 hours on this game. i still need a few more cars 
 from asia and the u. s.. im still working on that. best racing game ever put out. other racing games 
 are nothing compared to this one. very easy to get achievements. might take a while to get some 
 of them but worth it. the music sucks though. overall an awsome game . i would still pay $60 for 
 it right now. thats how great this game is. im also on my third time playing through it. great 
 game to get lost in. this game is an instant classic to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This racing is game is a must have but there are a few things that are holding this game back for 
 a better rating. There is not alot of maps too choose from and the game gets way to repetive, also 
 the winning side of things is that you have to get in First place to continue which is ok but sometimes 
 you don't get in first also wish there were more racers in the career mode. Some good things about 
 the game is the Auction House very good idea how you can sell or buy cars and some of them have 
 really cool designs from people all over the world. Online is good not really laggy and good layout 
 of online format. Controls feel good. The best thing is all the cars you can get in this game so 
 many to choose from and so many designs you can put on the cars to race against people online. 
 Overall good game just some things here and there holding this game back to be a racing legend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkysage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The game plays exactly like you would expect from a car simulator on a next gen console. The leveling 
 system adds a nice rpg element to the game allowing the use of new cars, races and discounted parts. 
 The game doesn't have as many cars as Gran Turismo but with the down-loadable content the number 
 of cars and courses is ever increasing. Other features that outshine the competitor include the 
 visual and performance based damage and visual modifications with real world effects on the cars 
 ranging from rim size, body kits and a customizable paint system. Add in the online play which 
 includes racing opponents in a classic arcade style race, a career mode and an auction system. 
 This is the best all around race simulator.
  
  Recently the new Forza Motorsport 3 has been announced, I haven't heard any word as to if any of 
 the cars earned in the 2 game would transfer. I'll give the game a chance but as of the time of 
 writing my feelings on it are that Microsoft is so close to releasing a new system that they should 
 wait until that release and put it out as a release title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuna-chunks123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  I like racing games and have always bought the toca and gran turismo games for my ps2. then i got 
 an xbox and couldn't decide what racing game to get. i went for forza motorsport and i have not 
 been dissapointed. the graphics of the gameplay are just stunning and the career mode is great. 
 one problem i would tell you about is the fact that in arcade mode you have to unlock all of the 
 tracks, so if you want to just play by yourself on an arcade match just purely for fun you have 
 to unlock the tracks in order first, but multiplayer tracks are all open and in arcade all cars 
 are open. the gameplay is fantastic and online is great. a must get for the xbox 360. i cant wait 
 for a forza motorsport 3 as that will be great. although i can't see how they will improve the 
 gameplay, great. a great competitor against the toca games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOT_Sn4K3_eY3Z
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The game does lack a storyline but makes up for that with having one of the most advanced racing 
 sim engines. Starting out with "normal" cars. i. e golfs and mazda 5's.. then leading onto racing 
 cars. The learning curve is pretty intense but after the first few races you'll get it. the modifications 
 on the cars are pretty same old same old. although you can change tires for proper race ones. 
 
  
  Tuning the cars is pretty cool with being able to modify almost every aspect of the car, ride height, 
 gearing ratios, tyre inflation, camber etc. The decals that can be added are awsome with up to 
 1000 layers you can do almost anything.
  
  Online play is great hardly any lag and then inviting your friends to race is cool. when racing 
 it is very good connected gameplay with hardly any lag. The online auction house is a place to 
 trade and buy cars that other people have made... its a big trading ground for custom decals and 
 things.
  
  Achievements... some are easy to gain but then some like the "1000000 online credits" will take 
 some time to get. advice keep playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcmvp7
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game in a hope of a racing game that would be easy and fun. However, this game 
 presents an immense learning curve. Turning is quite a challenge and the cars skid like crazy on 
 turns. Turns have to be maneuvered perfectly. It is just not worth it. This game is for racing 
 fans who wish to play an advanced to simulation racer not a arcade style game. The gamespot review 
 is inaccurate when it describes this game being playable for beginners. However, the game does 
 have some good features with many good games modes and outstanding graphics.
  
  I purchased this game in a hope of a racing game that would be easy and fun. However, this game 
 presents an immense learning curve. Turning is quite a challenge and the cars skid like crazy on 
 turns. Turns have to be maneuvered perfectly. It is just not worth it. This game is for racing 
 fans who wish to play an advanced to simulation racer not a arcade style game. The gamespot review 
 is inaccurate when it describes this game being playable for beginners. However, the game does 
 have some good features with many good games modes and outstanding graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carfreak7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few best racing games out there.
  It has over 300 cars plus you can download off xbox live.
  If you were into the first forza then 
 you are required to get this one, but if your the type of person who likes need for speed ( those 
 guys suck) . Then this may not be your type of game.
  
  This game is more for older people who would want to race exotic cars, and try to have the most 
 realistic experience without actually driving one. This is what Forza is about.
  
  The online is just the same as before nothing really change 
  
  If you are into the whole grand 
 turismo type of gaming, then you will love this
  
  The auction house is simply amazing, sometimes you can actually make a profit just by tuning and 
 selling cars. Your gonna look about 30 plus hours of gameplay. I recommend having twisters, music 
 and some cream soda by your side if u wanna complete the 1 hour races !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  First the graphics. Not the best graphics Ive seen in a racer but still works well overall. The 
 car control i think is fantastic. So much better than the Gran Turismo series. There is even damage 
 featured on different levels so you can be punished for crashing. There is a great selection of 
 cars to race and unlock through out the carrier mode. The online is almost perfect. There is a 
 slight time lapse that needs to be sorted out. The customising of cars is extremely fun and you 
 can even race and sell your creations online. The thing that brings this game down is the online 
 can be frustrating when people kick you out their race for no reason. I also think though that 
 vibration has been used well in this game and if your racing on a console for the first time, this 
 is a great game to get you started. 
  If your a fan of the racing genre I suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alnelson509
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is simply the best racing game yet. The game has hundreds of races over many 
 different tracks. Also each track has many different routes that it will take depending on the 
 series your in. Many of the tracks will be familiar to people who have played the GT series and 
 there are also some new ones. The game has the most extensive collection of cars than any other 
 game. There are all kinds of cars from racing cars to production cars in 9 different classes. The 
 A. I. is great with different difficulty settings, giving you more money for competing at higher 
 levels. The customization has never been this extensive in a simulation racing game before. Everything 
 from rims to window tints and performance parts like superchargers. This is one of the funnest 
 racing games ever made and will keep you playing for hours and hours. It can start to feel repetitive 
 after awhile but thats the only thing that I can take away from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The car physics are just about perfect. The gameplay, however, feels a bit soulless and 
 at times gets a little redundant.
  
  Graphics: I really dislike the drab colors and weak art design . 60fps is the biggest plus from 
 the graphics point of view.
  
  Sound: There are some great variants in engine sounds, but it's nothing beyond what we've come 
 to expect from racers. Some of the ambient noise is a little buggy.
  
  Value: There's a lot to do here, with an enormous single-player game and some decent multiplayer 
 options. If you love, you'll love it for a long, long time.
  
  So Forza 2 has brilliant physics, great customization options, and solid online play, but as a 
 racing game, it lacks the soul, adrenaline and passion of other  
 ................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjlinder
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This i'd have to say is one of the worst racing games I have ever played in my career of and amatuer 
 gamer. It lacks that need to want to race. Also it cant be that good of a game if it comes with 
 some of the Xbox 360's when you buy it. You would be better off buying Burnout Paradise instead 
 of this junk. First of all the campain lacks fun. Its just the same boring thing over and over. 
 Another is how bad the control of the car you drive is. Seriously it is like driving and ice cream 
 truck on a frozen pond. So in my opinion this is a horrible racing game and does not deserve the 
 pleasure of being in your Xbox 360. A game i do insist on you buying is Project Gotham Racing 4. 
 Both this game and PGR4 are life-like but PGR4 just has a much better feel to it. Its almost like 
 Forza Motor Sport is too smooth. You cant hit a turn fast and drift through it without crashing 
 into a wall of tires or a wall itself. Hopefully you will see this when you play this awful game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OakLaNdRaiDer14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt Forza Motorsport 2 is the best racing game if not one of the best games for your 
 360. It's an extremely fun racer that is very addicting even though I think the achievements could 
 have been distributed a bit better but it has you wanting to play the game to the end unlike some 
 of the lack luster racing games out there with Need for Speed disappointing and Burnout being not 
 as fun as they used too. The graphics in this game are amazing especially on an HD TV, it's just 
 beautiful and you don't really see that in games anymore. Anyways, the handling in this game is 
 perfect and fine tuned, it's not unrealistic like most racers and I personally think this is the 
 best handling game I've ever played. If you're a racing fan you'll love this game and it is a MUST. 
 For only $20 on eBay you get a whole lot of bang for your buck and I strongly recommend it for 
 every Xbox 360 owner out there. This game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  Forza 2 is the sequel to Microsofts GT rival but how does it hold up as a next gen game? well read 
 on to find out why you should not miss this especially if your a racing fan.
  
  Single player
  There is tons of events to compete in for example there is a hot hatch event in 
 which you can take your fast hatchback against others. When you start out you can pick from your 
 own region i picked a GOLF GTI MK5 to start out but you have a good choice but avoid the supra 
 its quick but handles like a cat on a wooden floor. Let me talk about forzas reason it is as good 
 as it is the endless ways to modify your car i mean there is tons of ways from downforce to weight 
 or lighter alloys its just endless. The only problem is that you may start to find the single player 
 feels like a chore but the events are all different so its not the same events constantly.
  
  Auction house
  An excellent idea and it works great because you can buy peoples fantastic 
 designs and pretend to your mates you did them and you can even bid for some cars aswell.
  
  Paint
  this is truly unique because you can do what ever you want with your car and its all 
 up to you just mess around and share your designs.
  
  Multiplayer
  This is fun but the big problem is people will ram you and then end your race this is pretty common 
 but if you find a good race with nice guys your guranteed to enjoy it.
  
  Damage
  very good and it actually makes you think about the race rather than bouncing off cars like in 
 Gran turismo.
  
  Arcade
  great for messing around setting lap times or just for testing cars you like.
  
  Cars
  310 
 cars and all can be fully done up and there are great models in the game like the ENZO carrera 
 gt golf gti and even a volvo s60 r
  
  Complaints
  i have small complaints like the wheels on the bmw m3 are tiny compared to the real car and there 
 could of been more stages.
  
  Pros
  varied single player
  Tons of cars to fully customize
  So many different things to keep you entertained
  lots of 
 interesting car models
  Solid 60FPS
  excellent damage
  
  cons
  sometimes feels like a chore
  People in MP can ruin a good race
  menus can sometimes run slow
 
  Not the best graphics
  
  VERDICT
  Fantastic effort by turn 10 not only does this have endless customization but all the cars feel 
 great to drive and the game runs great unmissable for racing fans.
  
  
  
  
  Pros
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhsoccer14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Have been playing racing games from generation to generation...
  I bought the game while waiting for Gran Turismo 5 for PS3, but couldn't wait. I'm a PS person, 
 but this game was, in my opinion, better than the Gran Turismo series in that the graphics are 
 much more realistic and the damage is not quite realistic but better than Gran Turismo's.
  It is a lot like the previous games in both series's, so there is nothing new except for better 
 graphics and minor game details... Looking forward to the next generation where I hope the gameplay 
 will be a little more difficult and more realistic.
  If you do not have the game yet, I would recommend waiting for a better game to come out, but if 
 you are willing to spend the money and don't want to wait for the next in the series (or if you 
 have PS3; wait for GT5) , then this isn't a bad thing to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsfseal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Whoa, stunning graphics mixed with great simulation racing. Almost anybody can get into this game. 
 Its not too overly hard, as you can adjust certain things to help you if you need it. The career 
 mode is deep, and car customization is endless when it comes to paint jobs, decals, vinyls and 
 everything else. Upgrading your cars engine is very rewarding. Hear that turbo rev up and burning 
 out at the beginning of races is remarkable. Tuning your car goes very deep as well. You can fine 
 tune any car to fit your driving needs. Plenty of races to be done along career mode to keep you 
 interested as well. Arcade mode is alright, just your average one race ordeal with any unlocked 
 cars to choose from. Speaking of cars, which they don't have an ridiculous amount. There is still 
 a good 300+ cars though. The car ranking system is awesome too, which details your car on performance, 
 handling, and weight so you know where you stand with it. Online is tons of fun. Racing your specialized 
 cars against other peoples cars to see what you have under the hood, and how your fine tuning has 
 paid off hehe. You can race for fun, or you can even race ranked games and raise your TruSkill 
 online rank if you do good. The game keeps racing stats which you can compare to other people to 
 see where you stand as a racer. So many good things about this game, and i can't think of anything 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lias444
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 was on my wishlist from the start, the first game was excellent and this one does not waver 
 from the track. With an imposing 300+ car list, almost flawless graphics and great tunes and tracks, 
 this game is a must own for car racing fans.
  
  FM2 gets you right into the car racing vibe with modern day tunes hitting you at the menu screens. 
 When you start the game the realistic sound of the car engine roars in your ears. The cars are 
 near real life, all 300 of them as close as a game can get to the real thing, sure the tracks and 
 scenery aren't of the best quality but that can be forgiven by the sheer number of races/track 
 variants/cars. This game will take you 20+ hours to finish, luckily each of the 150+ races can 
 be different every time.
  
  I could not give this game a 10 because that would class it along side GOW and Halo 3, but this 
 is more than worthy of it's 9/10. FM2 is the best racing game on xbox 360 and the 5th best game 
 on xbox 360, only few can overcome this beast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  This is the best car simulation I have played to date. It puts the Gran Turismo series to shame 
 for several reasons:
  
  1) Realistic tire grip - the tires feel real. The sound is spot on. It does NOT feel like you are 
 skating on ice.
  
  2) Engine sounds - the engine sounds in this game give a better sense of the horseys under they 
 hood just trying to get out.
  
  3) Online play - The auction house + car painting + Car tuning = online gold!
  
  4) The Tracks 
 - The tracks are more detailed than Gran Turismo 4 (granted, that was a playstation 2 game - so 
 there may be some issue there) .
  
  5) The sheer fun factor - I became completely engrossed in this game for at least 2 months :)
 
  
  This would have been a perfect 10 had it not been for one issue: The AI of the computer drivers 
 is not very good - its like they are on rails or something. They never make any mistakes, even 
 at the lowest difficulty setting - they just drive slower. No mistakes means that it is hard to 
 pass and harder to recover from a mistake that you make (real racing is all about trying to make 
 the fewest mistakes and capitalize on the mistakes that others make) .
  
  All in all a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattss78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  this game has been a amsome game dude. they got some of the most amsome cars and trucks that i have 
 ever seen!!!!!! there is some thing called a suitchate. i have never herd of it, but its like 300MPH 
 car!!!!!!!! AMSOME RIGHT!!!!!!!!!!! plus the grahices can not be bett. the grahices are so amsome, it 
 feels like if you were there!!!!!! and if you hade a wheel to go with it, be amsomer!!!!! like i was 
 saying about the cars. they got from doge to zendley. a zeadly is a AUST car. and they got the usa 
 favroite car!! yep you gessed it, a LAMBORGENY!!!! i hade one of those sucker, and 500MPH here i come!!!!!!!! what 
 the most amsome thing about it is, if you sign up at xbox360, go to www. forza. com and you can do 
 the ebay car man trade. that means you can sell your cars from the forza, and buy cars on there from 
 people a round the world!!!!! IS THAT NOT AMSOME OR WHAT!!!!!!!!! now if you would have got your 
 xbox around chirsmas. you would have got the 2 games in one. it hade forza2 and marvele alliance. they 
 were both good games but i sold them. it was bf badcompany or forza. so i chosed bf. but this game 
 is so cool. the online is amsome. this game only 20.00$. so get out there and race your butt off!!! 
 -wattss78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanctc24
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  WOW. This game is the best simulation game of all time i mean really what other game lets you pick 
 over 300 cars and custimize every little detail of the car. First off when you play the game you 
 feel like in a car lets say you wreck you can feel the car get hit. The suspension is like real 
 life when you do a sharp turn. The cars are amazingly acurit in all things ( but the engine looks 
 fake) . The tracks are awesome and look real and some are real life tracks from around the world. 
 If you have xbox live ity gets way better because you can auction off cars you own or bid on others. 
 The multiplayer is also cool because you can join tournaments for money or race with your friends. 
 So what are you waiting for go and get this wowing game. P. S the marketplace lets you buy even more 
 cars like every Mopar fan wants a 1970 Challenger R/T Hemi and the New 2008 Challenger they both 
 are amazing car and get 1097 hp. Just something I wanted Mopar fans to hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgaughan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2's biggest accomplishment is the range of cars and customization options available. 
 It's a great thing when you can take your car in the driveway, put it in a game, and trick it out 
 for racing, and yes they do have your car in the driveway. It's only after you drop it in there 
 that the game looses some appeal. I've had my real life car at top speeds on winding roads and 
 it was fairly easy driving, so then why after putting a number of in-game suspension and handling 
 options on my Forza car, would I need to have a line drawn on the race course that I have to follow 
 exactly or risk going into the dirt? I'm never sure on race simulators why they insist on making 
 the driving so difficult? I'm guessing because otherwise it would get repetitive and boring to 
 drive an easily maneuverable car through similar courses, but having a line drawn on the track 
 that even indicates what speed you should be going and when you should be breaking doesn't really 
 add to the enjoyment either. You can turn off the drive path line and all race assistance but when 
 they're offering an achievement for winning a race without these, you can tell it's no easy feat. 
 I would hope that future installments of this game can find a happier medium between customization 
 and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best simulation racer you could ask for. If you want the freedom to upgrade 
 your car, paint your car, and tune your car, then this is your game. With an amazing library of 
 vehicles there's plenty to customize and tune here. Online play is the best of any online racing 
 game. The only complaints with this game come from small details. The lack of any changing weather 
 or different temperatures, etc., leaves the racetracks feeling rather stagnant. Additionally, there 
 are too few tracks within the game. Too often are there multiple variants of the same track to 
 compensate for the lack of variety. Also, if you don't plan on playing online you'll probably find 
 the offline career mode rather unrewarding. There's not much in the presentation, and career mode 
 does come off a bit stale. However, those who want to sell cars on the auction house, participate 
 in online tournaments and races, and build that perfect car will be occupied for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Lets start by saying Forza is hardcore. If you don't like grinding up the ranks in a Volkswagen 
 Golf until until something better comes your way, then you will not get most of the satisfaction 
 out of this game that you would have if you did.
  
  Breakdown
  
  So you start off as a rookie driver, in a rookie league. You will slowly move up, grinding cash 
 and the first thing an 11 year old will do is to buy all the cosmetic parts. WASTE OF TIME. The 
 weight reduction kits are a must buy when first kitting out a vehicle.
  
  Ups And Downs
  
  There is an arcade mode, but I find it badly fleshed out and lacking in depth, whereas the 
 Career mode has alot to it. You will rarely actually gain achievements in this game (They are SOLID) 
 but I guess the Arcade Mode is what the achievement hunter is looking for in a game so grind-centric.
 
  
  Playability
  
  The faster cars handle very nicely, powering loftily around corners but the cars you start out 
 with will mostly handle like complete trucks, crashing into bumpers and spinning out constantly. 
 The handling does feel very realistic and well developed, but can drag on.
  
  Customisability
  
  The customisability is unparalelled, but only in one respect really. The 
 vinyl editor lets you create any picture you want on the body of your car with a variety of primitive 
 shapes, but creating elaborate pictures is a challenge only vinyl veterans will muster and be willing 
 to spend time on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Marl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  So here we have Forza Motorsport 2; A highly playful and fun racing game with a lot of interesting 
 tracks and cars. It can be fun at first, but after spending hours of doing almost the same thing, 
 almost any game can loose it's power. You start of small, only having one car. You compete in smaller, 
 shorter races, to get a little bit of money, slowly expanding your car collection and wallet (which 
 makes it awesome) Then after an hour or so after that, you'll finally go out in the real world, 
 seeing race tracks in the city, the great plains, and the roaring mountains. At this point the 
 races get better and better. This is where it's so easy to play for hours on end. As you go through 
 the game, you visit the same tracks really, but this time they're much longer. On a track you were 
 doing 3 LONG laps on, you're now doing about 6. Then 8. Until you realise you get to like 12. And 
 the final events and endurance races (which they give it suck a title for a reason. In these endurance 
 races, you'll be on a long track and you'll do about 25-40 laps, taking about and hour or so to 
 finsh a single race. Talk about boring. Don't get me wrong, this is a really fun racing game and 
 as you can probably tell, It'll take awhile to beat every race and get all the gold metals (so 
 the replay value is VERY high) but sometimes you'd just wish they'd throw the checkered flag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuttPuttDinDin
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  By far the best racing game FULL STOP! A billion times better than GT. So if you liked GT on PS2 
 and seen the light and came over to the xbox world, this is without a doubt the game for you. If 
 I could find out how many hrs I have played it for................ well lets say I would even call 
 myself sad - I don't think I will ever get rid of this game - Bring on FM3!!!!!
  
  If you have xbox live the career mode is still fantastic once you complete it! You will have sooooooo 
 much money the best cars are there for the taking - Then you can beat your previous times and see 
 how fast you are compaired the the rest of the world, which I myself find highly addictive.
  
  Playing the game with the next gen consoles and in HD is a big help too! Remember the older 
 racing sims where the corners were so hard to see - Well not anymore! Everything is crystal clear. 
 
  
  The only thing I can think of to make this a better game is if they had put a F1 car in it - lots 
 of racing spec cars tho but no F1 - Maybe next time.
  
  BUT IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etheral_Filcher
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I popped in Forza 2 at the begging of the week. Yeah, I'm late to the party, but who cares?
  
  In short: Forza 2 is awesome. The graphics are great, the sound is stellar, and the controls 
 are solid.
  
  I had never played a realistic racing game before - my prior experience had been strictly limited 
 to arcade racers -and Forza 2 is a great way to jump into the genre. At first realism took some 
 getting used to: I had to break around every corner, hitting other cars would damage the performance 
 of my own car, ect. After about an hour with the game I started to like it - a lot.
  
  The ability to modify everything from your flywheel to paint job is amazing. Forza 2 takes the 
 concept of customization to a new level. Everything can be customized in this game, and it all 
 affects the performance of your car - with the exception of cosmetic changes like paint, ect. New 
 car parts can be bought with money earned by completing races, and once these parts are bought 
 you can put apply them to your car. I won't list all the available parts, but trust me, there are 
 many. This option allows players to tailor every car to their needs. If you need more handling, 
 better breaking, or faster acceleration there are a plethora of car parts available to meet your 
 desire.
  
  I'm not a car buff, but if you are you will love the various assortment of cars present in this 
 game. There are a myriad of brands and cars. Everything from mini-vans to prototype racing cars 
 make and appearance, and whatever your preference, you are sure to be pleased.
  
  The sound is nothing short of amazing. The motors growl and whine, tires squeal and squeak, all 
 with unparalled realism. When I first turned on the game the sound of the races took my breath 
 away, but ideally you should have a good surround sound setup to extract the most enjoyment out 
 Forza 2.
  
  In addition to all this there is still more! The track selection is varied, and you won't get bored 
 because you play through the same 10 tracks over and over again. The environments range from asphalt 
 and concrete tracks packed with fans to winding roads in the country.
  
  Forza 2 has no shortage of game modes either. There is the standard career mode in which you race, 
 buy cars, level up, and unlock more tracks. There are also time trial modes, and an arcade mode 
 which allows you to race with a car from any class whether you have bought it in single player 
 or not. Multiplayer is also available if you have access to X-box live. You can race against others, 
 watch races, and buy and sell cars.
  
  Forza 2 has a ton of everything - cars, tracks, achievements, car parts, and game modes. It is 
 a great value for 60 dollars because you get so much of everything. So, if you are looking for 
 a good racing game, and own a 360, Forza 2 is a must buy. It would be a mistake not to own this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurs2103champs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  I really liked Forza when I first got it and thought it would be one of the best racing games. 
 However after racing at the same tracks and beating everyone again and again (regardless of the 
 difficulty) I soon become very bored with Forza. There are a lot of good things about Forza though 
 that still make it playable for me. There a great selection of cars that all have different abilities 
 on the track. The good thing is that you know the difference between a Porsche and a 85 Toyota. 
 The cars can be customized but this is more about adding horsepower not exterior customization. 
 The main problem I have with this game is the few race tracks on the game. There are maybe four 
 to five tracks that are on the game and trust me after playing the game for a while they get very 
 boring. Also I found the game to be too easy on any difficulty. I think Forza is a good game but 
 it doesn't deserve a 9.2 from gamespot because it is a one dimensional racing game: Go around the 
 (same) track (s) and win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy4Ever
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  +A lot of tweaks from the original game to make it more enjoyable.
  +Being able to wreck your car is pretty cool.
  -Graphics are so-so and don't really feel polished, 
 aside from the over-polished cars.
  -Tracks are pretty lame. And the same as the orignal.
  
  Before I get started, I just want to say I absolutely love the new Forza Motorsport game. However, 
 I don't really feel like it's good enough to be called a sequel. Not because it's glitched or because 
 it's not fun, it's really just what the game is like.
  
  Forza Motorsport came out and it was, in my opinion, more exciting to play than Gran Turismo 4. 
 A lot of cool cars, a good 'training' line for beginners to racing sims, and the graphics were 
 just amazing. So, I picked this one up, expecting a lot to have changed in the series, being how 
 popular it became on the original Xbox. Well, that's where this review comes in.
  
  As far as graphics, it's actually good, but then again, it doesn't improve that much from the original. 
 From what I could tell is that they beefed up the resolutions, as well as the textures, enough 
 to make the game look really 'top notch'. However, it doesn't look as good as some of the other 
 games out there. For instance, the bloom effects in this game drown out an touch of realism. The 
 sun literally lights up your car to an extreme. Some of the maps, you feel as though the cars have 
 a permanent light attached to them to give them an extra shine. In the camera mode, I noticed more 
 of the problems when it came to just backgrounds and such. The character models for the audience 
 are really low polygon, even when compared to Project Gotham Racing 3. I think the biggest downfall 
 for me is some of the textures. They're really low resolution. I noticed some of the Shell decals 
 were poor looking. It really made me disappointed because it feels that they just borrowed the 
 graphics engine from the original and touched it up. However, the car models are outstanding. They 
 really good looking, and then you can't dismiss the most exciting feature in the game: decal painting. 
 Slapping together several different shapes actually makes a nice JPEG-styled image on your car, 
 which can lead into some major cha-ching. I guess the only other thing to complain about is the 
 dash camera mode. Where is it? After PGR3, racing games haven't been the same for me without being 
 able to be in the driver's seat and check out the inside. Sure, there's 300 cars in Forza, but 
 this is also next generation. That was really disappointing more than anything.
  
  The sounds are actually really clear sounding and definitely something that is a nice feature of 
 the game. There's really no complaint as far as sounds, and nothing really to say. Tires screech. 
 Cars vibrate. Crowds cheer. It's all there, and all done well. The menu music could use some work. 
 I'm not sure why some of the tracks were picked out, but that's just being picky.
  
  Gameplay is perfect. They actually tweaked the game a bit in this department from the original. 
 You can now break using ABS breaking! In the original, when you had ABS turned off, you couldn't 
 help but lock your breaks. Not anymore. Everything is pretty much perfect as far as how cars handle. 
 The only thing I can really complain other than the graphics not being as good as I'd hoped is 
 the limited amount of tracks. All of the tracks from the original return. Good thing? Yes, but 
 when that's really all you're left with, you're kinda thinking how it sucks.
  
  Overall, Forza Motorsport 2 is a great game, but if you've played the original, then you're not 
 missing too much more if you don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstevo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I was, and probably still am, a big fan of the Gran Tourismo Series on PlayStation and as you fellow 
 Xbox-ites will know, there wasn't really a racing game to match it on Xbox until PGR arrived.
 
  
  Then, the first Forza Motorsport came on the scene and it was like a breath of fresh air! Although 
 playing the PGR was a worthy substitute, it never quite had the style that GT had, but Forza had 
 plenty!
  
  Forza 2 on the 360 is, for me at least, quite simply the best racing game i have ever played and 
 that's quite a statement from me, seeing as I am a big racing fan. Everything from F1 to Toca Race 
 Driver (the new Race Driver Grid looks great by the way!) , Need For Speed to Colin McRae, even 
 the odd Burnout, so it takes alot to impress me were racing games are concerned. I had Forza 1 
 for the original Xbox but never played it enough but then I invested in the 360 Elite with Forza 
 2 and, believe me, I've made up for lost time.
  
  With a wide range of cars from vintage classics, sports coupes, saloons, muscle and racing, the 
 possiblities are endless. An endless supply of vinyls and decals combined with a wide range of 
 paint jobs provide you with the ability to customize your ride straight off the showroom floor 
 to full racing Spec. Tune your ride to adjust for the many world famous circuits such as, Silverstone, 
 Laguna Seca and the infamous Nurburgring in Germany, to give you a fighting chance, win that prize 
 money and stock up your garage with a selection that would make the guys from Top Gear foam at 
 the mouth!!
  
  Finally the bad points.... well quite simply there isn't any! Can't wait for Forza 3 and I just 
 hope Microsoft don't to mess about with it to much, if it's not broke don't fix it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Lone_Czar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you cross an awesome myriad of cars and customization options with easy control 
 and a good challenge? You get Forza Motorsport 2, which is, in my opinion, the best racing game 
 for the 360. Who needs the unrealistic nature of Need For Speed and the complexity of Gran Turismo. 
 Forza Motorsport offers much enjoyment to both hardcore racing gamers and casual gamers who want 
 to give it a try. Forza 2 has a vast array of customization from rim size to interior. It also 
 offers a long list of different courses with different terrains. Forza has so many different types 
 of cars in it, some of which that I haven't heard of! I have been playing since it came out, such 
 a long long time ago, and I am still in love with it. For those who just want to try a racing game, 
 Forza is legitimate. For those who are way hardcore into racing, this is definitely the game for 
 you! I can only hope that there is going to be a Forza Motorsport 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1racerjb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Real tracks. Real cars. Customization unlike anything ever done before. this game needs almost 
 nothing its that good! As in the previous game, the player builds a career by purchasing cars, upgrading 
 them, winning races and championships and moving on to the next event. Now I know other games do 
 this too, but not like FM2; not even close! The sheer level of customization in the game makes 
 it worth the twenty or thirty dollars it costs now. Players can apply 1000 layers to the car (on 
 each side, that is) in the paint shop using pre cut shapes, manufacturer decals, letters and numbers. 
 One of my favorite things about the game is the Auction House where players can sell their creations 
 and search for and bid on other players car/s
  Visually the game is very good, although I think Dirt and Grid have a slight edge . Cars sound 
 as they should and are very distinct from class to class.
  Bottom line is.... Best racing game out there for the 360 one year and counting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2, for me, came in a pack with Viva Pinata and another controller for 32. I was 
 only expecting a poor run game that was impossible to win on a hard difficulty. I was half right. 
 The game itself is brilliant but its main let down point, other than steering diffulties is the 
 fact that it is impossilve to win on a hard difficulty. Also when i go round a corner I'm practically 
 garutneed to go off the track. Although some features cna be a little anonoying it is without a 
 doubt a great game. I think i am going ot turn my Xbox on and play it now actually....
  
  Forza is up-to-date with all the latest cars and is quite realistic racing, i would be a crap racer 
 coz I would forget to brake early for a corner. I think its a great game although the achievements 
 are quite hard. nonetheless, I am glad that I have Forza 2 in my collection of Game. I have given 
 it an 8 because it is a good game just a bit too hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pritstick94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport is a great racing simulation for the XBOX 360. It has a great selection of real-world 
 tracks (including the Nrburgring, Laguna Seca, Sebring, Road Atlanta, Silverstone, Suzuka circuit 
 and more) , and over 300 cars from 50 manufacturers! More cars and tracks are available over XBOX 
 Live. The Driving feels just right. All the cars look beautiful, and the tracks look good too, 
 although perhaps they could have done with a little more detail. The main part of the gameplay 
 is the Career mode, where you compete against the AI in a lot of races that are put into categories, 
 for example endurance races or horsepower-limited races. As you progress, you increase in level 
 and unlock more races. Inside each category, the races are divided into tournaments. Most tournaments 
 are won by getting the gold medal in every single race, except for the pro series where you get 
 points for what place you finish and whoever has the most points at the end wins. There is a reward 
 of credits (money) for every race win, and then another for every tournament win. You also get 
 a free car for winning a tournament, so the size of your garage quickly increases. You can customize 
 your cars with anything from a new lick of paint on the rims to some new cams and valves. However, 
 putting too many performance-increasing upgrades onto your car will mean that it goes into the 
 next class, where is might not be as good as the other cars that are eligible for a certain tournament. 
 There is also a very deep tuning system where you can adjust thing such as tire pressure, down 
 force, gear ratios or wheel camber. You can also turn off and on driving aids, such as the optimum 
 driving line, ABS, and Traction control, and you can adjust the difficulty of your opponents as 
 well. You get credit bonuses for have these aids turned off. One thing I would have like to have 
 seen would be more difficulty settings  at the start I found I was winning every single race of 
 easy AI, but no races at all on medium. As I became a bit better, I found myself wanting a setting 
 between medium and hard. However, I suppose that just made me improve my skills until I could compete 
 against the harder settings.
  
  If you are on XBOX Live, then you can buy and sell cars at auction to other players and compete 
 in races online. There are complete tournaments as well for those who want to compare their skills 
 against others. In my opinion, Forza Motorsport 2 is the best racing game on the XBOX 360 and I 
 would recommended to anyone who enjoys racing games at all. -----9.5/10 -----
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombie-Rambo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has always been more of a violence orientated console. Racers have often been overlooked 
 in favour of shooters and action-adventure titles such as Gears of War and Call of Duty 4. Forza 
 2 is a game that should not be overlooked. Regardless of your taste in games, it is a must play.
 
  
  The graphics are absolutely sublime, with every bit of metal being rendered in stunning quality. 
 The car damage system is equally superb. Bump your car and it won't just be damaged cosmetically, 
 it could also have damaged your engine or the transmission. 
  
  The career is as in-depth as you would expect, with you having to work up from scratch with a rust 
 bucket until you can rival the world of the supercars and racing pedegrees. The content is truely 
 massive, with every car imaginable being crammed into one game. And it isn't just the cars you'll 
 never be able to afford, it's road-going "normal" cars such as the Ford Focus or the Volswagen 
 Golf. The handling is perfectly weighted and, as a bit of an extra challenge, you can turn of assissted 
 braking and other aids to make the racing experience feel all the more real.
  
  Online play is also brilliantly constructed, with there being the ability to race with up to 8 
 players. An innovative online feature is the auction house, where players can sell their customised 
 cars for in-game cash.
  
  On a final note, I would recommend this game to anyone, regardless of age or preference. A true 
 masterpiece of a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  No matter how good a game like Forza was it was destined to be compared to Gran Turismo. Lucky 
 for Turn 10 Forza was a fantastic game and in many cases superior to Gran Turismo 3 and 4. 
  
  So Turn 10's Forza 2 has a lot riding on its shoulders. On one hand not only does it have to 
 live up to the great gameplay, it has to set the benchmark for racing visuals like Forza did back 
 on the XBOX. The Visual part it will dissappoint. The game looks fantastic, and runs at a smooth 
 60 FPS. However it does show alot of jaggies, and when compared to PGR 4 and GT 5 prologue it isn't 
 anything special. 
  
  The driving mechanics however are probably the best racing sim esque gameplay you can get on Consoles. 
 If you are like the sty-lish Burnout or PGR fans, Forza isn't your type of racer. This is for the 
 car junkies. The ones that want to fine tune the car, drive with precision, break into there cornors, 
 wait for there opening to pass instead of pushing people out of the way.
  
  The game is loaded with over 300 plus cars but only 12 environments. The modes really make this 
 game. Besides the usual exhibition, time trial and career the Online is just amazing for this racing 
 game. You can auction off your own customized paint jobbed cars, Join MS sponsered tournaments, 
 and even an online career mode (works well for the most part) . For the arcadish guys it doesn't 
 carry that wild gameplay, but the online features are something Forza 2 has over any current racer.
 
  
  Now to the career mode. The only negative i can say is that its a bit easy. You really don't have 
 to work on the cars too much to win these races. You win enough stock cars from winning certain 
 circuits, and stock cars can win most events with only minor fine tuning. That said for somebody 
 like me who really dosn't want to fine tune all his cars every single track this was fantastic. 
 The career went smoothly, and overall it can be fun. 
  
  Overall the gameplay for Forza is fantastic. Its not the most realistic racer, and cars do tend 
 to swerve alot and be less forgiving but the driving mechanic is fantastic for those wanting sim 
 gameplay. The cars are very well done, each perform differently, you can always feel a nice sense 
 of speed, the tracks are very well done, and the car control is fantastic. For the novice players 
 the assists will be your best friends.
  
  rundown
  
  Graphics- 8- 60 FPS, Car models look good and so do the tracks. However there are a ton of jaggies, 
 and overall the game isn't as visually amazing as PGR 4
  
  Gameplay-9- SIM gameplay done great. 
  
  Sound- 9- Cars sound great, soundtrack is ok, but 
 custom soundtracks make up for everything
  
  Value-9- Overall the game offers a ton of cars, a great online, great career, and fantastic gameplay.... It 
 could use some more tracks though.
  
  Tilt-8- The game is loaded with great online options, and has a well thought out single player 
 experience. The fine tuning works very well, however the game never captures the sheer sense of 
 speed and thrill Burnout and PGR capture, THE AI racers just are to easy. 
  
  Intangibles-8 - Nothing innovative from a single player standpoing, but i love the customization 
 with cars, i love all the paint jobs you can do, the online is very well done and I enjoy the auction 
 house.
  
  Conclusion- FOrza 2 is a fantastic racer for the XBOX 360 and a must by for any 360 owner who happens 
 to be a car junkie
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandshark8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Being a HUGE car fan and having a Wii and Xbox360 I was in desperate need of a racing simulator. 
 While I enjoy arcade-type games like Burnout and PGR 4, I'm more into the realistic, "Gran Turismo" 
 racers. I was ecstatic to hear that Forza Motorsport was bringing it's franchise to the next generation.
 
  
  Let me start off with my gripes because I hate ending a review on a bad note. The one thing that 
 has bugged me a little bit about the game is the number of cars (closing in around 350 or so with 
 the DLC packs) . I understand that it costs developers a lot of money to get licenscing from automobile 
 companies to have the cars in the game, but when Gran Turismo 4 for the PS2 features over 700 of 
 them, I feel slightly gipped. Also, Forza 2 does not have an "in-car-view," which after playing 
 a demo of GRID and seeing it in GT5, is kinda missed.
  
  But that's about it for the bad. If these factors don't really bother you and you have a strong 
 passion for cars, you'll definetely love this game. Forza Motorsport 2 has a few things over GT4 
 (maybe even GT5) that makes it a deal-breaker: the game has full damage for every car. That's right, 
 when you slam into a wall at 110 mph, don't expect to reach that speed again in the same race. 
 Bumpers, spoilers and mirrors fly off the car, glass shatters... it really gives you that satisfaction 
 (and sometimes frustration) when you don't perfectly rebound off the walls of a track. The game's 
 graphics aren't as good as GT's, but they are still very nice and detailed especially considering 
 the damage each car features.
  
  For the car's paint-jobs, the game almost has the equivalent of Adobe Photoshop. If you google 
 some of the custom paint-jobs people have made, your jaws will drop. Here are some "livery contest" 
 winners: http://forums. forzamotorsport. net/forums/thread/737792. aspx
  Controls are very good and responsive, with each car having a different feel and weight. Almost 
 every part of every car is customizable and capable of being tuned, from real body kits to engines 
 and turbo. Online allows for specific races, tournaments and even an "auction house" where players 
 can sell tricked out cars or paint jobs for in-game money.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is a great addition to any gamer's collection, whether it be an avid car enthuisiast, 
 somebody that wants to learn more about automobiles or just a racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  now lets get things straight. i am not a driving game man. my only driving game that i actually 
 liked was Gran Turismo 4, and even that i felt like there was just miles of understeer even at 
 low speeds. nothing came close to that experience i had in a racing car.
  this though, is perfect in driving terms.
  theres oversteer, understeer when there should be 
 and it tracks straight and true when you do the right thing. power slides can be held round corners 
 and you can also do Scandinavian flicks if your really good.
  but lets get to the main bits of the game.
  i haven't played this game much but i have dabbled 
 in the arcade mode system yet as i haven't played it much since i bought it (Xbox now has the same 
 functionality as a toastie maker ) but ive heard that cars can be unlocked in arcade for career, 
 which would be good if it could but ill edit this review at a later date if it doesnt.
  career mode is where ive spent most of my time and its brilliant. done most of the rookie, semi 
 pro and manufacturer races and got myself a decent collection of cars and a tricked out mini and 
 Golf R32 for main races but im most impressed about the class system and upgrades. the upgrades 
 actually do stuff to your car. i was amazed, after the GT4 experience of upgrades do nothing, improving 
 tires actually makes handling better. thee engine mods make the car sound different and behave 
 different.
  the class systems mean that you cant just go for everything max and blast the track so on the limited 
 BHP races you play the game of getting it as close as possible to the limit which is great.
  but i think whats really cool is the online stuff. you can race other people as you would expect 
 but the longevity of the online is amazing. you can enter for tournaments and play with the vets 
 or the rookies or just race casual.
  you could also race for pink slips but it would require some comms with the other player and the 
 best part of online. trading.
  you have several methods of trading cars. first, you could just give the car to the other player 
 using the "gift car" feature. second, you could auction it on the Forza auction house and basically 
 play Ebay for cars. or thirdly (which is what me and my friend do) is put a car up that they want 
 and ask them how much they want to pay for it then they just bid for it and hope that no-one else 
 bids. its works for us so far.
  this is a must have for all driving game addicts but its also a great game for the "not-so-sures" 
 who don't like driving games. i converted after playing this game, i now like GRID and PGR4. 
 
  and for the bemused, i put "check your bargain bin" because you can now pick up this awesome game 
 for around 12.99. if you live in england that is (gamestation are pukka) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravnerv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  By far the best racing game i have ever owned. You start of as a rookie driver with pretty crapy 
 cars. As you continue you way to the top you'll start earning money to tune your cars or buy faster 
 ones. In theory it's posible that you tune up your first car so much that it's suitable for races 
 against ferari's and porche's although this is not verry realistic its pretty fun. 
  
  Tuning options are verry wide ranged from tires to exhaust. this is not neccesairy to use but is 
 shure dous give you an advantage over the other AI controled players.
  
  The AI of you opponents is pretty good they won't stick to their line and run you of the track 
 (although it somethimes happens) instead they will slow down to avoid crashing in to you. but if 
 you start playing bumpercars they will hit you as well
  
  This game has a great replay value and the game takes pretty long to finish so it's well worth 
 your money. if you have finished the singleplayer you can go online to race against other players 
 although this is not as addictive as the singleplayer it does what it's supposed to do. 
  
  if you own a 360 you should defenitly buy this game you won't be disapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played the NFS or Burnout games knows what I'm talking about when I say that Forza 
 is a lot different. FM 2 is a Simulation racing game which basically means it's going to be a hell 
 of a lot harder than any NFS or Burnout game. The car handling is way more realistic than other 
 racing games. This game is pretty addicting though and has great graphics with over 300 cars to 
 choose from! The tracks in this game are great, but they will get boring because they're not that 
 many tracks. Players can race in cities such as New York City, Times square to be exact, and European 
 tracks. Possibly the best feature in this game is the ability to buy and sell cars on the online 
 store. You can buy or bid on cars that other players online are selling and you can sometimes get 
 them for cheaper than if you bought the same car in career mode. But sometimes, the cars are very 
 expensive because they are pre-tuned. There is customization in FM2, it's not as expansive as the 
 NFS games, but you can add spoilers, body kits, rims, and paint jobs. The crashes in the game aren't 
 as spectacular but they're way more realistic. So, pretty much if you like realistic games and 
 you don't mind sometimes frustrating gameplay, then this game is probably for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doyouyahoo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  i really recommend this game to all he racing sim players its just perfect great game no bugs just 
 try it you can have billions of customization you got ON LINE CAR AUCTION JUST PERFECT to be a 
 fake eBay buyer he he its really addictive this game has been one of the greatest of its kind iv'e 
 played Forza and Gran Turismo but you can feel the difference between FORZA and GT its a bit more 
 REAL maybe the GT Graphics are better but what counts is the gameplay hope you try it worth buying... highly 
 addictive multiplayer too gift cars sell cars buy cars paint cars tune cars you've got everything 
 you would like on a racing game everything licensed you make friends and everything amazing DOWNLOADABLE 
 CONTENT CARS TRACKS EVERYTHING TRUESKILL TOPSCORES everything.. Thanks for reading and hope you 
 enjoy forza maybe we'll meet racing someday................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osiris_altima
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  If you want balls to the wall all out racing mayhem you should look else where. Forza 2 is what 
 real world class racing is all about.
  
  Keep in mind this is a racing sim and not an arcade racer. With that in mind it does a more then 
 excellent job of doing just that, simulating racing. You have over 300 cars (or so I hear) , real 
 world circuit tracks, and every modding and tuning tool at your fingertips.
  
  As for my personal impressions on actually playing Forza 2, beware this game has somewhat of steep 
 learning curve. I find this refreshing though because you dong just hop in a car and head to your 
 local track and become the next GT champion. You WILL spend a lot of time learning mechanics, technique, 
 and finnese. If that wasnt enough, the tuning and upgrading portion can be very overwhelming and 
 mind boggling. I suggest googling a Forza game guide to wrap your mind around the many details.
 
  
  Graphics are great. Sound is ok. Controls are excellent and gameplay is unbeatable. There are options 
 and features galore. (Perfect for those with OCD =P )
  
  My rating is not based on it being solely a racing game but as a racing sim. In short this means 
 you cannot choose between this and say a Need for Speed title based on ratings because they are 
 both entirely different games down to the core. 
  
  Conclusion: Worth picking up if your into real cars and real racing. Steer clear if your the casual 
 game racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorTaBBo414
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  A very good game and provides a good driving/racing experience. I have spent ages customising, 
 buying, even sellin cars on the auction house. Also I have designed my own drift ar. This shows 
 how realistic and well crafted the game is. Nonetheless it does take some getting use to but once 
 you understand the game there is no other experience like it. 
  
  The Career Mode and Split Screen and xbox live give a fun experience whether your playing yourself 
 or with your friends and a wide range of audience can play the game. If your a car fanatic you 
 can go deep into the game and customize every small detail, whereas if you are not such a fanatic 
 the game still provides an excellent racing experience.
  
  Also the physics and graphics are excellent and each car is different and has been dfesigned as 
 close to its real life counterpart as possible. Each small part on the car has an effect on the 
 overall performance, and that is why it is an excellent experience.
  
  Take your driving imagination to another level with Forza 2. Also as Turn10 add more downloadable 
 features the game begins to get better and better making you want to play it over again, a must 
 buy for all driving fans.
  
  By DoctorTaBBo414 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerjustin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  In my review, I will talk about two categories -- the gameplay and the graphics. 
  
  The Game play : You start off as a small race car driver trying to move up to the big boys. As 
 you progress, there are literally thousands of options to choose from -- the type of car you want, 
 the design, the engine and countless more. Whenever you complete a race, you get CR (Credits) . 
 The better the place you complete the race in (1st or 2nd) the more credits you acquire. These 
 CR can be used to purchase upgrades for your cars like better tires or a more efficient engine. 
 In addition, whenever you earn CR from a race, your driver levels up.
  
  
  The Graphics: The main thing the developers focus on about the graphics are the cars. You can see 
 every spec of detail in the cars. For example, when you bump into a car next to you, you will see 
 paint scraped off the side and dents in the car. Next, all the car models look distinct and different. 
 There are thousands of cars in Forza and they all have a great crisp look to them. 
  
  I hope I helped all you readers out there! 
  
  GamerJustin
  
  P. S. My xbox live gamertag 
 is guamboy23 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Released: May 29, 2007
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developer: MS Game Studios
  Game Genre: GT/Street Racing
  ESRB Rating: E for Everyone
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
 
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  Forza II took the Gran Turismo series, which prides itself on having realistic driving, and upped 
 the ante tremendously. If you have never driven or played a realistic driving game before, then 
 Forza II is not for you. After the first 5 races it becomes exponentially difficult and increasingly 
 frustrating.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no storyline in Forza II. The career mode gives you the option of racing 
 in several different racing modes. The modes range from typical 2-lap races to endurance races 
 that last over 2 hours. An advantage to the game is the ability to hire drivers, which comes especially 
 in handy during the endurance races. The catch is that a percentage of your money has to go to 
 the hired driver. The worst driver takes 55% of your winnings and the best takes all of it.
  
  Cars range in class as well. The higher the class, the harder it is to drive. The racing classes, 
 R1 through R4 are almost impossible to control (hence the increasingly frustrating aspect) .
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  The graphics of Forza II, on a standard definition, 24" TV look like they 
 are high definition. The graphics on a high definition 48" TV look unreal. The graphics are so 
 pretty I started hiring drivers just so I could watch.
  
  Durability (6/10)
  The only setback to the game is its lack of interesting storyline. As I said before, there is no 
 storyline. After a while the game will just drop in interest at the same rate gas prices are rising.
 
  
  Overall Score (8.7/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I got the game in the bundle pack that comes with a new Xbox 360. I would not spend the money on 
 it, however. It loses durability too quickly to be worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASHLEY_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest with you here; I do not like Gran Turismo. I find the graphics most inviting 
 but I honestly dislike the rest of the game; maybe even the entire series. Then how would I like 
 a game such as Forza Motorsport 2? Well the answer is that I simply have no idea. It could possibly 
 be to do with the extensive online community that has built up around Forza 2, or the fact that 
 the damage and physics included within the game are simply second to none. But what I really enjoy 
 about Forza Motorsport 2 is the way the cars actually feel, the way they drive, the sound of the 
 engines blaring from my speakers at full volume. There really is nothing else like it that I have 
 ever experienced, the gameplay and lifespan of this game is truly outstanding and I presume that 
 it is also an inspiration to other games developers in the same general area. I adore this game 
 with my heart and soul; I purchased it on a whim after playing the somewhat underwhelming demo 
 (the demo for this was so bad it almost made me not purchase the game - what a poor decision that 
 would have been) , and it is probably the game I have spend the most time on over the last year 
 or so. But anyway, down to the details...
  When you start up the game you are presented with a shoddy, generic looking title screen, this 
 is one of the minor letdowns this game has; presentation. Not just in the menu screens; but the 
 graphics do not even hold their own against Gran Turismo 4! Or at least that is how it feels. They 
 are, in my personal opinion, the only downside this game has, and graphics do not necessarily make 
 a good game. This downside could turn people off buying this game but considering the price it 
 has fallen to as of late, why not give it a try? Never judge a book by its cover; and this turned 
 out to be an absolutely smashing one! The career mode is long and absorbing - I still haven't finished 
 it. The multiplayer is the best I have experienced in my entire life (except for Goldeneye 64) 
 - and still manages to out-play my other titles such as Call of Duty 4, FIFA 08, Gears of War and 
 even the 'mighty' Halo 3 ( which I found unfortunately disappointing) . The online tournaments give 
 you a reason to play the game in a competitive fashion - I have been obsessed with these as of 
 late and they really give you a sense of giddy excitement when you get through to the next round 
 and the finals are truly nail-biting. I even just enjoy cruising around Green Hell (which is actually 
 my favourite track) - in a 1970s BMW just for the ride and it really doesn't get any better than 
 that. But if you do decide to pick up this game (cheap as it already is) - make sure you keep the 
 extra cash you will be saving from not buying a brand new title - for the DLC. You really do need 
 this for the true (excellent as it already may be) Forza Motorsport 2 experience - 4 new tracks 
 and 3 new car packs - I'd take that. If you ever fancy a race add me on Xbox Live (the true home 
 of this game) and my gamertag is 'AshR2003'. Await my GTA 4 review in June and I hope that they 
 make Forza 3, because if they do I will be clearing my schedule and will be the first in line! 
 9.5 / 10. 
  (I would give it a 10/10 but the graphics and presentation issues still linger at the back of my 
 mind; 60fps was a nice addition but surely the 360 could achieve better graphics than this and 
 still achieve a good framerate!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  countless hours of racing, customizing, tuning, trading, painting, and thats just the quantity... quality 
 is even more impressive... more cars than i can count. endless ways to modify each one with clear 
 performance changes resulting. its incredible how many things you can tune and the degree to which 
 you can. you don't have to be a gearhead to appreciate how fun the racing can be though. the ai 
 is fair but tough (and you can customize the difficulty almost as much as the cars) . for instance, 
 i love to use manual transmission and no assists but i hate doing a 20 minute race only to lose 
 on the last turn so i put the ai difficulty on easy and turn off the realistic damage (i ahve a 
 bad habit of choking during the final laps and destroying my car) ... and the damage is extremely 
 realistic to boot. if you hit the wall on your right your brakes will break on that side and when 
 you break your car will turn to the left because those brakes slow the car better. painting is 
 absurd i'm afraid to even start for fear of doing nothing else. i've hardly even gone online because 
 i've been so busy trying to do career and getting all golds in arcade, but the online mode is superb 
 as well and the auction house is very cool indeed. definitely a must buy for any car lover, or 
 video game lover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Little can be said but that Forza 2 is a truly exceptional game. It improved nicely upon its predecessor 
 and, aside from that fact, stands tall as a great racing game.
  
  The controls feel pretty accurate and the camera views work well. I only wish the first-person 
 camera would view from inside the car or maybe even from on top of the hood instead of the front 
 bumper. Aside from that, the general gameplay is quite good. The sheer number of cars available, 
 plus all the unlockable cars and the number of tracks and events offer almost unlimited replay 
 value.
  
  The graphics and sound are incredible. Beautiful 3D rendering and attention to detail really bring 
 the cars to life, and even the tracks look very realistic. More-realistic vehicle damage would 
 have been nice, though. Adjusting the various sound effects allows you to tweak the audio for an 
 optimum experience, especially with surround sound. It is easy to become fully immersed in this 
 game right from the starting line.
  
  If variety is the spice of life, then this game is a giant jalapeno pepper. There are hundreds 
 of cars to choose from, and the customization options are incredible. Choose the paint color and 
 type of paint, window tint, rim style and color. Plus you can make up your own decals and designs 
 to compliment the paint job. Aside from aesthetics, you have a ton of options for tuning up your 
 car, and all options provide a breakdown of how they will effect overall performance.
  
  Next, there's the incredible multiplayer online options. Race friends online in a large variety 
 of tracks, plus you can buy, sell and even auction cars. Choose a car to auction off and set the 
 parameters of the auction. Over the next few days in real time, other online players can bid using 
 in-game currency.
  
  Truly great racing games are few and far between. Forza 2 seems primed to hold on to the gold trophy 
 for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent7312
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game, to me, brought to racing what Need For Speed consistently lacked: realism. With the 
 ability to control whether you have TCS, ABS, or any other of those controls on/off, setting the 
 AI, and who knows what else, you're getting just about the most realistic race setting you can. 
 Now, when i first started playing this game, I had my reservations about. At the time, it was TOO 
 realistic. Then, I had to sell my couple of Xbox NFS titles (wouldn't play on 360) , I decided to 
 go ahead and give it another couple of laps. Boy, am I glad I did.
  Yeah, the controls take a little getting used, 'cause, surprise, you're driving a more realistically 
 based car. But that's half the fun! Tearing around the track, realizing you can't (generally) powerdrift 
 through a turn, hit the wall, and drive off just fine, to me it gets exciting. That, and the fact 
 that you're driving in real cars from all over the world. Yeah, NFS has that, but it's "You have 
 to pick out of these 30 somethin' cars you might not even like," whereas Forza gives you your choice 
 of over 300 cars. Pretty spectacular, if you ask me
  The only things that bug me in this game are 1) the Ai advancement - it seems like it jumps substantially 
 even from Easy to Medium, and 2) the lack of music. Yes, I know you can plug your iPod in and listen 
 to it that way, but it would be nice to have in-game music all the same. All in all, a really solid 
 game, really well made. 9.5/10 definitely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloody_hippyuk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  This is so far, to date, the best racing game available.. not just on the 360 but on any system... Gran 
 Turrismo? GIVE ME A BREAK the cars dont even get a scratch on them... BORING.. not exactly "life 
 like" is it although funnily thats what they are saying it is meant to be... interesting!!!!
  
  Anyway Forza 2 the bad points, this is something i do just to give an insight in to what a 
 game is really like without all the hype and personal prejudice. Dont worry there arnt many bad 
 points. Damn good game!!!
  
  1) when online the cars can jit around the track a bit.. when i say jit i mean that they can litterally 
 start jumping all over the place, this problem hasnt just been for me, friends of mine with differnet 
 internet service providers and different routers have had the same issue but thankfully it is few 
 and far between.
  
  2) The get the best experience you need to fork out for a gaming wheel... yes i know not really 
 a negative and once youve got the wheel it's a whole new game and a completely new challenge. Adds 
 depth and longevitity.
  
  And well thats about it cant really think of anything else that i have had an issue with aprt from 
 maybe the endurance races making me feel tired!!! but then that adds to the realism.
  
  Great collection of cars that all feel like they handle differently, great tuning options, great 
 parts for your cars and they are still adding to the collection with downloadable content. Oh and 
 i think the paint system needs a quick mention as being spot on.. it's not too difficult to get 
 a great finish on your cars but if you want to spend the extra time on them you can come out with 
 an absolute masterpiece!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrogue87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport is my favorite racing game yet. It's Highly addictive and it's a really fun game. 
 The only thing I don't like about it is that it took me a while to figure out how to play. It took 
 me like 10 retries on the first race to figure out how to do the first turn. This game has many 
 challenging and fun maps from Speedways to Courses with sharp turns. I've still haven't mastered 
 drifting yet.
  
  This game has excellent control scheme and it's very realistic. It damages your car from the type 
 of crash you did. It accelerates almost like a normal car would. The Gameplay's excellent. This 
 racing game is one of my top five games I've played. The best thing is the tuning, painting, and 
 modification possibilities. I've never played a racing game better than this.
  
  This game has many car companies. My top car has 420 hp, a racing engine and turbo and is Class 
 A. That car is my Lancer Evolution VIII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naganox777
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 started off with a great first impression. It had over 300 customizable cars and many tracks 
 to go with. I played the game, with its beautiful cars and effects. Then, I started my engines 
 and went off. I immediately crashed, and my car stopped working. Then, I lost the race. I was disappointed, 
 then spent over 5 hours to learn how to drive. Then, I spent 5 hours to properly customize my cars. 
 Then, after racing, I still got destroyed. Now, after a long time playing, I can actually win a 
 few races. A few. Not that the game's brutally hard, it's just that you gotta practice, practice 
 and practice to fully understand the game. Now, about its components. The graphics are great... 
 only on the cars. The environments look bland, and don't do much interactivity with you. The audience 
 looks okay in single player, but are paper cutouts in mp. It's not that graphics matter too much, 
 they are a mixed bag. The music is okay, but doesn't play while on the track. That's what custom 
 soundtracks come in, but I wish they put more music in for the in game racing. The sounds are great, 
 with each car having their own roars and zooms, it really sounds like a car, and feels like one 
 too. The gameplay, like I said is hard to get used to, but when you do, it is very fun, with each 
 car having their own feel and weight, no car feels the same. You could be amazing with a Porsche 
 911, then when you move up to a Lamborghini Gallardo, you will have to take time to adjust to it. 
 It makes the game feel very real, and eventually, fun. The overall presentation is disappointing, 
 with sometimes long load times and frame rate issues, it doesn't feel fluent and can get annoying.
 
  Overall, Forza is well worth it if you're a car fanatic looking for a game built for cars, especially 
 with its cheap prices due to its bundle with 360s (I found some copies at $15-$20) , but if you own 
 a 360 and a PS3, I'd suggest you wait until GT5, or get the recently released GT5 Prologue, but 
 as a buyer at launch, the game wasn't worth the full $60, but for $20, you can't go wrong for the 
 most realistic (and hard) racing game on Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin_289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 doesn't try to be clever, however it does succeed at being an amazing and realistic racing 
 experience.
  Career mode is where you will likely start, and where most of my 60+ hours was spent. There are 
 over 300 cars to collect and customise as well as some new DLC made available since its release 
 (2008 Ferrari 430 Scuderia anyone?) . This itself adds a lot of depth to the game, but put alongside 
 it the leveling system and you will get immersed in this game. Multiplayer is as competitive as 
 it has always been, nearly a year on and tournaments can be found and entered with ease.
  Graphics are the best on the 360 for any racer in my mind with great views and only the slight 
 problem of jaggies every now and again. The soundtrack in my opinion is awesome, with the Prodigy, 
 LCD Soundsystem and that great Jason Nevins 'Rockstar' (N. E. R. D) remix, perfect music for a racing 
 game. I was disappointed when I coudln't listen to that music in the race at first but then I remembered 
 I was on an extremely realistic driving game and any distraction can be deadly. The best thing 
 about Forza's realism is the physics engine which is so similar to real life it is uncanny. Be 
 very carefull when driving because, just like real life, anything can happen on the road or on 
 the racetrack.
  Overall this game is one of the top 10 on the Xbox 360 and undoubtedly the best racer out there 
 on any console at the moment. Fasten your seatbelts people and get ready for a great ride.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  In the Forza world it is all about the cars. In this sequel to a very solid racing sim, Turn 10 
 improves on the formula they surprisingly nailed from the get go. This time however, there is the 
 strong pull of achievement points, leveling up and playing CARPG that pull you through the 50 some 
 odd hours it takes to get through the career mode.
  
  There are hundreds of cars ranging from slow production cars to the fastest elite racers in the 
 world from all parts of the globe. Cars are either won or purchased by racing through career events. 
 There is also an auction house through Xbox Live for seliing and buying cars from other Forza gamers 
 around the world. There are gamers who spend alot of time designing, customising and fine tuning 
 some sweet looking cars.
  
  Since Forza is a sim racer there is a great deal of attention paid to car customization. It is 
 the CARPG component to the game since it resembles the weapon and skill upgrading in RPG games. 
 Just about everything that makes up the car can be upgraded from the engine block, cams and exhaust 
 to springs, dampers and fuel systems. You can also fully customize the look of the car by changing 
 color schemes, adding decals, changing rims and aero packages.
  
  My only major complaint about Forza 2 is it's lack of track variety. Since the career mode takes 
 about 48-55 hours for most players to complete, you will be racing the same tracks over and over 
 again. This does get tedious and boring after awhile. The one plus in all of this is that because 
 you are so familiar with the tracks, you really notice the differences in the way the various cars 
 perform. How much you need to brake heading into a turn, how hard you crank on the gas coming out 
 of the turns, and how heavy (or light) the car sits on the track all depend on the car and how 
 hot your tires are. However, a few more tracks would have been very welcome.
  
  My other complaint is a small one, but one that would make a big difference - and that is immersion. 
 Several design choices make it hard to feel that you are participating in anything more than simple 
 laps around a track. Your pit crew is non-existent. Pit your car and you hear the sounds of the 
 crew working but you see absolutely no one. Besides your monetary earnings from winning there is 
 nothing that makes me feel like you're on the racing circuit. I'm not asking for TOCA Race Car 
 Driver story, but something more that just watching credits and stats going higher.
  
  Unlocking cars and stat tracking does do a good job of keeping you motivated though. Each race 
 will add to your bank, add to your overall rank and level up your car. Each rank unlocks new cars 
 for purchase and every 5th rank gifts you a new car from your home country. Completing brackets 
 of races in different categories in career mode also gifts you cars. These are usually cars needed 
 to race in other brackets, so don't sell them. 
  
  Of course there are also plenty of achievements to earn, just don't buy this game expecting to 
 quickly farm points. It will take you at least 20 hours of driving just to collect 100-200 points.
 
  
  On the web I would suggest you visit forzamotorsport. net and check out the stats page after you've 
 linked your account to the site. You can also upload photos and see what's in the auction (but 
 you can't bid from there) . The forums are good and if you have any questions you will likely find 
 the answers there. 
  
  It is very easy for me to recommend Forza 2 to racing game fans, there is alot there to fall in 
 love with. Overall the game is rock solid and a step forward in the series. Hopefully we will see 
 a sequel that fleshes out the experience further since the game's potential is tremendous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpbmpb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  forza is a very good game but wen you play on it for ages it starts to get boring and it is like 
 racing the same thing over and over again i gave it an 7.5 because it has lots of cars and the 
 tracks are very good and you can mod your cars aswell on carrer mode its good but it takes a while 
 to unlock the good cars the time trails are quite easy and so are the expedition races but you 
 dont get many achivements on single player mode though on xbox live it is exellent though and you 
 can auction you car and watch forza motorsport tv and play online tournements xbox live is the 
 best part of the game i think the game is very horrible though and the races are really boring 
 and if you drive the F1 cars they are extremly hard to handle and you will probably go flying of 
 the whole track and onto the barriers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved Forza 2 and how the game holded my hand while I learned the game. All the cars feels vastly 
 different and the graphics, while not ground-breaking, were silk smooth 60 frames per second. The 
 sound is excellent and the music decent. 
  
  The career starts out fun and the races are varied with specific car classes and performance restrictions. 
 Then, after a while you get tired of doing the same tracks over and over again. I wish the game 
 would have a lot more tracks!
  
  The game offers a huge collection of cars and they all feel different and most of them you can 
 buy additional parts to boost their performance.
  
  The online part of this game is the best i've in a racing game. Finding a race to your liking is 
 a breeze and there's tons of people playing this game. The bad thing is that a lot of people are 
 so damn good that you'll probably get smoked a few times before you get accustomed to a certain 
 car.
  
  I prefer arcade racers over simulation but this game was really enjoyable. If you love racing simulation 
 this is the game for you! It will last you a long while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanorman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  It's been almost 11 months since X360 owners warmly acclaimed Forza Motorsport 2, and still it 
 has no competition in sight. Why? The answer is simple. The game is just that good!
  
  Highly addictive, amazing, greatly balanced, sucking you in, attractive, realistic - this all is 
 the truth about Forza Motorsport 2. The game still has no competition that could come near it, 
 and yet if there was any, FM2 would be very likely to survive the clash. The team at Turn10 did 
 an amazing job of moving forward from the first FM game and created a true masterpiece of reallistic 
 racing simulator.
  
  It is hard to say which feature FM2 fans (count me in!) fans love their game most for. Is it the 
 number and visualisation of cars and models? Perhaps the stunning realism of racing simulation? 
 Or maybe the popularity of the great multiplayer mode and the dedication of the community members, 
 gathered together at www. forzamotorsport. net? There is no simple answer to this question. This 
 game is very special in many different ways to every single of its owners. You really should think 
 of your answer, when you play it.
  
  
  Belive it or not, there is no better next-gen racing simulation on the market than Forza Motorsport 
 2. The only comepetition (and an honorable one!) comes from Gran Turismo 5 Prologue, but this PS3 
 game is not a fully-featured and fully-sized product.
  
  Long live Forza Motorsport 2! Long live the racing Queen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is and was always great. I played number 1 and that was trult brilliant with the new 
 damage system in racing, engine, body work, suspension you name it you may break it. Then comes 
 the 360 and 2 years later this game was released... wasnt that intsrested.
  Yeah i know it looked good but i was just trying to ware off NFS Most Wanted and GT4. So i looked 
 back at number 1 and thought..."why not". Well i actually hated it at fist, didnt like the controls 
 and menu and the fact on 2 people can race split screen and not four. So yeah a bit of a dissapiontment 
 so i left it aside.
  A month later i played it again and then i relised what a game it really was. Graphics... not photo 
 realistic but still pretty damn good. And the gameplay at first i thought was terrible, skidding 
 out of corner, crashing easliy until i realised it was on manual so it was all good. Fun to play 
 and career can be exciting especially for someone whos not enthusiastic or bothered about what 
 cars what... like me. I just care about if it handles good or drives good.
  So after half of my career and races with some photos and replays... and crashing almost every car 
 there is i became bored so yet again tossed it aside... as it was dull and repetetive.
  Annoyingly i picked it up again and re-played it... some of use might be getting anoyed at this 
 but the fact is there are no decent enough racing games on the 360.
  NFS PRO STREET- hurrendous
  PGR 4- too much of an arcade game for me
  NFS CARBON- quick
  
 PGR 3- repetetive and now this... which is the best but not THE BEST!!!
  So yeah as you guessed i soon realised why i dumped it in the first place so dumped it again.
 
  They have to push the boundries on racing games on the 360 like GT5 did with the ps3 as they are 
 now adding in damage and the fact its photo realistic. So i gave it 8.0 due to the lack of replay 
 ability and the fact that im just annoyed at some things in the game.
  So there you have it... my honest opinion on FMS 2, like i was saying before about pushing the boundries 
 GRID seems to do that....... but thats what i though about Pro Street.
  Hope number 3 comes out next year... and i hope they improve it, all in all its getting better and 
 so i car games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The willy-wombat review for favourite driving/racing simulation, goes to Forza motorsport 2!! WHAT 
 A GAME!!!! where to start, OK so career mode pits you against some easy and some very hard opposition 
 as you go from the amateur leagues to the big boy leagues, and also see's you racing in most continents 
 driving these continents worst and best cars. The racing is unbelievable, no nitro or "mega boost" 
 crap, just plain realistic, legal track racing. You candrive cars from "turd" on wheels, to old 
 school Mustangs, to suped up Lambo's, to insanely fast Formula 1 "DREAMS" on wheels. The racing 
 environments are amazing, unlike other racing games you actually get slown down on grass and sand, 
 you actually get oversteer and understeer around corners. The racing rules are good aswell, for 
 example if you hit the opposition with your car you get time penalties and you get them for going 
 in out of bounds zones aswell. The game also uses the best crash simulation and graphical effects 
 I have ever seen. The game also stops you from sticking with one car and only using that one car 
 by each race having different specifications, so for example if your in a final, and the specification 
 is your car must be under a certain weight, and your best is other that rate, you may just end 
 up using your "shed" on wheels in the hardest race of the game! in all I find this game to be incredibly 
 impressive and would recommend it to any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Are you ready to play a racing game that actually requires you to use your brakes and tune your 
 car to get the best performance? Forza has tons of parts to add on to you car, sometimes making 
 your car the fastest is not always the key to wining the race. You can add bumpers to add down 
 force to increase your handling and braking but you also loose in the speed area. Or you can design 
 your car to go as fast as possible the possibilities are endless. You can also tune your car to 
 get that extra speed or handling performance out of your ride, some web sites have even created 
 tunning instructions, and even made special calculators for helping you tune your car in case your 
 not quite sure how to. There is also an auction house in the multi-player sections which allows 
 you to bid on cars for sell from other players, if your having trouble winning a race, plus the 
 prices are usually cheaper or close to what you would pay at the dealership. Download content is 
 still being added ever now and then including new tracks and cars to race. Sound effects are great 
 take a turn to fast and you hear squalling tires that sound real. Graphics are extremely detailed 
 after 15 laps on a track surrounded by sand or dirt it builds up around your wheels and car and 
 the cars are very detailed, environment is also based on real race tracks from around the world. 
 If you love racing games this is a must for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirroPlato
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most compelling, complete, and realistic racing simulators available 
 for any platform. It allows you to control nearly every aspect imaginable, meaning you can play 
 the game the way you want to. The library of cars to choose from is vast and the possibilities 
 for customization are endless. The controls are simple, but effective, and the realism is tremendous. 
 The feeling of the cars are about as close as you can get to real life. In addition to a great 
 single player career mode, the online mode is also smooth and very fun. The online auctions are 
 a really nice touch, and allow you to get cars you don't yet have access to, or find a nifty custom 
 car. The one thing that this game lacks that similar games have is an in-car camera option. Other 
 than that, nothing else touches this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  
  
  Loaded with over 300 of the world's hottest cars for you to collect, personalize, and race, Forza 
 Motorsport 2 gives you the complete racing experience. 
  Features:
  
  Experience uncompromising physics: Top automotive engineers, professional race car drivers, and 
 experienced programmers teamed up to create the most complete racing simulator experience available. 
 Cars incur dramatic damage and wear, which affects car performance. Advanced tire and suspension 
 models respond to heat and pressure changes as well as weight transfer and aerodynamic load. It's 
 the only console racing simulator with the new advanced clutch control and shift override option.
 
  
  
  Race real-world tracks: From the all-new world famous Nurburgring F1 and Sebring tracks to the 
 spectator-lined streets of Rio de Janeiro, race on meticulously designed tracks with an incredible 
 sense of speed and realism. Forza Motorsport 2 features over 60 tracks carved out of 18 environments, 
 including 13 real-world licensed circuits such as Road America, Silverstone, Tsukuba, and Laguna 
 Seca. Four new real-world licensed circuits further expand the world of Forza Motorsport 2.
  
  
  Build your garage: Collect, upgrade, and tune hundreds of cars. From sport compacts to 
 purpose-built race cars, collect more than 300 cars from over 50 of the world's leading manufacturers 
 including Ferrari, Porsche, Nissan, VW, GM, and Lamborghini. Take your car to the garage and install 
 alternative engines, suspension kits, bolt-on superchargers, brakes, rims, racing slicks, and more. 
 Dial in advanced suspension settings, tire pressure, and gear ratios. Forza Motorsport 2 allows 
 you to own the cars that will own the competition.
  
  
  Pimp your ride: Create and share your masterpiece with the world. Express your inner artist in 
 the paint and upgrade shops with near endless visual personalization. Customize the shape of your 
 car by combining different licensed rims, performance parts, and aftermarket body kits. Create 
 your own unique paint scheme using millions of paint and decal options. Take in-game pictures of 
 your creation in the Forza Motorsport 2 photo mode. 
  
  
  Compete online: Take your personalized car onto Xbox Live for some intense online wheel-to-wheel 
 racing. Earn in-game credits and even complete single player career objectives while racing over 
 Xbox Live. Watch the best racers from around the world complete on Forza Motorsport 2 TV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game I have owned in this type genre. I have played similar games, but never bought 
 one. I realize I have missed out, but this game is great. 
  
  The physics and feel of the cars is exceptional. So many racing games miss the physics and are 
 therefore terrible. This game has a nice feel and runs smoothely. The upgrading is great and the 
 selection of vehicles is fantastic. Hours can be spent playing this game. This is how racers should 
 be made. Some other publishers need to take note here.
  
  Online racing looks just like the single player mode. Being able to sell or even give cars away 
 to friends is genius. What a great addition. 
  
  If I had one complaint, the only thing missing is some free roam. Maybe a little city to cruise 
 around in your newly decked out ride. Get some illegal street races going, and a few police chases. 
 This would have made the game perfect.
  
  If your looking for a solid racer, this is the one you need to get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing. The fact that Microsoft gives it away with every console is unbelievable. This 
 is by far one of the best racing games ever made!
  
  PROS: 
  
  1. customizability. any single aspect you can think of on a car you can change. color, window tint, 
 decals, vinyls, rims, anything! 
  
  2. visuals. the graphics are revoloutionary. truly amazing. the races look completely real. it 
 puts you in the drivers seat unlike some other games ive played in my time that feel like your 
 just following the car along.
  
  3. reality. forza went all out in this category. every car, track, model, about everying is real. 
 no stupid fake spaceship cars that go 1000 miles an hour.
  
  4. the auction house. this is a really cool idea. instead of selling your car with a design you 
 worked on for hours for minimum price you can sell it to someone else to enjoy. for more cash too! 
 i sold my car for 408,000 when the computer offered me 98,000.
  
  CONS:
  
  1. Ford GT. this is gay as crap. no matter what car, lamborghini, ferrari, maserati, any car the 
 GT is faster by a longshot which is so stupid.
  
  dang thats the only con. wow. how many other games are that good? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay realy is the star of the show here. The visuals can hold there own, but aren't amazing, but 
 they do run at a silky smooth 60 frames.
  It has a huge list of possible can creations by altering the  
 etc and there have to be hundreds of differen't cars, each with there own feel to them, but there 
 arn't any "fake" cars, that could be a good or a bad thing, depending on your preference. The single 
 player is MASSIVE, I haven't beaten it yet, and I don't know If I ever will, I have played it proably 
 like 30 or 40 hours and I havn't completed the first group of races and there are like 10 of them. Multi-play 
 is great is well. there is also arcade and time trials modes, and I have bearly touched those modes.
 
  
  good: Solid controls.
  great gameplay.
  60 frames.
  great multi-player.
  outragiously long single-player.
  
  bad: visuals aren't perfect, but can hold there own.
  It 
 will almost make you cry when you realize you will probably NEVER finish the single player.
  The achievments are hard to get.
  music is anoying, but you can use your own music if you like.
 
  80% of the achievments are online ones, so if you don't have online, your screwed there.
  
  This is a game all car-racing fans will enjoy, and there is plenty to love. If you are finish it 
 then cheers to you, because I can't. This is truly a fantastic game in all respects except it maybe 
 could have used a visual boost. But it is silky smooth in the frames area, so it's realy a double 
 edged sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport is Microsoft's attempt at providing an hardcore racing simulator for the 360 in 
 competition with the long-standing PlayStation exclusive, Gran Turismo. Unfortunately, it doesn't 
 match "The Real Driving Simulator" in many important areas.
  
  Graphics and sound (7.0) :
  
  Graphically (and in other areas as you'll see later in the review) 
 Forza is very inconsistent. The car models are nice enough and comparable to most other racing 
 games on the 360. However, they are no-way near as detailed as those in GT5 Prologue. Also, the 
 reflections on the car models pixelate horribly.
  
  The other issue with the visuals concerns the environmental graphics. Some of the circuits are 
 stunningly detailed (like New York) , but others look like they've been ported straight from an 
 original Xbox title, with some very poor textures. It's a strange situation for a game that is 
 supposed to be one of Microsoft's flagship titles.
  
  Anyone who has played Gran Turismo will also notice that the menu layouts and HUD in FM2 have been 
 almost directly taken from earlier GT games.
  
  The audio is functional enough in FM2. The cars sound close enough to the real-life counterparts 
 and the soundtrack choice is littered with songs that are perfect for a racing game.
  
  Gameplay (7.5) :
  
  The handling model in FM2 works nicely enough for most of the cars in the 
 game although there are some exceptions. For example, the Ferrari F430 is unnecessarily difficult 
 to drive considering it's reputation for being the most simple-to-drive supercar. For the most 
 part though it's as satisfying to drive as any other racing-sim, albeit not as intricate as GT5.
 
  
  In career mode you start with a small amount of credits to buy a slower car and then earn more 
 credits by winning races, in order to then purchase faster cars and unlock more events. Again, 
 this is too similar to GT. So similar even, that all the race categories are almost the same as 
 in GT3. FM2 differentiates itself though by introducing a levelling up system for both cars and 
 driver which influences what you can unlock and purchase from the car and parts stores. This is 
 interesting at first but ultimately becomes frustrating later in the game, as you are forced to 
 grind out slower races repeatedly in order to level up enough to unlock other events.
  
  There's also an arcade mode which allows you to jump into events in almost any of the game's cars 
 without the hard slog of gaining cash to buy them in career. Again, this is similar to Gran Turismo 
 and I've found that most players have avoided this mode completely in favour of the career mode. 
 I only played it myself for achievement points and haven't returned since playing each race once.
 
  
  Finally, there is the much talked about option to design paint-schemes for cars from scratch. This 
 works fantastically well and you can lose yourself in it for hours. It's just odd that in a racing-sim 
 this is actually the most enjoyable part of the game, and not the racing itself.
  
  Online (8.5) :
  
  This is one of the most enjoyable online racers to date. This is primarily 
 because the community is that of hardcore race fans and very few people will resort to ramming 
 each other off the circuit, which happens far too often in most other racing games online.
  
  All the options and matches you'd expect are there for racing and you can also send and sell 
 painted up cars online, which is a miniature community in itself. 
  
  FM2 sets new standards in online racing and it will be interesting to see how Gran Turismo's developers 
 can respond with their use of the PlayStation Network.
  
  Overall (7.0) :
  
  As a big fan of racing simulations I was left mostly bored and underwhelmed by the familiar territory 
 which FM2 stalks. Apart from it's online mode and intricate car-painting the game does little that 
 wasn't achieved by the 3rd generation of the Gran Turismo series and it has a few too many graphical 
 bugs and imperfections.
  
  On the other hand, if you want a competitive and fair online racing experience, this is a great 
 place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kumiteh
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is a great game that combines graphics, gameplay great variety and car selection for an 
 overall perfect driving game. Its definitely one to look out for as everyone who I know who has 
 it thinks is great and well worth a try.
  This is pure fun and is definitely one of the best driving games/simulators of all time without 
 any doubt. There is one bad point and is the only bad point. Steering. Steering is very difficult 
 for the first couple of times playing the game but you will slowly get used to it. This game is 
 definitely a must have for xbox 360. Worth the wait and the time. The first time I played it was 
 at my cousins house way before I bought my xbox 360. I was shocked at the amazing graphics and was 
 inspired to get an x360. I realised this was a minimal amount of its incredible potential. The xbox 
 360 is a great console and forza 2 is one of its best games yet. 
  
  
  
  
  Posted:23/3/08 at:16:06pm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  
  Forza Motorsports 2 is probley the best racing game out but
  on the other hand it does have it's frustraiting moments such as
  the braking system, sometimes 
 it responds and other times it 
  just doesn't respond at all apart from the braking system this
  game has amazing graphics and 
 has a lot to offer such as the 
  variety of cars, race tracks, including extra's fantastic!
  eventully you probley will get bored 
 in the end. Unless you 
  go online to play. This game allows you to be creative for an
  example customizing your own car with labels or change the 
  style for your car anyway you like 
 it. If looking for game 
  that has a lot to offer then this one for you.
  
  Graphics - Amazing visuals it's just plainly Fantastic!!
  
  Gameplay - This is probley your 
 normal average game with a variety
  of stuff to do but on the other hand it can be frustraiting.
  
  How long the game lasts? - 
 This game will last you at least 20 to 40 hours
  and the extra's cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antrosg24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  After 8 months playing this game and it still feels great. This a great game i believe with GT5 
 are the best games out there. The gameplay is extremely long but some time frustrating, Graphics 
 are good but could have been better, Music is a bit lame, Car design and customization is UNBELIEVABLE. 
 Online is great, RACING AND AUCTIONS are great. In combination with the wheel makes the game the 
 real thing... This is a must have for every driving fun out there. Remeber this is a driving sim 
 not an arcade................ Finally this is a rather difficult game to play. It took me i while 
 before i could drive with most aids off. A single mistake is enough to throw you out and loss the 
 race. Especially those 30 lap races are more staying focus rather than speed.
  
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Online 10/10
  Music 8/10
  Difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_KO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  At first I saw this game and said "Ha, looks boring". So I played it and instantly got hooked to 
 it.
  
  The pros are it has some awesome graphics, real simulator style racing (makes you feel like you're 
 in the car) , there's a whole bunch of upgrades and cars to buy from cars that you'd usually see 
 on the street to real racing style cars with every brand of cars from ford to mazda. It also has 
 replay value: you can start from America, Asia, or Europe. It surely is one of the best racing 
 games out there.
  
  The cons aren't many. There's the actual gameplay that can get you frustrated because sometimes 
 you car can just get tapped and it will spin out. Also, if your opponent bumps you, you get a penalty 
 instead of him. 
  
  As you can see it makes up for more than it's cons with it overall addictiveness. I recommend this 
 game but if you're not used to turns were you actually have to stop sometimes, you might want to 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxacid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is the best racing sim I have played. There are so many options and extras it will keep you 
 busy for not just hours, days, or weeks, but for months. All the modifications available for the 
 cars will make your head (and tires) spin. The paint shop gives you the ability to do just about 
 anything with the outside of your cars. I can't get too in depth with my rides, because I would 
 never have the time actually play the game. It still has the replay option to watch how you ran 
 the guy, vying for first place, off the road. The graphics, sound, and controls are superb. The 
 choice of cars is immense. Some are weak little hatchbacks, but that is o. k. because there are 
 races just for those cars. The only setback I can see is the lack of tracks. I don't like the way 
 the creators used the same tracks, and then just used different parts of the tracks for the races. 
 On-line play against others is just another added kick to this great game. If you just barely even 
 like racing games, buy this one. You will never buy another. (Until Forza 3 comes out) . Later, 
 Tater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the best racing simulator I've ever seen on the market. The graphics are sublime, the customization 
 levels are immense and so are the car choices. this is also the best racing simulator I've ever 
 seen. it is completely accurate in every sense. the layout of the races allows you to use cars 
 out of every class rather than just building the fastest car you can. the only possible way this 
 game can get any better is to include motorbikes and even without them its still fantastic. i think 
 the game spot score of 9.2 is too low. the range of difficulty allows for people from all levels 
 to customize the difficulty to suit them. the car painting editor is easily the best one out there. 
 it allows you to edit every facet of the painting. you can even do accurate faces. literally everything 
 is possible with this editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmackura
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  My first game for the original Xbox was Forza, and it left me speechless with its graphics, in 
 depth tuning system, and deep career mode. I would have given that game a perfect score, if it 
 had a few more features.
  Not only is Forza 2 better than its predecessor... It has everything you would expect from a true 
 racing simulator, and then some. It has the graphics that compare with anything out there, including 
 the upcoming Grand Turismo. The customization goes deeper than any Need For Speed game, taking 
 you past the simple cosmetics and into the world under the hood. Not only can you customize the 
 performance of your car but you can tune it to your hearts content. Once you are finished with 
 your performance setup you can move on to the exterior with a painting system that allows you to 
 draw some pretty realistic images, just go to the auction to see what i mean. 
  The reason why this game gets a perfect 10 in my book is not the depth of the career, or modification 
 system, its the multi-player. Once you own every car in the world, have beaten the same 15 or 20 
 simulated opponents hundreds of times, you can take your ego out on Live. Some of the crazy time 
 trial times on the leader boards are ridiculous, and you could spend years finding the right car 
 and tuning setup to master each track. But where the multi-player really got me was with the career 
 races. You can race in exhibition races to earn credits and add to your stats, all the while building 
 your hot-lap times. The competition is fierce out there. I thought that I was a wiz with the game, 
 flying through most of the career. Once I tried the online I realized that there is a whole other 
 level to this game that I have yet to even scratch.
  There are definitely some easy races where you can over modify your car and smoke the competition 
 in single player. But the stock races and the online will bring your ego back down to Earth. Hence 
 the 'Hard' rating on the difficulty.
  I would definitely call Forza 2 under-appreciated too. Many people disregard this game as 'average' 
 because it has been included with the 360 for some time now. Just because the game is given as 
 a freebie does not make it 'average'. I will admit that the game has a selective audience, but 
 that audience will be so satisfied with the multitude of features that they won't ever need to 
 go buy a game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The AI, the graphics, the feel and sound of the cars, and the choice of cars are all amazing, not 
 to mention DLC with new cars and tracks, and online racing. The only downfall to this game for 
 me is the soundtrack and the online. It's hard to race online due to the physics. Either way the 
 game looks and feels great, and responds well. The paint jobs are an amazing option and so are 
 online auctions. Almost brings a feel of a game called Motor City Online to it. Now if they would 
 just incorporate drag racing. Tuning cars is very realistic and takes quite a few tries to get 
 down. It's not hard to play the game, it's just hard to build your car to compete with online competition. 
 More cars would be nice, but that's what DLC is for. The tracks are abundant and variant. I wish 
 you could do wheelies and that there were boobies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is either a racing game or a driving sim, depending on what you set the difficulty 
 options to. It can be for first-time drivers, or professional veteran drivers. You can tune the 
 difficulty exactly to your skill level, and as you get more skilled, you can change the difficulty 
 so you can earn more cash from winning races. This is one of the many great customization options 
 in Forza Motorsport 2.
  
  The graphics in Forza 2 are great. The cars look absolutely amazing, tuned down to every detail. 
 Almost everything about your car can be customized. The upgraded parts, the aerodynamics, the paint, 
 rims, window tint, decals and manufacturer labels... the customization for your vehicles in Forza 
 2 is one of the many awesome parts of the game. You can create your car entirely from scratch, 
 and make it your own unique ride.
  
  The sky, graphically, also looks amazing and photo-realistic. However, the ground textures could 
 use a little work, as they are not really on-par with the spectacular car modeling and graphics.
 
  
  The driving mechanics and physics and Forza 2 are what make the game so fun to play. The game never 
 makes you feel like you are just idly driving through a track. You will have to brake and decelerate 
 and weave through almost every curve or risk smashing into a wall, and when you have the difficulty 
 turned up, you will see how quickly your car's performance will deteriorate if you crash into a 
 wall.
  
  The AI will give you a challenge, but I have never seen them be very aggressive with their driving. 
 Usually they only win whenever you end up flying off the road and spinning out, which you will 
 do many times, believe me.
  
  Overall, Forza 2 is an excellent choice for a great racing game, and I would highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  If your into racing games that aren't easy like Need for Speed games, then you should get this 
 game. You should get it because it is even better than Need for Speed. This game is even more realistic 
 than most racing games. It is also difficult to turn if you are a beginner. After a while you'll 
 get used to the game. The graphics are amazing. Theres even a real time telemetry during the race. 
 The bad thing is that there is no music during the race. So thats why you should have a few songs 
 in your XBOX 360. But don't worry this game is tight. You can upgrade your car to make it onto 
 a different class. The higher the class the better tha car. Also you can pick your car type of 
 the region. Like North American manufacturers. But eventually you will unlock every car in the 
 game. Overall this game is good with just a few minor downfalls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taiwan_1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Definately competition for the latest and greatest from Sony, Gran Tursimo.
  High quality hi def cars, with famous race tracks from around the world, Forza is well up for the 
 title of Best Racing Simulator!
  With all the features of Gran Turismo, and more, from modding the engine, to customising the bodywork, 
 and even as detailed as the paint vinyls on the car, forza has the simulator guys, as well as the 
 younger generation of modders entranced.
  
  With plenty of options to keep you occupied for a large time, many cars to pick from, downloadable 
 cars, downloadable tracks, ability to sell cars online for whatever price tag you wish, this game 
 is sure to keep you hooked for plenty of time to come.
  
  Definately up to take the hot spot Gran Turismo has "had" for years!
  Forza FTW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armylad1509
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Forza did well in the past, but when I heard about Forza Motorsport 2, I had to check what the 
 people at X-Play gave it for a rating; which came up to a 5 out of 5. A very impressive score to 
 a great series which provided so much fun and creativity for many car enthusists. I, myself, enjoyed 
 playing the game because the graphics are so crisp and clear, you actually feel like your test 
 driving every muscle, tuner, and exotic this game can dish out. Anouther feature is the signature 
 customizing feature that brings out one of the true points of the game; with its in-depth customization 
 and attention to detail, you will have more fun trying on soooo many things on your car that you 
 will forget that the game is a RACING game to start with. But its still a great game, one of the 
 best racing games i've ever seen; I would recommend it to everyone who enjoys speed, creativity, 
 and pure taste in a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  nothing has gripped me for a while after grand turismo 4, as much as forza 2 has.. just as good as 
 the prequel and much more to offer than any of its series.. highly rich with features, you cannot 
 ask for more in a racing game.. amazing multiplayer options can keep you stuck in your seat for 
 a while.. very impressive and polished graphics, great car physics, very realistic controls, great 
 mods and tracks, brilliant visuals, good single player, on the more a total masterpiece.. unlike some 
 simulation games that offers serious gaming this one has a perfect balance of what i would call 
 a semi simulation game where some joy of playing an arcade game also comes in between.. not to leave 
 out the great audio effects, car damage physics, many unlockables, this one is very addictive and 
 just a reason enought o buy the 360.. just waiting for forza 3.. make it fast..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  
  When Forza Motorsport debuted on the Xbox, it was Microsoft's first foray into the racing simulator 
 subgenre and surprisingly, the first time was the charm. Forza Motorsport earned many accolades 
 from reviewers and gamers alike for its emphasis on realism, numerous customization options and 
 in depth online options. Some even said it was better than Gran Turismo 4, the latest in the long 
 line of highly acclaimed racing simulators. This makes for a tall order to fill for the Xbox 360 
 sequel. It seems Turn 10 has risen to the occasion, tweaking the already fantastic driving model 
 improving on the career mode and giving the multiplayer a significant boost. Because of this, Forza 
 Motorsport 2 is everything a good sequel should be.
  
  There's no shortage of high performance cars to be found here, as Forza 2 features over 300 cars 
 from 50 manufacturers from around the globe. From the incredibly light and speedy Lotus Exige to 
 one of the most iconic American muscle cars, the 1969 Dodge Charger, there's a lot to like here. 
 Forza 2's strength is in its variety, offering up cars from the lower end of the spectrum to start, 
 such as the Chevrolet Cobalt and slowly progresses upward to the exotic supercars everyone dreams 
 of, such as the Enzo Ferrari and Porsche Carerra GT. 
  
  The career mode begins as Forza's did before it, in which you choose which of the three regions 
 (North America, Europe and Asia) to call your home. This choice weighs heavily as it determines 
 which cars you'll be able to access from the outset and which ones are unlocked and in what order 
 as you progress through the game. It all comes down to a matter of choice, and what kinds of cars 
 you prefer driving. This choice, while important, isn't set in stone and once you find yourself 
 flush with cash you'll be able to switch regions. After you purchase your first car, you can immediately 
 jump into a race.
  
  As you progress through the career mode, you'll come across region-specific events, events with 
 horsepower limits, events that restrict you to a certain make and model, and so on so there are 
 a good variety of different race types. As you complete races, the amount of credits you win from 
 each event are applied to your "driver level" and your car's individual level, which maxes out 
 at level 5, creating an RPG-like system in which you unlock new cars and events as you continue 
 to increase in level. The later events have stiffer competition, longer heats and of course, bigger 
 payouts. The longest, most difficult and most lucrative races are the Endurance series of races, 
 which are unlocked last. These races, which can sometimes carry on for more than a dozen laps and 
 easily surpass an hour in length require more than just racing skill, you'll need an efficient 
 pit strategy, changing tires, making quick tune-ups and refueling if you expect to win.
  
  The on-track action is where Forza 2 really shines, as did its predecessor. You won't find a more 
 realistic simulation on consoles, or one that truly captures the essence of racing as well as Forza 
 2. Taking your favorite car around the track for a few laps, feeling its power and weight as you 
 carve out that perfect line feels sublime. Each vehicle has a different sort of "feel" to it, in 
 part due to Forza 2's incredibly deep physics model. Throughout the game's development, Turn 10 
 has touted their improved physics engine, which runs physics calculations 360 times per second. 
 While the difference between Forza 1 and 2 doesn't seem amazingly profound, hardcore players will 
 quickly notice the subtle nuances. Plug in the Xbox 360's wireless racing wheel and prepare yourself 
 for one heck of a challenge. The wheel reacts perfectly as you carefully thread the gas and brake 
 alongside subtle steering inputs as you guide the car around the track. 
  
  Controller rumble is used to great effect here, among the best applications of the often niche 
 feature in recent memory. The rumbling you feel allows you to truly get a feel for the power under 
 the hood of your car, but beyond that, it actually gives you information about the car's handling. 
 As you navigate the turns, the controller will begin to rumble the instant your tires begin to 
 lose traction allowing you to react almost instantaneously to keep the car under control. Using 
 the wireless wheel's force feedback adds to the effect, as the car fights against you as your tires 
 struggle to hook up after a drift around a corner or trip off the track into the dirt.
  
  Once again, Forza 2 features full damage modeling, which is far more than just cosmetic. Crashing 
 in this game isn't taken lightly and will have a very profound effect on your car depending on 
 the damage setting you're playing on. The effect a crash has on your car ranges from cosmetic to 
 simulation. On cosmetic, the damage is just that, cosmetic, and you can continue driving as you 
 would with no effect on your car's performance. On Simulation, even small impacts can have a noticeable 
 effect on your car's performance and handling. Of course, automakers don't want to see the virtual 
 representations of their cars completely twisted and mangled, so driving headlong into a barrier 
 at 150 mph won't tear your car apart and the worst that will happen will be a bumper or wing falling 
 off. Under the hood however, the car will most likely be totaled, practically irreparable and completely 
 incapable of winning a race due to the extensive damage done to the engine, suspension, driveline, 
 etc. It really goes a long way to providing incentive for driving defensively and safely.
  
  Like its predecessor, Forza 2 has a number of driving aids to help ease casual players into 
 its brand of simulation racing such as stability and traction control, as well as the almost required 
 anti-lock brake system. The number of driving aids you have enabled factors into your winnings 
 throughout the career mode, offering the incentive for hardcore players to turn off the driving 
 aids, dial up the difficulty and turn on manual shifting. Of course, this makes for one incredibly 
 steep challenge. Forza 2 also offers a few notable improvements to its trademark dynamic driving 
 line aid, which paints a never ending line of arrows on the track showing you the ideal racing 
 line and changing color from green to yellow to red to indicate acceleration and braking points. 
 Forza 2 now offers a "braking only" version of the line, which only appears near turns and where 
 it is recommended that you hit the brakes. This version of the line actually helps to wean you 
 off of it entirely, as these optimal braking points will eventually become second nature.
  
  The opponent AI is a mixed bag in terms of intelligence. For the most part, the AI drivers 
 seem to know your position on the track as well as the other drivers, relative to their own. They 
 know how to pass efficiently and take advantage of every mistake you make. The AI can be punishingly 
 tough at times and can push your skills to the limit in the later races. On the other hand, the 
 AI can be incredibly stupid as well. On occasion, they seem to get a bit overzealous as they ram 
 you from behind in turns to spin you out, often taking themselves out of the race as well. On other 
 occasions, they seem to forget where you are on the track as they slam into you from behind on 
 the back straight.
  
  If you decide that you don't want to race in a certain event (or series of events) , you can hire 
 drivers of varying skill levels to do the race for you. Well, this works out surprisingly well 
 in practice. The higher skilled drivers absolutely dominate the field when put behind the wheel 
 of the right car. The know how to set up the pass, they know how to follow the optimal racing line 
 and even seem to be much smarter than the normal AI. 
  
  Forza 2 carries with it a decent track selection, featuring eight real-world courses including 
 the newly introduced Sebring Raceway and other famous race courses such as the Mazda Laguna Seca 
 and legendary Nrburgring. There are 47 tracks advertised, but this is a bit misleading. While 
 there are indeed 47 tracks to race on, many are simply shorter variations of the larger tracks. 
 Disappointing is the removal of the point to point tracks and races as well as a few circuits from 
 the original Forza, which takes a bite out of the game's track variety. 
  
  Graphically, Forza 2 is a bit inconsistent. One graphical detail I'm not particularly fond of is 
 the dirt collection on your car. As you drive around the track, you'll notice dirt collecting around 
 the bottom of your car, particularly on the front bumper and around the wheel wells. It's a nice 
 touch (although the dirt builds up all too quickly) but it sullies the visual appeal of the car, 
 which is very important. The car models themselves are gorgeous. A great deal of effort went into 
 even the smallest of details making them look as realisitic as possible and sparkle with an amazing 
 sheen. Sadly, there is a fair bit of aliasing, especially throughout the car's lines, which mar 
 the visual quality but it helps that the game runs at a buttery smooth 60 frames per second.
  
  
  The environments are nicely detailed, although if you take the time to look at all of the 
 set pieces you'll notice a lack of detail in some areas but it's hardly going to matter as most 
 of the time, you'll be driving too fast to notice. It's worth noting that the sense of speed is 
 great, especially when barreling down the road at 200 mph. In part, due to the lighting, some environments 
 look much better than the others. On some tracks, such as the Maple Valley Raceway and Suzuka Circuit 
 the lighting is quite good, while on the Sebring track in particular the lighting seems overdone.
 
  
  It's a shame however that Forza 2 doesn't feature a dashboard camera similar to that seen in Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 or Test Drive Unlimited. This feature can be incredibly immersive when used correctly, 
 and considering the number of games on the market that utilize it, it's disappointing that Forza 
 2 doesn't have this feature. The camera options it does have, strapped to the bumper, on the hood, 
 and two angles of near and far distances away from the rear of the car are good, but having used 
 this feature extensively in other racers, I'm disappointed it's not included here.
  
  For the grease monkeys out there, Forza 2 carries over its very in depth tuning and upgrade system, 
 which rewards those who put much of time and effort into tuning their rides. This of course goes 
 deeper than simple cosmetic changes. There are a series of advanced telemetry reports available 
 at the touch of a button during replays and races themselves presenting data on tire temperature, 
 lateral g's and other technical jargon that would confuse the average player while being incredibly 
 useful to advanced users. To make things easier, Forza 2 also includes the ability to test drive 
 your vehicle, affording you the chance to see your tuning changes and hop into the tuning menu 
 right on the track and make adjustments to see which setups work best for different situations 
 and multiple setups can be saved for each car. 
  
  Lending even more to the customization element of Forza 2 is the highly in depth vinyl and paint 
 job editor. While most players may only fiddle with it, adding a few decals and paint customizations, 
 those who invest a significant amount of time into their cars can produce some amazingly artistic 
 and creative designs. The toolset may not be the most intuitive and will certainly take some time 
 to get used to in order to get the most out of it but many of the best things in life require this 
 effort right? To top everything off, there's even a fairly in depth photo mode which can be entered 
 during races or in the paint job editor to take photos that can be uploaded to the Forza Motorsport 
 2 community website and shared with others. You'll want to spend a bit of time with it regardless, 
 if only for a few moments, before heading online for that custom look to set you apart from the 
 other racers.
  
  Speaking of the online play, Forza 2 is more in depth than the average online racer. Going a step 
 beyond merely delivering eight player online races and leaderboards likepretty much every other 
 racer out there, Forza 2 offers a few modes that go a long way towards setting it apart from the 
 crowd. The first of these modes is borrowed from sister racer Project Gotham Racing 3, named Forza 
 Motorsport TV in which you can tune in and view on live races. 
  
  One of the most innovative and community-focused modes out there is one you don't actually race 
 in. The Auction House, as its name suggests is a place players can bid on and auction off their 
 high performance or highly artistic rides. Using an extensive search engine which allows you to 
 search anywhere from the car's specific make and model to its performance index, you can quickly 
 and easily find the exact car you want (provided it's been uploaded) and place your bid.
  
  The audio is another area Forza 2 shines, treating you to a symphony of screeching tires, powerful 
 engines and turbo whine during each race. Everything sounds just right. Forza 2 also has an excellent 
 licensed soundtrack to listen to in the menus and such but unfortunately, there's no option to 
 enable the music playback during the races themselves. Here is where the Xbox 360's custom soundtrack 
 feature takes center stage, unless the extra music would serve as a distraction, in which case, 
 the lack of music can do nothing but help. 
  
  To wrap things up, Forza Motorsport 2 takes its rightful place as the quintessential racing simulator. 
 It may not look as good as some of its major rivals but it makes up for it for its incredibly realistic, 
 engaging and challenging gameplay. The extensive tuning and options should satisfy even the biggest 
 gearheads and the vinyl/livery editors should satisfy artistic gamers out there. It's not perfect 
 but its flaws are easily overlooked in the face of everything it does right, and what it does right, 
 it does especially well. It's not common that a racing simulator makes significant strides towards 
 easing new players into the genre, but Forza 2 does an excellent job in that respect. To put it 
 simply, if you enjoy racing games, especially simulators of this caliber then you should feel right 
 at home. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triebbs1322
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  i am not that into sim racers mostly because i bought grand turismo and i thought that it was boring 
 and i couldent turn. forza has changed this perception i am new to this kind of racer but it turns 
 out this game is alot of fun the graphics are great and there is a line that helps you know when 
 to brake and accelerate there is a great amount of customization that you can do to your car weather 
 its performance, paint or body work but the best part of all is the excellent multiplayer in my 
 experience there was hardly any lag and there is an auction house where you can sell your custom 
 cars for a big sum of money there is only 1 problem i had with the game and that is the sense of 
 speed weather you are going 65 or 165 you dont feel you are going much faster but that is forgivable 
 when talking about the best racer ive played other than midnight club 3.
  
  Graphics= 9
  
  story= N/A no story to it
  
  gameplay= 10
  
  sound = 8
  
  multiplayer = 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  This game is truely the best in racing for the 360.
  
  You can collect more than 300 cars and race in a variety of real world tracks.
  
  The detail 
 in every single car is just spectacular. The game runs like a dream with its 60 frames per second 
 framerate. 
  
  The AI are smart and know what they are doing and you can make them impossible to beat.
  
  
 I have just recently beat carrer mode which took since the first day the game title came out. Although 
 not entirely difficult, the career mode can prove to take a lifetime to beat.
  
  This game over xbox live is where this (like many) games shine bright. You can challenge opponents 
 over x box live and test your rides agianst others and see whos faster.
  
  There are also online tournaments which you can try to qualify for and an auction house to sell 
 your used rides to other players.
  
  Overall this game rocks, i play this everyday and you will too.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotjak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is one of the best racing games made on any console, with my hd tv it looks 
 like i am actually there. I get to race my favorate cars and is challenging in exhibition mode. 
 i Gave it a 9.5, i it was easier to control i would have given a a perfect rating, The cars are 
 really realistic, because i have a BMW M3 on the game and i love those cars, my dad used t have 
 one. I got a great deal when i got this game free with my 360, I cant wait to play it online and 
 auction off my cars on xbox live, the mclaren f1 is my favorite and the fastest, at first i could 
 not control the car , it takes a couple days to master and memorize the controls, now i can do 
 it without looking, i would recommend this racing game to gamers who have been playing the 360 
 for a long time, usually people between ages 12 and older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wirelessgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Forza motorsports 2 was my first game for the xbox 360 and it is one of my favorite games. This 
 game is outstanding with the amazing graphics ,cool tracks, and its many features. Even if you get 
 bored of racing you can still destroy your opponents and watch the replay anytime you want.
  
  forza has many thing that you can do like the ability to customize your own car. There are many 
 vinyls and manufactuer decals to choose from and many parts to equipt your car with. Another cool 
 thing in Forza is that it lets you watch any replays you have saved. I use this to watch myself 
 carsh and go burnout on all the other cars. Photo mode is great to you can make icture while you're 
 racing or while your painting your car. When your doing this dring a race it allows you to change 
 brightness and how much sepia you want. My favorite thing Forza lets you do is hire a driver which 
 i used a lot espiecially before I go on an endurance race since those are long as crap. The bad 
 thing is that the driver gets 55 to 100% of your winnings , but if you complete the cup you get 
 a cool new car.
  
  There are many great tracks in the game and a lot of awsome cars too. Some of my favorites are the 
 dodge viper and the corvette co6 , but to get some of those awsome ass cars you have to win a certain 
 cup , reach acertain level, or you have to be in a certain place.
  
  The bad satuff about this game is that endurance races are long as crap and to me it gets annoying 
 going through a 100 laps over and over again , but it lets you hire a driver so it sort of balnces 
 itself out. another bad thing is that sometimes when i just touch a car it either spins out of control 
 and puts me in last place or nothing happens at all except for me losing some of my money because 
 of damage reduction.
  
  Forza motorsports 2 is a great game and im glad it was my first game for the Xbox 360. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who like racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halorocker117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is fun, and yes, this looks fantastic, but is it worth it when kids who don't know 
 how to drive can't play it as well as people who can. NO! It is very confusing when to break, when 
 to turn, and what car is best for a race.
  When a game has confusing turning it isn't fun. Basically, when you buy Forza Motorsport 2, you 
 should buy a steering wheel. Buying a steering wheel isn't the worst thing to spend your money 
 on, but its up there if you're not a huge racing fan.
  Graphics look great, but still doesn't make up for the fact that it is still one of the harder 
 driving games, unless you know how to really how to drive or already have, or willing to buy a 
 steering wheel. If you love racing games such as Burnout Paradise, Nascar, or Need for Speed, don't 
 get this game. Once again if you don't have a steering wheel, or a love for racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo was always thought to be the king of the racing simulator genre. That was until Microsoft 
 decided to bust out Forza Motorsport back on the original Xbox, and decided to party all night 
 long. And here we are, in the generator of the Xbox 360, where Forza Motorsport 2 makes it's debut. 
 And what an entrance it is.
  
  The game still retains it's core value: It's all about the cars. It's all about what you race. 
 That hasn't changed. It still has the traditional modes such as career, arcade, and online. 
  
  If you want a personalized challenge, take career. As the original Forza Motorsport, you start 
 out with a basic car, a set of credits, and a home region. Then you build up from there, stuffing 
 your garage with your prize cars and trophies. One of the most noticeable differences, though, 
 is the extreme lack of value that prize cars have when you first receive them. Though, some would 
 be wise to keep, seeing as you move up the ranks, you'll be needing more specific cars as you move 
 on. You begin in the proving grounds category of the career circuit and build up to the more challenging 
 ones such as Professional and Endurance, which have extremely tight restrictions on the cars you 
 can use. In career, you can complete customize your cars, from the engine to the body. You can 
 add in superchargers, power trains, new tires, new transmissions, and even just change cosmetic 
 parts. One highlight is how you can customize your car from color to design.
  
  Arcade is as basic as a car sim comes. You choose a class, a car, and you race on a track, trying 
 to beat the other drivers to the finish line. Winning unlocks higher end cars for you to use later 
 in the arcade. But overall, arcade is the most basic form of this game.
  
  I have not yet tried online, so I will not review that portion, as to not give a false opinion 
 on it.
  
  The graphics are borderline lifelike, with the exception of the crash damages and motioning. It's 
 easy to notice that you're playing a video game though, so don't get too sucked in. The game is 
 even so detailed that you can see the beautiful shine of the sun coming off of the top of a Ford 
 GT on the starting line against an equally sharp Ferrari. Though, some of the observers on the 
 side lines look like blurs, even when you're not driving at high speeds.
  
  Music for FM2 is from the same original composers that did the music for the first game. Some of 
 the music though, like the title screen intro, is easily recognizable as it is just a remix of 
 the original Forza Motorsport title screen song. And even some other songs are weird as they combine 
 techno with a Spanish man talking, though it shouldn't take away from the overall experience. Music 
 while racing is still easy to listen to. And going over to the other end of sound, effects are 
 great. The difference between every single car is great when revving their engines. From the loud 
 bustle of a Z28 Camaro, to the sharp squeal of a Nissan Skyline. No car sounds the same. And to 
 nitpick, even the sound of the tires squealing is realistic.
  
  The car selection for the game is probably as good as it can get. The majority of the cars are 
 the most recognizable. Such as the Ford Mustang (Three types) , Camaro, Corvette, Honda Civic, and 
 others like Vipers. It seems though, that the developers favored American muscle cars over Imports, 
 seeing as there is a wider variety of American production cars to be found.
  
  Forza Motorsport is an excellent game, worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  I've seen a lot of driving games, both on the PC and the consoles. Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed 
 used to be my favourite driving game 'till I tried Forza Motorsport 2. Sure, the first FM game 
 was good, perhaps even great, but FM2 even surpasses NFS: PU to an extent I didn't believe was 
 possible.
  
  The big question is: Why?
  
  First of all, the amount of content in FM2 is stunning. We are talking about over 300 cars, each 
 and every one modelled in detail. That in itself is impressive, but considering that the driving 
 capabilities of all those cars are distinct and fleshed out, is even better - and on top of that, 
 you'll even be able to upgrade the cars thoroughly, and fine tune every little detail, as the gear 
 shift intervals, aero dynamics, suspension and much more. 
  
  Sure, this has been seen before, but FM2 manages to make all those upgrades and custom tuning seem 
 believable when driving the cars - were not just talking about a simple speed increase or different 
 engine sound, the cars feel different on the track as well. And its possible to fine tune a car 
 for a specific purpose - let's say the Nissan speed track - which will make the car utterly useless 
 on another track with a lot of corners and gearshifts.
  Usually, I don't play with all those custom fine tuning aspects of a driving game, but FM2 encourages 
 the player to tinker with the car as the benefits - and the feel of the car - makes it worth the 
 time spent.
  
  But all those things would've been to waste, if the game felt too much like a simulation, so newcomers 
 would've been scared away - and FM2 has an answer to that problem.
  The difficulty system introduced in the original FM has been tweaked, and makes it possible for 
 inexperienced drivers to turn on all the assists - like 
  'perfect driving line', ABS or easy opponent AI. But these assists comes at a price, literally, 
 as the winnings will be decreased accordingly. You can even hire AI drivers to play for you - but 
 if they are to win, you'll probably pay most of your winnings to the anyway, so unless you want 
 to see the race through the excellent playback cameras, its better to put yourself in the drivers 
 seat and make a go for it.
  
  As mentioned before the feel of the car is fantastic. You can feel the texture of the road through 
 the gamepad, and the car is responsive in a way that'll make you curse the last iterations of the 
 Need For Speed series to a dark place. The framerate stays at a constant 60 fps, only falling in 
 replay mode (to around 30 fps and lower) depending on the race and track, which makes controlling 
 the car a pleasure. Unless, of course, you damage the cars - because a somewhat detailed (if a 
 little forgiving) car damage model is in place. 
  
  If theres a small flaw in the game, it would be the amount of tracks available. The selection of 
 the tracks is splendid, however, and every track has at least 2-3 different routes, but in comparison 
 to the staggering amount of cars, the number of tracks is a bit on the low side (in other words 
 - 14 tracks with a total of 47 configurations) .
  
  Fortunately you'll be able to find more tracks on the xbox marketplace, for a price of course. 
 but the career tracks stays the same.
  
  Talking about the career mode, you'll be able to spend a lot of time playing through it. A lot 
 of different career challenges makes it fun, and the difficulty of the challenges gets tougher 
 and tougher as you progress, because later in the game the car limitations (as in car and upgrade 
 limitations, too many upgrades will make the car shift class) makes your driving skills more important 
 - as it should be IMO. 
  
  On the internet you'll be able to find a thriving FM2 community, where custom tunings can be found, 
 or you'll be able to buy cars from other players through the game itself (auctions) - in short, 
 the detail of this game actually makes it worth it, to look for a custom car configuration from 
 the 'tuners' in the community. 
  
  FM2 is a benchmark for driving games, and the closest I've ever been to award the game with a pure 
 tenner. Because in its field, it reigns supreme.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zvirnig
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  From the reviews iv read that were negative, it seems there was a misconception among some people. 
 This is not an arcade racer, this is not mariokart, this is not burnout. This is a very realistic 
 racing game, which has its advantages and disadvantages. At first it was hard for me, then i realized 
 its not like playing a normal racing game, its like driving a real car. You have to brake on corners, 
 accelerate at the right point of the curve, etc. You cant just hit the gas the entire way and expect 
 to win. The cars handeling in the game very greatly since there are so many types. A subaru WRX 
 handles beutifully while a mustang sucks, go figure. Thats the realisim. I love it, you just need 
 to work at this game, its amazing how deep it is. I am not a racing fan, or a fan of racing games, 
 but the depth of this game really drew me in. I always said i hated racing games, now i cant stop 
 playing one. Its a good game, but you have to give it a chance, this isnt a rental, this is a game 
 that will keep you busy for months. Great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTUaETT
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  forzamotorsport shows a lot of stupid things like the boring tracks and and silly game-play. I 
 just reget for buying it. However, the graphics are good but not every game have a good graphics 
 have a good game-play. When i played for the first time, it was really exciting, but within the 
 days. it became hard and beacause the playing with the computer was difficult. The worst thing was 
 when you accelerate at the turns, a friction happend then you hit the wall and restart your race 
 again and so on, this is boring. Also I was shocked when a friend of mine told me that later the 
 game will have about 75 laps per a race. This is really madness !!. I just want to deliver a message 
 that you shouldn't buy this game, I'm just wanna warn you to save your money and not wasting it 
 in forza. Try to buy burnout instead of forza, I think it's much much better ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a great racing sim along the lines of the Gran Turismo series, with the in-depth 
 customization aspects of your car's appearance found in the NFS: Underground series, and the online 
 options of the PGR series... then Forza 2 comes highly recommended. It really is a nice combo of 
 those games (ironically, i don't know how well it compares with its direct sibling Forza 1 cause 
 i never played it) .
  
  
  Anyway, the graphics are quite good and more importantly the framerates are 60fps-smooth, which 
 are very important for racing games (esp racerswhere you drive in a pack) . The customization options 
 are extensive and it has been amazing going to websites and seeing what everyone has accomplished 
 by using these comprehensive tools to enhance their cars visually. By itself, this aspect of the 
 game could keep you busy for hrs on end at a time (esp if you have an artistic touch) . As for the 
 racing, it's easy to get into as it allows you to customize the difficulty level at anytime during 
 the game which makes it a more pick-up-and-play game than most other racing sims i would think. 
 You can make the game as challenging or as easy as you want, but either way you can earn/access 
 stuff pretty quickly.
  
  
  
  Overall, i'm not much into the "GT vs PGR vs Forza" wars or "PS3 vs 360" battle, but if you enjoy 
 racing sims (esp with all the options mentioned above and more) then i highly recommend you at least 
 give Forza 2 a shot. It might not make you forget about all other racing sims, but it will definitely 
 keep you busy in the long haul. All i know is i bought it, playing it quite a bit, and enjoying 
 it quite a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelo91
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  forza motorsport 2 like like others race games take you in a car winning circuits and tournaments 
 by amazing tracks with great realism. like project gotham its all about racing but in forza you 
 "pimp" your car for a better yield like need for speed. the sense of speed is not the one who you 
 think that it is, its slower than other race type games. in the theme of the car types and trademarks 
 is really complete and have hundred of cars that you can use.
  
  in the aspect of the AI its not the best but make his work: play with you. something that i like 
 so much is the auction house, there you buy or sell any car you want at the price you want. something 
 nice is the "to give" a car to friend or averyone you want. and the LIVE gameplay is like the project 
 gotham. to finish this i would say that this game is good and no more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  First game I purchased ever for my 360 Elite months ago when it came out. 
  
  All I can say is if you're a driver or car enthusiast and know your automobiles, this game won't 
 dissapoint you. Detail of the cars are next to perfect, crisp graphics, and cool damage simulation 
 give the feel of the speed. 
  
  Suspension physics are awesome as it's possible to see measurements of the pressure of your springs 
 on corners for the serious tweakers. Drifting is possible for the drifters out there, although 
 there isn't specific drifting modes, you can just do it for the fun of it. 
  
  Offers many inscentives to want to be a clean driver. You can't go cutting across lawns to make 
 it easy, time your braking and accelerate off the apex! And the sound... if you're a car lover 
 like me, that is key! Because nothing sounds like an inline six gettin 25psi of boost... Engines 
 all have their own unique sound. Not just the regular vroom vroom. 
  
  Another unique thing in this game is you can swap engines within the same manufacturer... for instance 
 a skyline engine in a 350z... making the 350z an AWD beast. Endless customizing / tweaking options. 
 People want to get really serious, take the time and make some pretty cool custom paint work... 
 offering you up to 1000 layers on your car [get your noggin kickin into creative mode!]
  
  This game offers what any car lover could ask for... I mean the only dissapointment to me was they 
 took out the drag racing feature... That was so fun on the original Forza, I have no idea why they 
 took it out. There's a lot of 1320 dudes out here, what are you guys thinking?! Replay value is 
 high, has some pretty cool online features... tournaments and auction boards and such. I'm going 
 to have to give it a 9.5/10... This is what every race sim should be like.
  
  All we need now is a clutch system integration and a good feeling wheel. Imagine grinding gears 
 and frying your clutch! Then we'd have some real stuff, hopefully next gen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  You just won't believe how good forza motorsport 2 is, it is everything a racing fan could wish 
 for, hundreds of licensed cars, thousands of tuning and painting options.
  As far as the cars are concerned there isn't anything that I can point out, they look great, sound 
 realistically, and handle like their real counterparts. The sense of speed is another great thing 
 about forza motorsport 2, it rally does look like your going at an incredible speed as you watch 
 the trees and the stands go by.
  Just like the cars the tracks look awesome and it's a real treat just being able to drive in just 
 great looking tracks, the only problem is the fact that there are so little tracks available, making 
 it sometimes repetitive to play the game, this is being compensated however by the adding of some 
 tracks via XBL. 
  Multiplayer is another of forzas 2 strong points, there isn't anything out there in the racing 
 genre that can compare it self to Forza 2. The multiplayer is unbelievably competitive, with up 
 to 8 players racing in all the games tracks. Another great thing about forzas 2 multiplayer is 
 the ability to compete in online career events and tournaments, these events don't differ much 
 from the "player races" but they do add some excitement and make the races even more competitive. 
 
  Finally and in what multiplayer is still concerned, probably the best thing that was added to The 
 Forza series is the auction house, here is the place where you can buy and sell your cars, making 
 it possible for the more creative players to sell their masterpieces for whatever price they think 
 is fair.
  In conclusion, if you like cars, races, and driving games Forza Motorsport 2 is a must own, a game 
 that you'll enjoy both for its simplicity and its geniality. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  As with most thoroughbred racing games, one can easily delve into a mixed bag of good features 
 tangled with bad features. Microsoft Game Studios certainly brushed together an appealing game 
 in Forza Motorsport 2-- successor to the highly-acclaimed first installment for Microsoft's pilot 
 console -- however, the presentation on whole could be best considered as a dull experience. In essence, 
 Forza Motorsport 2 is a lifeless game lacking emphasis that's only held in tact by its solid career 
 mode, stand-out graphics, and overall realism compared to most racers out there on the market.
 
  
  While the game is no doubt one of the most realistic racing models available, the ideal nature 
 really feels raw and unfinished. The basic menu branches out into a few interesting modes, such 
 as time trials, exhibition, multiplayer, and career, all of which are pretty lengthy and will supply 
 an individual with many hours of playtime. On the other hand-especially if you don't care for achievements-the 
 gameplay won't keep you satisfied for long. The tracks feel unfinished, the artificial intelligence 
 is unstoppable, and the career mode is, to put it as simply as possible, nothing but the same thing 
 over and over again.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the career mode is very lengthy, and can take one individual up to two months 
 or longer to complete, even if played on a regular basis. Thing is, you'd be lucky to see someone 
 playing on a regular basis, because the repetitiveness really calls for the game to be played in 
 small timeframes. The races themselves can last up to ten minutes or longer, which can really be 
 a drag if you have a huge lead and nothing much is happening. The computer opponents really don't 
 provide a challenge on novice level, but any level above is almost suicide in career mode. The 
 only way to gain good amounts of money is to win a race with a car that has taken minimal damage. 
 Unless you take the patient route by waiting for a crease to pass the opponents ahead of you, you 
 can expect some rear-endings and spin-outs that will either cost you great amounts of money, or 
 even the race in general.
  
  The computer opponents really are nothing short of invincible. Even if you run into their car in 
 hopes of spinning them out, they will not budge to save your life. Instead, in most cases, you'll 
 be sent into a wall for something you tried to commit, which makes absolutely no sense. Even worse, 
 if an opponent bumps you at any time, you're docked with a penalty, which tacks on time at the 
 end of each lap. The artificial intelligence just doesn't come together well, and it really feels 
 like Microsoft Game Studios was trying a little to hard with making a realistic cast of pseudo-players.
 
  
  Or, perhaps, they weren't trying at all, as it clearly shows up in many other aspects of the game. 
 While the graphics are stunning, the environments are absolutely terrible. You'll race in real 
 locations pitted across the world, but most of these locales seem to be stripped from the middle 
 of a construction zone. You'll see dirt, cranes, small buildings, fans that look like they need 
 mental help, and occasionally a tree if you're lucky. That said, there are some pretty interesting 
 areas filled with buildings and trees, but the majority of the tracks-which isn't a very big majority 
 to begin with-really look like crap. Even the skies-while extremely realistic looking-just don't 
 fit the appearance properly. Some skies will have ominous-looking clouds hovering above, creating 
 a very gloomy mood. The graphics are really just a mix of good assets and bad assets, but it's 
 really difficult to find something that simply stands out to the eye.
  
  Overall, Forza Motorsport 2 has its fair share of ups and downs, but the lifeless appearance can't 
 be hidden from the gorgeous exterior of great graphics and average gameplay. There's one simple 
 philosophy you should remember when considering this game: If you like racing games for the sake 
 of racing, then by all means, this game is for you. If you like racing games for the wipeouts, 
 the stunts, the crazy situations that take place, then you should definitely leave Forza Motorsport 
 2 alone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix2009
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  When I bought Forza Motorsport 2 I was expecting fast cars, amazing customization and challenging 
 courses. But instead I got a boring game with nothing to offer at all.
  
  First off the cars. The cars were OK but not to a great amount with the front cover making them 
 look fast and exiting yet they just replied me with slow, dull and boring cars that can barely 
 corner.
  
  Also when I bought the game I was told it would have great customisation, with body work, paint 
 and tires. Instead again I was disappointed. Only a few of the cars could be customised and the 
 paint / vinyl was hard and long winded.
  
  And to conclude this rant. The gameplay. The gameplay that bored me to death with it's slow cornering 
 and sheepish opponents. It gave me pleasure to bring it back to the shop and get a refund in time.
 
  
  I wanted this game to be good but I was disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacrutcher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought my original XBox for the first Forza, and walked out of the shop with both the same day. 
 I wasn't persuaded to do the same with the XBox360 and Forza 2, and while that has more to do with 
 my current lifestyle than it does with my interest, it doesn't mean that I haven't logged plenty 
 of hours playing Forza 2. Much of what I might say to review the game has been said, of course, 
 and it doesn't much help that I'm almost a year behind the typical timing for a relevant review. 
 But I think what I have to say is as important as any other gamer, and should be particularly useful 
 to those people, like me, who focus their time almost wholly on racing games. 
  
  That said, I think it's fairly obvious that Forza and Gran Turismo are the hallmark game franchises 
 of their type on their respective consoles. Forza nicked photo mode from Gran Turismo, Forza's 
 better for it's inclusion of damage rendering, Gran Turismo offers more dynamic realism, and on 
 and on. Comparing the games is only a kind of senseless masochism since they're exclusive to different 
 console systems and only reinforces that on those systems each game really has no reasonable competition.
 
  
  What I wanted to express, though, is my frustration with two issues in Forza 2. First, while I 
 understand the varying qualities and settings of HD TVs, the lighting effects in Forza 2 are disappointing. 
 Sure the different glare effects and angles of the sun are nice, but they are often so powerful 
 as to make the wheels on one side of the car a reflective silver and those on the other a muted 
 and ambiguous black. I understand it can be that dramatic, but must it? My friends are not as bothered 
 by this issue as I am, but they admit that when compared to the brilliant weather and lighting 
 effects in, say, PGR4, or even in the previews and screenshots of GT5, that the aggressive and 
 dramatic lighting in Forza 2 seems like a failing of sorts, definitely an area where the people 
 at Turn 10 and Microsoft could have spent a little more time and attention. Second, and far more 
 importantly, races are often (or always) a matter of ensuring that your car is capable of besting 
 the car ranked in front on the starting grid. This begs questions of the Performance Index system 
 that Forza likes using, sure, but more compellingly for the races it creates a tedium. Until reaching 
 the R-class cars, and sometimes even then, or when competing in the Factory-Spec races, the car 
 with the highest PI is on pole, and the cars behind are ranked in descending order. Forget the 
 racing staple of qualifying. There is a fine (and very good) reason that racing leagues mandate 
 rules to make the competitors' cars relatively and mechanically equitable and that they then let 
 drivers and teams determine where these cars start the race (on the grid) . Because Forza ignores 
 the system used worldwide in motorsport, the Corvette championship, for instance, becomes not a 
 race among Corvettes, but a parade. Your task is to make and drive a Corvette capable of catching 
 and passing that Lingenfelter Corvette special. The V-10 race, one of doing the same to the Porsche 
 Carerra GT. And on and on. It's bothersome, this tedium, and it's sad that in a game so focused 
 on being an accessible sim for the XBox360, a racing and car-culture icon, doesn't understand how 
 making the game methodical in this PI manner and removing qualifying and other racing elements 
 is a detriment to its credibility. 
  
  Niggling matters: Wouldn't anyone else like to see a game that didn't promote just running through 
 the upgrades, blindly buying it all? Doesn't anyone wish console racing game AI made mistakes more 
 realistically, that is, more frequently-and especially on endurance races and the like?
  
  My final point is a critical concession of sorts. The customization, and I mean the visual individuality 
 players are capable of designing in Forza 2, is simply amazing and absolutely immersive. To see 
 what people are able to do with the paint and graphics options, through forums and in the marketplace, 
 only adds to the allure of the system. I am especially fond of the various Ferraris I've seen in 
 immaculate liveries from different F1 years and sponsors. Nevertheless, as friends and I noted 
 as our attentions waned on the original Forza, Forza 2 (because, in part of the racing issues described 
 above) can become something analogous to playing with dress-up dolls. The people doing the graphic 
 designs and cover art for the Forza packaging, those people using Photoshop and working with vector 
 and photo-manipulation, they are doing something far more complicated, and doing it professionally. 
 Joes and Janes sitting around for hours dolling up a Ferrari, however gorgeous it becomes, aren't 
 actually playing a racing game, of course. So, while immersive and really compelling, the design 
 element tends to sometimes point fingers and accusations at what makes the racing less deserving 
 of attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  The physics engine on this game is simply amazing and spot on (if you don't inlclude the parts 
 where the game does not let you cheat and slows you down when you try and cut a corner in the grass, 
 but I am glad) . The graphics are great but we all know that. It is the gameplay that matters on 
 a racing game.
  
  Something I learned when racing SCCA competition is that being smooth, fluent in motion, and not 
 squealing tires means you are fast. The same holds true in FM2. Try running a few laps with tires 
 howling in the corners and the car fishtailing out of them under maximum throttle, and then try 
 running them with little to no tire noise. You will feel like you are turning slower laps until 
 you see multiple seconds quicker when crossing the start/finish line. That is realism, baby!
  
  The game just plain rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller26
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  In a nut shell if your looking fun and excitment with lots of cool city circuits this is not the 
 game for you. The online aspect is great, from racing against friends and the auction house the 
 game is fully setup for your online needs but im sorry even the lack of the F1 tracks it just seemed 
 to me your looking at nothing i like to see cool backgrounds that im not going to see in every 
 day life and maybe the odd track that i see Lewis Hamilton tear up.
  
  If you are into sim racing the cars and classes are great and being able to paint your own car 
 is great the tuning it all is perfect i just got so bored with the tracks.
  
  Rent before Buying this may not be the game for you! (Never Believe the Hype!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEGOD1359
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is perfect for the hard core car enthuist but not a great game for the casual player. 
 It is a very fun game. This game is sort of like grand turismo. ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ay ay ya ya ya ya ya lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol olo lol ol o lolo lol 
 o l o o l o l o l o l o l o l o l l o l o l o o l o l o l o l ! ! ! ! If u have any problem with 
 this review well u write 1!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetona
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I have liked the GT series for a while (I have GT3 and GT4) , but after playing FM2 I can honestly 
 say it is better than either of those. Its driving model is much better (cars handle more smoothly 
 and don't understeer like in GT) , the AI actually presents a challenge, and it provides incentives 
 to challenge yourself. Like in GT4, you can turn off assists or even hire a driver, but unlike 
 GT4, turning off assists turns into extra credits at race end, and hiring a driver costs most of 
 your winnings. 
  FM2 also looks very impressive, with extremely detailed car models, though environments and crash 
 damage are lackluster, which detracts from the racing-sim feel. Having only 8 cars in a race is 
 extremely dated, and is an old standard that some game should abolish soon. I also am unhappy with 
 the lack of tracks. A few, like Maple Valley Raceway, are really fun, but the others feel tedious, 
 and there just isn't the variety of a GT game in the track list. 
  From a technical perspective, Forza 2 is excellent, but the lack of variety -- in both tracks and 
 race types -- may prevent it from becoming the definitive racing sim of this console generation. 
 We'll just have to wait for GT5 to see.
  *EDIT*: There is a freezing glitch in my copy of FM2 in which the game will freeze unexpectedly 
 and completely in the middle of races, necessitating a total system restart. The first time this 
 happened my 360 showed the Red Rings later that day. I am on my second 360 and my second copy of 
 the game and the problem just gets worse. People on the FM2 forums complain of a freezing bug in 
 the in-game menus. Forza 2 is still a good game, but in light of these problems, I say do not get 
 this game if you don't already have it; wait for Forza 3 which will hopefully come out next year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I myself have not played that many racing games in my time, the only ones being Gran Turismo 3, 
 Test Drive Unlimited, and a couple of scattered few of the Need for Speed series. I got this for 
 my dad as a gift and have played it more than he has so far.
  
  The 
 
  
  First off, the graphics are really good. Lighting and shadows are done very well also. There are 
 a large variety of cars for you to customize and soupe up which is always a good thing. There a 
 re a bunch of events to keep you busy, some of which have certain classifications that you must 
 meet meaning you have to reduce weight and others.
  
  The 
 
  
  There actually isn't all that bad aside from the fact that it does get a little bit repetitive 
 at times. Also, you might sit down thinking of playing only a short session and playing three hours 
 worth, which actually isn't all that bad. 
  
  Overall, this is very wonderful game providing hours and hours of enjoyment. This is also a break 
 to me from all the shoot 'em up and rhythm games. Not that they're bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Forza motorsport 2 is the next racing simulator from Turn 10 studios. It is currently the best 
 racing game on the Xbox 360 and the most played racing game on any console at the moment.
  
  From a racing sim, you want tons and tons of cars to drive. Forza delivers with over 300 cars, 
 all of them have aftermarket parts available. There are Tuners, Muscle cars and Exoctic production 
 cars and also racing cars. 
  
  The greatest thing about racing sims is the ability to upgrade your car and to tune it to your 
 style. In forza you can do all this and beyond. The game even allows you to swap engines in the 
 car. I could have a Ford Focus but put a Ford Mustang engine in it for example.
  
  The fine tuning in this game allows you to change a car for different driving styles. I love to 
 tune my cars and go drifting with them. In fact half the forza community is into drifting and it's 
 great fun to have tandem drift battles. 
  
  The thing that seperates Forza from similar games like grand turismo is the damage, car painting 
 and the physics.
  
  Damage in Forza looks and feels extremely real. If you crash into a wall at 200 k's an hour, you'll 
 feel it from your controller or Microsoft racing wheel. Every single part in your car affects from 
 damage, if you crash the front of your car, your steering is effected. It's so real, i could go 
 on for hours but i won't.
  
  If you're bored of driving, take your favorite car and create an uber paint design for it. You 
 can place vinyl's, and shapes anywhere on your car. If you have some talent and a lot of patience, 
 you can manage to make a work of art with all of the 10,000 layers available to you. I myself have 
 made some fantastic work of art.
  
  The physics in the game are brilliant. These are too complicated for me to explain in a simple 
 paragraph but ill try to. If you're using the Microsoft steering real driving feels so real you 
 could learn to drive on it. If you over steer, you can feel and hear your back tires sliding out. 
 This is really shown when you compare a FWD, AWD and RWD car.
  
  The only bad thing about this game at the moment is the leader boards which are being wipe because 
 of a bug that people were exploiting to get high scores. Sometimes it can get annoying grinding 
 for cash just so you can buy more cars from the Auction House.
  
  In the end Forza is a fantastic game. It has everything you will expect and more. This game will 
 be spinning in your 360 for months on end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to state that most driving games are mostly all the same and very repetitive, 
 to drive and drive. Forza 2 switches that up by making it so that you drive, but with a lot of 
 great perks. For example, driving a rare 1982 jaguar in a speedway full of cheering fans. Sounds 
 great right? HECK YEAH!
  
  Good: 97% of this game is perfect. The graphics are breath-taking and the affects of the car are 
 just gorgeous. When being crashed your car actually takes being hit the right way, like if you 
 are hit while turing left then your car will spiral into a 360 spin crashing into a ball of smoke. 
 There are TONS of different cars, car types, maps, and about everything for the typical car fanatic 
 in this game. I was suprised from all the variety in this game thta after a week, I don't think 
 I even tried all of the cars. (LOL i'm serious)
  
  Bad: It will take a while to get to the funky driving mechanics. For example, instead of excelerating 
 with the "A" button like in normal drivers for the 360, you excelerate your car with the "RT" trigger. 
 Also the camera can be a bit funky sometimes, like turning to a back point of view from your car 
 when not supposed to. Well I gues thats because the camer is in the right analog (weird) . Overall, 
 I would say that forza 2 is THE BEST driving game out there so far, with new twist and a lot of 
 varites and goods for all player, and especially for the typical car fanatic like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 111111114111111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I got Forza Motorsport when i purchashed my Xbox 360 expecting a fun racing game that would do 
 the job while I saved up for another racing game. Then I played the game and decided I didn't have 
 to buy another game.
  
  When you first put the game in the disk drive and have got onto the main menu you have Arcade, 
 Career, Multiplayer, Options, Xbox live. Arcade simply is where you can pick any car you want from 
 easily 50 tracks plus and practise, set new times or just have fun. Good for getting used to the 
 game and for unlocking achievements. 
  
  Career mode is great and is similar to the Gran Turismo career modes. You start with a low budget 
 and have to puchase a car from Japan, North America or Europe. Depending on which region your car 
 is from makes your first race different. You can choose to upgrade your guy, sell your car, tune 
 your car to make it better as well as buy new cars. More cars get unlocked the further you get 
 in your career. You start on proving grounds which is fairly easy and make your way up to endurance 
 races. There is a lot of diffrent difficult events and easy events to complete. Also you get a 
 driver level. You get a level points when you earn credits. The higher your level, the more cars 
 get unlocked and some car brands offer discounts on cars. Also there is a car level which is increased 
 the same way as driver level. If you damage you car in a race the damage cost gets taken away from 
 your winnings. 
  
  The multiplayer mode is fun to play with a friend and can get addictive at times. loads of cars 
 to choose from. 
  
  Controlling the car has a really realistic feel to it unlike games than need for speed. Depending 
 on the car you have dpens on how good the car feels. The graphics are really good to and the detail 
 is fantastic.
  
  Overall the Career mode really makes the game with the other modes backing it up. A really amazing 
 game for car fans and if your just looking for a fun car game to play with your friends this would 
 be a decent investment.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The best of this game is its graphics. You can see the driver moving inside your car when you don't 
 have a window tint applied. You can your driver's hand shifting gears. You can see debris flying 
 around when you crash. You can see your parts fly off your car during crash and bumps. There will 
 be smoke coming out your car when you engine has too much damage already. The cars in this game 
 can be viewed with great detail. It shines when undamaged and when damaged, you can see the cracks 
 in your windshield and scratches in your car's body. This game truly has the best graphics of them 
 all.
  
  There will be many cars to choose from. Some cars will be available only when you reach a specific 
 level or you have unlocked it by winning. Special or unique cars can be won after finishing a series 
 of races. Cars will be coming from many manufacturers. The best part of this feature is you will 
 be able to drive cars you only drive in your dreams. There's no limit to what you can do with the 
 cars. You can even upgrade the performance of even the fastest of them all.
  
  This game being a high-end and extreme racing game could also be a relaxing game. You can adjust 
 its difficulty to a minimum and just drive and enjoy the environment... This game has absolutely 
 wonderful race track environments which are pleasing to the eye.
  
  You can also get nasty in the game by bumping specific parts of your opponents car so that it will 
 go out of control and head out of the race tracks. You have to be aware of this too because can 
 bump you and you'll start spinning out of control during high speed. The physics of this game is 
 elite.
  
  Overall, this game is the best of the best in all aspects of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a good game, until you go online. Then it becomes a fantastic game. The real 
 draw in this game is the player online car auctions and online racing. Have fun.
  
  Forza 2 includes everything from Corvettes to Lamborghinis and includes many of the favorite features 
 from the Xbox version of the game. However, the jump to 360 has also brought a few changes. First 
 off, there is a focus on circuit based racing. Microsoft stated that their tracked online data 
 showed people were less interested in the point-to-point races and loved realistic circuit tracks. 
 The racing assists have been upgraded allowing casual racers easier access to a genre that can 
 often be intimidating. The racing line that guides players along the sweet spot of the track dynamically 
 changes color from green to red to show drivers when to break and accelerate. The physics engine 
 from the first game has also been rebuilt boasting about 360 calculations per second that contribute 
 to exactly how the car reacts to the road. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucknumber1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The good: The graphics are amazing on the cars, the way the light bounces off them to the damage. 
 The circuits are let alone worth the game, the city tracks are amazing to look at, the detail that 
 went into them.
  
  Theres over 300 cars so lots to choose from and you can custom there paint work and what not. The 
 mulitplayer is good fun, lots of tracks and what not to beat your friends at.
  
  
  The bad: The game starts off slow and you dont have alot of money to buy upgrades or a new ride.
 
  
  One of the biggest downfalls of this game i think is that you can buy a really good car and custom 
 it and spend all your money on it but you can only use it in a cople of races which is really annoying.
 
  
  The rear wheel drive cars are hard to go round corners in if you have the stibility off which i 
 do. You tend to start off at the back of the back in most races which is unfair. and you get points 
 taken off for going on the grass and if u ram someone or if they ram u, kinda unfair also.
  
  
  
  Over all its a fun racing game with alot of depth and its worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy371
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Forza is a great addition to the driving game industry. I personally am not a big fan of racing 
 games but I have spent a little bit of time on Forza, and do intend to play it some more.
  
  The cars in the game are great; they resemble the real life cars really well. The graphics 
 of the cars are also really good; they have a nice sheen as if you just buffed your car real nice. 
 The tracks are also quiet outstanding, they are fun to drive on and some of the corners can be 
 a big challenge, but fun in the end. The tracks also have nice graphics for them.
  
  Unlike most drivers these days (Need for speed as an example) , Forza has a nice realistic feel 
 to it, not only to the driving itself but the upgrades as well. Driving really is tricky to get 
 your head around at the start, but after one race or so you are used to it and loving the experience.
 
  
  Defiantly worth it if you are into driving games, but I wouldn't say it is that outstanding that 
 you buy it if you are not a fan of drivers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is obviously the sequel to the first game released on the original Xbox. Not 
 only does Forza look good, and feel good, it also has a fantastic online mode.
  
  You have four different ways you can play the game. There's Arcade Mode which has three of the 
 four. It has Exhibition, Time Trial, and Free Run. And you've got the Career Mode. Arcade Mode 
 has a small number of tracks to choose from. Approximately 12-15 tracks to be exact. And while 
 that may seem like a lot of tracks to choose from, it really isn't a lot once you've played through 
 all of them. Arcade Mode also isn't that hard to figure out. Exhibition has you pick from a huge 
 list of cars and has you race. Time Trial has you play as a pre-selected car and you have to beat 
 the fastest time on the tracks, and Free Run has you picking a car and simply cruising around.
 
  
  During Exhibition and Time Trial, any time you get first or beat the race time needed, you'll unlock 
 more cars. As you unlock these cars, you can purchase them in Career or you can use them during 
 Exhibition, Online and so on. There are over 300 cars so Forza guarantees that you'll be doing 
 a lot of collecting.
  
  The best part about Forza has to be its Career mode. There are tons of clubs to race in from Endurance 
 races to Manufacturer races, Forza has a lot. And in each one, there are at least 8-10 other competitions 
 consisting of about 3-4 races each. In Career, you start off at level 0 and you pick a car that 
 is the best that you can buy at your budget currently. After you choose one, it's off to racing. 
 The more you race, the more credits you earn so you can buy car parts and more cars. The credits 
 also go into your driver level and your car level. Leveling up your driver level will earn you 
 some great discounts on different manufacturers while leveling up your car level will get you great 
 discounts on the manufacturer that your car is from. Either way it's a win-win situation.
  
  Graphics are just great in Forza. Each car looks fantastic and so realistic. The roads all 
 look torn up from the tires, and when it comes to your car getting damaged, it looks lifelike. 
 And when you hook it up to HD, it looks even better.
  
  Along with looking good, Forza also sounds good. The revving of the engines sound great, and that 
 screeching sound you hear at the start when you speed off is in there too. Forza sounds so extremely 
 realistic and the menu music isn't to bad either.
  
  Driving is a breeze in Forza. You automatically have a few assists turned on such as the striped 
 line that tells you when you should accelerate and when you should slow and down and so forth. 
 You also have your difficulty and car damage and so on. The more assists you turn off, the more 
 realistic the game gets. But it all depends on the way you play. However, turning off all assists 
 will award you more credits in races, and turning them all on will deduct a few credits.
  
  You'll be able to customize how your cars look in the game. You can stick with the original design 
 or you can spice it up a little bit and take time to paint your car and make it look the way you 
 want it to look. The game features tons of different customization options, but it might get confusing 
 to those who really don't know how to do it all.
  
  On top of customizing the looks of the cars, you can also tune your car to make it perform the 
 way you want it to. You can tune your engines, tires, pretty much anything you can tune to make 
 your car the best that there is.
  
  If you aren't too good at customizing, you really don't have to worry. You can go online and purchase 
 cars from the Auction House. And there's only one way to describe the auction house, amazing. You 
 can sell all of your cars that you don't want, however you'll get more money by selling cars with 
 cool designs all over it. The Auction House is simply fun and in short, it's the eBay of racing 
 games.
  
  Speaking of online, you can participate in races online. These races will usually be hosted by 
 other Xbox Live players, or even you, while some tournaments might be hosted by Microsoft themselves. 
 If you don't feel like racing, you can watch others on what Forza likes to call Forza Motorsport 
 TV. The whole online experience is tremendous in Forza and it really is one of the best parts about 
 the game.
  
  Despite it being a fantastic game, it also has some downsides. Forza doesn't really have a lot 
 of tracks to choose from, and the whole customization thing will be really confusing to those who 
 aren't car experts. The whole tuning process could scare away potential players and the lack of 
 tracks makes this game boring to play during Exhibition mode. If you turn off all assists for the 
 first time, it'll be extremely difficult to control your car, and you'll end up crashing your car 
 that you either spend thousands of dollars on or hundreds of hours customizing.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is fantastic. From graphics to gameplay, Forza is terrific. So next time when 
 you're in the mood for a racing game, you should pick up Forza Motorsport 2. It guarantees hours 
 of gameplay and other features. Online is great, and Career mode is long and great. Forza Motorsport 
 is the best racing game on the 360, and it's planning on keeping that title for a long, long time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a big fan of Electronic Arts online racing game called Motor City Online... Forza 
 is the closest I've come to reliving those moments of car customization, real physics, winning 
 money, upgrading, painting, and brawling on the race track! I love this game, definitely a perfect 
 10. Keep making this engine better Forza!!! You guys Rock!!! Thank You for such a great racing 
 game!
  
  The best part of the game is definitely upgrading your vehicles. The second best part is being 
 able to drive these cars, and experience the real world physics that they put into the game. Brake 
 pads light up glowing red from heat, rear wheels spin, all wheel drive gives the correct drift 
 effect, front wheel drive lets you pull through some of those turns, etc... This game is bar none 
 the best racing game I've ever played on a console before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterShak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 really got me back into sim-racing. I haven't played many sim racers in some time and after 
 having played Forza 2 (which I got free with my 360) I realize how much I missed them. The customization 
 options available in Forza is simply jaw-dropping. I'm sure you've seen the amount of customization 
 possible online somewhere but really, if you havn't... check it out. Graphically its great, especially 
 the New York City track. Same with the sound, though I do wish the in-game soundtrack would continue 
 to play during races. The race line is a wonderful way the learn the game. Most of all, the game 
 is just fun and really addictive. Once you start, you probably won't want to stop. One knock that 
 I do have against the game is there isn't too much variety in the tracks. I would've really loved 
 some more urban tracks set within city streets. Overall though, a great game. Especially worth 
 it if you get it free in the holiday bundle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  This game is the benchmark for all 7th gen racing sims from now on. The visuals are great, the 
 handling is so realistic you can tell how heavy the car is, or how long the wheelbase is, or even 
 where the brake bias is. The online community is massive, with tournaments running constantly, 
 and the auction house is alwasy packed ith cars. The multiplayer is fair, the career races are 
 useful aswell as fun and the game has massive replay value. In my opinion, one of the best, if 
 not the best game on the 360 that i own, and i played gow for 6 months solid.
  
  the cars are customisable, the tuning system is mm perfect (literally) and there are no compromises 
 on detail. You can make out the individual pieces of gravel in the gravel traps. It has a amage 
 model, not great but still alot better than pinball wizard, or Gran Tourismo as it is more commonly 
 known. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahasad
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Superb game, although it DOES have some flaws. Pros
  - Awesome physics engine. It is very realistic
  - Telemetry. Everything from G-force to tire 
 friction
  - SO MANY cars...300... and more with new ones available
  - Auction House
  - The amount of design you can put in to a car. Just go to forzamotorsport. net and you will understand. 
 - Very realistic, yet a fairly amateur can get a handle. Want to tackle the curves like in real 
 life? take off ABS, STM, and Traction control, and you will get a true experience. Braking line 
 available as well as the full line for newbies.
  - Good AI. They can handle the turns well, but may run into you at times
  - Career mode implements 
 some variability
  - Car sounds are true to life
  - Great tuning capabilities for cars
  
  Cons
  - Lack of good tracks. I only really enjoy the Nurburgring and Laguna Seca
  - Graphics 
 - Its definitely not ugly. Car models are great, but environments are boring and this definitely 
 needs some antialiasing. - Somewhat boring career mode... just endless stupid races. Some are really 
 long
  - Should have had some rallying or some offroading :p.
  
  Overall
  One of the best racers of all time, despite its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Given the sucess of the orginal Forza Motorsport on the Xbox you would think the sequal would build 
 on the Xbox 360 graphical power and make a stunning realistic racer, and you would'nt be wrong. 
 Firstly the extent of the cars on this game are one of its strongest points, with 10 classes of 
 cars ranging from a D class stock Golf Gti to a R4 Class Audi R10 you really get the feeling the 
 designers put a lot of effort into the cars. But its upgrading feature really sets Forza alight. 
 You can upgrade you car with various parts including racing slick tyres to a whole new engine. 
 You can also at your own vinyals your car which has set the internet alight with various artistic 
 car designs. With one of the fastest frame rates outide the car dosen't look bad either with realistic 
 real world tracks and amazing enviormental detail. The only problem with this game is its lack 
 of a in-car view only going as far as a bonet view. Overall Forza Motorsport 2 is a great racer 
 with great graphics and a great car line-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingspoint93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  One of the few games I keep consistently coming back to in my library. The replay value alone is 
 awesome, but the depth is more than most people will ever have time to explore. 
  
  The racing is fun at all levels and can be tailored from arcade to performance. Great for 30 minutes 
 of racing or several hours of online battles. The career mode is rewarding and highly varied. 
 
  
  You start by racing short tracks in street performance cars and eventually end up on multi-mile 
 tracks in the worlds fastest street and race cars. The arcade mode is a must play to see how you 
 stack up against the other drivers out there.
  
  One of my favorite features is the ability to compare your driving lines against any other player 
 on xbox live via the "ghost" driving option. This has helped me become a much better driver. I 
 can find someone whose time is just a little faster than mine and have their actual lap lines "ghosted" 
 onto my racing circuit. Then when I beat their time, I find a faster ghost. To me, this is as much 
 fun as any other modes. I just need to shave 0.001 seconds off my time to be in the top 100 in 
 the world on several tracks. I never said this was relaxing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty awesome! I must say that I am impressed. 
  
  The graphics quality is honestly not as good as I was expecting, though. Don't get me wrong - it 
 looks good, but not THAT good. 
  
  The sound is also good, but I have one gripe - there is no in game music! Plenty of music to be 
 had during the menu and car upgrade screens, and some of it is actually pretty good, but nothing 
 while you are actually playing the game. 
  
  The game play is very good. Unlike some racing games, with this one you can actually tell the difference 
 between the cars. It just feels a lot more real.
  
  The difficulty settings work out really good. You can adjust the settings on the fly, before each 
 race. They break it down, so you can give yourself handicaps in some areas, and make it more difficult 
 in others. 
  
  The upgrade system is well done, also. And there is no shortage of free cars. You are awarded with 
 a free car for each race set, and also get free cars every now and then when you level up. 
  
  The leveling up took me by surprise. "Are they trying to make a racing RPG?" However, it turned 
 out pretty good. As you 'level up' your character and your car, you are presented with discounts, 
 etc. Pretty cool idea.
  
  One thing that really did bug me though was the shortage of levels. It seemed like I keep racing 
 the same track, over and over. Mostly because I was. I'm still pretty early in the game, though, 
 so I hope that the number of tracks opens up.
  
  All in all, I would place this game right up there with Gran Turismo. 
  
  Good stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhbk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought my xbox360 the day after thanksgiving. This game came with it, I didn't expect it to be 
 so great, after playing it the first day i got hooked. the cars are amazing, the graphics are the 
 shizznit. I didn't expect it to be so good, i was so surprised after playing it because i had bought 
 another game thinking i wouldn't enjoy this one as much. I'm glad that stores actually give such 
 a great game away buying the 360. 
  I love how the car's class improves by buyiing new parts. I mean I could mod a cheap car so much 
 that it could actually smoke a porsche or corvette!... of course... the modded car against a stock 
 porsche. Because this game its so great you could mod any car... So you could have a ferrari doing 
 like 200mph at every time. of course, don't get carried away and do 200mph in a turn.. or your car 
 will get f'd up. Which is really fun too!!! hahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Forza MotorSports is a great racing game, but it could of been better. The learning curb is kinda 
 of long if your like me. It's reallly hard to figure out how to use the brakes with it. But it 
 has a really wide selection of cars based on other racing games i've played. The guys down at Microsoft 
 game Studios did a great job with selecting the button controls, it was a the first racing game 
 i've ever played when I could use the triggers, and it was a good experience as well. Overall its 
 a pretty good game, but I recommend you save your money and buy Need For Speed instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7mh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  the is the perfection of GT games out there it lets u mod your car, and still gives all the best 
 cars in the 20 th and 21st century.... simply magnificent
  
  the is the perfection of GT games out there it lets u mod your car, and still gives all the best 
 cars in the 20 th and 21st century.... simply magnificent
  
  the is the perfection of GT games out there it lets u mod your car, and still gives all the best 
 cars in the 20 th and 21st century.... simply magnificent
  
  the is the perfection of GT games out there it lets u mod your car, and still gives all the best 
 cars in the 20 th and 21st century.... simply magnificent
  
  the is the perfection of GT games out there it lets u mod your car, and still gives all the best 
 cars in the 20 th and 21st century.... simply magnificent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhycar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I admit it. I'm not a racing fan. At all. My idea of a good time is not watching a car go around 
 in circles more than a hundred times in a row. I much prefer teams sports, like football and soccer. 
 I've never watched a NASCAR, F1 or even a drag race competition from beginning to end, because 
 racing usually bores me.
  
  Usually. Then I got Forza Motorsport 2, and my perception of racing was completely turned on its 
 head. This is one of the most engrossing, entertaining games I've ever played. For starters, the 
 racing model is fantastic. Most racing games go either all-out arcade style, with big wrecks and 
 ridiculous handling, or they go all-out realistic, where every single maneuver and tuning trick 
 matters at the expense of being stylishly entertaining. Then came along this little gem, which 
 keeps the flash and flair of the arcades, but still punishes you for oversteering.
  
  Racing in Forza 2 is simply a blast. Cars handle how you would expect their real-life counterparts 
 to handle. Heavier cars tend to spin out more and maintain their acceleration better, while lighter 
 cars handle better and get up to speed faster. One thing that really helps is the optimal racing 
 line, which tells you how to enter a turn and how fast you should be going. It gives you a guide 
 to every turn, and for those of us who don't eat, drink and sleep cars, it's truly a great help.
 
  
  Speaking of cars, I didn't know there were so many types out there. If you can buy a car on a dealership 
 lot, you can probably buy it and race it on Forza 2. What's more, the car models are incredibly 
 true to life. I didn't see a single model I didn't recognize from driving on local interstates. 
 What's more, they handle like the real thing. The VW GTI Golf accelerates just like the one I own, 
 which I found eerily awesome. And if you don't like the cars you own, just customize them. Seriously, 
 if you can imagine a custom job for a car, you can create it here. The artists out there might 
 spend hours getting a car to look exactly how they want, but in the end the customized paint jobs 
 are pretty impressive.
  
  And if you do waste hours fine tuning and painting your car, you can sell it for a good price on 
 XBox Live. There's the auction block, which works a lot like eBay. You can bid on a car or post 
 one for others to bid on. And if you're feeling particularly generous, you can gift one of your 
 cars to a friend. It's really a great addition to the multiplayer aspect.
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, this might be one of the best aspects of Forza 2. Racing really motors 
 along well, with no noticeable lag in frame rate. Competition online is tough; most racers are 
 either really good or really crazy, as in they'll try to knock you around the track. Either way, 
 you'll have your work cut out for you.
  
  If you like racing, or cars, or, well, video games, you really owe it to yourself to try Forza 
 2. Right now it's shipping with the XBox 360 Premium (along with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance) for 
 $349. If you haven't gotten your XBox 360 yet, this is the time, because it's shipping with one 
 of the finest games for the system. Take advantage and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys, I bought Forza 2 a couple monthes ago. After hours upon hours of playing, I was hooked. 
 The career mode is by far the best career I have played in any racing sim, and the custimization 
 is simply amazing. Here is my review of Forza 2
  
  
  I'll start things off by talking about the good parts of the game. Their are 3 main game modes 
 in Forza 2. Career, Arcade, and Multiplayer. In career you choose what country you want to start 
 in (the country you choose will give you discounts on cars) , arcade is normal racing set up against 
 the AI, and Multiplayer is... well.... multiplayer. Career mode is (as I said earler) the best career 
 I've ever played in racing sims, it even beats GT4's career. Sure, the Gran Turismo series' career 
 mode is fun, but Forza 2 takes that fun from the GT series and takes it one step further. First 
 off, in Forza 2 you can fully custimize your car. You can add all kinds of decals and vynls, as 
 well as wings side skirts and more! Another great feature is taking a picture of your car after 
 you custimizing it, then you can send it to your computer and set it as your desktop backround! 
 All through career mode, you will unlock various cars/tracks and credits. You also have a driver 
 and car level which you can slowly level up after winning many races. If you level up in car levels 
 you can establish a relationship with the car company and get discounts on upgrades. Its really 
 cool and makes career mode so much fun and realistic. Now I'll move on to the racing itself! The 
 racing is what you would expect, a simulation that plays like you are actually driving a car. It 
 may take new players a few races to learn how to drive the car without crashing and sliding all 
 over the track, but once you get the hang of it.. it really is a great driving experiance. The AI 
 in the game is also very smart, they actually are aware of your presence on the track and will 
 drive away from you if you try to bump them... and speaking of bumping, Forza 2 includes some very 
 realistic damage. If you run into a wall or another car at high speeds, you can watch you car get 
 destroyed into pieces! You have to be careful though, beacuse damage will effect the handling and 
 speed of your car.
  
  Now I'll talk about the bad or dissapointing aspects of Forza 2. I am a little bit dissapointed 
 with the car list. Sure over 300 cars is alot, but if this game wants to compete with Gran Turismo 
 then they should have included over 500 or something like that. Im not saying 300 is bad, but they 
 could do better. Also, not having a cockpit view is pretty dissapointing considering how awsome 
 it would look. The graphics in the game are fine, nothing special. It seems that the developers 
 probably focused more on gameplay than graphics, which is fine with me. 
  
  Overall, Forza 2 is the best racing Sim on the Xbox 360 bar none. It has everything a racing fan 
 would want, great cars, great cistimization, and realistic gameplay. If you are looking for a great 
 driving game, without the stupid cut scenes and storylines (need for speed) then Forza 2 is the 
 game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louxac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that the racing genre is one I have generally avoided, save Mario Kart. I've 
 played some racers before, like Need for Speed, and have never been too impressed. Nevertheless, 
 when Forza 2 came bundled with my new 360, I decided to give it a try and was pleasantly surprised!
 
  My most immediate shock was the sheer amount of customization and options available. Not only 
 are there hundreds of cars to select from, you can customize any part of it from the rims to the 
 spark plugs, and even fine tune many small details like tire pressure. Tracks are bountiful as 
 well, from short circuit races to extremely long endurance races. The driving itself is very realistic, 
 meaning if you don't slow down before turns, you WILL spin out. Also, I found my car constantly 
 veering to the left after an unfortunate sudden encounter with a wall. This form of realism is 
 rare in most racers and forces you to approach Forza different than most other racing games. Career 
 mode is a fun addition that lets you build up from a single car to a wide collection of cars from 
 all ranges and types, and gives you many different types of races, from low-end production model 
 races to Dodge Viper only races. As you race, not only will your driver gain experience and discounts 
 from manufacturers, but the cars you drive will also gain experience, leading to upgrade discounts 
 and better performance.
  When all is said and done, I don't don't consider myself a racing fan, but nevertheless I do enjoy 
 playing this game. If you are a fan of racing or cars, you will definitly enjoy every aspect of 
 this game, and even if you're not crazy about watching cars go in a circle over and over again, 
 you may still find things you enjoy about Forza 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_hell94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Right i guess im gona start from the begining:
  
  When i brouhgt my XBOX (the old fat thing) in january 2006 (i think it mayb 2005) it came with 
 Forza Motorsport 1. Now being a inexperienced gamer i found this game pretty easy and fun. Of course 
 i never had played a game on this scale before (never played anything like Grand Turismo) . I really 
 like the forza motorsport game and it soon became a favorite. Yes one day i was bored and cheated 
 and ended up with most cars on the game in S class. In August 2007 i brought a 360. I started to 
 rent games thinking of ones to end up buying. Of course Forza 2 had already came out before august 
 but wasnt in my local blockbuster. When it did i rented it out for 2days (RIP OFF) . It seemed wierd 
 as it was very new generation. Most of the cars hadn't changed but the layout and everything had. 
 I started my career with a Golf GTi Mk2 - really cool car. I found everything really cool about 
 it including the light graphics range of new tracks, damage engine and lots more. Just lately i 
 brought the game for 17 off ebay - and still playin to date.
  
  So ive decided in this review to paragraph my thoughts:
  
  Photo Mode:
  Well this is really 
 cool - similar to Test Drive Unlimited photo mode. You are able to tilt, zoom and fly but you are 
 not able to change weather conditions like on TDU. The dissapointment with Forza 2 Photo Mode is 
 that you end up with really cool pictures of cars on track but not able to upload them until your 
 a live member : (. For example i have a high S-Class Toyota Tureno Sprinter drifting at New York. 
 I would like to have this on my computer so i can use it for my new DEADEVIL PRODUCTIONS logo. 
 But im not able to : ( because im not a live member. I could become a live member but it would cost 
 me more than 50 to buy a item no bigger than my fone almost. So that is a bit of downer - same 
 really with repalys - i would love to have some of them on my pc but it means buyin a pc for myself 
 and getting hold of S-Video software and such.
  
  Short Tracks - Good or Bad:
  Now im a fan of the Forza 1 Tracks i found it a shame to see that Rio de Janerio not there on Forza 
 2. Im also a fan of the extremly long track Numburgring - As i find this pushes your car to the 
 limit. Thank the lord that MSGS (microsoft game studios) saved the track for forza 2. Anyway thats 
 not the point about this area. All of these short tracks around the length of my road are annoying 
 - you will understand if you are in the proving grounds area of the career. You cant reach speed 
 easily and there bloody annoying to drive round. Although it isnt that bad if your in say a Peugeot 
 207 but if your in a McLaren F1 GT or a Acura RL A-Spec it seems almost impossible to get them 
 to go round the corners at speed!!! But then again maybe some of the international public like 
 short tracks.
  
  Decal System :D
  Yes i absolutly love the decal system. If your like me and kept mr fatty (old xbox) and have a 
 scart switch box then you can copy decals from other games. For example the decal for the ford 
 focus on Colin McRae 05 is cool so i decided to copy it onto my focus on Forza - It Worked :D. 
 I have also been able to copy some of my model car artwork onto Forza cars :D. There is only one 
 thing i say that MSGS missed when making FM2 - been able to import pictures from say a protable 
 device or digi camera. Otherwise 10/10 for the decal system.
  
  Modifying System:
  Ok i would love to know how they decide what cars make it to the S or U Classes. This is because 
 i brought a Peugeot 207 R/C at a discount and started to modify it. After installing the new powertrain, 
 turbos, intercoolers, cams, valves ect. the car became a high S-Class. Then... I put on high performance 
 tyres and it became a U Class now if i could own this Peugeot then i could slap all the faces of 
 those retard's in their Porsches. Also aswell as this amazing peugeot i have a Ford Shelby Mustang 
 and damn that moves like made. With 900hp+ it is very fast but it wont stay straight for long as 
 it ends up moving left or right and impossible to go round corners - so MSGS look at the car performance 
 when you design their modifying capabilities!!!! Otherwise it is fun modding a domestic car (D-Class) 
 so it beats the crappers out of Porsche 911's.
  
  Not much else i can really comment about it although i will say this:
  Never play this game when 
 it starts to click inside ur 360. This means ur 360 is struggling with the game and cant read it. 
 When this happens either:
  Take the disk out and leave the 360 for a while
  Take the disk out, Unplug everything and put it so it lays down.
  If you let it click it will 
 *Burn* the disk (making removable scrathes) and soon it will become unplayable and you have to 
 use a pro cleaning kit or machine.
  
  Reviewed by  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, here it goes. This was an overall disappointment considering the original. I think they actually 
 may have gone backwards, if that even makes any sense. Ok, lets get down to the positives and negatives. 
 The graphics are great. The cars look much more normal than in the last Forza. Car damage has been 
 ramped up and now not only looks better, but affects the way your car handles as well. Thats about 
 where the positives end. The list of cars really hasn't improved all that much, but they already 
 had plenty so I guess its ok. The sound effects have not improved at all. The cars are really nice 
 looking, but are lacking in detail. There is still no in cockpit view despite PGR3 coming out before 
 this and making a great one. The cars feel genuinely slow, and I have no idea why, but its not 
 a good thing for your cars to be slow in a racing game if you ask me. The developers say the physics 
 are greatly improved but I think they feel floaty. Maybe on paper the physics are improved, but 
 when actually using a controller and not a steering wheel, you can see they actually got worse. 
 There are more tracks now, but not many more. It looks to me like the series has taken a dip. I'm 
 not saying Forza no longer has a chance at being equal to or better than other racers now, I'm 
 just saying that its a longer journey now than it was before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  The game that I have been waiting for years to buy it and here it is Forza Motorsports 2. This 
 game is far more better than I expected. I never thought a game that could be better than Gran 
 Turismo but I was wrong.
  
  It is a must game for both best game collectors and racing game fans. Those who have enjoyed Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 must buy this game and I guarantee you that you will love it even more. Tuning 
 is ridiculously detailed both for upgrading and fine tuning. Most of the cars can be pimped up 
 with aerodynamic kits e. g. bumpers, spoilers and hoods which enough for such simulation game. Paint 
 is another story. Paint your car the way you want to. The only limit is your creative imagination. 
 Lots of races with different racing restrictions and 300 cars to collect will take a while to finish 
 your career. All I can say is that the game has the right to have 10/10 for the overall score.
 
  
  You may begin your game by Arcade or Career (like in Gran Turismo) . When we start FM2 we choose 
 the region that you want to. We have USA, Europe and Asia. If you choose any of these regions, 
 you will have the region's car makes that you can afford to buy in the beginning of the game. Also 
 it will help you in the future or cause some problems in the future. When we buy one the cars, 
 we will start upgrading. A simple upgrade will increase your car's class immediately. You can buy 
 every detailed parts for your car e. g. exhaust, intake, intercooler, turbo, fuel system, engine 
 blocker, brakes, weight reduction, differential and even engine swap from the other car model that 
 has relationship between them. For example, Corrado's engine design is similar to Golf 32's engine, 
 so you can swap it and have 4WD function and more potential horsepower. Buying body kits also makes 
 your car look even more sweet. You can buy it to make it look it better or for performance where 
 you are able to adjust its aerodynamic power. You can buy set of rims from all around the world. 
 You can increase the rims size or the width of the tire. It is completely up to you.
  
  You can paint several parts of your car e. g. the body, mirrors, spoiler, hood, windows and also 
 the brake pads! You can put attractive looking vinyls on your car from geometrical shapes, tribal, 
 flames, stripes, gradients, nature, animals, letters and car manufactures. Check YouTube to see 
 people how they painted they car's. They looks awesome! If you liked that painting, go to the auction 
 house and buy from that other Xbox Live gamer. It is another area of online entertainment.
  
  When we come to racing, it is a long story. You have different types of events, tournaments 
 and championships. You have Proving Grounds (where you start from) , Amateur, Professional, Regional, 
 Factory-Spec, Face-Off and Endurance races. If you win a race, you receive a large sum of money 
 and if you finish the tournament you receive even more money and a new car. If you a finish a series 
 of tournament you receive the greatest prize and an achievement. Also the races aren't long in 
 Gran Turismo. Each racetrack has its own number of laps e. g. all endurance races last between 50-60 
 minutes! You won't race for 24 hours non-stop like in Gran Turismo. Fast and quick to finish the 
 race and receive large sum of money. You may increase your prize by making the game harder if you 
 find it easy e. g. turning of guidelines, ABS, TCS will give you more prize in the end.
  
  With the money that you receive, you will be able to level up your car and your driving level. 
 When your car level up, you will receive discount on some car upgrades according to its brand. 
 The more you level the more discount on several parts. When your driving level upgrades, you will 
 receive car discount according to your region's car models. Every 5 levels, you will be awarded 
 with secret cars according to your region. So you will not buy cars and parts with the money.
 
  
  Although the game has only 13+1 (DLC) racing tracks carves into 47+4 racing courses. For example 
 Suzuka Circuit is a racing track. It consists of 3 racing courses: Suzuka East and Suzuka West. 
 When you combine them together you will have THE Suzuka Circuit. Or New York City straight or reversed 
 version. Sounds great but you will get bored when you keep seeing the same environment. Also while 
 you are racing, there is no music. No problem because you can store music on your Xbox 360 and 
 play it directly from the Media Player while you are playing.
  
  The AI is smart also. They do not drive linear. They can be professional or amateur. They can make 
 accidents or drive off the road due some driving mistakes. They get stronger as you finish the 
 races and sometimes they can cause you troubles while you are driving.
  
  So FM2 is the best racing game I ever seen. It is even better than the Gran Turismo franchises. 
 Its exclusiveness makes the game even more unique. So here is the summarization:
  
  Pros
  - Awesome graphic
  - Great sound effects
  - More than 300 cars
  - Highly detailed tuning 
 and customization
  - Painting is awesome
  - Taking photos middle of the race
  - Car damage looks real and fun
  - 47 racing courses
  - Lots of races to participate
  
 
  Cons
  - 13 racing tracks
  - No music while racing
  - No human characters in the pit stop
  - No cockpit view 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HATEtheSTUPID
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I honestly think its a waste of Time and Money
  It started with the colbalt, and i raced with it, upgraded it to make it faster, witch took up 
 all my money
  THEN I finished the torniment and i got lots of money, so i spend it on upgrades, ok. then i go 
 to go race and it WONT LET ME.... WTF it says my car has 3x too much horsepower! and i blew all 
 my money on upgrades!
  why cant it be like all the other raceing games and not have some crap requirments 
  Its the 
 same thing in a different wrapper and people buy it and somhow like it, i cant find somthing innovative 
 about it, and give it the 3rd best 
  if somone can explain to me the greatness of this game please do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikej-uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! I got it with my 360 elite and being a veteran of forza 1 I couldn't go without 
 getting this. It is a big step forward with graphics from forza 1 and customization is amazing 
 why can't it be like that in every game. If you have xbox live then you will have a forza version 
 of ebay on your 360 to buy and sell cars as you please.
  
  I also have pgr 3 but i haven't played on that nearly half as much as forza because for 1 it has 
 no customization, hardly any cars and plays nowhere near as well as forza in terms of realism. 
 
  
  Best racer on xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunnas77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I have played my fair share of racing games. I've had almost every need for speed ever released 
 and i've played Gran Turismo 4 but they can't realy compare with Forza.. I never thought of Forza 
 as being a good game because i never played the first one but i decided to go along with gamespot's 
 review and buy it. The game is incredible visually it's the best on the console, i love the damage 
 system, you get that real racing feel you know. You will be playing this game for hours simply 
 because of how addictive it is. I'm not saying that its short NO WAYS its definately not a game 
 that you can complete in a day or two. Even for those of you out there who love drifting like i 
 do, you can also drift in this game even though there isnt an event and it feels more realistic 
 than Carbon or whatever other game you've played. So i would recommend it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boot_sectorz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  hey, the game is amazingly superb, c'mon, the multiplayer, and just the game itself, 99% realistic 
 handling, variety of cars, the tuning possibility, sell cars to other xbox live users by the auction 
 house, it's one of the most beautiful 'nd complete games i've ever played.... it's really awesome..... it's 
 worth it... trust me..... damn... i have no words....... i even think that this game is a bit better 
 than it's opponent Gran Turismo HD..... ok, let's be fair.... it doesn't have quite a lot of cars 
 like gran turismo does but.... in another hand..... the IA, the graphics, the visual options like 
 vinyls, and manufacturer symbols..... i think the game is just too good to be true... it's one of 
 the games that is worth it on XBOX 360.... trust me..... i have played it for 15 days, 3 to 5 hours 
 a day and i havent finished it..... if u like it.... buy it...... it's worth the price...... tks for 
 reading....;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webhunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is so rich and beautiful that it's hard to find weaknesses. The AI is excellent and the 
 challenging tracks make you come back to try for first place just one more time... I got this and 
 PGR3 at the same time and suffice it to say that PGR3 has not seen much playtime on my 360.
  
  I knew FM from the first version and got FM2 as soon as it was launched. I was not dissapointed. 
 The smooth graphics are inspiring, and the sound is at times stunning. The seasonal changes are 
 well executed.
  
  I do find the chance to upgrade and tweak your car very cool, but I for one would perhaps like 
 some more help and advice on what the different racing classes represent. I have more than once 
 tweaked a car beyond the required class and thus had t sell items again or switch to another event.
 
  
  But those are minor gripes - I love this game and it will stay in my Playing Now list for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokkie13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I ended up getting this game with the pro-bundle and was definitely pleasantly surprised. Personally 
 I haven't played much of a racing sim after playing too much of the Gran Turismo series and though 
 that overall the concept was overplayed. When I started Forza 2 I was impressed by the graphics, 
 the gameplay, as well as the realism. The graphics are very crisp, with the textures and the damage 
 effects both being very clean. The controls seem very natural, with the car options and mods being 
 endless, and also the difficulty being fully customizeable. The realism is phenomenal with your 
 controls as well as the graphics showing damage as it occurs, even going so far as to see parts 
 of the car come flying off. This is overall a great game, and as previously mentioned this was 
 a pleasant surprise, especially seeing as I probably wouldn't have got it if it weren't in the 
 box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcasey77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for reality, you get as close to it with this game. It is an excellent simulation 
 racer. Painting you car can suck you in for hours without even running a race. Online is fun and 
 there are plenty of people that will help you with tuning if you ask. There are lots of tournanments 
 if your realy want to get into it, but playing on your own against the cpu cars is still very fun. 
 The AI is the best I have seen for a racing game. You still get some wierd driving in certain situations, 
 but for the most part they drive like a more cautious person. Meaning they won't knock you off 
 the road for position in most cases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bastrix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  I'm a major fan of racing games since I was a kid, but to be honest this is the first Forza Motorsport 
 I play, as it's the only great racing game on the old xbox I didnt get in the end. But I must say 
 I've played absolutly loads of racing games since the the first home video games ever appeared. 
 
  
  And this.. is just perfect. 
  
  What I enjoy about racing games the most, is the realism, and forza motorsport just looks and feels 
 sooo great, its unbelievable. It's the only racing videogame I've ever had that actually really 
 feels like y ou are pushing fast on a track. The precission when driving, has to be perfect, and 
 thats what I love. Also the realism in other things as the damaging ont the car and the crashes 
 is best quality ever too. 
  
  Accelerating gently coming out of the corners, braking EXACTLY on the right spot, if you dont want 
 to hit the wall, wrestling with the cars as the back wheels loose grip slightly if you take the 
 corner slightly too fast, trying to regain control of your car if you get slightly touched by your 
 opponent in the rear part.... It's the best I've ever played. 
  
  The rest of the game, career mode, online play, loads of cars, loads of options, completes this 
 perfect game. The only couple of minor things I can think of as bad are... that I'd really like 
 to see a bit more variety of tracks, and maybe a little different game modes, I'm a bit sick of 
 typical Gran Turismo style racing. PGR is more varied, although I know its more arcade style, but 
 still, you can keep it real and include some original challenges in my oppinion... 
  
  Still... best racing game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haza1995
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  thos game is def 10 times better than i fort it would so that a plus. the only down side is that 
 it is not very good online ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! !! h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesallthetime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite racing games. I would choose this game over many other racing games. 
 I liked it more then NFS: Pro-Street. It is a little easy at first but as the game progresses it 
 gets harder. Everything with the cars is customizable and you are able to make thousands of different 
 designs. It is by far one of the best racing games out so far.
  
  The multi-player action is just as good as the one player campaign. You can race in tournaments, 
 career races, or just a simple race for fun. You can race in teams or on your own. Its completely 
 up to you. If you are a racing fan then this is a game for you and I recommend you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is a sweet racing package; hundreds of licenced cars to buy and drive, real world tracks 
 to tear up and loads of things to be getting on with. You can upgrade your machine with many different 
 things such as turbos, improved brakes and you can even strip out the cars engine and replace it 
 with a different one. The paint shop is very deep with many different decals and paint jobs to 
 make your car look like your own. There are problems with the game however. First and foremost 
 being that the game lacks any kind of thrills while driving. This game is purely about improving 
 your car in such a way that theres no way the competition can beat you, so not much gets left down 
 to the actual driving skill. In other words, the driving ends up being the boring part. This didnt 
 deter me from playing through the game however as the rewards and sense of accomplishment are great 
 and keep you hooked. Another problem is the graphics are slightly underwhelming, with the races 
 looking quite jaggy and plain. Either way you look at it though, this is the best racing sim on 
 the 360 and a worthy purchase if it is in your interest.
  
  The Good: Loads of cars and tracks - A good feeling of accomplishment - Deep
  
  The Bad: Graphics 
 arent up to par - A tad boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisposableHero4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best racing game out there to me. its got tons of cars to choose from and still 
 more coming on xbox live. the online is decent and more fun and challenging. the game is INSANELY 
 detailed with cars like tuning, painting, and upgrading. the only thing that bothers me a bit is 
 that the tracks are kinda boring and repetitive. also, when you want to get money you have to do 
 a lot of career or online races and you get usually around 10,000 at most. it gets really annoying 
 trying to get money because it gets really repetitve but you get used to it. its still a great 
 game though.. WARNING THIS GAME IS NOT LIKE ARCADE GAMES LIKE BURNOUT. FOR EXAMPLE, WHEN YOU WANT 
 TO TURN YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO USE THE BRAKE A LOT IN THIS GAME. RENT IT FIRST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ting0065
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  A great game! I had been playing GT4 on the ps2 for years now and I was getting pretty bored and 
 anoyed that there were no Lambos and Bentleys. And then I rented Forza 2 for my 360 and when i 
 started racing i thought, I am getting this game. Pros:
  Good graphics
  Decent sound
  Lots of cars
  LAMBOS!
  Reasonable multiplayer
  A good and big career mode
  Awesome crashes! 
 :D
  
  Cons:
  Narrow tracks
  Other cars cheat to much!
  When you crash it takes ags to get back racing
  
  An over all great game. The best racing game 
 on the Xbox 360, if you are a hardcore racing gamer give Forza Motorsport 2 a try and i wont dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer242
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is a great racing with every kind of car you can think of. Forza has every car you can think 
 of from a Lamburghini Gallardo to a Ferrari Enzo to even a Volkswagon Bug. It has fantastic graphics 
 and great gameplay. Although there are not very many visual upgrades, there are tons of engine 
 and other upgrades that you cant see. After awhile though, the game starts to get old because it 
 seems like your always racing at the same race tracks plus it takes forever to unlock all the different 
 cars. So if I were to give you advice, it would be to just rent the game before it gets repetetive 
 and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  this game is simply amazing, i mainly bought it for abit of online fun. i thought i was ok at car 
 games and i completed this one with ease, every single race. you start off choosing your car which 
 will be rubbish compared to supercars u work hard for to obtain later in the game. my first car 
 i think was the rather stylish normal golf. it was a pretty good first car and i was happy. i soon 
 advanced a few levels after winning some proving ground races and you work on to the next difficulty 
 amateur. there are many difficulties with the hard, professional and endurance, and the easy, proving 
 grounds and amateur. you win cars by winning a race series so as you get better and win more races 
 you win more and more cars which therefore will be better than the last one your got. you also 
 win money which u can spend on the upgrades which will help alot online but it will not help alot 
 in career mode. you will also find out about the online auctions where you can pick up some extremely 
 quick cars cheap! also on the auctions you will find the cars with amazing vynal which people have 
 taken there time to make, these are simply amazing and a must see part of the game, some of the 
 vynals include borat and even the matrix. now with the new race track you can download frm marketplace 
 and all the new and improved cars the game is never ending and such a revolution online...
  
  i simply love this game, its a must buy for any racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxgt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying the amount of tracks in the game is just disappointing. It's almost an 
 industry standard to have racing games with 50 track or more but this game has about 32. It does 
 have a great car list, first sim game i have played with lambo's and Ferrari's. Multilayer is fun 
 and playing career race's for in game money with friends is even better. I have noticed a few glitches 
 tho mainly with replay's. Designing car vinyls is very fun and you could easily lose hours doing 
 making custom designs. Thus is a great game to buy if you were a gt4 fan like me and want a next 
 gen racing experience, just don't expect any rally racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVR_Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the sequel to Forza Motorsport, which is one of the best selling racing games 
 on the original Xbox. In Forza Motorsport 2, you have a good range of modes to choose from, which 
 includes Arcade mode to Career mode.
  
  Anyway, with that short exemption out of the way, let us first look at the Career mode, in Career 
 mode you must first choose a region, which consists of the following:
  
  Europe
  America
  Asia
  
  After you choose from any of the three above, you start with a limited number 
 of credits, which you must spend on your first car. However, be warned when you buy your first 
 car, do not expect to be able to buy the same car in another region.
  
  Because like in real life, there are some cars out there, which are either illegal to drive in 
 that nation or if you want to get that car in some nations, you need to import. Anyway, with that 
 part out of the way lets move onto some of the other aspects of the career mode.
  
  You have a mix of things to do in Career mode, from upgrading your car, to customising your car 
 with a good amount of paint options. Next in the line of things to do in Career mode you have tuning 
 options and of course, you have the racing part of the Career mode.
  
  Right with that part out of the race, I think it is time to move onto, what happens as you go through 
 the races in Career mode, as you make your way through the Career mode.
  
  You will level up, while earning cars from a mix of manufactures to unlocking rewards also from 
 manufactures. However, along with those, you will also win prize money as well as winning cars. 
 After you have gone through a steady amount of races after starting from the lower classes to moving 
 up to higher classes of racing, let us now focus a bit on the other single player part of the game.
 
  
  In other words the Arcade mode, which has the following three modes contained within:
  
  *Exhibition Mode  Racing against other AI
  *Time Trials  You against the clock
  *Free 
 Run  You on your own
  
  Now let us move onto the online side of things, which has many things to do, from the Auction House 
 to the online racing, which has ranked and unranked racing.
  
  Another thing, which the online part of the game offers, is online leader boards. However, before 
 you think, wow there is a good amount things to do online there is some more things:
  
  Gift a car  Send any car you wish to anyone on your friends list
  Forza TV
  
  With the online 
 side covered, it is time to cover the different type of car classes, which have stuff, from the 
 basic D class right up to the full racing R1 class. However, if you want to know the other classes 
 you can choose from, then you also have these classes:
  
  C Class  In this class there are cars families can afford, anything in the higher classes most 
 families will not be able to afford.
  
  *B Class
  
  *A Class
  
  *S Class
  
  *U Class
  
  *R4 Class  Entry level racing cars
  
  *R3 Class
  
  *R2 Class
  
  With 
 the car classes out of the way, let us move onto the upgrading and tuning side of things. In the 
 upgrading part, you have a good amount of options to choose from, which includes the engine upgrades 
 to weight reduction, as well as some other things.
  
  While the tuning side of things offers stuff, from changing your AI, to changing the gear ratios, 
 as well as some other stuff, which can sometimes only be used if you have the correct upgrade on 
 your car.
  
  Now with the upgrading and tuning part of the game out of the way, it is time to cover some of 
 the other options people may not touch much. One of which is the Photomode, and before you think, 
 Photomode is just a gimmick, think again, because there is plenty of Forza Motorsport 2 Photomode 
 communities around on many message boards.
  
  One of which is on Turn 10s very own message board, another part of the game people may never 
 use at all is the replay option, which can help you improve. Because you can check how you raced 
 in a past race from many camera angles, while checking the telemetry, which can help you become 
 a better racing driver.
  
  Anyway, I hope you have enjoyed this review, while helping you decide if you want to buy Forza 
 Motorsport 2.
  
  Pros: Customising options, Forza TV - Great Simulation Engine - Good amount of modes and options
 
  
  Cons: Simulation does not suit every player - Graphics do not stack up to Project Gotham Racing 
 4 - Great frame rate
  
  Final Rating: 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daviwinn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Awesome. Brilliant. Exciting. There are many other words like these I could easily use to describe 
 the experience I've had over the past 5 months while playing this game.
  
  Let me preface the rest of the review by saying I have yet to turn a single lap in this game with 
 the standard controller, and I have a proper racing cockpit setup where I do all my racing. I should 
 also point out that racing has been my favorite genre of gaming since the moment I sat down behind 
 the wheel of Daytona USA at my local arcade when I was a pimply faced teen ager. From that moment 
 I was hooked. Since then I have been in search of the best racing experience I could get outside 
 of being in a real car on a real track. A few years later I had a chance to play Ferrari F355 Challenge 
 on one of the triple screen cabinets that were produced. What an awesome experience. Could such 
 an experience ever be reproduced on a home console? At the time I never though I 'd see the day. 
 Fast forward to the release of the Logitech Digital Force Pro wheel designed for Gran Turismo. 
 Wow, we're getting close to the gaming experience I have sought after for so many years now! A 
 truly awesome game and wheel combination which remained my go to racing game up until May of this 
 year.
  
  Now we enter the Next Generation of gaming.
  
  When I first heard about Forza Motorsport 2 I was skeptical, having never played the original Forza 
 due to the lack of a true Force Feedback racing wheel being available (I will never again play 
 a racing simulator with a controller) . I decided to go out on a limb and buy the Microsoft wireless 
 racing wheel. After playing the included PGR3 I was quite unimpressed and starting to regret my 
 purchase. Then the Forza 2 Demo hit the Marketplace, and I was absolutely floored. The cars handled 
 exactly as I'd imagine them to (knowing I'll never drive most of these cars in real life my imagination 
 is all I have) . Even with only one track and a very limited number of cars to choose from I had 
 a new favorite racing game. When the game was finally released I was utterly amazed. Not only can 
 I race, upgrade, and customize just about any car I'd ever want to drive fast but I can slap a 
 custom paint job onto it and jump online to race other people! Someone pinch me! Well over a hundred 
 hours of gaming later I am finally able to write a proper review.
  
  Graphics - 8.
  Not bad, not great. 100% Functional. Jaggies are there (not glaringly obvious, but there) . Never 
 once have I missed a turn because I could see it coming. The car models are pretty much spot on, 
 and the reflections/lighting are very nicely done. This is the next generation. All the games are 
 pretty, this one just doesn't stand out over the other games and has since been surpassed (graphically) 
 by other racing titles.
  
  Offline Gameplay - 9.
  I still haven't finish all the career races, as of now I'm a level 46 offline. I feel this is far 
 enough for me to gauge the offline gameplay though. The pacing is great, the Career gradually introduces 
 longer races and faster cars forcing you to get a feel for every class in the game. This may seem 
 tedious to some, but is exactly what I want in a racing simulator. If I were inclined to jump right 
 into the faster cars, the Arcade mode is there too. Something for everyone. This alone gives it 
 good marks in my book. The actual driving mechanics work well too. The game offers a number of 
 assist to help people new to this type of game such as the dynamic racing line, Traction Contol, 
 a Stability Manager, etc. For those who want a more challenging experience all these can be turned 
 off, and the game rewards you for taking the more difficult route while playing. Applying upgrades 
 is easy to do as well, and the effects are clearly explained through the ingame help and easily 
 recognizable on the track. The tuning is complex enough for veterans, yet friendly enough where 
 someone like me can set a car up pretty nicely with a little patience and some trial and error.
 
  
  Online Gameplay - Variable.
  I really can't put a number on this one as each person will have a different experience depending 
 on a number of factors. Obviously someone racing with a group of friends or in a structured environment 
 will enjoy online racing more than someone jumping into random ranked matches . I can comment however 
 on the aspects of online racing that are evn across the board no matter who you are. The lobby 
 system works great. It is easy to search for a room and see what track, car class, and other options 
 have been set. You also have the standard option of both ranked and unranked races while online. 
 Privacy can be ensured by setting games to invite only to keep out unwanted racers eliminating 
 the problem of griefers.
  
  Fully integrated online leaderboards track lap times for all of the games races (with the exception 
 of system link racing) . The Auction House is also a good way to spent some time online, painters 
 can sell custom cars or you can earn some in game credits pawning off cars you don't need or want. 
 You also have the ability to save any replay you like, and snap photos that can be uploaded to 
 the official site, ForzaMotorsport. net. These photos can then be saved to your PC and can be shared 
 with anyone you like. A great way for people to show off their custom rides in videogame forums.
 
  
  Cars - 8.5
  There are over 300 to choose from, and more available via Downloadable Content but no matter who 
 you are there will still be a few cars you'd really like to see in game that aren't there. For 
 example I wanted my first car to be available, a 1985 Foxbody Mustang. The cars that are available 
 however are pretty diverse and for the most part fun to drive.
  
  Tracks - 8.
  There just aren't enough. With Twin Ring Motegi being available now chances are this will only 
 get better though, and I may have to rescore this in a few more months.
  
  The tracks that are available are all pretty good, except the TT tracks. Some of those seem overly 
 challenging and would never make it onto any racing circuit if they were real world tracks. Replayabilty 
 - 10.
  Unlimited. As long as someone is willing to race you fun is there to be had. Overall score - 9.0
 
  
  Complaints: My main gripe is that the races don't feel like races. Yeah the cars handle great, 
 and with damage turned on you are properly punished for wrecking but can't we have options like 
 Cautions, Pace laps (or even just rolling starts) , Black Flags, etc.? I think the next evolution 
 for this genre will need to improve in this area of the sport to truly put me in the race. Well, 
 there you have it. A little long winded so if you read all of it thanks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamfudge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  What to start off with? The awesome cars? The tracks? Well... they're all nice and the races are 
 somewhat challenging when you first start the game, which is what I love. A challenge. The good 
 thing about this game, is that it offers a challenge every time you race, it's not always 1st every 
 time if you just begin. You can upgrade your car to the max with different things like intake valves, 
 exhaust, turbo, etc. Ya know, the works.
  
  Online- Pretty intense races. You'll find yourself loving the online part of this game if you can't 
 get enough of challenges.
  
  Wide variety of cars allow you to get the car of your dreams. Mine, being a Dodge Viper, I got 
 it and raced with it immeadiately. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Necromancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  How can i start describing such and amazing game like this?! If you have a normal car, and you 
 want to race with some sport cars like a Lamborghini or Ferrari there is no need to buy a new car 
 and lose much money, all what you have to do is to customize and upgrade your car properties, buy 
 some upgrade parts such as superchargers, enhanced suspensions, better transmission, if the track 
 you are racing on have many sharp turns and hard drifts, you can upgrade your car to have better 
 stability and break system, or you can simply tune your car so you can get a long with such a race. 
 Forza 2 Motor-sport offers you many varieties, you have tens of cars to choose varying form classic 
 cars, classic sport cars, luxury cars, new sport cars, and ending by super high performance cars. 
 You can enjoy the game alone by yourself , with a friend or online via Xbox Live to compete with 
 different player around the world. There are many options in the game with non-stop fun and excitement, 
 once you start playing the game you won't be able to leave the joystick unless you unlock a spicific 
 car, track, or tournament. You have the arcade mode where you can race against other people in 
 a customized race or you can start your own career where you can select the region you want to 
 race in, you have to start by proving yourself first as a good driver so you can be qualified to 
 a higher level starting with amateur and ending by a professional player. You will be rewarded 
 after each tournament a new car and some cash money so you can buy new cars or upgrade your current 
 cars so you can be able to enter some races that requires a specific car or specific features. 
 Even if you finish the career mood you still have many things to do, you can compete with you friends 
 online using your career cars, exchange cars with a friend or give a friend a car as gift and much 
 much more. The most amazing part is that each car in the game have its own unique style in driving 
 which is almost like the real cars.... It's an amazing game that you should not miss even if you're 
 not a fan of racing games because this game will make you addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Well, i bought my 360 in a bundle, i got 2 wireless controllers, xbox love headset, Blue Dragon 
 and Forza for someting like &pound;250, &pound;40 cheaper than the Halo 3 bundle lol.... anyhoo, 
 i only bought this bundle cos i wanted blue dragon... and Forza was like... Meh, might aswell get 
 it. Im not a racing driver fan... so you can see why i wasnt to fussed. So about 2 days later i 
 was like... lets try Forza so i loaded it up and this is what i though:
  
  GRAPHCIS
  
  The graphics on Forza 2 are pretty amazing, yeah the tracks look a bit bland... but do you really 
 want a tree or 2 on the side of the road? no... you will die if you screw up cornering, so im not 
 bothered about that. The cars however are pretty sweet, my favorite being the Lotus Cup Exige or 
 whatever, looks fantastic.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is great. Each car sounds different, and it really gives you the feeling of wow when 
 you hear the roar of your engine when your going 200mph. The sound tracks in the menu is questionable, 
 i don't like it, but i bet a lot of people do.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Easy, RT: Throttle LT: Brake RB: Change Car View LB: Bring up car stats
  X: Down Gear B: Up Gear 
 A: Hand brake Y: look behind. Simple.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game play in forza is amazing. Its fun, can be as in depth as YOU want it to be, you can make 
 it as real or as arcade as you want. With hundreds of cars to drive, and each different in how 
 they drive, the variety of tracks and the huge amount of customization you can do on each car will 
 make nearly aany1 get lost in this game for hours. There is also a wide variety of modes. You have 
 you exhibition, time trail, free run, career, split screen multiplayer, system link and a Online 
 mode which has exhibition races, online career, auction house, online tornements and more. These 
 all add something to the replay value, and just makes it more fun in general.
  
  OVERALL
  
  I would advise this game to any racing fan, and would urge non racers to rent this game to 
 try it out, you might just be as surprised as i was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekky_9892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is a great game, and everything you could ask for in a Next-Gen racing simulator. 
 It finds the fine line between being too technical and being too simple. The graphics are great, 
 with lots of detail being put into both the gorgeous cars and the beautiful scenery. Also, the 
 Car Painting options are second to none. You have a seemingly endless number of different Vinyl 
 Shapes and Manufacturer Decals to put on hundreds of layers at any place on your car. The Suggested 
 Line is extremely helpful for newcomers to the Racing Simulation genre, but manages to not be too 
 helpful, so you are still in control of the racing. Also, the cars are presented simply in terms 
 of Speed, Acceleration, Braking, Handling and Rarity. You can, however, view the cars in more complicated 
 terms and se the Torque, Horsepower, etc. There are a massive amount of Tuning options and Car 
 Upgrades, which may be a little overwhelming for newcomers.
  
  The online mode is very good with a massive community and an option to sell and buy cars in the 
 Auction House. It may be a little irritating, however, when you are looking for matches and find 
 people doing Drifting sessions or deliberately crashing into you when they fall behind.
  
  Overall, Forza 2 is possibly the best Racing Sim ever, and is accessible to rookies and veterans 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clyde46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say, you must play this game either on an HD or a widescreen SDtv because if you 
 play it on a small TV like I did then you get those stupid black boxes on the top and bottom of 
 the screen, making it the game look kinda odd. Anyway, ill get the bad bits out of the way first.
 
  
  You must have insanely hard concentration AT ALL times, because if you dont you'll be in the wall 
 wondering what the hell happened. Which can be very annoying if your on the last lap on the Nurburgring 
 aka the Green Hell. Secondly later races can get a bit boring and there's no way to skip the races, 
 you can sim them by employing other drivers to race for you, but they ask for at least 50% of your 
 winnings, some of the better A. I. drivers ask for 90 to 100%. Even then you have to watch them 
 race. Also the tracks are a little drab. There are more mildly irritating bits here and there but 
 no enough to be put in this review
  
  Now the good bits. Let start with the graphics. In game and in menu, the cars look marvellous. 
 The menu's are set out nicely and are easy to navigate. Content is excellent, with over 300 cars 
 ranging from everyday run-abouts to super powerful Le Man style race cars. Now Forza 2 also contains 
 a paint editor, not only can you edit your cars paint job (as long as its not race class) , the 
 game lets you add vinyl graphics to your car. Designs that have been produced by the community 
 are incredibly detailed, ranging from movie posters, to music covers with track lists, even anime 
 designs show up frequently. Any self respecting racing game wouldn't be without the ability to 
 buy upgrades and tune your cars. Forza 2 has a wealth of upgrades and all high level upgrade are 
 fully customisable. So youve got your custom paint job, your custom set up and you want to show 
 it off, what do you do. You take the racing online of course. Forza 2 online modes consist of, 
 exhibition races (player matchs) , career races (ranked matchs) , tournaments, Auction House, Gift 
 a car and Forza motorsport TV. Whats the Auction House and Gift a car I hear you cry. Well if 
 you have a killer setup, paint job or both you can put that car up for a user specified price and 
 for how long, oddly the game asks for a handling fee, how much that is depends on how long you 
 want it up. Gift a car is where you give a car to a friend for free. Forza motorsport TV plays 
 just like Gotham Tv on pgr3. Races online are great fun as most of the time you meet other like 
 minded petrol heads, but being the nature of XBL you will get the odd idiot. But when you find 
 a group of people you like, races can become just a thing do as being the nature of the audience, 
 conversations can become very diverse with topics ranging from the latest games, to current affairs, 
 to sport etc. One good thing is that the game lets you stay together in ranked races rather than 
 booted you back to the menu.
  
  Over all Forza 2 is a must for any race fan. Multiplayer is a real blast. Content is huge with 
 more DLC rumoured to be in the works. The only thing is that can you keep your concentration long 
 enough not end up in the gravel trap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The car physics are just about perfect. The gameplay, however, feels a bit soulless and 
 at times gets a little redundant.
  
  Graphics: I really dislike the drab colors and weak art design . 60fps is the biggest plus from 
 the graphics point of view.
  
  Sound: There are some great variants in engine sounds, but it's nothing beyond what we've come 
 to expect from racers. Some of the ambient noise is a little buggy.
  
  Value: There's a lot to do here, with an enormous single-player game and some decent multiplayer 
 options. If you love, you'll love it for a long, long time.
  
  So Forza 2 has brilliant physics, great customization options, and solid online play, but as a 
 racing game, it lacks the soul, adrenaline and passion of other racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: test65420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Nice game, awesome graphics, phenomenal physics and above else an ultra realistic environment. 
 You crash and see your bumper fly off. What else could you ask for? Congratulations to Microsoft 
 for making such an interesting game to the world of racing. I am still playing this game surpassing 
 a great 300 hours in total which means it's that good. The only drawback is the cheap soundtrack 
 which of course can be turned off, but still i wonder why they made it so bad. It's like they say... you 
 cant have everything right? Still, if you are looking for a Real racing game, this one is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out for the Xbox it blew my mind and that's what I was watting to happen 
 in this one, but needless to say it came close but no cigar. Some of the new features don't fell 
 more than variations of features seen all around. One of Forza coolest feature is still the ability 
 to swap engines and the huge decals system, even though those features are there they don't feel 
 the same back in the Dreamcast days there were a little game called sega GT that you could pretty 
 much do the same thing except you weren't bound to the manufacture type such as If I wanted to 
 put a V12 engine into a Honda CRX body I could and that made the game fantastic, but I digress. 
 Forza basics are stronger then ever, handling feels great acceleration and breaking all feel very 
 real this is still one of the most realistic car sims out there. The bottom line is if you are 
 a car enthusiast and you love to hook up cars but don't really care for racing it will get old 
 really quick. If you are a racing fan that loves to master the corners and can endure long races 
 you will love this game. Earning money in this game is a little hard on the begging but latter 
 on if easier as the pay out become bigger. If you don't have much money and can only afford 1 game 
 every 3 months this game will keep you entertain for about that much and if you are a game freak 
 that has almost every game out there I doubt you will even give the time to play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Cars are complicated things. If you want a good one, there is often a high entry-point in terms 
 of knowledge and finance, leaving a lot of people confused and disappointed. In contrast, Forza 
 Motorsport 2 provides car-enthusiasts (and their less-enthusiastic brethren) with an unrivalled 
 virtual driving experience. Enthusiasts will go crazy for the variety of cars you can drive, the 
 quality of the physics, and the excellent online support. Non-enthusiasts will appreciate exactly 
 the same things, but thanks to extensive difficulty options, theyll be able to begin comfortably 
 and slowly build up their skills.
  
  Forza 2s main selling point is the driving experience. Everything feels very natural on the track 
 and you can feel the difference between each car. As a racing simulator, you wont be able to hurtle 
 round a corner at 100 m/ph; youll only succeed in crashing your car against a barrier. Speaking 
 of crashes, your car will destruct realistically as it takes a beating. The detail here is amazing, 
 and youll actually see the wing-mirrors fall off, the dents in the door, and smoke trailing from 
 your busted engine. You have the option to set damage as cosmetic; where youll only see damage 
 visually, or simulation; which means if you damage important parts of the car, youre in trouble.
 
  
  If you want to get straight into the action, the arcade mode is where its at. You can race to 
 unlock new tracks, or head for the time trials to see if you can be the quickest. Success here 
 will unlock new cars for you to race in. This is all well and good, but its the career mode that 
 will be your main port of call.
  
  Starting your racing career begins with you selecting a nationality, determining which cars are 
 available to you initially. Choosing America will give you more Ford and Dodge cars, but youll 
 have limited access to Hondas and Aston Martins to begin with. After choosing your first car, youre 
 free to race, buy, and tune to your hearts content. In career mode, credits make the world go 
 round. Winning races rewards you with credits, allowing you to buy new cars and upgrades. It also 
 contributes to your driver and car level; increasing these levels net you discounts with certain 
 suppliers for certain parts. The amount of competitions you can race in is vast. Some races have 
 no conditions, while others might require your vehicle to be over or under a certain weight, be 
 a certain model, etc. Some of the races may look intimidating, but Forza 2 makes itself accessible 
 to all gamers.
  
  The key to this accessibility are the driving aids. Newbies to the driving genre can elect to use 
 a racing line; this line guides you along the track, showing you where you should accelerate and 
 brake. Intermediate players may want to stick with the braking line, which only indicates when 
 you should brake. As well as this, you can adjust AI difficulty and whether or not to use anti-lock 
 brake system (ABS) or traction control system (TCS) . Using these aids will slightly reduce the 
 amount of credits you win, but removing them will boost your earnings. Skilled racers who can play 
 without the line, ABS, and TCS will appreciate their reward. Those less-so will appreciate how 
 easy it is to get into the game and how their skills will gradually improve.
  
  Multi-player support, both local and over Xbox Live, is fantastically fun. Racing split-screen 
 against a friend is always a good laugh, and it can produce some fierce-but-fair rivalries. For 
 more adventurous players, the online domain is vast and there is a great sense of community. Not 
 only can you buy, sell, trade, and even gift cars to other players, you can auction your automobiles. 
 This is made even more exciting by the freedom you have when giving your car a custom paint job. 
 Skilled artists who can make creative decals will find themselves a great way to make some extra 
 credits. On the subject of an interactive community, you can also take photos and upload them to 
 the official Forza Motorsport 2 website, and watch other players race in Forza TV mode.
  
  As for as online racing goes, its as good as youd expect. Its easy to create or join a race 
 of various game settings, be it a ranked or a player race. Forza 2 runs smoothly, but the quality 
 of the race is going to depend on how many people are racing, the quality of their Internet connections, 
 and their geographic locations.
  
  With all the famous cars in the game, its very important to purists that they are recreated perfectly. 
 The developers havent disappointed here; the Ferraris and Porches look as spectacular as they 
 do in reality, while your everyday Ford Focus is equally as well replicated. The tracks and environments 
 are quite impressive, particularly those based on real life tracks. The likes of Silverstone and 
 Nurburgring are accurate representations of the actual tracks, although the onlookers watching 
 the race dont have that much urgency or excitement as you burn down the finishing straight.
  
  As a racing simulator, sound design isnt the most pressing matter to attend to. Make no mistake, 
 all the driving sounds; like a revving motor or tires screeching round a corner, are fantastic. 
 There just isnt much to say besides that. The background music in the menus isnt particularly 
 memorable or engaging, but you have to be looking for flaws to call that a significant disappointment.
 
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is at the pinnacle of racing simulators. Every part of it is crafted to accommodate 
 both the demanding petrol-head and the car-newbie. Somehow, Forza 2 has managed to satisfy both 
 groups remarkably well. The cars look and drive beautifully, the tracks are as challenging and 
 accessible as you want thanks to the driving aids, and the online support is unrivalled with this 
 genre. If you have any interest in cars and racing, Forza Motorsport 2 is made for you. It wont 
 disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaseoRacer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The best ever racing sim that I have played. Visually pleasing, great attention to car and environment 
 details. Two words... ENGINE SWAPS! Does it get any better than that? Very real physics. You must 
 really know cars to master the game, but anyone can pick it up and have a few weeks of fun with 
 it. The only issues that I have are small and are listed below.
  
  Issue 1: The lack of real or pleasing body kits for alot of cars, especially the Downloaded ones.
 
  
  Issue 2: Weather and time effects. I know it's alot, but those additions would bring a whole new 
 aspect to a race sim. Imagine having to pit to re-adjust your tire pressure because the sun went 
 down, it started to rain, and the track temp dropped.
  
  Issue 3: When is someone going to make a steering wheel controller with a clutch? Until that happens 
 I will continue using an automatic transmission with my regular controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhireStorm007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  A very in depth simulator that allows you to control your car and how you race in practically any 
 aspect. There 300+ cars, excluding the dlc, and the online community is very helpful on helping 
 out. the ability to tune is fantastic. You can tune a car for each real-life replica or fictional 
 tracks, even though there is no support for drags. You can sort of make believe your dragging on 
 one of the straightaways, but its missing the drag radials in the back and a timer. I know its 
 a racing simulator. the graphics are great, but the cars are a little sub-PGR3, especially when 
 you have one of your fancy custom paintjobs on it. Other than that, its a great simulator that 
 accurately conveys a good car feel. I definitely recommend purchasing this game if you enjoy racing, 
 cars, customization, and a lot of content 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxomega
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  So many cars, so many hours put into this game. Great fun.... well if you don't mind stopping as 
 if you hit a brick wall when you go off track slightly. Or the fact there is no total damage or 
 flipping. Come on.. MOST REALISTIC RACING GAME my fanny.
  
  So many cars, so many hours put into this game. Great fun.... well if you don't mind stopping as 
 if you hit a brick wall when you go off track slightly. Or the fact there is no total damage or 
 flipping. Come on.. MOST REALISTIC RACING GAME my fanny.
  
  So many cars, so many hours put into this game. Great fun.... well if you don't mind stopping as 
 if you hit a brick wall when you go off track slightly. Or the fact there is no total damage or 
 flipping. Come on.. MOST REALISTIC RACING GAME my fanny.
  
  there 100 words for a racing game... sigh copy n paste ftw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jispylover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  You start like all good driving career modes, with limited funds, and cars.. which is fine and you 
 then begin to win some cash and upgrade your car.
  If you upgrade every car you use to a point, say B class, (where they are better than the computer 
 cars that you are racing against) , you will feel like your the only car on the track, and races 
 become boring, so its better if you use limited upgrades.. which in turn will give you a more exciting 
 races.
  
  and when it comes to selling your cars unless you have spent your hard earned spon-dules on the 
 car you wish to sell every standard car sell will be for &pound;100 pounds, which makes it difficult 
 to raise funds for upgrades, without racing, but instead this means you can't go spending credits 
 willy-nilly so be wise on how and which car you upgrade, as the last thing you want to do is go 
 back and repeat races for cash.
  
  all in all, a very nice game, you can do loads to your car specially visual upgrades, if your into 
 that, and you get a real feel for the faster cars as you progress through the car classes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pathagans
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great racing game. I like the fact that you get to win a bunch of different cars. 
 I like the different race types also. The different difficulties makes this game great. The game 
 is not too easy but it is not too hard either. Forza will appeal to the casual racer and the hardcore 
 racer. It does not matter if you like muscle cars or flashy cars. Forza has it all. The fact that 
 you can customize your car is awesome. You can make any car any color you want. I was very pleased 
 with this game. Good game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is, at the begining, and immersive game filled with wonderment. After a while you get used 
 to the awkward menu screens and begin to race your very first car. You continue through the game 
 with little reward other than a few discounts and some achievemnts sprinkled here and there. It, 
 at times, can be a very satisfying game but it seems to be missing some flair. You really dont 
 feel as though you are in a career but rather dragged through a clunky menu system and then play 
 race after race after race. As a racing simulator Forza is unbeatable. Its inter beauty really 
 shines through in online play. The auction is an interesting idea but it can get annoying after 
 placing hundreds of bets with a clock which restarts to 2 mins every time someone places a bet. 
 The real reason they drag on is because you cant control how much you want to bid so you must bid 
 in computer controlled increments of dollars in the hundreds. When you do get that car it is exciting 
 but not worth the tedious bidding. The painting of cars and such is entertaining and you would 
 be surprised at some of the things you can do. To the casual gamer looking for a few quick races 
 at a time, look no futther, Forza is for you. For those seeking to dedicate a few hours at a time 
 to collecting cars and money via career mode you find you fair share of kicks but they wont last 
 forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaleael
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  forza 2 is an amazing game, the graphics, sound, customizations, cars, paint schemes are all incredible, 
 ill go as far to say that forza 2's paint scheme is much better than nfsmw and nfsc and concerning 
 simulation related games its as close as u get to accual reality concerning the game world. it 
 is much better than the grand turismo series where u had alot of cars but u might as well say u 
 didnt because the amount of those cars that made up the bunch were all irrelevant, why would u 
 need 10 different skylines and that isnt even counting the bunch of other used set... and forza 
 even has customization and paintschemes and a graphic engine that grandturismo is yet to match, 
 the online play is incredible i mean incredible. it is a must get game... ofcourse im the best 
 at it... ive played for over 1000 hours not much people can beat me in my customized mazda rx7 
 and my suburu but we'll see, there also customed tuned to... but all in all its an amazing game 
 for arcade gamers and sim lovers.
  nuf respect holla back ya ya c 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam-99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  good
  -mind-blowing graphics
  -great sound
  -good music
  -lots of cars
  -lots of cool cars
  -lots of fun
  -several modes
  -cool car painter thing
  -did i mention 
 lots of cool cars?
  -driving lines can be helpful if you arent good at racing sims
  bad
  -not nearly as many tracks as there are cars
  -um, is there much else?
  review
  well forza 
 2 is amazing from the second you turn it on. i chose my profile and watched the really really good 
 looking intro (with awesome background song) and got into the career mode. i chose my region my 
 first car and started racing. i have never played a racing sim before so it was kinda hard. but 
 knowing that it was kinda expected. so after a few races took off the driving line (brakeonly) and 
 went wiht rel damgae modeling and no drivers line and pretty much no assist except automatic shifting. it 
 helped me start racking in the money. and my little old crappy toyota mr-5 became a beast. a very 
 fast topping at roughly 200 mph kinda beast. so after that i tried to paint my car. it is cool and 
 deep and stuff, but i just couldnt do it. but i have seen vids and pics and people are obviously 
 pretty good at it, it was kidna cool to try it. so after a while in career mode i went to arcade 
 and time trial and well that was fun, but the time trial success was hard for beginners of the 
 racing sim genre, so it was hard for me. but i finished a few. so no matter what you do im sure 
 you will be please with forza 2.
  verdict
  -a very close to must own game
  -fun, pretty, and awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catrocr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  FM2 is of course a rip off of Gran Turismo. But so what? I don't mind and I think it's good when 
 someone takes a tried and true concept and moves it forward in their own way. Copying what other 
 people do is common practice in hardware and software, and it has always been that way during my 
 22 years in the industry. So, don't be surprised if my review sounds almost like I am referring 
 to FM2 as the latest installment of Gran Turismo.
  
  FM2 fixes a lot of the gripes that I had about GT4. The sense of speed is more realistic in FM2. 
 The menu system is easy and intuitive. And the braking seems much more realistic (I have driven 
 a car at speed on a real race track, and I can say for sure that the braking in GT is too easy. 
 FM2 is more realistic.)
  
  But, and this is a big but: There is a huge sensitivity problem with the rear-wheel drive cars 
 in FM2. Not only is the controller too sensitive, but the physics of most of the RWD cars are just 
 wrong. They are way too tail-happy. Not so much a problem with the point and shoot exits like Tsukuba 
 circuit has, but if the circuit has esses like Suzuka has after the first turn, the cars become 
 almost undrivable. Sure, you can play around with the controller settings, but the only thing you 
 can change is the dead zone, which doesnt do any goodwhen do you want your oversensitivity, now 
 or later?
  
  And dont even bring up the issue of a steering wheel accessory. The majority of the people, including 
 me, will not be using a steering wheel accessory when playing FM2. Besides, the biggest problem 
 with the oversensitive nature of the RWD cars is due to the physics code that takes over AFTER 
 the steering input has gone through, so I dont see a steering wheel accessory as solving the problem.
 
  
  The good news is that there are 500+ cars in this game, so you can pretty much avoid most of the 
 RWD cars and just drive the FWD and AWD cars, which handle great and much more realistically. Plus, 
 if you really want to drive a certain RWD car, money in career mode is pretty easy to come by, 
 so you can buy a car and upgrade the suspension, tires, and chassis to make the car handle more 
 realistically. But I just think its sad that the car I was looking forward to driving so muchthe 
 Corvette Z06is practically undrivable in its stock form, even with traction control and stability 
 management turned on.
  
  Hopefully, if there is a FM3, the developers will fix this.
  
  Another big problem is with the Free Run mode. Your car starts out under CPU control on the first 
 lap right before the start/finish line, meaning that by the time you reach the start/finish, you 
 are not fully up to speed and there is no way you can set a fast lap on the first lap. Your car 
 should be under your control right before the last turn leading onto the start/finish straight 
 like GT does, so that it is at least possible to set your fastest lap on the first lap.
  
  And now on to what I call annoyances. One is with the menu system during play/replay. The game 
 tries to stay in play or replay while bringing a menu up, and all it does is make the framerate 
 stutter badly -- and it just plain looks bad. It should be like GT in that there is a definite separation 
 between gameplay and play/replay.
  
  There also needs to be more replay angles. I would really like to see replays in a TV camera mode 
 that changes each lap to at least 2 different angles.
  
  Another annoyance is the graphical anomaly that happens with some tracks: When you get to a certain 
 speed at certain points on certain tracks, the texture of the graphics are such that the speed 
 makes it look like there is a stationary piece of track thats right in front of you. This is a 
 problem that some racing games have had in the past, but theres really no excuse for it in a next 
 gen game. GT never had that problem in any of its versions even harking back to the Playstation 
 1 days.
  
  Anyway, all of these problems and annoyances do not change my mind that I think FM2 is overall 
 better than GT. I know that some people have pointed out that GT is better because it has dirt/snow/ice 
 as well as night and wet racing, but I just dont miss that stuff at all. I think the developers 
 of FM2, if they have made the decision to make a FM3, should fix the issues that I have listed 
 and also add dirt/snow/ice/night/wet racing. It only makes sense, but then again the software industry 
 rarely does what the customer wants, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  If you love cars, youll love Forza. With over 300 vehicles included on the disc - and more promised 
 via Xbox Live - the game is a virtual utopia for petrolheads, each of the digital rides behaving 
 in exactly the same way as they would in the real world, from high-end Ferraris and Saleens to 
 Volkswagen Golfs and Mini Coopers. Even better, the game features a staggeringly-complex customisation 
 mode where you can mould your motor from an underpowered wreck into a muscle machine, then flog 
 it via an online auction, complete with the unique paintwork you created.
  
  However, in the pursuit of realism the developers have sacrificed the graphical polish of racers 
 such as Colin McRae DiRT, instead offering bland, unimaginative tracks to burn around, and reflections 
 on the cars shiny bodywork that often have trouble keeping up with the nippy action.
  
  For hardcore Top Gear nuts who spend every spare hour pimping their ride, this is sublime. But 
 if youre a casual speed freak, FM2 will soon leave you yearning for the simple, pedal-to-the-metal 
 action of Burnout or Ridge Racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runenakken
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I played and loved Test Drive Unlimited and all the first PGR games for that matter, but between 
 you and I, Forza Motorsport is by far the deepest and realistic driving game you find on Xbox and 
 Xbox 360. I was a little disappointed with the graphics, the game doesn't push the envelope like 
 PGR4 will, but it still packs some heat and a lot of really hot race cars. The tuning and upgrading 
 of the cars are an essential part of the Forza Motorsport series and if you're up for it you can 
 customize quite a lot with the cars. I haven't tuned one though so I can't say too much about it, 
 and while you can upgrade pretty much every part of the car it's only with the tires and rims your 
 choices are more than enough.
  Xbox Live with this game works, but is not as addictive as the Moto GP series has been. Have the 
 best car and drive a clean line and you win, drive a slower car and there's no competition and 
 no fun. Endurance can be very long to say the least. It's not so adrenaline pumping so 30 laps 
 on a race track, think cursewords here, that isn't my biggest dream on video games consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-son05
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Hello welcome to my review.
  
  General : I will start by saying WOW! for so long i have waited for a game alike to gt3 wtih the 
 ability to sustomise a real car and here it is.
  Much like gt3 your ern csh to buy cars and tune your ride and every race you do erns cash, alough 
 unlike gt3 you dont have time trial but im nota big fan of that anyway's.
  
  Graphic's: Well there not the best and the new project gotham racing 4 is looking much morw crisp, 
 but i do have to say give this game the graphics and your there!
  
  Play: Gameplay is very good alough doe's start taking a while to progress after you get into the 
 mid 20's on the single player ranking thing you got, i do think this is a downside as the higher 
 your rank the more races you can do and if it takes to long to get there it can be boring
  
  sound: Well its as good as you can get as far as i know
  
  Sum up: this is a class game 
 another xbox exclusive that stands out look forward to another one ( i hope they do one) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_nVidia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Forza is a game where you basically, uhh, race, and buy cars. Specifically, you race in a wide 
 variety of championships covering amateur, manufacturer, and professional races, and use the money 
 you make to purchase new cars from the games extensive library, upgrade them using a wide variety 
 of parts, and even customize the look by using the game's easy but detailed system of paints and 
 decals.
  
  At the center of Forza's greatness is it's driving model. It's incredibly fun to drive. Period. 
 Not only is the model itself excellent, but the game runs at a constant 60 fps with no drops whatsoever, 
 nor is there any hitching. This is probably the most important aspect of racing apart from the 
 physics used in the driving model - the smooth gameplay projects an incredibly thrilling sense 
 of speed.
  
  Unfortunately, for a simulator it's quite surprising the game doesn't have any cockpit views. At 
 all. More surprising is the game doesn't have mirrors in 3 out of 4 of the views, bringing into 
 question why those views exist. In addition, the third person views are probably the worst as they 
 not only obstruct the views of other cars and even somewhat obstruct the track ahead, but don't 
 make the cars look particularly impressive - thanks to a bizzare perspective that distorts the 
 cars shape slightly - and don't give the game any sense of speed whatsoever. While none of these 
 issues really interfere with the gameplay on a constant basis, they are noticible, especially if 
 you've played other non-console racing simulators.
  
  Probably Forza's biggest issue is a real lack of tracks. For such an otherwise wide-open game, 
 it's rather suprising the game features so few tracks. While it's certainly true that running a 
 track in a honda civic is distinct enough from an enzo ferrari to be considered a different track 
 in practical means, there are still too many cars with similar performance and handling that you 
 will feel like your running the tracks over and over again. In addition, the large car selection 
 actually makes the small selection feel even smaller, as the game so severely limits what where 
 you can take your cars already. Adding to this, many of the championships seems a little too short, 
 and it's not really that hard to find yourself predominatly running an even smaller pool of tracks 
 than the total. I think even doubling the number of tracks would go a long way to making the game 
 feel more expansive.
  
  Another of Forza's great strengths is in it's automobile library. Want to drive a honda civic? 
 You can! Want to drive a Jaguar XJ220? You can! And you can drive them on the same tracks and experience 
 just how different they are. In addition, you can take your cars and upgrade them. What's interesting 
 about the upgrade process is, not only do you improve them, but they also don't loose their distinctive 
 natures. My souped up Ferrari 430 handles like, well, a high-performance race car, but my Porsche 
 911 handles like a missile. The car litterally feels like a bullet I can shoot down the track, 
 due to it's dislike of cornering (you really have to go easy on gas around corners) and extreme 
 acceleration. In fact, though likely not intended, the Porsche is my vehicle of choice for crashes 
 as it's so light, fast, and well, easy to crash. In addition, the visual customization of the game 
 is incredibly detailed, and not necessarily that difficult, so if you have ten mintues to spare 
 you can likely make a design you'll love. And running around in a car you painted with chrome, 
 decals, and window tints might give you an even greater sense of pride than actually being the 
 one who drove the car!
  
  All in all, Forza Motorsport 2 is an awesome game. If you like racing, and like cars, this game 
 really is a must-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zipzot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  There are so many ways to play this game - with many many cars and many many ways to tune them 
 - and a ton of tracks - career - multiplayer - I need to get rid of this game so I can start playing 
 Halo 3, but I just can't stop. Multiplayer is real fun and you can continue your career mode in 
 multiplayer to earn credits and cars for your career garage. The tracks are challenging and the 
 game physics are the best I have seen (used to play a lot of Gran Turismo) - playing the the XBOX360 
 driving wheel makes it even better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Its rare to find a racing game that appeals to every racing audience. There is arcade action, hardcore 
 driving, and even the more casual. Forza 2 combines over 300 vehicles from over 50 manufactures, 
 brands you would expect from American muscle and European exotic, to the ricers in Asia. There 
 is plenty of after-market parts to indulge yourself into. All of which take place on 12 racing 
 environments.
  One of the things that make this such an incredible experience is the cars accuracy, both graphic 
 and statistic wise. However, there are quite a few vehicles that could use some more accurate tuning 
 and stats. All these vehicles are set into categories, or classes. There is the D's and C's that 
 are the weaker end of the deal, to the R's of supreme racing machines. There's more to this game 
 than its physics and excellent AI. The interface further elevates the driving experience. There's 
 gauges to illustrate where your car has been damaged, and you can even see the temperature of the 
 tires. Along with the impressive sounds and eye popping graphics the engine driving this game is 
 fantastic. Perhaps the only true downfall is the potential repetitiveness that can come out of 
 racing the same track over and over again. But the well designed arcade and career modes keep this 
 down to a minimum. If your a fan of racing games, both a softcore or hardcore gamer, or just looking 
 to give the genre a try, you owe it to yourself to try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scuza2100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best racing sim out there. Although, it's not one of my favorites, if you 
 like driving sims, you definitely need to buy this game. The graphics are unparalleled by almost 
 every game out there, giving the cars a relaistic shine that'll make you question wether they're 
 actually computer generated. The only difference between reality and the damage system is that 
 one is computer generated. The gameplay is fun, but lacks variety and replay value. The customization 
 has extreme depth, and may just be too much. Although I didn't really enjoy it as much as I hoped, 
 if you're into this kind of game, this is the moment you've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Forza is a solid racing and manufacturing game.
  However for me it is too strict...
  If your a proper car and manufacture nerd forza is the game for you allowing to tweak your car 
 and making you slow down to speed like 100mph to take a sharp left. If your like me and prefer 
 goin around corners at 300mph and not care what are the conseqences PGR4 (Project Gotham Racing 
 4) is goin be your best bet.
  However, Forza can keep you delighted... for a few hours when you start to realise that slowing 
 down and manufacturing your car to death isnt tht fun.
  Dont get me wrong you might love this game and lots of ppl do. But if your like me a speed addict 
 an adrenaline junkie this game wont satisfy.
  
  Sorry M/S PGR cacks all over it.
  
  dan scfc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babolu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Want a game that gives you a challenge? Want a game that is realistic and fun at the same time? 
 Want a game that has smart AI? Want a game with intuitive car tuning? Well then Forza Motorsport 
 2 is your game my friend. This game is absolutely amazing, 300 cars and more to come! Along with 
 12 racing environments with at least one variation to it, more are expected to be released as DLC's. 
 The game mechanics in the game are off the charts giving the most hard core racing sim fan a challenge. 
 The AI also stands out to you, these guys will NOT let you win without a fight, some might even 
 wreck you. The customization you can do to at least 250 of those cars will knock you off your feet. 
 You can literally make a beautiful mountain scene if you are good enough. Along with just enough 
 body kits to keep those import tuners happy no one should be disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The cars look great, the tracks look great, the physics are good. Most of the common tracks will 
 feel like old friends to people who play racing games. I just wish they would release more content, 
 more tracks and cars. Next time around I hope that they put in real time weather and daylight. 
 Also how about some more just fun tracks for the arcade mode. Something like pacific coast highway 
 track or maybe some more European locations like Aaustria or Switzerland. Overall though Forza 
 is great game. When you get far enough to unlock the 7 lap race on the ring with Porsche GT3 RSRs 
 its an absolute blast. The multi player is also a blast.... If you have this and PGR 3 your pretty 
 much good to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the best driving simulator available on consoles . There's no other game 
 on the planet that even comes close in terms of realism . Therefore, it's not a game that everyone 
 will enjoy . Fans of arcade style driving games like need for speed or burnout will find it not 
 only a very difficult game (although you can adjust the difficulty in a number of ways) but probably 
 a boring game as well . After all, there aren't that many courses in the game and driving the same 
 tracks over and over again will become tedious in a while . That is, if you aren't a fan of simulation 
 games . In the end, Forza Motorsport 2 isn't about the tracks . It's all about the cars !! And 
 the cars are as real as they can get . It's incredible to see the amount of detail each car has, 
 and with that I don't only mean the number of polygones, but also the fact that no two cars behave 
 the same . Each car has a personality of its own, and some will become your favorites in no time, 
 others will be hated from the first time you drive 'em . There are a ridiculous amount of tuning 
 options for each car . In fact, you can make your favorite car YOUR car that only you own . You 
 can buy new parts for your ride, tune parts to your taste and aply decals on all parts of your 
 car to assure that no other car in the world looks and drives like yours . Now I have a half page 
 written and there hasn't been a word said about graphics, sound, game modes, ... Forza 2 is a game 
 where you spend as much time on a race as you spend in the menu's tuning your cars or searching 
 for new ones . If you don't like playing this way, you should not pick up this game and try for 
 Project Gotham Racing instead . Of course, you will have fun with Forza 2 (there is an arcade mode 
 and a fun time trial mode) but the real thing is the Forza Career mode . You level up while you 
 ride a series of events, unlocking more events, new cars and other rewards in the process . In 
 the beginning, it may seem as if there aren't many events in the game and the achievements will 
 be easily cashed in . Soon however, you'll notice that each race can last roughly 10 minutes and 
 there are around 300 to be raced ( I don't even count the endurances, which are around 60 minutes 
 each) . Add to that the amount of time you spend in the menus and Forza Career will last for a 
 loooooooooong time . There is a great soundtrack that acompanies you along the menus , but once 
 you're racing there's only the sound of the engines and the crowds . Graphically, each track is 
 beautifully rendered but it's a pitty each track is also static . It's like driving around in a 
 painting . Luckily, you will have no time looking around because you have to concentrate on the 
 race . A slight error can occur in disaster, as this game has a build-in damage engine that can 
 change your beautiful car into a wreck in an instant . The damage engine is good but not great 
 . Collisions at high speed sometimes result in minimum damage and otherwise in a complete total 
 loss . It's not always accurate what happens when you collide with other cars too.
  However, it's great to have a damage engine because it really adds to the atmosphere in the game 
 . Riding 40 laps suddenly becomes much more exiting when you realize that a bump in lap 39 will 
 ruin your race (and your day too) . The game has a high standard difficulty that you can adjust 
 to your own taste . However, when you put the difficulty down you will receive less money after 
 races . Add to that the fact that received money from driving is the experience points needed for 
 leveling up and you may find yourself driving the same events again in order to receive enough 
 money to unlock new events . This is something that you won't have to deal with when you drive 
 at the standard difficulty . Also, I advise that you put off the driveline that acompanies you 
 and shows the perfect way to drive the circuit . While it works perfect, you will not learn the 
 tracks yourself but simply follow the line . Okay, it's time for the final conclusion . Forza Motorsport 
 2 is an incredible achievement . It will last for a long time and it looks great (especially on 
 HDTV) . While there aren't many tracks, each car drives them different . I surely enjoyed Forza 
 2 , and if you're a fan of Gran Turismo, you should definetely check this one out . You might find 
 a new real driving simulator ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realistgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY- well let me start off by saying that the gameplay is quite top notch. The driving is 
 ultra-realistic with great handeling and sense of speed is amazing with 60 fps. There are great 
 amounts of car models and with customization your car selection is virtually endless. There are 
 very realistic car machanics that go with the tuning of your car that it's like a car lesson if 
 you don't know that much about automobiles. And lets not forget the great online aspect of the 
 game one of the first great online racing in a simulator.
  
  GRAPHICS- Now with a amazing gameplay you want great visuals also and forza 2 is not hard on the 
 eyes. The graphics may not be up to the level of Gran Trismo or Project Gotham series but still 
 shows some great examples of beautiful scenarios and the car models look fantastic compare to there 
 real-life counterparts.
  
  SOUND- The sound is top notch from the different engines to the crowds screaming in the nissan 
 speedway track as you fly by them. Also the in game music is great too but if don't enjoy it then 
 you can always go with your custom soundtracks for some personalize flavor.
  
  REPLAY VALUE- Now it's no surprise that the replay value to game like this is going to be very 
 high and it is. With hundreds of hours to this game and loads of tracks and tournaments to complete 
 and online racing community, you'll find yourself racing in this game to you see the Forza Motorsport 
 3 starting line!
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS- So if your in to racing sims like Gran Trismo and have an xbox 360 i recommend 
 you go race to your local game store and buy this game, you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Did i mention this game takes patience lol but seriously i think that is why a lot or people on 
 here diss this game they got no damn patience! Alright this game is great for any car loving person 
 i don't even like driving games and i like this game. Possibly the main focus and the biggest feature 
 in the forza motor sport series is the ability to buy hundreds of cars and then customize them 
 how ever you want. The only problem is even though you have hundreds of decals to choose from there 
 are only so many and with this you think that they would have some type of image uploader for the 
 game sadly they didn't. None the less this game is still a hell of alot of fun the graphics are 
 good but sadly don't stand up to dirt or do they go up to 1080p but gameplay is what matters none 
 the less. The online multiplayer is also quite alot of fun to if you want to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is that good.. Forza has changed my life as far as racing games go.. the graphics 
 are top notch and the game play is even better. I personally believe this game is a better simulation 
 racer than Gran Turismo. The car choices are great. Being able to choose your upgrades to make 
 your cars dominate the competition. Xbox live features are cool. Not only do you get to race opponents 
 but you also get to auction off your car. There isnt enough games like this and I really think 
 that other consumers should consider this game when choosing a racing title for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 continues the Forza franchise, and it doesn't dissapoint. The career mode is 
 quite impressive, and the costumozation options are endless. Unfortuneatly, there aren't that many 
 tracks, and you'll have to race most of them over and over again in career mode.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Very impressive, but difficult at first. You'll soon find out that you can't take a turn 
 at full speed like in other racing games, instead you have slow down and take the turn gently. 
 Thankfully, there is line that you can follow on the track that tells when to break and when to 
 accelerate. 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS- The cars look pretty sweet, but the environments are kind of blah. But it doesn't really 
 make a difference when you are zipping around a corner at 90 miles per hour. Overall, nothing overly 
 impressive, or dissapointing, just above average. Also, the damge models are very convincing. 8/10
 
  
  SOUND- The different cars sound very cool, and there are a wide variety of songs, but the cn get 
 quite annoying sometimes. 8/10
  
  Overall, a spectacular game that almost anybody should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of racing games all throughout my gaming career . I have beaten Gran Turismo 
 3 and 4 with 100% completion on each (not an easy task I tell you) . When I originally played the 
 demo for Forza, I thought it was pretty decent so I went out and bought the game.
  
  Boy was I wrong. I change my verdict from pretty decent to absolutely awesome. If you are a sim 
 racer fan, you will love the physics, graphics and realism of this game. It's quite challenging 
 and is more involving than go fast, slam on brakes in turn and continue on. In order to win races 
 on a hard difficulty, you have to win the technical division. There is nothing I dislike about 
 this game. I give it a 10 because I think it's flawless. The car customization feature is awesome. 
 The racing is awesome. The game is awesome. 18 thumbs up.
  
  I always thought GT3 and GT4 were going to be the king of racers forever but Forza Motorsport 2 
 de-throned them in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameeler91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  When i was looking at this game a week after it came out, i played the demo. I said to myself, 
 what the hel am i playing? The simulation feel of the game was just too much and i couldnt stand 
 the understeer all of the cars had. But then i realized, it's just the demo, why dont i give it 
 a rent. So i rented it and played it for about 10 days. It was the best racing game i have ever 
 played. Not racing simulation, but racing in general. I thought burnout was good, but forza just 
 makes you forget about all of the takedowns and kudos. The auction house is really fun. Customizing 
 your car with so many parts, designs and paint jobs it'll make your head spin. It has so many good 
 things about it that i didnt recognize the only flaw for a while, which was not enough tracks. 
 But because the frame rate is so smooth, and the online racing is so fun, it made me forget about 
 not having enough tracks to race on. This game is a must buy and when i get the money i'll but 
 it for sure.
  And to wrap it up, Forza2 kicks Grand Turismo's asz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaijin2795
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  This is just a great racing game. The driving physics are fairly realistic. The only thing that's 
 a bit unrealistic is that no matter how bad you crash, you can keep going, although the car suffers 
 damage. For example, real-wheel drive cars handle differently from front-wheel and all-wheel drive. 
 You can totally pimp your ride if that's what you like, and the racing tracks are pretty fun, although 
 (at least as far as I can tell) you can't change the time of day or the weather. Still, I've spent 
 a lot more time playing this game than some others which I get bored of quite quickly. It's really 
 easy to pick up, race a track or two, and put it down again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specr87
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  If you are a car enthusiast and knows a lot about cars, then this is not the game for you. If you 
 want to have some fun playing a competitive online racing game, then this is the game for you.
 
  
  Honestly, I couldn't stand playing Forza 2 because of the lack of attention to details. Every time 
 I finish playing this game, and set the controller down, I always think to myself, What a waste 
 of time. Here is why. The camera angles are always the same during each lap of a race and some 
 of the scene selections are just un-artistic. This makes the replay completely worthless to watch 
 or save. And my goodness, some cars just looks terrible, like no one put any effort into producing 
 them. More like they were just pulled straight from Forza 1. For example, the Dodge Viper's tail-lights 
 look like someone lazily used the circle paint brush option, and then single clicked big dots for 
 the lights. And that is not the only one, there are numerous cars that look half-assed and then 
 the top cars (F430, Gallardo, etc) were rendered perfectly. Forza misses out on some of the most 
 important cars in the racing world. For example, Forza 2 has the Pontiac Solstice but does not 
 have the Saturn Sky; to me, thats just stupid because it wouldve been so easy to make the Sky. 
 Just change the Solstice body! Then, there are more car problems. Forza only has the 1st generation 
 s2000 and not the 2nd, but yet, you can win the 2nd generation mugen s2000. They dont have the 
 famous EK type R hatch, kouki s14, skyline R33, and many more. No, its not only the Japanese cars 
 that they are missing, but cars like the Pagani Zonda S, S7.3, F and then theres the missing Koenigsegg 
 CCX, CCX-R and CCR. Forza claims to have 310 cars, but nearly half of them are racecars (all identically 
 tuned) and then there are some bad looking/performing tuned cars like the Du-Luck Supra or the 
 VIS integra. And, nearly all the specially tuned cars looked like someone spent 10 minutes on the 
 color and body art. I dont think anyone bought those cars, especially when you can win most of 
 them. You cant say the same about GT4s factory tuned cars (Amuse S2000, HKS S15, Mines R34, 
 etc.) , those cars were awesome.
  
  The only that kept me playing Forza 2, was the online game feature. I really like the class-point 
 system, which made it fun and competitive. I dont care too much for body and internal damage. 
 Actually, sometimes it was annoying because if I accidentally crashed, then I feel unmotivated 
 to race. On GT4, there is a penalty setting where if you tap the person in front of you or hit 
 the wall, a penalty time limit would come on and youd have to wait before you can accelerate. 
 For me, that made a lot more sense. In the end, Forza 2 is not the driving simulator that it should 
 have been. I would feel the same playing this game if all the brands and models of the cars were 
 generic names. I don't feel the Honda or the Ferrari in these cars. They're just cars to build 
 and play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is an extremely well done racing sim. It has a very large of cars to collect from and the 
 real life physics reflect actual life. Everything from drifting to drafting reacts the way it should. 
 While Forza is superb in term of gameplay, it still lacks the feel of next-gen graphics. There 
 are quite a lot of jaggies on cars, especially if you're not playing on an HD tv. The best new 
 feature about Forza 2 is the design editor. If you have the talent, then you can pretty much produce 
 any picture or photo on the car, and then sell it online in the auction house. You can also buy 
 cars from other users over live. Forza contains all the different modes that every racing sim should 
 have like career, arcade, free run and an online career mode as well. If you are looking for a 
 racer for the Xbox 360, then Forza 2 will fulfill all of your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATFNeOpHyTe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I've bought this game the day it was released in europe, and I must say it was worth all my hard 
 earned cash.
  
  If you never played anything else then the NFS series this game isnt anything for you; since the 
 realism is very good. There are more cars to choose from 302 ( if im correct) compared to the 231 
 (also not 100% sure.) in the old version. they've added some new tracks and took some away ( some 
 I do miss; laguna seca, new york) .
  
  they made the interface alot better to watch, perhaps its a bit white but I dont think its annoying. 
 The P (erformance) I (ndex) has also been tweaked, now having instead of only letters now also numbers 
 ( ex. D399) . now also makes on parts, which should be better implemented: choose with make you 
 want, like in the tire section. The racing screen/ in race screen: they improved the tachometer 
 in comperison to the old version, and the graphics are awesome, tho there are games that do it 
 better, FM2 runs stable and consistent 60 FPS which I give more value to then (even) better grapics. 
 I never played on xbox live but I think it would be great considering the looks and feels in split 
 screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is really awesome. Tons of cars and tracks to choose from. The graphics are top notch. 
 From the clouds to the tracks, it looks like it's taken from a real picture. I haven't noticed 
 any framerate drops on this game.
  
  The custom soundtrack from X-box 360 makes this game even more enjoyable. It allows you to put 
 in your own music and race. What's better than that? The PS3 definitely need an option like this. 
 If you like simulation racing games (I. E. GT) and have a working X-Box 360, this is the game to 
 get now. The only downfall of this game is its difficulty. It can be hard at sometimes if you're 
 not used to simulation driving games, but after a couple of races, you'll get use to the controls. 
 The AI can be annoying sometimes but nothing you can't handle.
  
  Get this game now if you have a XBox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKnightmare
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  YEEA!!! i love it!!!! common seriously!!! this gama rocks!! made worth tha wait 4 sure!! part one 
 was kool,,,,, 2 blows it out the water 4 sure!!!!!!!!! i love it!!! 10 10 10!!!!!! break the scale 
 on racing games!!! this sets a new standard for all other car games!!! YEEA!!! i love it!!!! common 
 seriously!!! this gama rocks!! made worth tha wait 4 sure!! part one was kool,,, 2 owns it!! YEEA!!! 
 i love it!!!! common seriously!!! this gama rocks!! made worth tha wait 4 sure!! part one was kool,,, 
 2 owns it!! YEEA!!! i love it!!!! common seriously!!! this gama rocks!! made worth tha wait 4 sure!! 
 part one was kool,,, 2 owns it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Outstanding game. The graphics are at there best the cars look more real than ever the tracks look 
 amazing. You can customize your car with loads of options the possibilities are endless. The sound 
 is excellent the cars all sound different making it more realistic good engine sounds from all 
 the cars. The gameplay is explosive and this will keep you playing for more each time. it does 
 take some time getting used to the cars handling but you soon learn. There is a good amount of tracks 
 to race on. The game is very long. It can sometimes get boring This has got to be one of the best 
 racing games you can get at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiao6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is for the people who live for racing games, its not some flashy, animated racing game 
 like the others. It delivers the full sensation of what it would be to sit in a car and race. There 
 are many cars to choose from which and many tracks to race on but what really makes this game great 
 is the reality of it depending on your difficulty level. The crashes are extremely realistic and 
 the sound is nice but could be better. All in all, this is the game for the racing fans who want 
 to play a game that is just like real live racing today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Forza 2 I thought this game was going to put all other racing games to shame. 
 After playing the game for over 1 month I can say this game blows chunks. I realize thay are tring 
 to compete with Gran Turismo ( which I own all 4) . But they really made the game into a boring over 
 and over style racing game. It dosent try to sepreate itself from the pack. There are a few problems 
 I see in this game. One the way you hit another car or a wall. They really empizied on making you 
 feel penalized to the exreame. Wow I though GT4 was bad this game goes way beyond that. How can 
 you hit a wall going over 100 mph on the side of your car and have it turn you around in the complete 
 opposite direction. Law of physics does not apply in this game. I thought this is supposed to be 
 a simulator game not arcade. I give the game a F for that. It makes you not want to play ever again. 
 I never thought I would never feel that way about a video game. Microsoft needs to address this 
 on the 3rd installment or I will never buy another Forza game again. Second is the leveling. Boy 
 is that ever boring, the same race over and over to get to the next level. I liked GT4 method of 
 just obtaining the driving license to open up the races instead of levels. It really makes you 
 feel like youre playing an RPG instead of a racing game. Grinding to get the next level. BORING!!!!!! 
 Finally my last complaint is with the graphics. I've seen better graphics on GT4 then with Forza 
 2. That is the worst. This is the next generation graphics gaming machine. WHERE IS THE NEXT GENERATION 
 GRAPHICS IN THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  I do not recommend purchasing this disappointment. Instead rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshalkendrix
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  this game's graphics are amazing, you have to get it. if you like the first one you will ABSOLUTELY 
 LOVE THIS ONE!!!!! A really cool feature is painting your car, there are a lot more options this 
 time around. Multiplayer is also a lot funner. you can also take pictures of your car while your 
 racing and upload it to Forza Motorsport's website. there are a lot more races and cars there are 
 bunches of cars. So you should just get this game... right now.........
  .. put your pants on , leave the house and go get it! woot woot woot woot woot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  I have to say, for a game so hyped up it doesnt really deliver. I found the racing to be similar 
 to the Gran turismo games offering little in the way of driving innovation. The customization is 
 probably the best part of the game which is where i spent the bulk of my playing time. I created 
 a few cars with specific themes and having a good artistic background I found the experience enjoyable 
 and worthwhile. Being able to take your custom car and either race/auction it for credits is where 
 the game offers a change of pace from the everyday racer but the fun ends there. I wasnt motivated 
 to complete the carreer mode and I traded my copy of Forza 2 in toward a Bioshock purchase without 
 hesitation. A lot of the tracks in Forza are found in other games like GT and after a while the 
 game just got stagnant. Save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 gameplay operates at 60 frames per second, and replays run at 30 frames per second, due 
 to their usage of post-processing effects. A hard drive is necessary to view replays. Using multiple 
 screens, a player can set up and utilize a 360&deg; view around his or her car. It is possible 
 to network as many as eight screens and Xbox 360 consoles together to form a complete circle of 
 in-game view around the player.
  
  Most cars in Forza 2 are fully customizable and can have up to 4,100 layers of graphics which can 
 be edited with the livery editor to allow the player to add many shapes, forms and even pictures 
 to their car.
  The game supports split-screen, System Link and Xbox Live multiplayer gaming. Split-screen allows 
 two player head-to-head racing, while both System Link and Xbox Live allow up to eight players 
 to participate in a single race. Using Xbox Live, players can also buy and sell in-game cars through 
 the game's Auction House.
  
  Forza 2 concentrates on circuit racing, point to point races have been removed.
  The damage and 
 physics in the game are improved over the previous entry in the series. The revamped damage system 
 allows for multiple settings; on Simulation mode there are large impacts on the car's status with 
 medium-speed crashes. On the Limited setting, it's possible to lightly crash on several occasions, 
 but the damage done to the car is limited to a certain extent. On Cosmetic , the damage is merely 
 visible, but does not hamper the performance or aerodynamics of the car The damage ratings for 
 each part of the vehicle can be seen on the HUD (heads up display) accessed from the in-game menu. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Uzi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  FM2 is fantastic. It brings many aspectsof racers together, from super-realistic car-simultaion 
 to super customizable street racing, this game is full of win.
  
  Forza 2's gameplay is the most realistic driving simulator on the market, hands down. The physics 
 of the cars along with the AI of your opponents, and also with the customization of your rides, 
 all come together to make one of the most complete racing simulators out there. You can play it 
 hyper-realistically with all assists turned off, or super arcadey with everything helpful on, or 
 anything in between. It is one of the flexibly fun games you'll ever get the chance to play. Gameplay: 
 10
  
  Graphically, Forza 2 is about standard during the race (although it must be mentioned that it runs 
 at a constant 60 FPS) . However it's in the replay mode where the game truly shines - the high-poly 
 count car models along with advanced lighting and hyper-realistic physics all marry to become one 
 of the most lifelike replay modes ever done. The game is simply beautiful, although there are still 
 a few jaggies... Graphics: 9
  
  FM2's sound what you'd expect from a racing sim - it's realistic. Lamborghini's have their definitive 
 high pitched scream, and most musclecar's have their classic low-pitched rumble. Nothing to complain 
 about here, but also nothing to really commend either. Sound: 8
  
  The value from Forza MotorSport 2 comes from it's lengthy and in-depth career mode, in which you 
 level up and place better parts in cars that you've bought. There are a slew of different races 
 to choose from, all ith drastically different qualification requirements, from an AWD shootout 
 to a cup for 20th century supercars. And all the while you are doing these races, you can almost 
 endlessly customize your cars by fine-tuning their parts and placing up to 4000 shapes on them 
 each via the livery editor. Value: 10
  
  This game will get you into cars. With over 300 real world models, it will teach you the difference 
 between a Mercedes and a Porsche. You'll be calling out Corvette! in the middle of a conversation 
 when ne drives by, also stating the exact model and year of the car as well. I thought cars were 
 nothing to be interested in before this game, because I just blindly picked it up, and boy was 
 I wrong. I love FM2 for what it did to me. Tilt: 10
  
  While this game isn't perfect, it's damn near close. There are very few things to complain about 
 here. Forza MotorSport 2 for the Xbox 360 is the best driving simulator ever, ever. Overall: 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I like racing games. I like them a lot. However, Forza Motorsport 2 just didnt cut it for me. 
 The game sure does look good with many different, real life cars to choose from and it plays like 
 the real thing; cars going 209 MPH cannot take a hairpin turn (a. k. a Burnout) . But that doesnt 
 necessarily mean that it is a great game. I am one of the people who will try to do everything 
 there is in the game and after about five hours into the game I knew I was in for a long haul. 
 There are many events to choose from but that just means doing the same tracks with different 
 cars and different number of laps. It gets boring real fast, especially because there is no in-race 
 music. If you like long, boring accurate racer simulators this game is for you but it is not for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Now... if you've read my review for the first FM, you'll notice that I'm giving FM2 a significantly 
 lower score. It isn't simply because we're no longer able to go by anything other than half-points 
 either, I would've given it a 9.0 even based on GS's old review system. The reason is that the 
 series took two steps forward but one step back imo. Let me explain... FM2 took what made the original 
 good an developed upon it. First case in point: One of the reasons I thought FM was so great was 
 because of the many options it allows you to choose from to really customize the level of difficulty. 
 One of these things was the green line assistance. They improved upon this by making a braking 
 only option for the line, which will only tell you it's suggestion for where you should start braking. 
 Now, that's great! It's the natural progression of how you could make the game's difficulty more 
 customizable, and the green line less of a crutch later on if you want to make the switch to no 
 line. MP has evolved in a good way with the introduction of the auction house (though I think it 
 could benefit greatly from the suggestions presented by Jeff Gerstmann [you should look through 
 his blog posts to find what I'm talking about] ) . There was an addition of many cars, including 
 brand new car makes not previously included. However, there was only like 1, maybe two new tracks, 
 with a whole lot of them from the original missing. For example, all the point-to-point tracks 
 were missing because there was no longer a point-to-point race category. You should have seen the 
 disappointment on my face when I realized that fact. It was my favorite race type in FM1. No more 
 mountain in Japan, no more San Fransico Bay area... Not only that, but there was no more Rio track, 
 or Tokyo at night. There were virtually no street maps except NY, just GT tracks. If you look at 
 the games genre, it says... GT/Street Racing ... Where's the street racing?!
  
  The fact of the matter is, that there's very little variety in the race types. I don't think they 
 should go the way of GT and correct this by adding rally racing, but instead, adding drag/quarter 
 mile racing. One of the achievements for FM2 requires that you complete a race in first with no 
 assists. They clearly want the player to challenge themselves. I think a good way to more forcefully 
 implement this idea would be to add 1/4 mile races. You would drive in a straight line and only 
 need to upshift, with emphasis on proper timing. Also, it would make a lot more sense with engine 
 swaps. You know, that was one of the reasons I thought FM was so great, because of the engine swaps. 
 The truth of the matter is this though... Dropping a modern 911 engine into an old Porsche will 
 never have good results. The car's handling won't accomodate for the extra torque. This is not 
 as much of a problem when driving a straight line. This way, you could focus on making your cars 
 acceleration beasts with less regard for the other components.
  
  Even with these problems, I think FM2 is a must-own for 360 owners. If you're into cars and like 
 driving simulators, FM is indeed an awesome driving simulator. If you're new to it, and are afraid 
 to get a driving simulation game, then I would say even more that this game is for you, because 
 of its highly customizable difficulty options. To solve these problems however, I really do think 
 that Turn 10 and M'Soft Game Studios should release downloadable content that includes the old 
 tracks and point to point racing plus some new tracks, some fixes for the issues with the auction 
 house, as well as some new concept cars. That would in my mind change this game from being superb, 
 to an absolute perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: O_OdazX_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Forza Motorsport 2 in my first week, I loved the wealth of scoreboards, the competitive 
 online racing, the huge customisation options and the skill required to race at high difficulties. 
 I loved the graphics, the physics and the sense of realism and I still love all these things to 
 this day.
  
  The only problem I have with Forza 2 is the way some of the later races drag on and this is before 
 i got to the endurance races. I hate racing 8 laps of Tsukuba in one of my slowest cars to mess 
 up on the final lap and get 3rd, I race to win and 3rd isn't good enough so I have to do the same 
 race again, and again (it's very easy to lapse in concentration after 8 laps of 1st place) and 
 as there are a lot of races which get progressively longer this can get incredibly infuriating.
 
  Endurance races are a joke in my opinion although many people enjoy them and who am I to challenge 
 that? I just wished they'd not made them such an important part in the game. That is my only niggle 
 with the game and it has more to do with my impatience and overplaying of games like burnout than 
 then fault of the developers. Everything else about this game is brilliant and practically infallible. 
 Competitive races over Live more than make up for a slight lack of depth in the careers and arcade 
 modes. The scoreboards are a great incentive to keep playing and better yourself as well as other 
 people and the sheer scale of customisation options along with the auction house make this a must-buy 
 for any racing fan. I may have started this review a little on the negative side but Forza Motorspport 
 2 really is an amazing feat and great game, just beware if you're lacking in the patience front. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeilBarnett
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I really was looking forward to this game after reading all the reviews from this site and other 
 places and I wasn't too disappointed at the beginning.
  
  The game is very quick to get into and become the racing game I wanted. The tracks and cars are 
 drawn beautifully, everything from the track tarmac to the sky is very pretty.
  
  Its great fun to tune and add to your basic car and end up (as long as you have the credits) with 
 a super car that reaches over 200 mph.
  
  Controls are simple and using the standard controller the cars are responsive.
  
  The main 
 draw back with this game is the limited number of tracks you drive on. There are a number of tracks 
 which lose their appeal very quickly and the game suddenly loses ther appeal that you feel at the 
 beginning.
  
  Hopefully they may being out an update package that includes more tracks and therefore extending 
 the playablity of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dugaherb
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Being a bartender, I don't get the opportunity to drive many high end cars. Point being; I don't 
 even own a car, let alone afford one. I do however have a license, and experience behind the wheel. 
 That comes in handy when driving the assortment of exotic and stock, automobiles that Forza 2 has 
 to offer. My favorite aspect of the game is, at any moment in the game , you can take a photograph 
 of the beautiful piece of machinery you have in your control. It creates a personal sense of pride, 
 as you carefully navigate your way to a first place reward. I am lucky enough to run my own website, 
 and I am constantly looking for that perfect pic and the last thing I want, is a nasty pic of my 
 slick car missing it's right side-view mirror. As for the difficulty, I play with ALL of the navigation 
 guides turned off. This is the most immersive way of playing, but also creates difficult matches, 
 even with the difficulty turned to beginner. I have yet to fully immerse myself into the online 
 realm, but from what I can tell, it can be quite transparent when playing in the online career 
 mode.
  
  The graphics in the game were actually down-played in the press which has paved the way for some 
 utterly jaw-dropping moments which can be re-lived through the fully fleshed out replay and photo 
 mode. This is a game which the PS3 will have a hard time competing with, seeing as this is an Xbox 
 360 exclusive. See you Online.
  
  http://www. dugherb. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starner66
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The game is going to be a classic we all know this but damn it my 360 messed up the disc and it 
 wont load laguana seca. now the races are in brilliant detail, the cars are even better. the difficulty 
 settings to me could be a little bit more accurate and not so broad a jump between levels other 
 than that the game is just amazeing. the tuning of the cars is more realistic than ever with ever 
 detail affecting how the car launches and how the car handles. with a few pieces of downloadable 
 content such as a few cars missing maybe a yeinko camaro or two it couldn't get any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Forza 2 gameplay operates at 60 frames per second, and replays run at 30 frames per second, due 
 to their usage of post-processing effects. A hard drive is necessary to view replays. Using multiple 
 screens, a player can set up and utilize a 360&deg; view around his or her car. It is possible 
 to network as many as eight screens and Xbox 360 consoles together to form a complete circle of 
 in-game view around the player.
  
  Most cars in Forza 2 are fully customizable and can have up to 4,100 layers of graphics which can 
 be edited with the livery editor to allow the player to add many shapes, forms and even pictures 
 to their car.
  
  The game supports split-screen, System Link and Xbox Live multiplayer gaming. Split-screen allows 
 two player head-to-head racing, while both System Link and Xbox Live allow up to eight players 
 to participate in a single race. Using Xbox Live, players can also buy and sell in-game cars through 
 the game's Auction House.
  
  Forza 2 concentrates on circuit racing, therefore point to point races have been removed (although 
 one lap circuit races are basically the same) .
  
  The damage and physics in the game are improved over the previous entry in the series. The revamped 
 damage system allows for multiple settings; on Simulation mode there are large impacts on the car's 
 status with medium-speed crashes. On the Limited setting, it's possible to lightly crash on several 
 occasions, but the damage done to the car is limited to a certain extent. On Cosmetic , the damage 
 is merely visible, but does not hamper the performance or aerodynamics of the car. The damage ratings 
 for each part of the vehicle can be seen on the HUD (heads up display) accessed from the in-game 
 menu.
  
  The X06 demo in September displayed parts of the car (e. g. bumpers, doors, spoilers) falling off 
 and also staying on the track for the whole race.
  
  The Microsoft Xbox 360 Wireless Racing Wheel was developed alongside Forza 2 and is advertised 
 to be optimal for it. Professional racers have helped playtest with the wheel to aid the development 
 team in achieving realistic features and settings. [6] Forza Motorsport 2 features force feedback 
 with the use of the Xbox 360 Wireless Racing Wheel.
  
  Cars
  
  There are 350-plus cars available in Forza Motorsport 2. They are divided into six production classes 
 and four race classes. A car's class can limit what races it is eligible for.
  
  Production Cars * Class D: Standard production cars including the Ford Focus SVT and the Volkswagen 
 Golf GTI * Class C: Sport production cars including the Audi S4 and the Nissan Fairlady Z * Class 
 B: Performance production cars including the Porsche Cayman S and the Lotus Exige * Class A: High-performance 
 production cars including the Chevrolet Corvette Z06 and the Ferrari F430 * Class S: Ultrahigh-performance 
 production cars like the Maserati MC12 and the Saleen S7 * Class U: Unlimited-class cars including 
 the Chrysler ME Four-Twelve concept car and the TVR Cerbera Speed 12
  
  Race Cars * Class R4: Heavily modified production cars and purpose-built race cars including the 
 Subaru GT300 Impreza and the Porsche 911 GT3 Cup * Class R3: High-end purpose-built race cars including 
 the Dodge Viper GTS-R and Nissan GT500 Skyline * Class R2: Ultrahigh-end purpose-built race cars 
 including the Maserati MC12 GT1 and the Chevrolet Corvette C6. R * Class R1: Prototype race cars 
 including the Toyota GT-ONE and the Audi R8
  
  An incomplete list of the 350+ cars (and their circa year models) expected for the game was revealed 
 on February 15, 2007. Completing the list of cars, the final batch of cars was revealed on April 
 20, 2007.
  
  Tracks
  
  There are twelve tracks which total 47 different configurations:
  
  Real-world tracks * Mazda 
 Raceway Laguna Seca * Mugello Autodromo Internazionale * N&uuml; rburgring Nordschleife * Road Atlanta 
 * Sebring International Raceway * Silverstone Circuit * Suzuka Circuit * Tsukuba Circuit
  
  Fictional tracks * Maple Valley Raceway * New York Circuit * Nissan Speedway * Sunset Peninsula 
 Infield * Test Track 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I should start by saying that Forza 2 is a very well put together racing game and is the best available 
 to date for the 360. However, after having played the original Forza extensively, I did not feel 
 as 'wowed' by the sequel as I was hoping to be. Many of the racing tracks are the same (track variation 
 seems like it could be expanded too) , and the entire layout/menu screen/controls are all carbon-copies 
 of the original xbox version. While many of these things were fine to begin with, it would have 
 been nice to have seen a couple new features, controls, added to the new game to provide some fresh 
 ideas to the series.
  
  I think that graphically, it is amazing. You can see much improvement from the previous Forza... reflections, 
 shadows, and the cars in general all look very detailed.
  
  So, I think that if you are looking for a racing game for the 360 you couldn't go wrong by purchasing 
 Forza 2. Yet, if you played the first version much, you might feel like you are repeating yourself... which 
 is never all that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonio_hdz2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2005 when Microsoft release Forza Motorsport for the original Xbox many gamers approached 
 the title with a certain amount of fear, mainly due to the high standards that Sony implemented 
 in their exclusive franchise Gran Turismo, however these fears disappeared when the reviews from 
 top notch critics acclaimed that Forza was overwhelming the competition not only for the beautiful 
 graphics and stunning sound, but the gameplay per se.
  
  Well it's 2007 and MS promised a brand new Forza title for the 360, and as far as we know: MS Delivered.
 
  
  Forza2 is a major improvement over it's predecessor, not only graphically and sound, but in it's 
 gameplay also. Sure it's a true driving simulator and all your skills at the steering wheel will 
 reflect your status on the game, but it's not only about skills this time, it's a very well balanced 
 line between skills and tunning.
  
  Firsts things firsts. Forza is graphically beautiful, the detail on the tarmac, grass as well as 
 for the surroundings of every circuit is nevertheless superb, but what takes the envelope even 
 further is the detail in every single car and the well recreated that are in the game as shape, 
 dimensions and response of engine, gears, tires, aero's etc, it's just beautiful the way every 
 car has it's own above others.
  
  The soundtrack has more electronic tendencies, the main title is a remix from the original Forza, 
 however the sad point is that you can't hear the good soundtrack while you race, if you want to 
 hear music while you race you have no other choice than put your own soundtrack whitin the console 
 or via Streaming from your PC, Zune device or Ipod.
  
  Now the gameplay. Forza2 has improved the original Forza with a new paint shop, sure we all remember 
 when a friend was bragging about the new painting on his Mustang or whatsoever, the layer count 
 was only to 100 per side so you have to play a lot with shaping and everything, now Forza2 has 
 taken those limits even further, you now have the possibility of 1000 layers per side so go on 
 and make a beautiful design for your Camaro SS, there are a lot of designs over Xbox Live and some 
 of theme are just Masterpieces (look out for the Jessica Alba one) . In-race the cars feel very 
 realistic, you really have to calculate everything in order to make progress in the game, but the 
 overall for this comes when you play with the Wireless Steering from MS, it ROCKS!!!!, the wheel 
 just delivers a tremendous shot of realism to the game (is this more possible??? yes it is!) .
 
  
  That's for Forza2, seriously if you are a car junkie the game definitely will own you, if you're 
 more an arcade racer (Pgr, ridge racer dudes) the game is well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalo_Kenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is truly the only simulation racing game that can rival the Gran Turismo series. 
 Some of the plus for Forza Motorsport 2 are its graphic, gameplay, and the number of unlockable. 
 This game can last you fourty hours or more if you are willing to unlock all the cars that this 
 game have to offer.
  
  Graphic for Forza Motorsport 2 is absolutely gorgeous. Every single cars look exactly the same 
 as their counterpart. The environments are good looking but it doesnt compare to the car itself. 
 There are really some drawback that kept Forza Motorsport 2 from being the best looking game. The 
 crash impact just don't seem real at all. It seem like the animation occurs befoe the crash. Never 
 the less it still a great looking game to watch.
  
  Gameplay like any simulation racer are hard to learn. You start out by choosing your region and 
 the type of car you want to drive. After that you start racing in race series inorder to collect 
 championship. You need cash and point to increse your level. By increasing your level more race 
 series are available. Everything for gameplay is tighten up. Turning is alot easier this time because 
 you have more control over your car. The only problem for this game is the few tracks it offer.
 
  
  Sound is like the first game. You can hear it in the main menu but the song is turn off during 
 gameplay. The car engine is really good. It sound like the the real thing. There is not much to 
 say for the sound department.
  
  The replay value for Forza Motorsport 2 is very good. If you want to unlock everything then it 
 going to take you longer to finish the game, but if you are not planning to do so then it might 
 last you twenty hours of gameplay. Gran Turismo you better watch out because your little brother 
 is going to take over if you don't shape up. With it driving line Forza Motorsport is a much easer 
 and enjoyable game to play. This would of got a perfect score if only it contain more track to 
 race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCamGrdnr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is without question one of the best racers out there, whether it the act of driving over 
 300 of the worlds best cars, fine tuning them, or spending hours on an amazing decal job, this 
 game has it all. It has a good career mode with plenty of different class and manufacturer races, 
 and its multi-player is exceptional. The only knock i can find on this game is the somewhat meager 
 selection of courses, but it is a small blemish on what is probably the 360's first great simulation 
 racer. I highly recommend Forza Motorsport 2 to any gamer who is tired of the avalanche of sub-par 
 arcade racers out there, and wants a truly challenging racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederikfrey
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Pluses:
  
  - Car Brands like Lamborghini, Ferrari, Maserati and Porsche.
  
  - Great Physics.
  
  - Really nice sound from Tyres and Brakes.
  
  - Details like the pattern 
 on the track after braking hard with ABS
  
  - Enormous amount of events.
  
  - The option the choose the difficulty yourself, and being able to chance it during the game.
 
  
  - Great game play that will keep you racing for a long time.
  
  - Car Damage.
  
  - Good customisation.
  
  Minuses:
  
  - Only fair graphics.
  
  - The cars are too shiny, 
 the sometime look like Mirrors (Not realistic) .
  
  - Music and Engine sounds are a bit disappointing.
  
  - The A, B, C tuning system seems weird 
 and not very professional, just use HP and KG's as a way of classifying cars.
  
  - Way too few Tracks (New York track stolen from Gran Turismo 4)
  
  - Hire a Driver is not 
 of any use and too boring to watch because you have not influence on the driver (Also stolen from 
 Gran Turismo 4 - As wll as photo mode)
  
  - You win too many cars, which means you rarely buy one, which is a shame, plus the cars you win 
 have no resale value.
  
  - Loading times.
  
  - The AI is better the in most racing games including the AI in Gran Turismo 4
  
  This truly 
 is a great game, but I'm still waiting on the big one = Gran Turismo 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 on the Microsoft Xbox 360 console finally brings a true simulation racer to 
 the gaming library and every thing is done right. The game is almost as sweet just looking at it 
 as it is playing. Tons of cars to purchase &amp; win, with an ungodly amount of customization &amp; 
 fine tuning options to tinker with combined with absolutely beautiful graphics &amp; a top notch 
 control scheme and tons of tournaments &amp; races makes Forza 2 an instant classic. All that said 
 and I having even mentioned the online play and support. The ability to not only race with others 
 gamers, but also to design &amp; build cars by your standards and auctioning them off for others 
 adds replay value to an already near perfect racing game. This is racing simulation at its finest, 
 and a game that must be played by any racing gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 345669
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  with so much cars and customizations available it will keep gamers occupied for hours on end. I'm 
 not really into car games, however after playing this game I've grown to them. There are over 300 
 cars, which each can be customized or at least tuned to the gamers preference. Players are able 
 to change the color of cars and add their own designs any where on the body of the car and are 
 able to save these design and upload them to the Forza website. all major aspects of the engine 
 and car mechanics can be tweaked to enhance car handling, efficiency or performance.
  
  The one area which could have been improved is the number of tracks available and the locations. 
 it can seem to get repetitive as you will be driving over the same tracks thought different competitions 
 with the only change being is the number of laps or the tracks being reversed. Hopefully more content 
 will be released via marketplace and hopefully it will be free.
  
  The graphics are beautifully even though I play it on an standard TV and not High Definition. There 
 are many features including the online auction, Forza TV and the online multiplayer which is excellent 
 with games with hardly any lag noticeable.
  
  The music and sound options are very well selected and will keep you in the mood for racing. Overall 
 this game is just a must buy if you like your racing games, there is currently no better game. 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is everything you'd want in a street racing game for the Xbox 360, with a lot 
 of added content. Compared to Forza Motorsport for the original, it has some new cars, some new 
 modes, new tracks and of course, a fresher experience.
  
  The main concept of most racing games would just be to win races, but not in Forza, you have to 
 try and gain the most money you can to be able to buy better cars both online and offline, to upgrade 
 cars, make your own custom cars and my favourite of all, gaining money to show off. It's more of 
 an unlock-it racer than just a street racer game.
  
  When I got Forza I was expecting it to have like 5 cars, 7 or 8 tracks and have nothing to unlock. 
 But boy, was I ever wrong. I discovered the new modes, the ability to unlock tons of cars and tons 
 of tracks. It's one of the best experiences I've had with any game.
  
  So in Forza, there are different modes as I was telling you earlier.
  
  UNFINISHED. XD Dont 
 rate yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grambyte
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  As Forza's successor I must say that they nailed it with Forza 2. And ensuring a place next to 
 the great racing-games. With the more GTA-like approach they know to stay true to the actual dynamics 
 of driving. If you're a driving freak or the casual let's drive a lap-type of guy . No doubt that 
 Forza 2 is a nice addition to your collection.
  The first thing that really caught my attention are the dynamics, the handling and reactions of 
 the cars. It pulls you straight in the drivers' seat, making you the next Schumacher. Also the 
 fact that the difference between all the cars is very noticeable all adds to that experience. Even 
 the 'less' experienced driver it's possible to catch the feeling as it suppose to be. This because 
 the different assists that are included. From TCS, ABS to the lines on the road telling you the 
 perfect path and where to break. It all makes sure that really EVERY player can make play the game 
 at the fullest. But that's not all. The different assists are also linked to the difficulty level. 
 Meaning that turning off assists will increase the difficulty and of course you can also adjust 
 the AI's difficulty. Another thing that the assists are linked to is the money (credits) you earn. 
 The more assists are turned on, the more credits you'll receive and vice versa of course. As far 
 as the AI goes I can say it's one of the best I've encountered in racing-games. Acting exactly 
 how you expect it to, a joy to race them and it contributes greatly to the general feeling. You 
 can just feel it's in sync with the rest of the game. The interface itself is pretty easy to use 
 tough that it can be pretty frustrating sometimes. I rather had an easier way to switch cars but 
 further on 'the what', 'where' and 'how' are pretty obvious menu-wise.
  The other thing that really surprised me is the amount of licensed cars. There are just too many 
 of them. And I'm sure that Forza 2 must be THE race-game with the most choice of cars. It's just 
 mind-blowing but nice at the same time. Also the fact that all the differences between the cars 
 is so noticeable makes it that much better. I guess they'd spent a huge amount of time just inserting 
 variables on how all the cars would reacting on all the different situation they possibly could 
 think of. Without a doubt one of the stronger aspects in the game. All this is being backed up 
 by awesome looking graphics. Especially the cars got the attention. Being perfectly detailed it's 
 nothing more but a joy to just look at them, let alone drive in them. Also the damage of the cars 
 is very realistic and a great feature which they worked out really good. But not only the cars 
 are detailed and nice to see. Also the surroundings and tracks are great. With enough details and 
 stuff going on to loose concentration while driving.
  Though even if the tracks are looking great there's one point where I'm not all too convinced about. 
 And that is the amount of tracks that the game contains. Even if there are licensed tracks I quickly 
 got the feeling that there where not enough of them. Which made it pretty repetitive early on in 
 the game.
  Further on I also must say that they've could put a little more effort in the music of the game. 
 This has the same problem as the tracks and gets repetitive pretty fast. Cause of the short list 
 of numbers they've put in there. But you can always listen to your own tracks while you can't drive 
 your own.
  Finally the achievements, which are a joy to the achievement-freak like me. You can easily reach 
 the full 1000/1000 just be ready to play the game for about 40 to 60 hours. But none of them are 
 unreasonable and insane to get. Also that almost all of them are offline achievements is really 
 nice.
  Which brings me to the conclusion. Where I can say nothing more than; GET THE GAME! It's a perfect 
 game to play all trough or even pick up once in a while to get that cup. Of course also worth to 
 rent or loan. But because you don't need outstanding driving-skills to play. So if you're searching 
 for a nice race-game to play, then stop searching. This is the one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  As far as racing games go in my book, Forza Motorsport 2 has to be pretty close to the top. It's 
 an all around solid gaming experience, and really should be considered in every collection. Aside 
 from the hundreds of hours that can be spent playing this game, there are several aspects of it 
 that stands out. One of these aspects is the graphical quality of the game. I'd rate it fairly 
 high, as it has stunning visuals combined with a smooth frame rate to make all the cars and races 
 look pretty nice. While the stands and the crowds aren't the greatest, you really don't pay much 
 attention to these as you're speeding down the track. The damage on the cars is pretty good-looking, 
 and realistic too, except for when you get into a huge crash. However, sometimes you'll only loose 
 your bumper when, realistically, your car probably wouldn't be able to start again. The game's 
 sound is also nice, with nice engine sound effects and tire squeels and the kind of things you 
 would come to expect in a racing game. There is also a great soundtrack that goes with the game 
 when you're in the menus. While the game's music isn't its best aspect, it still is better than 
 average in that department. Forza 2 plays like most other racing games, you enter in a career mode, 
 and race to make money and earn new cars. Except, in Forza 2, there's a ton of races and a ton 
 of cars to unlock. The main racing is realistic, meaning, if you come into a turn to fast, you'll 
 spin out very easily, and the rest of the competitors will pass you up. This may seem somewhat 
 stupid at first if you don't have a wheel, but after you get used to controlling a car with the 
 Xbox Controller, you start to appreciate it. Also in the game is an arcade mode, which allows you 
 to race cars that you haven't unlocked in career mode, and time trial, where, as the name suggests, 
 you race against a clock. The online multiplayer in the game consists of multiplayer races and 
 an auction house, where players may auction off cars they have painted or bought to other players 
 for ingame credits. Playing online in a race is pretty fun, as the online players are better than 
 the AI, without being infallible (I have yet to see an AI car crash) . There are a few players who 
 go a little crazy with the crashing, and sometimes lag can lead to you taking the guy in front 
 of you out of the race, but it's still a fun time. Forza 2 should be a must buy for anybody who's 
 thought about buying a racing game of any type. The gameplay is enjoyable, long-lasting, maybe 
 a bit repetitive, but still unique. Definitely worth the money I had to spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok If you have a dollar every time a bud game comes out you gone have to pay 50 dollars to person 
 who give you dollar for bud games. This game rocks you can get a car that you can buy in realy 
 life but it feels real. When they said this game getting to come out later I was mad but it was 
 worth waiting for it this game must be best racing game ever. If you like need for speed you may 
 have problems getting use to this game but when you get use to it you will love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great controls; photo realistic graphics; tons of cars; custom paint mode.
  
  The Bad: Not enough tracks; music is just average; AI isnt as good as the last game.
  
  Forza 
 Motorsport has made quite a name for itself despite being one of the newer games in the racing-sim 
 genre. In a lot of ways, its much better than Gran Turismo, which is considered by many to be 
 the best in the genre. After a long wait, Forza 2 is finally here on the 360, and it doesnt disappoint.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  As you would expect, the racing model is nearly the same from the first Forza. The physics and 
 handling of the cars was near perfect then, and it still is now. All of the cars have a distinct 
 feel to them, and you can feel how they improve in performance as you upgrade them. Also back are 
 the well-designed assists. This can be turned on or off at your desire, and allows a wider audience 
 to enjoy Forza. But Forza also encourages you to take off the training wheels. The fewer assists 
 you have on, the more your winnings will be.
  
  FM2 has 300+ cars in the game. While that might not be as many as GT4 had, theres no padding here. 
 By that I mean you wont find 57 different versions of the Nissan Skyline like GT4 had. With the 
 exception of the R-class cars, all the cars are fully customizable. Everything from internal parts, 
 paint jobs, and fenders can be upgraded.
  
  You can easily get lost in the paint mode. Each side of the car can support up to 1000 layers. 
 This means that given enough time, you can make nearly any design for your car. Plus with the addition 
 of the auction house, you can now sell your masterpiece online and earn more credits.
  
  Like the first Forza, most of your time in the game will be spent in the career mode. This starts 
 by having you pick a home region. This doesnt have any impact on gameplay other than determining 
 how much money youll pay for new cars. Domestic cars and parts are cheaper while foreign cars 
 are more expensive.
  
  As you win races, youll earn prize money, new cars, and your driver level will go up. This controls 
 what races access you have access to, and is a great alternative to GTs annoying license tests. 
 Also unlike GT, theres no long-term maintenance like changing oil or washing your car. Forza assumes 
 that if youre racing professionally, youll know how to do this. However, if you damage your car 
 during a race, youll pay for repairs out of your winnings.
  
  The only problem I have with the gameplay is the AI for the computer cars. The AI was brilliant 
 in the first game, but doesnt seem so sharp the second time around. Each AI driver has their own 
 racing style, but they never seem to deviate from the preferred racing line. While the drivers 
 will make an effort to avoid contact with you, theyll also slam into you for no apparent reason 
 on other occasions. It just seems to be inconsistent in how the AI races.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically, FM2 is outstanding. While the backgrounds arent as sharp as they were in PGR3, 
 the cars are very detailed and realistic. Theres a nice real-time reflection to all the cars, 
 and the bloom lighting looks great. The damage modeling also looks great, but theres no catastrophic 
 damage. Youll lose mirrors and various fenders, but the car doesnt crumple or otherwise lose 
 its shape.
  
  The backgrounds arent as detailed as other games, but this isnt noticeable when youre driving 
 by at 160mph. My only real complaint about the tracks is that theyre all static. No night textures, 
 or other weather to race in. So youre always racing on the same track. About the only dynamic 
 element is the tire marks left from spins, but those are erased after a couple laps.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound effects are another strong point, but the music, much like the first game, is 
 still lacking. The roar of an 800hp engine is awe inspiring, and every car sounds different. Youll 
 also notice when you add new parts that the pitch of the engine also changes. You can also hear 
 the tires losing grip before you start to spin. This not only sounds great, but also adds value 
 to the gameplay. Hearing this allows to you adjust your driving to avoid the spin.
  
  The music however, isnt much better than the first game. This time its actual licensed tracks, 
 but its from second-rate artists. Since therere only a few songs, they tend to repeat a lot in 
 the menus. At least Turn 10 made the wise choice to turn the music off while on the track. Id 
 rather listen to the symphony of an Enzo Ferrari anyway.
  
  VALUE
  
  The single player career will easily last you 20+ hours to complete all the races. But youll spend 
 even more time re-racing events trying to get enough money to purchase new cars. The online game 
 is well done, but like most games, its only as fun as the people you play with. Ive played plenty 
 of races where if someone is losing, theyll park on the track or drive head on into other cars 
 to prevent them from winning.
  
  The achievements are mostly focused on the single player career, and involve just getting gold 
 medals in all the races. This can easily be done (even on hard) if youve played these sim racers 
 before. I would have liked to see more achievements focused on online play, or the community aspect 
 of the game.
  
  There are also several arcade modes including the usual time trials, and racing against the CPU. 
 You can easily beat these modes in 2 hours each, so there isnt any lasting value there. But at 
 least you do get new cars to use in the online races.
  
  The difficulty starts out easy, but is well balanced later in the game. For the most part its 
 too easy to tune a car slightly higher than the highest PI car in the field, and run away with 
 the race. But as you get into the professional and endurance races this levels out. Partly because 
 the game puts restrictions on the types of cars in the field, but also because the R class cars 
 all have nearly identical stats. This means that the field is close together, and one mistake can 
 send you to the back.
  
  Forza 2 is a great sequel to the first game. Its biggest improvements come in the form of next-gen 
 graphics, but theres not much that could have been improved upon. Forza 2 is easily the best racing 
 game on the 360, and should not be missed. If youre a car junkie like me, youll find theres 
 a lot to love here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sainz2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: A lot of great car models, very deep painting system, very realistic gameplay, very deatailed 
 tuning.
  The Bad: Not too many tracks, Tracks could be slightly better, no other weather conditions than 
 sunny day!
  
  Review: This game is one of the Gran Turismo's sons . As Sony's Grand Turismo started the racing 
 sims raise. But as you know it's for Playstation only. So Microsoft made a racing sim named Forza 
 Motorsport. Now we have to a time when they have released Forza Motorsport 2. Forza 2 has something 
 thats been missing from GT series- damage. Even tough it's not that deep as Burnout, it's still 
 realistic and driving mistakes can cost you a win or in other cases the race. As sayd it's a racing 
 sim and driving on a full throttle doesn't get you very far- well except on Nissan Speedawy. When 
 you aren't strong on racing sims you can put on all assists (driving line, abs, traction cntrl, 
 stabilty cntrl and so on...) or just turn them off to get more bonuses, If you turn off all your 
 assistants and put Ai drivers level on hard you will get 50% bonus for it. And there's an Auction 
 House option online where you can buy and sell cars. Many people make a lot of money by making 
 amazing custom paint-jobs and selling the cars in the AH. Talking from the paint-jobs you can but 
 about 800 layers on your car. You can add letters and numbers, flames, animal figures and many 
 other shapes. Even tough the game's gameplay is great, there is some lack of... Like all the races 
 are on day and with sunny weather and for a racing sim it would be nice to see some rain and/or 
 night races, and as said there is not enough tracks, but the one's that are there may look great 
 on first look, but when to look little bit closer they ain't so great... Single player races can 
 be easy as you can look what cars are the AI drivers driving and you can just take more powerful 
 car and own the race. Very nice is a hire driver option where you can hire a driver to drive for 
 you a race that you don't want to race it yourself. But be aware that the driver you hire takes 
 a certain % of the earnings. What better driver that more he'll take.
  
  Even tough there are some lack-of, it's the best racing sim on on market currently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anabiosis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  i have to admit: the very first time i happened to play FM2 i thought this game sucked. it was 
 the very day FM2 demo became available on XBL, and i was way too disappointed by what i saw. i 
 could not even finish a single lap without crashing, to say nothing about finishing first.
  
  but then my friends from one company not worth being advertised here sent me a copy of FM2, 
 and i thought why not give it a second chance.
  
  and then i disappeared for some two or three days. the driving model is kinda difficult to get 
 used to (especially when you're a fan of NFS or Burnout series) , but when you learn how to drive 
 in FM2, you just can't stop playing. it actually feels like a real-life driving (especially when 
 you manage to buy a steering wheel :__) ) , and i really don't understand those haters who complain 
 about they can't make a u-turn at 220mph. it's no train sim, for god's sake.
  
  (i decided no to mention a tremendous number of cars available, great customisation options, solid 
 multiplayer and many other things which make fm2 a great game, since you've probably read about 
 this dozen times_) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 has everything a gamer could dream of all packed together into one racing game, 
 from it's very deep career mode to it's ever popular online mode, Forza 2 stands alone!
  
  Gameplay-9.0
  Forza 2's gameplay is outstanding. The AI is very fun and challenging to race with, 
 especially as you progress through the career mode, and will occasionally make mistakes like getting 
 into eachother or driving off course. They also can be aggressive at times, by pressuring you from 
 behind or making it hard for you to make a pass on them. Online-10.0
  Online play in Forza 2 provides you many race options so you can Have it your way! Options include 
 car class, race length, track, players, assists, collision detection, and many more! There's also 
 two different types of online play: Online Career and Arcade. In online career you earn money for 
 your finishing position which can then be used in single player career to purchase cars, equipement, 
 etc. The money you earned is based off of the game settings, and the last place finisher earns 
 no credits. In Arcade mode, you just race, and no credits are rewarded.
  
  Graphics-9.0
  Forza 2's graphics are phenominal. The graphics are very detailed, showing dust and tire marks 
 on your car, extremely realistic damage (ex. front and rear bumpers getting bent up and even falling 
 off) , and great track enviornments! Sound-9.0
  The sound effects in Forza 2 are great. They include engine reving, shifting, tires screeching, 
 car impacts, and the sound of you car grinding through grass and sandpits! The only downside to 
 Forza 2's sound is the game's soundtrack. It's terrible!!!
  
  Achievement Difficulty-8.5
  Forza 2's achievements have a wide range of difficulty, but most of them are hard to get and time 
 consuming. Most of the easy achievements (ex. Clean race) can be unlocked after a few completed 
 races. Most other ones require achieving something in career mode (ex. Win all races in Career 
 Mode) , auction house (ex. Buy of sell 10 cars in the auction hose) , or online (ex. 1,000,000 online 
 credits) , but after playing the game a bit you'll earn them. Forza 2 has 44 achievements worth 
 1,000 gamerpoints.
  
  Conclusion-
  Overall, Forza 2 is a great racer in every aspect, and everybody should give it a rent at least, 
 even if you don't enjoy racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The1BigBoss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The best racing simulation, period.
  
  The 360 since launch has had great racing games but this is the one to own. Many people will be 
 turned off by the highly realistic physics but give it a chance. This is easily the best racing 
 on the 360 and it will be for a long time. There are a ton of cars all of which can be upgraded, 
 tuned and customized with paint schemes and body kits. If you think you have the talent make a 
 custom paint job on a car and sell it over XBL. There are plenty of races to keep to busy and then 
 if you do manage to win them all theres online races. In the end this is the best racing game on 
 any console and definitely one of the best games on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Hey people if you don't have forza i suggest you stop reading this and go out and buy it now ! 
 This is truly the best xbox 360 game yet to hit the community. Ive been playing this game since 
 day one and still haven't felt a slight bit of boredom, and i probably wont until the next set 
 of big games come out like halo 3 and battlefield bad company and many others. This game will always 
 be within the top 10 games of all time and i will always be playing it this game is a real contender 
 for the best game of all time i can`t wait for Forza Motor Sport 3 if there is going to be one. 
 This review maybe short but i feel this game is so good that it simply speaks very loudly for its 
 self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  My Tilt. Actually im not really into cars or racing games, so even though I love this game a lot 
 id have to say they were up against a ruff critic because the subject has never appealed to me.
 
  
  Gameplay. Amazing! The racing is fun, Customizing is fun, winning and leveling as a driving and 
 your cars is a lot of fun, all the detail they put into the game makes it very worth while.
  
  Graphics. Best car game graphics that I can ever remember playing. Although they had it easy 
 in not having to design an open world'd playing field like a lot of games, thats not their fault, 
 and for what they were asked of they defiantly delivered.
  
  Sound. Good good good. Would have been nice to have maybe a few more tunes, but really it's nothing 
 to complain about.
  
  Value. Single, Two Player, and Online are all Amazing, This game is very worth owning and maybe 
 even worth buying the wheel for if youre looking for a reason to get more 360 toys.
  
  If youre into racing games go buy this NOW, if not you should really open your mind to it being 
 more then the usual because frankly, this game is.
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigGui
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is, by far, my favorite game (at least until Halo 3, Fable 2 and GTA 4 don't 
 show up) . Since it arrived (and games take a lot of time - and taxes - to arrive here) I have played 
 and enjoyed a lot. Raced a bunch of races, bought a bunch of cars, sold a bunch of pokemons on 
 the auction house. That braking line is a great invention, the AI is great and smart (not always) . 
 But the lack of cars (lack?? yeah) is irritating.
  
  What do I mean with lack of cars when there are more than 300 in the game? Well, there are in fact 
 more than 300 different MODELS in the game. But there are, for instance, around 10 Vipers, 10 Corvettes 
 and 15 Mustangs. So 300 models is not really much. It's frustrating that Renault only has a Clio, 
 or that there is no FIAT, or that Ford is almost limited to a lot of Mustangs and GTs. Also, the 
 stupid number of class R cars is pretty annoying, since they can't be tunned, and they all look 
 pretty much alike. And here is where Forza gets behind Gran Turismo. Sony's game has a lot of flaws, 
 but has a LOT of cars. Real cars. Cheap cars. The ones we see at the streets.
  
  And the decision to launch downloadable packs that cost a few Microsoft Points is even more frustrating, 
 since not only MPs are not sold in Brazil, but also are pretty expensive to a Brazilian student.
 
  
  But I guess the most frustrating part of Forza 2 is the racetracks. Instead of adding lots of tracks 
 to the ones they had before, they TOOK AWAY half the areas where racetracks were, and added 2 new 
 areas plus a few shorter tracks on the areas available. Nasty decision to take away Rio de Janeiro, 
 New York and point-to-point tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is really amazing. Going off the track is not an option! If you do so, trying 
 to make a shortcut, you will slow down and fall behind quickly. This game is nothing like Need 
 For Speed where you take insane turns at 100 MPH using the hand brake. Using the hand brake can 
 be disastrous in Forza and is not often used exept for extreme matters. Forza is based of realistic 
 driving simulation, where taking a turn at 40 MPH is most common, although don't think it's a slow 
 game, you will get up into the 140's without a problem with the higher performance cars. It is 
 definately an addicting game, with no voice actors, and no crummy story line. It's just focused 
 around.... racing. Plain and simple, you race, you race and race. No cut scenes, no rivalries. 
 The game gets quite challenging the furthe you get into the game, making it quite hard for you 
 to win races at a point which can make it frustrating. And one mistake can and will cost you the 
 entire race. At times I have become so frustrated that I just shut down the console, throwing the 
 controller on the floor. Then there are those times when you win a well controlled race, which 
 leaves you with a smile on your face like... yea I'm the man. Forza is fun and very real, if you're 
 a driving guy/gal, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfp16
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Right out of the gate this game seems to be perfect in every way. It's got variable difficulty, 
 huge car list, even bigger upgrade list, customizable paint, and a dizzying amount of races to 
 complete.
  
  The first 5 hours of this game are pure racing bliss, but after that the gameplay becomes stale. 
 It does it job as a Gran Turismo alternative for the 360, but probably too well. It really doesn't 
 define itself from other racing greats.
  
  One notable innovation is the online auction system where you can customize cars and sell them 
 on the auction house to try and make a profit, or you can just sell those cars in your garage you 
 no longer need (that is if you aren't looking for the all cars achievement) Sadly this fantastic 
 addition to the game has been spoiled by glitchers. The achievements really don't start coming 
 until about 10-15 hours into career mode and you aren't going to be showing most of the achievements 
 until the very end.
  
  For me, it was a 9 game for about 5 hours... but after that you really start getting tired of doing 
 the exact same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  This year i was very pleased with the new game froza motorsports 2 I the first addvertisment for 
 this game was in a magizine called supr street magizine when i was reading about it this must be 
 a really good game if this is in super street magizine so i went to the store got and sarted playing 
 and I very muched liked the gameplay how later in the game you can really custome disine your own 
 car or you can go to a auction online in the game and by really coll custom desined cars by pros. 
 if i gad to rate this game i would give it an A an 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is a machine. Its a perfectly oiled whole of menus, races, customisation options, 
 online possibilities, cars, adversaries, A. I., tracks, punishments and rewards, difficulty degrees 
 and a ton of horsepower. Everything that was so nice and addictive to the original Forza and Gran 
 Turismo drives away here with perfectly designed perfection and makes Forza 2 the currently best 
 and most complete racing game on console. Full stop. If the introduction hasnt convinced you enough 
 already, then read on to completely understand what we find to fantastic and addictive about this 
 game. The makers always claimed they were developing Forza 2 as an RPG with Pokemon influences 
 and although the statement may seem odd, we believe them and applaud the idea.
  
  You are in constant control of the game, a game that little by little gives more, improves and 
 offers more abilities, skills and weapons. The credits you receive by winning races not only offer 
 you money to buy new weapons and upgrades but also add to the level of your pilot. The higher the 
 level, the more (and of course the more rare) cars will be unlocked and the more tracks and events 
 become available. A nice finding is also that you need to choose a region (Asia, America, Europe) 
 which influences which cars are the fastest and cheapest, and on which upgrade youll get the highest 
 discount.
  
  If that isnt enough content already, theres a completely different game present in Forza by means 
 of the possibility to paint and sticker you cars with literally thousands of layers of decals, 
 colors and shapes. Already immense amounts of designs have been made by now and the genious things 
 about it is that you can sell them (copyable or not for the buyer) through the built-in auction 
 system. Not completely perfectly worked out, this ebay variation (no automatic bidding) but extremely 
 addictive and innovating. Is looking forward to racing that rare Ferrari with MasterChief on its 
 hood in single player not enough, then there are two other advantages linked to it. The more rare 
 your car, the more credits youll earn per race and you can also show off your beautiful ride when 
 taking it online or upload it to the site (including personal page) through the photo-mode.
  
  I wont elaborate too much on all the personalisation possibilities including endless abilities 
 to tune, upgrade and tweak your car. Just believe me that this is a wet dream of any racing and 
 car lover and that also newcomers will be more than intrigued to learn more about this and set 
 their first footsteps in the wondrous world of tire composition, camber and downforce. The gameplay 
 has an equally accessible level. The difficulty degree can be set very flexible (the harder, the 
 more credits you get) by f. i. turning on or off help systems like ABS or traction control. Also 
 the famous suggested driving line is back and can now be completely turned on or set so that 
 only the brake zones are being marked. Perfect to learn to know the tracks! Famous is also the 
 AI thats been worked out better, with pilots that make mistakes, duel amongst themselves, dont 
 follow the perfect line all the time, and that will drive less or more aggressive depending on 
 their temper and your driving behaviour. Only the decision to add penalty second to you when they 
 drive in one you is misplaced and can be very frustrating when you want to set your record. Luckily 
 there are a ton of arcade modes as well as a freestyle one to set those. Something for everyone!
 
  
  The driving behaviour (look at the real-time telemetry) is simply unequalled, with subtle differences 
 between each of the 300 and more cars, realistic responding to different surfaces, steering, braking 
 and collisions and constant (360 times a second) updates of the physics. Those that want a sim 
 will find a very good one in Forza 2!
  
  Graphically Forza 2 is very beautiful. The cars are all pearls (unfortunately without cockpit view) 
 and the environments are worked out very realistically. Excessive detail was sacrified to guarantee 
 a permanent 60FPS, something every racing fan will appreciate. Also the soundtrack is nice, with 
 songs from all modern genres and a couple of classics. Engine sounds are a bit less advanced but 
 in 5.1 everything still sounds quite impressive.
  
  I could go on for hours about the physics, the tracks, the models, the online possibilities like 
 official tournaments, replays, the types of races, and so on but Ill limit myself to the following: 
 Forza 2 perfections the gameplay of the race-sim as we know it from the original and the Gran Turismo 
 series, adds an impressive AI, great online possibilities and endless amounts of leaderboards, 
 makes you fall in love with community fetures like the auction, unique cars, interactive site and 
 the paint possibilities, makes that the game is perfect for the racing fans and remain accessible 
 for the beginner, and finally finishes it all off with a presentation that has everything going 
 for it. Forza 2 is a monster but one youll love to tame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ojiasann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  You will not be disappointed very good game and the idiots who are saying when you put a spoiler 
 on the car or a wing and lowers your accelaration..... Its weight you idiots and you make your aerodynamic's 
 lower no **** your acceleration would go down. if you Tune your car just right you will be able 
 to not go in circles when hit by your opponents and before u tune your car make sure to read about 
 what your doing because you can totally **** up your car ther are always like 1-8 people that make 
 a long page saying how bad this game is but then on the other hand you got over 500 people saying 
 this game is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo of this game and thought it was pretty cool so I decided to buy it and 
 it was WORTH IT! I was immediately into this game because there is so much you can do, like play 
 career mode, arcade mode, online, or multiplayer. I started off playing career mode because I wanted 
 to unlock all the cars and there are over 70 different kinds like ferraris Lamborghinis, McLarens, 
 saleens, Aston Martins, and a lot more. After you beat the career you can play online which is 
 a lot of fun you can auction cars that you would like to sell or you can bid for cars that you 
 want and you can also send cars as gifts to your friends on Xbox live. i recommend this game for 
 anyone who is into racing games or someone just looking for a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kapin_Krunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  i love this game. i was hesitating to buy it at first, but it is very much worth the monies. It 
 may not have as much cars as GT, but the simulation is wicked. You can actually blow your engine, 
 mess it up with a huge crash, and you can also do exterior mods unlike GT. And the best part is 
 of course the motor swaps. The real tuners out there will really enjoy this, just like how i did. 
 They have 2JZ's, B18's, K20's, and a lot more! This game is so very much realistic, and the graphics 
 are also sick. If your into need for speed and Test Drive, you might not like how this game is 
 very realistic, but if you are a racing gamer, then this game is very much made for you. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Well What can I say for this game? Simply one word: Wonderful!
  
  First thing that impress me was the details in the graphics ( well for the race tracks is just 
 OK , but on the car , WOW! ) .
  
  But what me makes me addict is the tuning part, so realistic. It's not like NFS, it's not arcade, 
 it's real. And you can tune from A to Z .
  
  Details in racing simulation , so realistic too, you feel like you race a real car. Now more difficult 
 you put simulation, more cash you earn and more your car is rare, more cash you earn, and trust 
 me, you need credits if you want to tune up your cars.
  
  Sounds are real to, changes on the tune you make, if you put turbo and thins like that .
  
 
  Well finnaly I can say : We have now a game who can compete with Grand Turismo. Nice Job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sataysteve
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking there would be hours of entertainment but i was wrong. There are not 
 enough tracks to keep me satisfied and the ones that are on offer are not long enough. This game 
 looks sharp but the replay factor should be taken into account when comparing with the likes of 
 dirt etc. I just cant wait for the new drivung games to come in and then its trade bait for this 
 little baby... Overall though this is a good sim but if you want fun there is other games that should 
 satisfy your desires.. Take it easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the sequel to Forza Motorsport on the original XBOX. It takes that old award 
 winning formula, adds more cars, a few more tracks, and a larger paint/layer system, to create 
 an impressive sequel. This is the ideal racing sim that gear heads have been waiting for.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is an impressive looking game. It's constantly running at a solid 60 frames 
 per second. The car models are spot on, and the custom layer system only adds to the eye candy. 
 The game sports a large layer based car paint system, so any player with the patience can create 
 a visual masterpiece on their car. It's also pretty easy to use, so if you just want some stripes 
 or flames, pasting those on can be done in seconds.
  
  The game sports 300 cars. Don't expect lawn mowers and pick ups here though, the auto selection 
 consists of the most desired exotics, hottest tuners, and a large variety of special built racing 
 cars. Each car, except for the race classes, can be upgraded to your hearts desire. You can turn 
 that little Honda Civic into a car capable of keeping up with stock McLarens. Also, within the 
 performance tuning, you can custom tune everything. You can change the hieght of your ride, adjust 
 sway bars &amp; gear ratios, and do much more to your ride to get that handling you so want from 
 it. This is all buried within menus, but you can test drive you whip on the black top before you 
 go on to brag about it. Tuning your ride is great. You can be the best tuner around, but it means 
 nothing if you don't know what you're doing on the track. The games AI (on the moderate to harder 
 difficulty) is pretty smart &amp; aggressive. They'll avoid your brake checks, bump back, and even 
 run you off the road if neccessary. They acknowlage your presence on the track, as well as the 
 presence of other racers. The game may seem easy at first, but once you get into the races with 
 bigger pay outs, it gets much harder. The online portion of Forza Motorsport 2 is well put together. 
 It's solid, and overall fun. You can choose the types of cars you want, and the assists you want 
 on or off. Racing online hasn't been this good since PGR 3. Another fun part of the online space, 
 is the Auction House. That's right, players can bid and auction off their rides. The auction house 
 changes how you may purchase a car. If you're in the European Region, and you want to buy an American 
 muscle car retailing in game for 97,000 credits, you could get it on the auction house for less 
 than that. It may even come with a cool paint job.
  
  That's another thing Forza does to immerse you in the experience. Gamers who create these beautiful 
 works of art on their cars won't have to worry about their designs being stolen. You can lock your 
 work to your car &amp; gt, so that when you sell it, no one can just copy &amp; paste it and call 
 it their own.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is a must buy for any gear headed XBOX 360 owner. It has everything you'll want 
 if you to race, put in wrench time, and even barter with other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  I'm not too crazy about driving or racing games. There are a few I'll play, and you can count those 
 with the fingers in one hand. I'm also the arcade racer type of girl, so I was basically afraid 
 of playing Forza Motorsport 2 because I really suck at technical racers and probably would be more 
 frustrated with the driving than anything else.
  
  There are three modes of gameplay in Forza Motorsport 2: Career, Arcade and Online.
  
  Career 
 Mode lets you compete in a variety of race events to earn credits and experience, which will raise 
 your racer level and your car's level. Racer level limits the number of races that are available 
 to you, but as you win races and earn credits, your level will increase and more events will be 
 unlocked. You car also levels according to how much you use it. The more you race with the same 
 car, the better the discounts you get for its upgrades and the higher its rarity bonus become.
 
  
  In Online Mode you can compete with other Xbox Live players from all over the world in Career and 
 Tournaments, and also participate in online car auctions. There is also a split-screen multiplayer 
 mode where you can connect up to eight systems for a LAN party.
  
  Arcade offers three sub-categories: Exhibition, Time Trial and Free Run. Exhibition is where you 
 compete against AI opponents to unlock the next series of races and new cars. You must place in 
 the first three in all races, which sounds a lot easier than it actually is. In Time Trial you 
 race against the clock to beat one lap of a specific track with a specific car, within a certain 
 amount of time. The car is unlocked when you succeed. Free Run is basically a practice mode where 
 you can take out any unlocked car for a test drive in any track.
  
  There is a good number of tracks in the game, some more complex that others. This gives beginners 
 like me a chance to get used to the game and pros (like yourself more than likely) a good challenge. 
 A few of them are fictitious, but the most part copy real track designs.
  
  Fortunately for me, there are a series of driving aids including this line indicator on the track 
 that says when to hit the gas or the brakes. Unfortunately, I tend to ignore the line completely 
 and still smash my car against everything. The physics seemed odd and made me lose control often, 
 slide all over, bump against other racers and eventually flatten myself against a wall. The damage 
 on the car depends on the impact and it also affects the car's performance, which is a very cool 
 feature.
  
  Forza 2 really focuses on the vehicles. Licensed brands from all over the world gather under one 
 game. Several of the achievements consist of collecting all the cars from a certain country or 
 continent.
  
  You can customize your cars to your liking, be it aerodynamics improvements, mechanical changes, 
 a quick color makeover or creating a custom design. Upgrading a car will sometimes move it up a 
 class, and the vehicle class also limits the races you can participate in.
  
  If you feel so inclined to keep an album with photos of your vehicle collection or if you just 
 want to show off your cool custom designs, Forza 2 also comes with a photo capturing and sharing 
 option.
  
  After all this, I can honestly admit I am still frustrated with my driving. Even though this may 
 not be my cup of tea (give me my Midnight Club and I'll drift like a pro) , I think I found all 
 the good worth mentioning in Forza Motorsport 2.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=forzamotorsport2 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Playing the game with the following settings &gt;
  - Manual
  - All Assists OFF
  - Full Simulation mode - AI Medium
  - Currently at Level 47
  
  [The Good]
  
  - Gameplay 
 &gt; It's a great racing sim and that's enough for me!
  
  - Wireless Wheel &gt; is a must-have. I tried playing with the default gamepad, i got bored after 
 a single race and it's so forgiving it's ridiculous. Force Feedback is amazing. You're missing 
 the whole idea of this game if you don't get the wheel, plain and simple!
  
  - Tuning / Upgrades &gt; very similar to the original Forza but still great and has a significant 
 impact on driving especially with the wheel (again!) .
  
  - Car Design Customization &gt; As expected, enhanced compared to first Forza.
  
  - Auction 
 &gt; It's fun but for a short period of time and the prices cars are selling can get crazy too.
 
  
  - Soundtrack &gt; Great song selection.
  
  [The Bad]
  
  - Career Mode &gt; is excruciatingly boring. I'd rather have less cars and less tracks but make 
 it fun and non-repetitive. I'll be happy to run 40 laps in one race/track (F1 fan) but not 40 races 
 on the same track. I'd also set the AI to Hard but for 100s of races?! I just don't have limitless 
 hours to spend.
  
  - Multiplayer controller &gt; Online is better for gamepad owners which is quite ridiculous, I 
 remember on Grand Prix PC games, gamers who owned a wheel had significantly better times than keyboard-only 
 players which is how it should be.
  
  - Graphics &gt; real average to be completely honest. Check the MotoGP demo Laguna Seca and compare 
 it to Forza. Was expecting more, much more.
  
  - Tracks &gt; Pretty much the same tracks as before. Needs more real tracks and less of the Cobra 
 etc.
  
  - Achievements &gt; Mostly based on time spent. You could get most achievements just by hiring 
 a driver and waiting. They could have been better distributed but they're so tied to the bad career 
 mode so it's expected.
  
  - Easy AI &gt; Only 5% hit? Not enough, it should be more like 20% hit.
  
  - Hire Driver &gt; 
 watching the whole race for the result is really stupid. I understand they want to avoid people 
 going through the whole career mode in an hour but you can get over that in a different way such 
 as slower leveling etc. In other words, think of a better solution, the existing one is pointless, 
 why even bother having it.
  
  [The Next Version]
  - Career Mode overhaul is absolutely required. Just copy any racing Championship, F1 is a great 
 example!
  
  - Qualifying would be nice
  
  - Better pit stops with crew etc.
  
  - Podium is nice-to-have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Note: I am NOT a Gran Turismo fanboy, I have played GT:3 A-Spec... but my opinions below are strictly 
 for comparison reasons only. Also I would appreciate it if you would take the time to read the review 
 and not just skip over it and judge me or the review soley on my rating.
  
  Now the review: I have quite alot I want to say about the actual gameplay, so I'll start with the 
 graphics to get it out of the way.
  
  The graphics are decent enough, I don't want to un-fairly judge them because I don't have an HD-TV, so 
 all I'll say is the car models do look really nice.
  
  Now for the gameplay.... you start out just like you would expect, you have little money and your 
 first car is small, slow and cheap.... thats all very normal, as we all know in any racer you start 
 at the bottom and work your way up.... fine. But pretty much immediately you find that there are 
 problems... like your car handles poorly and more often than not you loose control from the simplest 
 of things. Now at first you figure... well Iv just begun and I have not reached the better, cooler 
 cars yet.... so you let it go and keep playing... but...
  
  As you keep playing..... these problems do not get better, even in cars such as the Porshe Cayman 
 S and Lamborghini Gallardo you'll find you have many of the same problems as you had with the car 
 you start out with..... and thats bad... very  top quality 
 cars.... they should not have these problems.
  
  Now I know its a Sim-Racer.... but let me explain.... some of the problems come from things that 
 don't really make sense, like if your going at a high speed and happen to accidently brush up against 
 a wall on the track, you will skid out of control... I'm talking 360 degree spin-outs. Also if you 
 accidently drive off the track for a second or two, your car almost comes to a complete stop. Now 
 in Gran Turismo 3, sure youd loose a bit of speed and control when bumping into a wall or driving 
 off road... but here its.... pretty rediculous at what happens from these little things.
  
  Now, while your racing there is a guide line on the road that helps you brake at the right times 
 &amp; areas.... now you better brake when it says break or else.... refer to the above problems. Its 
 a bit funny at just how much you must rely on braking.... for a race car game you sure need to slow 
 down alot.... just like going off road, you almost have to come to a complete stop just to make a 
 decent turn.
  
  Theres a damage meter that shows where and how much youve hurt your car if you take damage during 
 a race, at the end it will take some of your reward money away to fix it.... this really isn't a 
 problem.... but if you don't like it you can turn it off in settings..... speaking of which....
 
  
  you can tone down the difficulty settings.... but doing so makes the game really, really easy, I mean 
 you might as be the only the racer on the track if you do this. Also in settings you can choose 
 to take that road guide-line and turn it up to max. By doing this the guide-line follows you through 
 the whole race and now tells you when to brake, accelerate and even where you should be on the track. Now 
 this brings me to the next problem.
  
  After trying this Super Help Guide-Line (I guess you could call it) ... you relize its not so much 
 your driving skills that matter... but rather.... your ability to be able to learn and stay on this 
 so-called Train Track ..... which will disappear once you set it back to normal.... then you just 
 go at it yourself and try and figure out as close as you can where the line would be and try and 
 stay on it.
  
  This whole thing about it telling you when you should brake, accelerate and where you should be 
 on the track just seems forced.... in Gran Turismo 3, sure you had to learn the tracks a bit and 
 get use to them but you could still win if you had good driving skills.
  
  Now the next problem.... the way you actually advance in the game. Its pretty meaningless....... in 
 GranTurismo (and for that matter any other racer) the more tournements and events you won the more 
 tournemnets and events you unlocked.... here it depends on which level of CR your at.... your money... at 
 the end of each race it counts your winnings and adds them to the over-all amount that youve won 
 and when the meter is full you get to the the next level. All the tracks in the game are unlocked 
 by reaching a certain level... and of course you have to have the right car... which you can buy 
 if you can afford it.
  
  So essentaily, you could just race one track over and over till you reach the desired Level .... just 
 make sure its a track your good at and your car is fast enough.... OH and pick a track that pays 
 alot of money.
  
  Now the next problem.... the upgrades you buy for your car.... theres really only a few that really 
 help your car and some upgardes actually decrease some of your car's other  
 when does buying... say... a rear wing actually decrease your acceleration?!
  
  Now the next problem..... your rewards. Besides unlocking tracks and events your level of CR also 
 gets you up-grade discounts and sometimes cars from the brand of car your using.... cars are nice... but 
 the discounts really don't make a diffrence. But the thing about prize cars... whether you win them 
 from the car maker or by beating a tournement thier worth basicly nothing if you wanna sell them 
 for extra money...... seriously.....
  
  all your prize cars are only worth $100, in Gran Turismo, if you wanted to sell a car you won you 
 could still get a few thousand dollars out of it, or more depending on the car.... so aside from 
 being able to say you won first place in a tournement and getting some prize money..... you have 
 no real inspiration to win these races..... so adding that to everything Iv mentioned above....... I 
 ask..... why do you even want to play in the first place?
  
  Now this last problem is not really a problem but it is pretty wierd..... theres no background music 
 while racing..... Gran Turismo has background music in races..... but here theres only music in the 
 menus..... oh yeah.... I really wanna jam out while scrolling through menus (sarcasm) .
  
  Despite all of this there is one... count it.....1..... great feature..... of course Im talking about 
 the art feature for putting designs on your cars... we all know how good it is, I don't need to talk 
 about it, but this in no way makes up for anything else.... this is a pure luxury feature.... just 
 go see the cool designs on the internet.
  
  Bottom Line..... its a mess.... if you wanna good racing sim just stick with Gran Turismo..... period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I love this game.
  
  Gameplay: If you have patience and no sense of super speed, you'll really get into it. It's nothing 
 like Burnout or Need for Speed. All about taking the corners easily and making sure not to go to 
 fast, but go fast enough to beat out the other drivers. Engaging mechanics make this very fun and 
 addictive to get good at.
  
  Graphics: I don't care what anyone says, this game has real nice graphics. While the environments 
 are still pretty bland, they still look nice. The cars do have some rough edges, but you don't 
 notice them much with the nice shine and polish that they have. They also look like their real-life 
 counterparts.
  
  Sound: Vehicles sound great, the crowds sound... well like crowds. But the real awesomeness is the 
 music. Well, my music of course, lol.
  
  Value: Great for anyone who wants something that will keep them playing for a long time, with a 
 deep, engaging and fun racer. Awesome!
  If you haven't picked up this game yet, do it. You will not regret the money that you spend. Hell, 
 even rent it for a try. Just play this game, dammit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbking13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Having not sat down and spent a lot of time with the original Forza I wasn't really sure to expect. 
 Having been a hardcore Sony fanboy lastgen, Gran Turismo was my racing game of choice. The gameplay 
 is almost flawless, the only thing is that all you do is race and after playing for 3 hours straight 
 it gets very tedious. It's not a complaint because Forza 2 is a racing game. The career mode has 
 many race series and since you win a car if you come in first for the series you get a good sense 
 of accomplishment once you start winning. There are so many cars to choose from that once you really 
 get into the game your career garage begins to fill up quickly.
  
  I would say this is one of the best looking racers on the Xbox 360. The damage model is a lot better 
 than I expected and when wrecks do happen its satisfying to see the carnage that happens. There 
 is a lot of different paint jobs and with the decals and such the possibilities are endless. In 
 the online auction, the cars that people have created are simply amazing. This part of the game 
 shows off what the 360 has under the hood.
  
  The cars sound simply amazing. I don't really know much about cars but I can surely tell you that 
 every car has a unique sound. A factory spec GTO sounds much different after you've tinkered under 
 the hood for a bit.
  
  With a lengthy singleplayer, time-trial and career races, not to mention online leaderboards, tournaments 
 and the auction house Forza 2 was surely worth 60 dollars.
  
  Bottom line is, if your looking for a sim racer or Need for Speed Carbon has been played to death 
 get this game. It will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethstew18
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Yes thats right every review I have seen and every rating this is the best Xbox 360 has right now. 
 I have put in quite a few hours in the game myself and am around level 37. The online auction house 
 and the artwork people are putting out is amazing. The driving is so good that any other driving 
 game feels like an arcade at this point. Yet I wish for more
  
  Graphics: Astounding, next gen Tech is obvious.
  
  Sound: Car sounds are incredible, in game 
 music isn't bad, but isn't incredible.
  
  Gameplay: Awesome, it smooth, realistic, and fun.
  
  Interface: No problem whatsoever, and 
 it doesn't get in the way of the amazing gameplay.
  
  Genre: Best for the 360 so far for racing simulators, love it.
  
  Series: Never played first 
 one.... don't know!
  
  Verdict: Must-Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danplunkett
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  the games painting is were i am going to start the painting is so extensive that one person with 
 good skills can paint anything on a car from a japanese rising sun to the logo of gears of war. 
 the games car physics are very real currently i am driving a 98' Veilslide supra with a planters 
 peanut guy on the sides of it. if you tune your car right you can make it drift from just power 
 overs. i currently own about 12 cars 1 was bought online (nissan 350z with GOW paint job,) you 
 start out choosing were you will buy your cars from eventually getting up to 50% off some cars 
 and 30% off upgrades after that all the other cars seem way too expensive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerb21
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game hearing raving reviews about how great it is. I must admit that Forza 2 IS the 
 best racing game (simulation style, I am a fan of the Need For Speed series when it comes to arcade) 
 on the 360. However, I am also vastly disappointed. This is coming from my comparison to the only 
 other racer of the style I've ever owned; Gran Tourismo 4 on PS2. Forza 2, though it brags about 
 having over 300 cars, lacks variety in style of car, as GT4 offered trucks and rally cars. Track 
 variety is low as well. And you would think that releasing so close to DiRT, they might have added 
 in a couple dirt-style tracks. I don't really get into online gaming very much, so I have no place 
 commenting on that section. As far as soundtrack goes, I'm glad that I can hook my iPod right into 
 the 360.
  
  My last complaint is one that I fear we are going to see a lot in the near future. It was just 
 announced, or alluded to or something of that nature that there will be download packs of cars 
 and tracks. This makes me feel like Microsoft has been holding out on us, and I feel ripped off. 
 That is unless (though i doubt it will happen) the new content is offered free of charge. So it 
 will work a little on the variety issue but I expect that will be at the cost of at least another 
 10 or 20 dollars (thats personal speculation, I haven't actually heard anything about price) , which 
 to me isn't worth plugging into a game that's already starting to bore me.
  
  One thing that I can say I do love is the simulation-style damage, which I haven't seen before 
 on a racer.
  
  Overall.... I'd give Forza 2 about a C+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Stop. Don't buy Need for Speed Carbon. Don't buy Burnout. Don't buy Project Gotham Racing. Buy 
 this game.
  
  This game is by far the best racing game on the console, and possibly the best racing game on any 
 console, ever. There's no way EA or Bizzare Creations can match Turn 10 in overall game quality. 
 This game offers the biggest customization system in game history, the largest amount of cars ever, 
 and still manages to retain its fresh style whenever you start it. This quality is rare in the 
 other racing games for the Xbox 360.
  
  The accessibility in this game is amazing, offering an easygoing experience for a newcomer, while 
 offering up a challenge for experienced racers. There are around 10 difficulty options for adjustment 
 to customize your playing style.
  
  The career mode is a stellar improvement from PGR's, and offers a leveling system to keep you playing. 
 There are over 300 cars, and you unlock most of them fairly quickly. The others will be unlocked 
 upon the completion of races and time trial events. What will really make you feel this game's 
 realism? It's Paint Car customization system. You can apply over 1000 vinyl layers to your car 
 for a personalized sense of gameplay. There are tons of vinyl shapes, including letters, flames, 
 shapes, etc. and of course there are the authentic manufacturer decals.
  
  The actual races are the most realistic in driving game history. The physics are unmatched and 
 life-like. When you win one of these races, you earn money to spend towards one of the other 300+ 
 cars in the game, or performance upgrades for your current car. The auction house is a cool online 
 feature that allows you to put your career cars up for auction, or buy from other sellers on Xbox 
 LIVE. It's a handy feature that makes the career mode all the more fun.
  
  The music needs work, but I can't really say they're bad. They're just not good. You have a few 
 good dance/techno tracks in there, but the rest of the techno lasts too long and could drill a 
 hole in your mind if you're trying to spend hours customizing your car. Thank heaven for custom 
 soundtracks! :)
  
  The sound, aside from the music is amazing, no matter how you slice it. Each car has its own unique 
 pitch, and some upgrades change how your car sounds overall. It adds more realism to an already-realistic 
 game.
  
  I know I've been saying 'realistic' a lot, but there's really no other way to describe this game. 
 In fact, it's the most realistic racer in a long time, and you won't regret buying it, even if 
 you aren't a big racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  First of Forza Motorsport 2 is an absolutly gorgeous game, and i don't even own an HDTV. The Physics 
 are realistic and the cars are stunning. You can customize the look of your car with 100's of vinyls 
 to put on top of each other, but you can not customize the body of your car that much. (add a spoiler, 
 rims, but no crazy intake headroof things or neon lights.) The Tracks look great, i can't notice 
 a difference, but the tracks get very repetitive after getting to about driver level 20. (about 
 halfway through) Also it is always sunny out when you go to race. The engine sounds vary little, 
 but there are differences, just no many of them. The few engine effects that they do have though 
 sound great. I haven't tried online due to the fact that i don't have the money to pay for the 
 adapter and live, but it sounds fun and i can't wait to spends hours racing and trading cars with 
 my opponents. Overall Forza 2 is the best racer out on the 360 right now, but if you don't like 
 to paint or customize your car, or just want more than 20 tracks, you might want to wait for Project 
 Gotham Racing 4. Rent it first, unless you love simulation racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Incredible, better than Project Gotham Racing by far in my opinion. One of the best racing games 
 I have ever played. By the way, this is a drive around in circle game that actually kept my attention.
 
  
  Graphics: Astounding, next gen Tech is obvious.
  
  Sound: Car sounds are incredible, in game music isn't bad, but isn't incredible.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Awesome, it smooth, realistic, and fun.
  
  Interface: No problem whatsoever, and it doesn't get in the way of the amazing gameplay.
  
 
  Genre: Best for the 360 so far for racing simulators, love it.
  
  Series: Never played first one.... don't know!
  
  Verdict: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleprodig
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Yes thats right every review I have seen and every rating this is the best Xbox 360 has right now. 
 I have put in quite a few hours in the game myself and am around level 37. The online auction house 
 and the artwork people are putting out is amazing. The driving is so good that any other driving 
 game feels like an arcade at this point. Yet I wish for more.
  
  Good:
  Amazing feel, with the last Forza I couldn't tell how fast I was going at all and needed the lines 
 on all the time. This time who cares, the first thing I did was drop the suggested line. I am also 
 able to drive any car in the game with all the helpers off except for transmission. I can't see 
 shifting with a button on a controller sorry I want the G25. The auction house is a great place 
 to save a ton on a car and get great graphics. The issue I see there though is that the screens 
 are too small to really see the car in any detail. The cars are all so different as well, you can 
 really feel the difference however the sound is pretty much the same for most of the cars.
  
  Bad:
  The game is great don't get me wrong the circuits are very detailed and the cars are 
 amazing, however... I am still going crazy about the api, it doesn't seem quite right. The api 
 seems relentless about getting the inside lane even if you are there. I know they learn and are 
 mean if you are mean yet they don't seem to care if you have the inside lane or if you are comming 
 up fast on the inside they will block you everytime. I also never could stand the grass slowing 
 down my car so much. Just give me a penalty please don't put me in quick sand. Other than that 
 the graphics are good but they still look fake when you drive. I think the edges look jaded on 
 the tracks, so you don't really notice how good the rest of the game looks till you pause the game. 
 Also I am not an artist so working with blocks doesn't quite suit me. It would be nice to have 
 an upload option so I could create the graphics on pc. Now wouldn't that be a concept user defeined 
 art that can be downloaded to xbox. I understand that it would have to be a certian size and so 
 forth however working with boxes how people create the art that is out there is unknown and amazing 
 to me.
  
  Controls; while the Xbox controller is built for this game I still would love to see a revolution 
 in this area. I know there is a steering wheel for xbox, quite a few but I would like to see logitech 
 g25 setup with xbox. I want a true steering wheel with a good shifter. Then I will build a full 
 motion cockpit for it, what can I say I am crazy for driving games. What I would really like is 
 some of the cockpits I have seen online but a home built one would have to do. Also a full open 
 API for the Xbox controlls would be nice so this could be built. Over all I have put a lot of time 
 into this game and think its well worth the money. Like the last Forza true fans will be the only 
 people that complete this game as well and with the online portion you could really play this game 
 forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 manages to squeeze in hundreds of vehicles, a good variety of tracks, an advanced 
 car modification system and much more. This game is your world of motorsport on Xbox 360. Forza 
 Motorsport 2 suits hardcore car veterans and those who don't know so much about cars.
  
  You can jump right into the racing using either the Arcade, Career or online modes. The arcade 
 mode offers you between free run, time trials and races. The free run lets you take your chosen 
 vehicle on a track of your choice. In the time trials, you are put in a specific car for a specific 
 track. The races in the arcade mode also put you under specific tracks. You can achieve a bronze, 
 silver or gold medal in these modes. Earning these progresses you completion percentage and rewards 
 you with achievements.
  
  On the other hand, you may just want to jump into the career so you can earn yourself credits and 
 more achievements. The career can be more rewarding to you if you step the difficulty up. For example, 
 you can make racing more challenging by putting the AI up to Hard or by disabling TCS and ABS. 
 Disabling one or more of these variables I wouldn't recommend for first time drivers. Without these, 
 you'll need to adjust to the way you race as it makes a great impact. When the race is over you'll 
 earn credits - even if you didn't achieve first place. Your credits can vary dependant on your 
 positon, difficultly and statistics of your car. During any race, you can hire a driver to complete 
 it for you. There are many drivers available but it is important to choose the one you think can 
 win the race. It tells you where they are from and their skill level. Making sure you have the 
 right car also can ensure they win. When hiring drivers they can take a percentage of your credits 
 from the race.
  
  What makes Forza Motorsport 2 so great is after each race you can see why you earned so little 
 or so many credits. It shows you if you had credits deducted because of damage done to the car 
 parts (if set to Simulation) , credits earned depending on your car levels and such. Usually, longer 
 tracks and more laps pull in more credits too. The more credits you earn then the higher your level 
 is. Not all races are open for entry until you achieve a certain level in the game. The levels 
 required range up to 50. Getting to 50 will take a very long time to get to if you have made the 
 difficulty easy and turned off some variables. Once you reach past certain milestone levels (such 
 as 10, 20, 30...) you unlock achievements.
  
  Not only can you play by yourself but you can play your career online. This works in a similar 
 way except you choose what tracks you want to race on, what cars you want and rules. The more difficult 
 you make it then the more you are going to be rewarded. So by creating or going in a lobby with 
 a long track and many laps will sure to get you more credits. The more people present means the 
 credits sum is also increased. Again, many things can be tweaked to try and earn more credits. 
 Just like the single player career, you can still progress this way.
  
  Other online modes includes to ability to enter tournaments or enter non-career races. If there 
 are any free spaces during a race and a friend decides to join, then they can either wait in lobby 
 (whilst you are racing) or start spectating. So, there is no need to wait until everyone finishes 
 racing.
  
  If you have any spare cars that you want to sell, you can either sell them back automatically (although 
 not a lot of credits is given) or auction them off at the Auction House. The Auction House is another 
 popular online mode where users can show off their creations. People can bid or buyout your cars 
 depending on the options you have set. Putting up a car for auction deducts a small sum of credits 
 but if you have been creative, you could end up making a profit. With the ability to decorate your 
 cars thanks to the decals and paint options, you can auction these off.
  
  Decorating your car costs you no credits. There have been some very beautiful creations over at 
 the Auction House - some that can sell for millions of credits. To stop others from stealing your 
 designs or from modifying them you can lock that design which is quite handy. The Auction House 
 works well and is a great addition to finding the cars you want in your garage. The garage is your 
 home of cars. You can have your favourite cars starred too so you don't have to scroll though them 
 all the time. A times you'll be addicted to looking through the Auction House. You can often get 
 in bidding wars because you can not set yourself a maximum bid limit.
  
  Multiplayer can also be played locally by split-screen or a network. Playing on a network requires 
 more copies of the game and other consoles. You can also set up a multi-screen view but this way 
 can prove expensive for many. The concept of this is a good idea, still.
  
  Whenever you race on a particular track, your times are recorded to a scoreboard. If connected 
 to Xbox Live, then these scores are transmitted to a server. Those who make it into the top 100 
 scores get their replays saved. So, you can watch how others managed to get through a track so 
 fast. The time trials mode under Arcade, let's your race against others' ghosts. It's good to see 
 how your friends managed in a race. It shows you what car they used and of course their times. 
 The scoreboards can be filtered to show nearby players to your score, overall and local.
  
  Now, as mentioned earlier, Forza Motorsport 2 can suit both hardcore veterans of motorsport and 
 others who are not necessarily into the technical side. Its interface thankfully can help you out 
 when coming to upgrade your car. This mode contains a great variety of options that can help you 
 out in races. Some races have specific rules applied to them. This may include only to use S class 
 cars or to have no upgrades whatsoever.
  
  Most races can take less than ten minutes to complete. Again, this is all dependent on your car, 
 what upgrades you have applied and what difficulty you may have it at. At the end of the Career 
 section, you have Endurance Races. These can last for quite a while. Some can take well over forty 
 minutes. Although these can be quite long for some, you are rewarded with a much larger sum of 
 credits. Completing certain parts of the career mode unlocks you new cars, discounts and achievements.
 
  
  Purchasing cars is essential for being able to enter some races. You can buy cars from within the 
 career or pop into the Auction House to see if you can find some better deals maybe. The cars can 
 be decorated using new paint (you can choose from a variety of colours, have only the manufacturer 
 colours visible, choose from special colours and more) . There are many decals that you can put 
 on. Depending on how much time and how much creativity you put into it - you can make some rather 
 nice looking cars. The decals consist of many shapes, patterns, letters and such. These can all 
 have their sizes, colours, position and rotation changed. Each side of the car can hold up to a 
 1000 decals (the front, sides, back) . Two or more decals can also be linked together so you can 
 move them both at the same time. Linking decals together may be ideal for when you are creating 
 a particular object.
  
  To save time you can also copy contents from the left side of the car and put them over to the 
 right. The same applies also from right to left. Furthermore, there are a few more options available 
 including the ability to tint windows. Within this mode, you can move the car around to see how 
 your work looks. It can be a bit awkward to see your car at times since the bottom menu can overlap 
 it. When it comes to saving your design, you can have it applied to the car and/or saved to the 
 designs catalog. So, in the future you can recycle your design onto a new car without having to 
 start again.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 isn't all that easy. Playing it for the first time can be different from your 
 typical non-simulation style racing games. So, it is essential to get a good feel of the controls 
 and the cars. Each car feels different and you can really feel that a car is heavy or light. Having 
 driving aids can help. You can put in a braking line that guides you when to brake. It will take 
 quite some time to get through the Arcade modes and much longer on Career. After you've raced so 
 many times on a track you'll often start to think there should of been more tracks.
  
  There are many more small but cool things included in Forza Motorsport 2. During a race or replay 
 you can take photos. These photos can have various effects applied to them. Once you are happy 
 you can save them to your storage device and view them from within the game later. You can also 
 upload your photos to the official website. This lets you download them as JPEGs and use them as 
 you wish. The photo mode works similar to that of Project Gotham Racing 3. Unfortunately, you can't 
 share your photos with your friends direct from the Xbox 360. That would of been quite a neat addition 
 also. Gifting your cars is also an option. You can gift your cars to friends to maybe help them 
 out or just a sign of being nice.
  
  Graphically, many of the cars look very nice. The reflections, colours and such make it stand out. 
 It's a shame that some of the tracks don't look quite so nice. If there was one improvement that 
 could be made, it would be to improve the visual appearance of the tracks. There is no weather 
 conditions either or day/night. As this is motorsport, this is probably acceptable to understand. 
 By default, you'll have a third-person view of your car during racing. You can change this to first-person 
 if you like. There is no cockpit view though like some other racing games. You can look left, right, 
 up and down using the right thumbstick. Holding Y will automatically look behind for you. You can 
 often use this to try and stop a car from sneaking past you.
  
  When you crash, your car's appearance can change. You will see scratches, broken windows, fallen 
 off bumpers etc. The damage model to this game is incredible. Crashing into your opponents and 
 going off the course gives you time penalties. This can affect your placement in the scroreboards. 
 You can keep track of the damage by tapping the LB button during racing. Also, during racing, you 
 can press up on the d-pad. This presents you with some very advanced statistics. Although, not 
 too important, it is appealing to motorsport enthusiasts.
  
  The game sounds great. Different cars have different engines, thus providing us with a variety 
 of engine sounds. If you ever happen to crash, then the sound created by this is great. Aside from 
 the sound effects, you have the soundtrack. It goes well with the racing genre. The soundtrack 
 is present during the menus of the game. During racing you have no background music although you 
 are free to use your own custom soundtracks thanks to the Xbox 360. Would of been nice to maybe 
 have an option to play some of the music from within the game still.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 provides you with many hours of racing. This is simply not a game to get done 
 and dusted overnight. With the added online modes this should also increase your chances of continuing 
 to play. Although not perfect, it can be great fun with your friends. Most things come out great 
 in Forza Motorsport 2 - the sounds, graphics, artificial intelligence and the advanced statistics 
 all make this game a very well-created project. Certainly, this year's not to be missed racing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a racing game in a long time, and I was excited to hear that this game was reviewed 
 possiively by GameSpot and every source I actually care about. When I bought my 360, I gladly searched 
 for this game. What I got was what I wanted: a realistic racing sim that plays well, looks great, 
 and doesn't bog me down with a lack of exotcic cars 
  
  Gameplay- realistic, but still fun to play and doesn't feel like a boat to handle. The Suggested 
 Line really helps racing sim noobs like me look like they're driving like a pro. The AI however 
 ranges from completely incompetent to professional to psychic god. I feel empty when racing the 
 Novices, yet feel completely ridiclous losing to the Hard.
  
  Graphics- 60 frames per second looks nice and detailed, but there are no blurred effects during 
 racing. The replays, however, run at a blurrier frame rate which makes everything look alot more 
 cinematic. I prefer the cinematic to the real, and I wished that they gave you a choice. The car 
 models look so real that you feel like you're actually looking at your car, not some assortment 
 of pixels.
  
  Sound- Pretty good. Rock, electronic, and some other genres are better than the stuff they played 
 in the GT menus. Custom soundtracks are the only way to listen to music while you drive, which 
 you can access using your big central button. The engine noises sound tinny, and aren't as real 
 as I thought they'd be. It still sounds great. I wish they had PGR's interior view which really 
 mae you feel like you were in the car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaeDaeGansta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Forza Iz One Of The Greatest Racing Simulation Games I Have Ever Played. The Car Graphics Are Beautiful 
 But The Tracks Could Look A Bit Funny At Times All In All The Graphics Are Still a 10. The game 
 Give You A Great Sense Of Speed And Realism, The Car Handlin Is On Point, And The Arrows That Tell 
 You When To Break Are Good And Helpful For Beginners. Besides The Limited Amount Of Tracks I cant 
 Reali Find Anything Wrong With This Game It Is Definitley The Best Racing Game For The xbox 360. 
 Even The People Who Arent in2 Real Like Racing Games Will Enjoy This Well Crafted Game. If U Havent 
 Played This Game I Suggest You Do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tystock
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Great Visuals, Great Cars, Poor track selection, A. I. makes no sense. Gets very boring after about 
 a day. Two of the most frustrating parts for me were that when you put tires on realistic, they're 
 realistic for you, but not the computer. I ran an endurance race and had lapped the field and ended 
 up losing because they were still running like the race had just begun and my car could no longer 
 handle the track. Second, when you put on limited or more damage, the impact completely changes. 
 On cosmetic, you just bounce of things, on anything else you're always spinning in circles while 
 the computer continues to run you off the road. Just because you change how damage affects the 
 game, it shouldn't change the dynamics of how your car is affected by contact. Oh yeah, and while 
 you're spinning in circles the computer never gets knocked off track, they just keep going like 
 nothing happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The racing simulation genre has got two leading competitors, and they have huge impact on the ever 
 so raging console war. Sony's Playstation has got the well known Gran Turismo veteran, and Microsoft's 
 Xbox has got the new series of Forza Motorsport. The latest game release is Forza 2, and the question 
 is: Is it better than the massive Gran Turismo 4 from 2005? And can it outrun the enormous success 
 of Forza 1 for the original Xbox?
  
  The Xbox 360 has got some fantastic graphics to show of, and to see the machine work its magic 
 on the speedway is fantastic. The car models look great with reflections all over the place. There 
 are some minor jaggies here and there, but they wont bother you. The environments are fantastic 
 showing the suns reflection on the roads up ahead, as well as casting the shadow from the trees 
 over your vehicle along the way.
  
  One of the games minor mistakes comes through the sound from your car engine. I haven't had any 
 grudge about it, but people keep saying that the cars don't sound that much like the real thing. 
 This doesn't bother me, cause the cars sound great! The other sound effects are flawless, and the 
 music is just perfect. It's only appearant in the menus, but it's just awesome and fits the game 
 perfectly.
  
  After having played Gran Turismo 4 for many many hours on the PS2 and finding it a bit too serious 
 for my taste, I was very excited to play Forza 2. And it didn't take long before I was hooked. 
 Microsoft has created a more arcadeish feel to the simulator formula. The game is more accessible 
 and, in my opinion, more fun than Gran Turismo. The cars aren't that hard to drive, and the famous 
 guide lines help a lot. You can choose if you want these lines to show all the time, or just when 
 you have to brake in corners and such. These guide lines work absolutely brilliant, making the 
 driving simpler and more accessible. So the driving is fun, well then there's the question of game 
 modes and multiplayer. The game features a deep career mode which makes you level up through a 
 huge amount of races in different classes. You earn money and buy new cars and upgrades. This works 
 very well, and will last for ages. There are over 300 cars for you to collect and you can upgrade 
 and paint them all. That's right... painting and designing your cars is something you'll spend 
 hours and hours on. There is so much to do here, people manage to paint huge anime characters on 
 their cars looking absolutely amazing. And after having made a fantastic looking car you can even 
 sell it on the online auction house! Here you can buy and sell cars as much as you like, and together 
 with a great multiplayer the online bit of Forza 2 is enormous. Forza 2 is close to being the perfect 
 racing simulator being both accessible and deep both offline and online. If you have the slightest 
 interest in racing games, buy Forza 2!
  
  +
  The guide lines are great. Accessible gameplay. Beautiful graphics. The game is stuffed with game 
 modes and impressive possibilities. The music fits perfectly to the gameplay. Nice menus. The opponents 
 AI is great.
  
  -
  Some jaggies on the cars. The cars doesn't sound 100% realistic! (I'm being harsh, I know!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The Title says it all, the game is smooth and it is actually fun to play. The graphics are good 
 and it's campaign is relativaly long. THe multiplayer is somthing I could play for hours. Not much 
 more that could be said, Other than anyone who owns an 360, should and must buy this game because 
 it has so much to offer.
  All of the cars are good and the interface is very easy. You dont need to have much skill with 
 other game to play this game.
  Having the ability to play reaces and win credits is really nice. You can also play races more 
 time to earn more credits. Use credits to buy cars and buy upgrades for your cars pretty simple 
 right. You also have the ability to have a driver race a race for you instead of racing the long 
 40 min. endurance races. That is pretty much all that I can explain otherwise the review would 
 be about four pages long. ^ ^ ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornkid_jer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  just got this game not to long ago and i love it grahics r great gameplay is nice and smooth, lots 
 of different cars to choose from and preformance mods! all round good game addicting for sure. 
 This is a game i would recommand people going out to buy if your into racing games. it takes a 
 little bit of time to get used to the game just cause it is so realistic.
  i give it 10/10. the ranges f cars in the game is sweet so many cars to choose from imports-exotics 
 euro, asia and north-american cars!! can't wait to see what will be next for forza games should 
 be some crazy ass **** haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -extensive career mode
  -lots to do in the arcade
  -tons of unique cars
  -amazing customization
  -solid controls
  -fun splitscreen
  -assists work well until you are 
 good enough to remove them
  -simulates a racing experience very well
  -excellent looking car models -realistic sounding engine and crashes, hehe
  -XBOX Live tournaments 
 are loads of fun
  
  Cons:
  -very few tracks
  -controls can get a bit touchy
  -poor environment graphics (especially the sky)
  -lame soundtrack
  -poor internet connection 
 can ruin the game online (another car may appear to be behind you but because of lag, they actually 
 won!)
  
  In conclusion, I will say that this game is probably the best racer on the 360 and I highly recommend 
 it to any fans of either the sequel or racing sims. However, if you are into taking hairpin turns 
 doing over 45 MPH, you're in for a shocker with this game. Once you get the hang of it, the game 
 is fun but you may need to keep the Assist Line on for a good few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filip_XxX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Crazy graphics will blow ur mind away its so real! Cars can't be anymore realistic and tracks are 
 astonishing good looking! Enviroment can take a lil more work into it same with the audiances besides 
 that its a incrediable game to play and watch! Forza MotorSport 2 has probably out scored any of 
 the need for speed games which is once again just amazing! This game will keep u playin for hours 
 and never gets boring no matter wat! Even if u do end up beating fast there's still more stuff 
 to do online! I think EA Games should get a few pointers from Microsoft Game Studios for when the 
 next Need For Speed game is realised! Also Forza 2 can have a better soundtrack so while racing 
 it hypes u up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaztin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I seriously was like about to return or exchange this game with some of 
 my friend but as I played it more and more, I really got damn addicted to the game! I have 32 inch 
 HTDV on which it will really make u taste the dirt with its splendid real life like graphics! Till 
 now I was Arcade racing fan, but now, time has changed for me, this game has created a new Genre 
 of game which I would call Realistic Life Like Games . Well it has few very minor glitches when 
 it comes to its music and sound effects, but its quite fine. The game play is marvelous, its controls 
 Telemetry stuff, life like wearing n effects on machine, engine, tyre and fuel is just great! Playing 
 with Remote is as fun as playing with the Microsoft Steering Wheel! It has a new feature name Auction 
 House , well believe me people, its as addictive as its Gamplay is! Online gameplay is also very 
 good! But I only wish that its maximum number of player could be increased from 8 to 12 or 16, 
 coz I am associated with large community of Xbox gamers and Forza 2 Lovers, n all of us, unfortunately, 
 cannot play together online at the same time, and I believe there are many other just like me and 
 my friends! Overall I have already rated this game as Perfect and gamescore 10 on the scale! My 
 verdict is that this is a MUST OWN game! Masterpiece indeed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eweinkam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Great driving physics: Some may be turned off by the realism of the physics and prefer a more arcade 
 like experience, but I love it.
  
  Great graphics: Car models, dust, dirt, fans cheering, lights, all good. I find it funny that the 
 fans don't even flinch when you crash into the wall next to them at 100mph. THey just keep on cheering. 
 Could use weather effects though.
  
  Good value: Not as many tracks as other games, but because of the realism of the physics, you really 
 need to memorize the tracks, so the limited number is okay. Fantastic career mode. Has a sort of 
 RPG feel to it as you upgrade and customize your cars.
  
  Fun Online: But so are all racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  This new driving game for the Xbox 360 is another amazing game.
  
  Forza Motor Sport 2 gives you the sense of what its like actually driving in real life, you crash 
 into a wall parts will fall off, you run of the track you will slow down and proboaly spin out 
 and you will have the sudden urge to just smash into one of the oppoents (belive me ive had many 
 of them) and you know what you can it dosent really matter about penalties or anything like that 
 this game was designed for you and your freinds to customize your owns cars and just race each 
 other either on the split screen or the Xbox live.
  
  Overrall this game has a great campaign and exhibition tracks but there should have been some more 
 tracks to be added in and mabey also some crazy japanese writing so people have no idea what your 
 saying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I wish I could whole heartedly recommend Forza 2. In many ways it's the best console car simulation 
 available, with good (not great) graphics, an outstanding sense of speed, a nicely tuned interface 
 that takes a lot of guesswork out of determining which car to use for which race and whether said 
 car first requires modifications, and a great set of upgrade and tuning options.
  
  On the negative side, though, it's single player game is very limited. You race the same set of 
 tracks over and over again with the only real differences being that you are racing in faster cars 
 and for longer periods of time. But the whole Drivatar thing is broken; you can hire race drivers 
 but have to give them most if not all of your earnings to get someone competitive. And in the end, 
 this is just a souped up version of Gran Turismo. Same basic feature set, although with a more 
 limited single player game and the addition of multi-player. And in all fairness, the car and driver 
 leveling as well as the user interface tweaks does make Forza 2 easier to maintain, but the bottom 
 line is this is a simulation and it's still up to you to make a game out of it. Just like Gran 
 Turismo, you can spend money and power your way through races, or you can make your car competitive 
 and learn the tracks. It's up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  FM2 is a amazing driving game that just might surprise you. First of all, the cars. Not just a 
 few cars are included in the game. In fact, if you are not a car nut you are going to see cars 
 that you probably have never heard of before. And, on top of that, you get cars from the 60's and 
 70's... not just those new versions of today's models. There are cars like the Mini Cooper, the 
 VW bug , the 1968 Camaro Z28 and almost everything in between. And if stock model don't float your 
 boat there are plenty of racing class cars from the endurance and prix circuts. What really sets 
 this game apart though are all the options. Play Career mode and you can store every car you win 
 or buy. Then you can take any of those cars and modify them to your hearts content. Try taking 
 a Porche 914 and stripping it of as much weight as you can and reduce the horsepower to under 150 
 HP. Then go race it. Or, take your 2007 Lexus and boost up the HP and handling and go race it against 
 Caddie's and Lotus'.
  Or, take the 1970 Challenger and paint it up to look like the General Lee from Dukes of Hazard. 
 The options are almost endless!
  
  And to top it all off the game has some pretty amazing driving physics. You can race as pretty 
 much a novice with no problem or tweak up the setting and find out how really difficult it is to 
 race a McLaren around the Grand Prix tracks. And speaking of tracks.... there are a ton. Some seem 
 a bit similar as you start out but rapidly open up to a good mix of road, prix and ovals. No matter 
 what you think of driving games.... pick this one up. Now, should I or shouldn't buy a steering 
 wheel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Honestly my caption is more than enough said. The game gives you the simulation of Gran Turismo 
 (which was the last racing sim I've played) with the customization of Need for Speed, with car 
 count of you local Ford dealership, throws in a crap load of real tracks, with a community site 
 thats lets you trade cars and keep track of your race record, online and off. If you havent seen 
 screenshots of different players cars make sure you check them out. Car decals go waaaaay past 
 just the ones they give. You can pretty much create your own decals. Last one I saw was of Halo 
 3 and it looked awesome. This is a must for any XBOX 360 collection and it maybe the last racing 
 title you would have to buy for a while. Easily the best racing game out so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcloverboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  When I purchased the original Forza Motorsport the day it was released I was greatly aniticipating 
 an immersive game with high levels of customization.
  
  There was a problem however, I was unable to predict how bad I would be initally at the game. And 
 with an abundance of games and lack of will. I quickly gave up on that game and moved on to another.
 
  
  2006, the inevitable happens, Forza Motorsport 2 is showcased at E3. I tell myself I won't buy 
 it because of my experience with the first installment.
  
  Well, I did. Because I owned the wireless racing wheel among other things. And let me tell you 
 I'm glad that Idid.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is an amazing game and is recommended for racing gamers and those novice to 
 the genre like myself.
  
  ENJOY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidbrice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  If you love racing simulations and you own an Xbox 360 then you need forza motorsport 2 in your 
 life, once you've played it your expectations of what a racing game can and should be will never 
 be the same again.
  The number of upgrades included within the games is unprecedented and this extends to the tuning 
 with more options to fiddle with than any man could ever dream of.
  If u love motorsport and enjoy racing buy it, buy it now. It will be one of the best purchases 
 you could make for your xbox 360.
  The definitive racing sim... at least until forza motorsport 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconerX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I say game of the year thus far because we got what should be an expensive next 4 months of games 
 coming out as im sure you all know!
  
  Right this is my review of Forza 2, before i start il say a little of my history with car games 
 to see if your anything like me!
  Started out on super monico gp on the old mega drive, moved on to sega rally on saturn, liked f1 
 championship on the n64, then moved onto porsche challenge and gran traismo on ps1, then the next 
 gt games on ps2, loved them very much! Then GT on ps3, was ok! And finally pgr3 on 360, which was 
 also ok. Never played forza 1 sadly.
  
  As you can see i played many driving games/sims. Having now played forza2 for just over 2 weeks 
 can safely say its by far the best driving game in history. As soon as you start its addictive 
 and your always want one more race until you hear the birds outside chirping away! You know you 
 found a good game when you get that one more go feeling!
  
  The game runs along at 60fps, 60fps! at all times! thats some good stuff that even todays top notch 
 first person shooters can emulate. Which shows you the power of the 360.
  
  The thing with forza 2 is it takes many things from older previous land mark games i. e GT and expands 
 on them, such as the amount of cars you can race, the real time damage i. e destruction derby and 
 so on, add to that you can now design your own body painting aswell as customise the cars to pretty 
 much anything you so desire. You can even go online and sell your works of art to other people 
 for virtual credit! Which is the other new thing this game expands on, money. In old games you 
 race for money to buy new cars, same thing here except you use that money in different ways such 
 as buying someone elses car! The possibilities are endless, and thats what this game does.
  
  It also has a very very imersive career mode which is where the true game lies, its not just 
 about winning races like GT, its about perfecting the art of driving and making you feel 100% in 
 control of the car. Naturally you start of in a poor car and as you improove you will collect more 
 cars! Theres so many different classes to play ranging from golfs all the way up to secret prototype 
 cars. Whatever car you like its probably in here and if its not itl be added via the download system 
 oneday!
  
  There are many things that make this the best driving game of all time but the most obvious is 
 its actual driving experience! The cars feel right and the physics are as real as you could get. 
 What adds to the whole feel is the actual cars you are racing against, the computer A. I is very 
 very good, they will back off if you are an aggresive racer so not to crash and write off there 
 lambo or you might get an aggresive computer driver who wont back down into that corner and you 
 both end up having a horendous crash which might make you have to retire from the race, and when 
 you do crash itl cost you money to fix it so if your a kinda destruction derby kinda racer then 
 its gona be very very expensive for you!
  
  And if you had enough of computer players take it online and race aggainst ppl on live! There you 
 can enter tournaments, do time trials and see if you can post the fastest time in the world! or 
 simply have a normal race against friends, so much to do.
  
  There is so much right with this game but the greatest thing about it is the gameplay, itl never 
 get boring as so much to do, wether you like to design cars or wether you like to be the worlds 
 best driver its all here!
  
  In my opinion this is the best driver game of all time as it feels more real then any other ive 
 played and ive played them all pretty much, pgr3 is more arcadey which isnt for me, im a more realistic 
 racing kinda fan.
  If you like driving games your love this one i gurantee it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is undoubtedly the best racing game for the 360 but does not quite compare to Gran Turismo. 
 It has stunning graphics which make it a joy to watch your races again and and show off your crashes. 
 Adding to this is the huge range of customisation which allows you to create some amazing cars. 
 Although most of the songs are rubbish the sound effects are great. They sound realistic and are 
 very varied. The engine sounds seem different for every car and the tire squal is glorious round 
 a hard turn. Unfortunately the game just isn't as deep as Gran Turismo. It is much better as a 
 driving simulator. The cars handle better and more realistically and the physics work perfectly. 
 This makes for an amazing driving experience but the game lacks depth. There aren't enough tournaments 
 to keep you occupied without Xbox live. It needs to have more modes and options just to increse 
 the lifespan. I've only had the game 2 weeks and I think I'll have done every tournament in another 
 2. It took over 6 months for Gran Turismo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that racing games are not my usual favorite and especially not realistic racing games 
 but this one really got me hooked for a bit. The career mode is fun and I just kept wanting to 
 win more and more races so I could buy more cars and improve them. The painting was a lot of fun 
 and it is just amazing the stuff that people could make from that. Auctions made it easy to get 
 certain cars and pick up something out of the norm. Anyway it kept me busy for awhile and I enjoyed 
 it far more than I should of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best racing games I have played and is easily the best racing game on 
 the 360 so far. This game is a lot like the Gran Turismo games in many different ways. The physics 
 however are much more realistic. There is damage, tire wear, and limited fuel, but only if you 
 choose to play like that. Forza offers multiple assists such as, anti-lock braking system, traction 
 control system etc. I personally like to race without any assists, and in return I get a great 
 experience. There is a vast selection of vehicles in Forza, and each one is capable of having excellent 
 performance. Every car can be upgraded to a high standard. This game has many multi-player features 
 such as Forza Motorsport TV which allows you to watch real tournaments involving real players over 
 X BOX Live, auction house which allows you to bid on cars and auction off cars of your own, and 
 career and tournament races that you can drive in to earn credits. One feature that excels past 
 any other in this game is the paint feature. You can fully customize the paint job of your car 
 like as if you were painting it in real life. There are dozens of vinyl designs to choose from 
 with up to 1,000 layers allowed on each section of the car i. e. left side, front bumper, right 
 side, top side, rear bumper and the wing. With the large selection of premade shapes you are able 
 to create an unlimited amount of designs that you can save onto the car or save to a catalog, and 
 you can even save a group of layers so you can paste it onto another car. Overall this game is 
 awesome, I did not hesitate to buy this game after I played the demo. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes racing. Keep in mind though this game is a lot more like a racing sim, not 
 an unrealistic type of game like Need for Speed or Project Gotham Racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletomax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I finally Feel as though its time to write a little review on Forza Motorsport 2. I have spent 
 probobly 20+ hours on this game, and feel comfortable talking about it. The XBOX 360 is the first 
 Microsoft console I have owned. So this is my first look at the XBOX's racing SIM. Having spent 
 countless hours on the PS1/2 GT series, FM2 feels very familiar to me. I think the mechanics i. e. 
 the handling, sound, design of the cars is better in this game. The upgrades to the cars feel alost 
 identical, although the interface is better in FM2 in my opinion. The tracks are great and beautifully 
 rendered. The AI is sometimes frustrating when oponent cars just seem to slam into you for no reason. 
 This doesn't happen often, but for me it only seems to happen on the last lap of a race on the 
 last turn before the finish line. The difficulty settings for FM2 are absolutly ingenious. The 
 game can be as hard or easy as you want it to be, and tying in your income with the difficulty 
 you selected was a great idea, although you win so many free cars you will end up with oodles of 
 money to spend on other things anyway. Probably the most annoying thing to me about FM2, is the 
 length of some of the races. For example 6 to 8 laps on a track that tacks over a minute and a 
 half per lap is not that much fun in a Ford Focus. Overall, the game is wonderful to play, is highly 
 addictive and just like the GT series, I cant wait for the next FM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrueda1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 works the same as the original on the Xbox. You choose one region and that decision 
 lets you choose from the car-makers on that region. If you wanted one car from another region after, 
 the price is higher as if choosen this other region.
  
  Then you have three posibilities: Arcade, Career and Multiplayer.
  
  The Multiplayer is fantastic. 
 To the always exciting Quick race, it has been added the Tournament mode, and with this style Bizarre 
 finds the perfect excuse to include the TV broadcasting service.
  
  Graphics are expectacular: mirror effects, blur and more. The models are very realistic. There 
 are 4 options of viewpoint: 2 from rear the car, 1 inside the car with the internal rear-mirror 
 and 1 another inside but with the front part of the car. I found they should have been included 
 the cockpit of the car.
  
  Physics are awesome. Parts of the car falls when crashing.
  
  This game is a simulator. It is really difficult to drive the car on some tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerOnNitrous
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I have only dabbed into Forza Motorsport 2 but from what I have seen so far this game will be no 
 more than a beefed up Forza Motorsport 1. Not to say the game is bad or will suck at all because 
 the original Forza Motorsport was awesome. I personally am a fan of arcade style driving (like 
 PGR3) but this game can be tailored for anyone, from Nascar pit crew to your 12 year old sister. 
 Anyone and everyone can pick this game up and with slight tweaking be playing at their skill / 
 knowledge level. If you like racing games or want to try your hand in racing games this is a great 
 way to do just that. You will not be let down in any area including the Sounds and Graphics. Nothing 
 beats the sound of that twin turbo going woosh woosh with the blow off valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the best racing game on the original Xbox , is even better than the original. Amazing 
 graphics , great tracks and huge variety of licensed cars to chose from. Do you want more details 
 ? Then read my review decide if this game is for you. Gameplay: Driving is better then ever. Car 
 handles pretty easy , and it is not hard to keep your car on the road if you have the assists on. 
 Driving without any assists can be pretty hard, because only thing that will keep you on the road 
 is your fingers. No more green on the road that will you show trajectory and where to brake. You 
 will be on your own. There are other things that control the difficulty level. Like , if your car 
 will broke just cosmetically or after one crash at high speed your engine will be slower than a 
 bicycle. You have to keep your ride on the road , not only so you would not loose speed, but you 
 will get penalty. Also slamming in to others cars is not acceptable. Of course you will need some 
 wheels for you to compete in races. There are about 300 cars from you to choose , and many , many 
 after market parts for you to upgrade your car.
  Although the most detailed part of the game is visual customization. There are just tons of vinyl 
 shapes from you t choose and make incredible art works. And when you are bored of your old car 
 you can sold it , on Xbox Live . There are 12 regions where the tracks are set in , but that is 
 not clearly enough. The lack of tracks will make you to stop playing the game after a month ore 
 two.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound : The graphics are just great. The car models are all shiny from the sunbeams 
 . The tracks don't have that much detail as cars but they too look amazing. Sound effects are great 
 , you really feel like you would be on a race track, driving 200 km/h and then taking a sharp turn 
 . The soundtrack is also quite nice
  , but you wont be able to hear them while driving.
  
  In the end , Forza Motorsport 2 is a great racing game, that is a must have for everyone that 
 has a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: about_blank
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is an awesome sequal to the great Forza 1. It offers some impressive graphics, 
 and realistic racing physics. Whether your a racing veteran, or someone trying Forza out for the 
 first time, you'll be able to enjoy this great game. The part of this game i enjoyed most was career 
 mode. In this game mode, your given 20,000 credits to buy a car, and start racing. you compete 
 in events and series to earn cash, allowing you to upgrade or buy a new car. From the get go, you 
 have to choose a home region. Depending on where you pick, you can later earn discounts on cars 
 from that region. The amount you can custimize your car is another thing that really caught my 
 attention. I can literally choose from tons of parts to upgrade my vehicle with. Aside from many 
 engine upgrading choices, you also get a wide variety of tire selections, each with different stats 
 to fit your exact want. The paint shop is also a remarkable feature of forza 2. its such a great 
 part of the game, you'l often find yourself painting a car longer than you actually race a car. 
 You can do almost anything you want in the paint shop. Each side of the car is allowed 1000 layers 
 of paint, leaving the possibilities next to endless. The only real badside about this game is that 
 each gamer profile can only have one career mode save. If you are in a house like mine, where you 
 are sharing the console, its frustrating because that means that if everyone wants to be able to 
 get on Xbox Live, you need to buy more accounts. So, unfortanately, i cant really say how the online 
 expierience is, becuase i've never had the abbility to access it. I hope this helped you. I only 
 realy covered the career mode because honestly, thats the only mode i've played. I cant tell you 
 a thing about arcade mode, or online multiplayer. sorry. well, happy travels. I recomend this game 
 for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Forza 2, the squal to its mighty impressive older brother. Out of all things to expect 
 from any Forza game to have, it would be its gameplay and it delivers it's primary basics, but 
 some things are left out that added variation to content and other things that would be expected 
 from any major video game just don't impress are not there at all.
  
  The goods: Gameplay is as good as expected to be, multiplayer may add to your enjoyment (if you 
 like racing with others) , and more than enough cars to feed your need for spee... (er) simulation.
 
  
  The bads: When compared to other racers on the market on this date; Forza 2 delivers an underwhelming 
 visual showcase (even some graphical features from the original Forza have been excluded in the 
 new game) . Although single player can be fun, but htey came becomes repetetive faster than you 
 should expect, as you will run through the same tracks frequently and races will become mind dumbingly 
 longer and longer quickly as you progress. The game play is as tight as expected, but the developers 
 seem to have purposely put heavily punish racers who go off the main track with an unexceptable 
 level of arcade simulation. Forza 2 lacks track from the original Forza that would have been a 
 pleasurable addition to variation of tracks, but some are just not here or have been dumbed down, 
 and non of then are night track or have any track conditions (just optional alternate track versions) . The 
 game also has underwhelming menu music, but even worse... there is absolutly no music while racing 
 (not expectable by nay means for any major game) . Other minor imperfections includes glitches and 
 game freezing while in the multiplayer menus.
  
  The conclusion:
  
  All though Forza 2 delivers its gameplay and provides plenty of fun for car simulation enthusiast, 
 those who are NOT into car simulators will find themselves frustrated and disapointed in Forza 
 2's offerings, but for the average gamer, it is love or hate situation. Enthusiast may enter and 
 others should rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The good: real simulaton driving, more customizable icons can be made from the game or by the official 
 website makes it oustanding t boost your opinions, more cars re-updated at least 303 cars in the 
 start of the game
  
  The bad: The race sound in cockpit doesn't seem make a sound bu it does fade quite much, making 
 bids in actuion house can be huge risk (When you think your gonna be a millionare spending buying 
 Race class cars for jealousy
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay has never been this exciting and if your fed up of music that ruins your 
 concentration of your game, this game is just right for you, if you think Mom this game doesn't 
 turn the music on this game sucks bad then that game is not for you for the excat point. Actually 
 it can handle stuff in gears and real life car tuning, if you think your a smart driver, then take 
 the race without the braking or the suggested line, if you think your gettting complicated fromt 
 this game turn the suggested line to learn about real driving how you can be a driver when you 
 reach 17 years of age.
  
  Graphics: Real like but not as impressive than Gran turismo can do, but the damage is like when 
 you are doing it in reality but it's not that realiestic to show who has the real damage from Gran 
 turismo, Flat out, Burnout and other series as this. But if you think you can try the tracks try 
 and beat the weather.
  
  Sound: Hmm also not even better than last installmnt but it seems inpressive enviorment sounds 
 but Gran turismo has a different tone of view from sounds but i cannot suggest to think but the 
 sound seems ok but when in the cockpit, not so much.
  
  Value: It's easy to do it on the steering wheel control to see if you can handle it manly and hope 
 you can be better, without assists online can be your challenge if your awesome at this game.
 
  
  Tilt: It's a must-buy and play, this game features almost realistic thing of all the aspects it 
 can bring and keeps things very impressive and awesome for racing and forza fans to impress everybody 
 to think there own style of this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What a game, the first Forza was brilliant and this just takes it up to another level.
  
  The graphics in this game are just superb, the surrounding area's, the detail of the cars and 
 even the tiny details like car reflections and crowd movement. It's a very beautiful game too look 
 at.
  
  The sound in this game is also superb, great details in engine noise, gear changes and background 
 noises.
  
  Gameplay is very similar to the original and as great as ever, the cars behave like you would expect 
 them too when really driving them, it becomes more tricky when turning the assists off, fuel usage 
 also comes into consideration in longer endurance races, tire wear is also a great aspect of the 
 game because as they wear away the car becomes harder to drive, more difficult to turn and alot 
 harder to keep it on the road. The game is very deep with detail with cars, the upgrades and the 
 customisation such as paint decals, preset colours etc. There are 2 major flaws with this game 
 that i can find and they are, just like the original there are no weather effects and that is quite 
 a large flaw for me personally as not all racing takes place in the dry and as a racing sim i believe 
 it should have real life weather conditions. There are also a shortage of tracks and several tracks 
 hijacked from the original. Other than that this game is perfect and a definite purchase for any 
 racing game / sim fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is a racing sim that does the genre well. What this means is that your not going 
 to be able to take a hairpin turn at 150 MPH. Instead, you must slow down while going into the 
 turn and accelerate when getting out. I would characterize Foza Motorsport at the opposite end 
 of the spectrum in comparison to something like Burnout (arcade racer) where PGR would fit into 
 the midddle of both.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 contains quite the extensive career mode. It features over 300 races some that 
 will last you more than hour (endurance races) . Now even though this may seem like a ton, it acctually 
 isn't. One of the main dissapointments of this game is the lack of tracks. There is appoximately 
 only 12 tracks in the game, and they can only be costimized to be either longer or shorter versions 
 of each track. This makes the career mode slightly boring and repetitve after the 200th race. If 
 you don't feel like racing through it, you can hire a driver (they get a percentage of your earnings 
 ranging from 55% to 100%) . One thing that must be noted is that there is a ton of cars in this 
 game, over 300. The cars range from tuners to race cars (Formula 1) . Visually this game is not 
 spectacular, but its definitly good enough for this generation. The car models are nice, but the 
 actual environments are quite bland. If your coming from PGR3, this game is by no means better 
 visually. The other recent car racing game Dirt , has much more impressive visuals.
  
  The menu music in this game is terrible. Luckily it only plays during the menu, but I have it turned 
 off anyways. The cars sound nice. If you add a turbocharger or a supercharger into your car you 
 definitly knowtice a change in your cars sound. Some tracks have an audience (btw, they are 2D, 
 LOL) , that sounds rediculously stupid and rather annoying.
  
  This game has great value if you can get into it. It feutures an extensive career mode (as mentioned 
 before) , an arcade mode where you can set times in time trials, and full online support with an 
 auction house. So far my experience online in this game has been terrible though. I find when ever 
 I get into a race there are people who do not know how to drive and end up running right into me. 
 There are also games where the person doesn't knowtify you that they have forced manual transmission 
 or no break lines (stupid idea in my oppinion, you should be given the choice for these things, 
 not the host) . I have also entered games where people purposly run you off the track. This is a 
 great multiplayer experience if you can find either a good room, or a bunch of friends to play 
 with. You can as a I mentioned above, purchase cars from other people at the auction house. This 
 game allows you to costomize most cars to whatever you would dream of. You can use decals to make 
 designs (I have a Gears of War car) , tune your car, upgrade its parts (engine, exhaust, spoilers, 
 etc.) , and paint it different colours. Most cars being sold on the marketplace have designs that 
 people have created.
  
  In all Forza Motorsport 2 is a very enjoyable game if you love cars. It has many problems, and 
 I can't seem to understand why there are not that many tracks and that the tracks are very ugly 
 looking, but who cares. This game is about cars right, building, painting and racing them. Forza 
 Motorsport 2 is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamienRulz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and i normally dont like racing games, I didn't like Gran Turismo because of 
 the turning and the AI, Turning is really hard and the AI Is stupid. This Game improves on all 
 the downfalls of Gran Turismo. The AI is next generation for sure, Bump into them, they might get 
 angry and come after you, or get scared and fall back. You barely notice the AI because they drive 
 just like you want them to. The Graphics Look Just like a car, Watching the Replay is just like 
 watching a real life Race but with better camera angle's. The customisation is really in-depth 
 and you can pick whatever your favourite car is to Paint, Customise, Improve and much more. The 
 Cars look awesome, especially metallic, Lancer Evolution, Corvette Etc... But the Land scape isnt 
 100%, the people are 3D which makes it really realistic, plus damage modelling makes it even better, 
 even if its not 100% atleast its still there! The songs are a good choice for this kind of game 
 to.
  
  Racing fans Must Must have this game, Also good for others to.
  
  I am Glad i chose this game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsom111
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The sense of speed, the feel of the brakes, the throttle response all dead on . No all or nothing 
 on the gas. Keep you corner speed up hit the apex and power out with precision. Each car lets you 
 know where it's limits are and if you don't repect them you in the wall or spun out. Damage not 
 quite real world but if you bin it you can feel your alignment pulling you to one side or the other, 
 steering gets sloppy, brakes fade. Most Racing Sims. leave you thinking A real car wouldn't feel 
 or react this way . Its tough to channel the feeling of a 2500lb car through a controller but this 
 game does it better than Racing Sim yet. And that's saying alot. Whether is a Ford Focus or a Daytona 
 Prototype, it puts you in the car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgjunkey34n8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is sick, best racing game ever made... by far. there are over 300 cars i've only seen 
 about 70-80 but they are all very detailed, i mean beautifully detailed. the physics are awsome, 
 you can tell the difference from car to car how they handle differently, including sound wich was 
 done very well. customizing cars is awsome there are so many different schemes to choose from and 
 a decent amount of car parts. this is a must own for gear heads and even light hearted car fans, 
 you know what if you have a 360 you should own this game!!!
  
  gamplay: very smooth, as close as any game has come to nailing car phisics. graphics: cars look 
 great but the tracks are so very pretty plus there arent many of them.
  
  sound: cars sound like their real life counter parts. the music is not my style but thats not enough 
 to ruin the sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkcoolman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  So finally Microsofts sequel to Forza Motorsport makes its debut on the Xbox 360. So is this 
 highly anticipated racing simulation as good as it is cracked up to be ? Over all the game is solid. 
 The game has a lengthy offline career, which rewards you as you progress, with cars and in game 
 credits. To add to the replay value of the game there is also online racing in which you can either 
 race for fun, or continue your career online, earning credits to buy new cars or upgrade parts. 
 Whether you take your driving seriously, or just for fun, this game is for you. With three AI difficulties 
 and an array of driving assists, this game can be approached by driving pros or young kids. Being 
 a racing simulation the car physics are very important. Youll be glad to know then that the physic 
 in Forza Motorsport 2 are A+. The physics now runs at 360 frames per second, which helps make the 
 cars react more realistically. This game easily has the most in depth car physics ever seen in 
 a racing game for a console (if not PC aswell) , the depth and detail of elements that affect the 
 cars handing is unparallel. One of the main attractions of this game away from the great car physics 
 and car models is the customization. You can design anything you like on your car and sell it for 
 credits, or best of all take your car online and show your mates and the rest of the world your 
 artist flair.
  
  Below are more detailed info about the game:
  
  Graphics
  
  The visuals are great. It runs at a native 720p at steady 60fps. Car models are very details. Although 
 just like the original there is no inside car view. The anti aliasing on the car models is good 
 and the tracks look very much like their real life counterparts. The damage looks great (admittedly 
 Colin Rae: DiRT seems to have better damage, but considering this game has licenses like Ferrari 
 its great) . If I were to pick a few minor points, it be the poor quality reflections on the hood 
 of the cars. Some textures on the tracks are not great either.
  
  Sound The cars sounds are really good, just as you would expect from a triple A racing sim. The 
 sounds of shattering glass or the thud of hitting a cone all sound great. The 5.1 surround sound 
 is excellent, and is an improvement from the original as there is now a sound channel for the front 
 centre. They have also worked on the LFE channel output, for great rumbling sound effects. The 
 only down side of the in-game sounds would be crowds are not that diverse, but if your paying attention 
 to that then your not playing it right. Lastly the music in the menus is so much better than the 
 annoying music in the original game. Customization
  Well one slight annoying thing about the customization especially with car livery designs is that 
 there are no points for doing it. As I think I have spend about 25 hours painting/decal cars alone. 
 Which I could have earned points in the career with those hours . Never the less it is good, but 
 still hard to make great designs. If you have played the original Forza Motorsport youll be 
 pleased to see that they have made some improvements to the car painting area. You still cant 
 import Jpeg images onto your car, nor can you use a paint brush, but they have increased the number 
 of vinyl shapes as well as increasing the numbers of layers to a staggering 4000. You can also 
 save vinyl groups and save you whole car livery to stamp on other cars you have. This is very handy 
 for making cars to sell in the auction house or for car clubs to use the same team liveries. The 
 game is very physics based so as with the previous game even the slightest change to your car can 
 effect it performance. There are a huge array of licensed parts; from wheels, to engines and body 
 kits. Even for cars without many body kits, Forza have designed their own. Each car will start 
 in a certain class (these range from D-U class and racing cars R4-R1 class) . Within that class 
 the car is given a performance index (P. I.) . This number denotes how competitive this cars will 
 be in that class. By changing parts on your car you will increase its P. I. There is a limit of 
 the P. I for each class, if you go over it your car will jump into the next class. This creates 
 a game in its self of trying to get your car as close to the class limit without going over it.
 
  
  Tracks
  
  There are 45 tracks, but this is only derived from 12 environments (shortened versions, reversed 
 etc) . Though saying this you dont noticed it too much. The game features 8 real world tracks they 
 are :
  
  Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca
  Mugello Autodromo Internazionale
  Nurburgring Nordschleife
  Road Atlanta
  Sebring International Raceway
  Silverstone
  Suzuka 
 Circuit
  Tsukba Circuit
  
  As before there is a option to show the dynamic racing line. They have improved this feature by 
 letting you choose to view only the braking areas.
  
  Auction House
  The auction house is where you can sell you cars. You can also sell cars with custom parts and 
 liveries. If you dont want people to edit/copy your design you can also lock it, so that they 
 are either stuck with your design or have to remove all of it. The auction house would be better 
 if you could name the design on your car and search for that name but other than that it works 
 fine and is easy to search for any class, make, model etc.
  
  Achievement Points As for the point in this game, well they'll take a long time to get but nothing 
 really looks hard in it. Although I have many million credits earned in the single player career, 
 the million credits earned online achievement personally sounds the hardest. Levelling up is relatively 
 easy if you put in the time. I am level 41 and I had only played the game for 1 week 3 days and 
 I also had time to complete all of the arcade section including time trials. Saying this I had 
 played it for many hours during that time. So the average person will take much longer. Though 
 it still is not hard to earn Achievement points for levelling up if you put the time in even if 
 you dont play the game in the hardest difficulty.
  
  Steering Wheel Well this game works very well with the official 360 wireless steering wheel. It 
 feels much more natural that what the PGR3 force feedback was like. I played with the wheel for 
 the first 20 hours of playing the game and really enjoyed it. The only advantage of the wheel is 
 that your steering tends to be much smoother and precise. It obviously feels more realistic but 
 controller is perfectly fine for playing the game if you don't have one.
  
  Limited Collectors Edition
  
  The limited collectors edition caused some outrage in the US 
 as it wasnt announced for that region, but is it really worth it? Well basically that is your 
 preference. For &pound;10 more you get different packaging, a 156 Page book and three cars which 
 you can only get with this edition.
  
  The book contains info about how the game was made and their vision for the Forza Motorsport games, 
 about each car manufacturer, tracks, racing school (helps you learn how to drive the perfect line) .
 
  
  The 3 Bonus Cars are 2003 Ferrari Challenge Stradale*
  2006 Saleen S281E*
  2006 Subaru Impreza S204*
  
  *Please note you must be connected to Xbox Live to download these 
 cars, the box contains a card you redeem them from xbox live. If you dont have an internet connection 
 you cant get these.
  
  Over all they are nice to have but if you dont get this addition there isnt much your missing 
 out on.
  
  Final thought:
  I you like racing games and you have an xbox 360 then this game is a must buy
  
  
  
  My 
 tips for playing the game.
  
  1. Don't got buy loads of cars. Don't got buy loads of cars just because you like them, else you 
 could run out of credits when you need them. This has never happened to me in racing games like 
 this but I know people do that. why bother when you are given plenty of cars for playing the game. 
 I say only purchase them when you really need them: If you can't enter without buying a car (although 
 if there are other races try them, you might unlock a car that will work in the previous race and 
 save your self credits) . Or if you are filthy rich and really like the car but still watch out 
 if you haven't got near the end of the career as you have to think about car AND the cost of upgrades.
 
  
  2. Spend time painting up one good design. Spend time painting up one good design. Then sell cheap 
 cars from your own region with your design on it. It's like printing money and you'll get a achievement 
 after a while for doing this.
  
  3. Concentration is Key 
  This is really the most important thing I can say when racing. It is so easy to be leading a race 
 for ages and loose focus for a second, most of the time causing you vital damage and race position.
 
  
  4. Dont cut corners
  Unlike other racing games, cutting corners doesn't pay. Even on concrete your cars will slow down, 
 get caught in the sand or grass as it's like driving in syrup. You'll also get a time penalty for 
 it, so if your doing a time trial stay on the track or your time will be much longer. Saying all 
 this though, there are a few places that is worth cutting (if your just racing and not caring about 
 lap times) . Try finding them they are very useful. 5. Brakes are more important than your accelerator
 
  Believe it or not, braking is more important (especially with no ABS) . At all times remember your 
 braking points. Obviously this will change from car to car but once you work out where they are 
 keep it in your mind. If you don't brake enough, you will be well off of the racing line or even 
 worse smashed up against a wall. Nearly all your mistakes will usually be down to braking, just 
 remember you have to be slow to be fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  First of all I'll start off by saying that forza 2 is a great game and is most probably the best 
 racing game on the xbox 360, if you enjoy racing games then you will probably love it the game 
 is so packed full of options and things to do that it could hold a racing enthusiats attention 
 for months maybe even years. My problem with this game is that I don't like racing games that much 
 and whilst I have had some fun on this game it just seams a tad repetative to me. I have done countless 
 races and spent many hours playing through the career mode which is basically where the heart of 
 the game lies. The carrer mode is long and laborious after played for a fair enough time. There 
 just arn't enough tracks to race on (this may sound stupid as there are a total of 45 tracks but 
 its the amount of laps that you end up doing on each race that makes them just dam repetative oiverall 
 once you've raced a 10 lap race round a track you won't want to go back to that track to do another 
 race in a long time. Another factor is that all of the tracks races take place during the daytime 
 with the same weather effects, all im asking for is a couple of night races to spice the game up 
 a little is that really too much to ask. However having said all of the problems that I feel that 
 I have with forza there is still a lot of enjoyment to be had with the game. The sheer amount of 
 cars is a godsend and really saves the game and the fact that you can acctually feel the difference 
 between each car and have to get used to each car you are going to race with is truly brilliant. 
 The online proportion of the game is fairly good in, or well it should be appart from the fact 
 that everyone online seems to want to bash you off the road right at the start of the race and 
 this is one of those games where one mistake basically means that you aint gonna be a able to pull 
 to race back into your favour, if you can find a decent set of people to play with then I am sure 
 this game is brilliant online, but the task will be finding these people. The game also includes 
 leveling up levels for each individual car and levels for your driver. When leveling up it doesn't 
 make you better in anyway more so that it gives you rewards such as discounts off cars instead. 
 It would have been nice if leveling up gave skill improvements however it was not to be.
  
  Gmeplay- Good, long single player but an annoying multiplayer (in my experiences) each car handles 
 differently, but beware for a serious lack of track variation.
  
  Graphics- As far as the 360 goes they are really poor they arn't fuzion frenzy poor but there is 
 nothing here I wouldn't really feel couldn't have been done on less of a system, it just doesn't 
 really push the 360.
  
  Sound- There are a few menu music tracks that quickly become repetative and the cars don't really 
 sound like there real life counterparts you will begin to notice that there are a lot of cars that 
 basically sound 6he same.
  
  Value- A long game if you can stick with it. Overall I feel that I desperitly want to like forza 
 more than I acctually do and its the lack of tracks and variety in the acctual racing that really 
 puts me off the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galzakian
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. Superb. Mind-blowing. Just some of the words you can use to describe all that is Forza 
 Motorsport 2. Forza Motorsport 2 strikes a great balance between being accessible to gamers who 
 just love to race a car, as well as gamers who want to tune and tweak what's under the hood to 
 draw out the maximum potential from a car.
  
  The amount of work and research put into this game by the developers is quickly seen when you see 
 the amount of detail put into each car - everything just feels so right. The damage done to the 
 car when you crash, the type of upgrades available, the visual upgrades... it's all there in truckloads. 
 On top of the normal options available in any good old racing game; Time Trails, Arcade, Multiplayer, 
 etc. you also have Career mode. Career mode begins by seeing you choose which region you wish to 
 start in. This is an important choice, as it affects which cars are immediately available to you, 
 what parts you can buy, and how much they cost. Although you can change regions later on in the 
 game, it is quite expensive, so you want to be sure about which region you're going to call home. 
 Once you've chosen your region, you're given credits with which to buy a car. Naturally, you can't 
 just go out and buy a Ferrari Enzo and get started, you've got to think smaller, and work your 
 way up. Once you've chosen a car you can either start racing, or if you're a true motor-head, get 
 to work on the engine, brakes and all the other parts, to optimize your performance. This ability 
 to tune parts is just one of the reasons why Forza Motorsport 2 is such a brilliant racing simulator. 
 The level of detail and customization is like nothing I have ever seen before. You could spend 
 hours upon hours just tweaking and adjusting scales to get the right balance to suit your driving 
 style.
  
  Once you're finished tweaking, you can get out there and race your piece of machinery. But before 
 that, you can even adjust the level of difficulty. The level of difficulty can be adjusted in separate 
 parts, and the level of difficulty you choose determines how many credits you receive for completing 
 the race.
  
  Difficulty is separated into AI level, damage level, ABS on/off, and various other options. All 
 of these serve to increase or decrease the amount of difficulty you'll experience racing the car, 
 allowing the simple novice to just get out there and drive without having to worry about overheating 
 tyres, or braking too hard and losing control. As you begin to feel more comfortable racing, you 
 can choose to increase the difficulty, increasing the amount of credits you gain for completing 
 a race. As you complete more and more races, earning credits, your driver level increases, opening 
 up new cars, new tracks, and new parts and discounts on them, allowing you to fill up your garage 
 with new cars.
  
  The level of detail and graphics put into the cars and the tracks is stunning. Everything has been 
 created to match real life, down to the finest detail.
  
  Online play has countless of race options, tournaments are constantly being held, and the thrill 
 of racing against up to 7 people at a time on a track is truly an exciting experience for anyone.
 
  There is even an Auction centre, allowing gamers to create cars, tune them, paint them and put 
 their heart and soul into them, then sell them to potential owners over Xbox Live.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is an amazing racing simulator, and a fantastic game. If you're a car enthusiast, 
 this is a must have game. And if you're not, well, this is still a must-have game for any XBOX 
 360 owner. The amount of time and effort put into this game by the developers is obvious to anyone 
 who has played this game, and anyone who does not have this game is missing out on a true masterpiece. 
 Vroom-vroom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidan4000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game before 2 days and i already finished 11% of the career, and this game i cant 
 leave it at all i play it at least 5 hours a day , so lets start the review.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  as you are gonna expect this game is racing sim everything in it is real and 
 as real world, first you have to choose your home land then buy a car from it , after you buy your 
 very first car you have a lot of options if you wanna paint it (which is painting for free you 
 dont have to pay ) or upgrading or go to race , you have a level of the driver and level of the 
 car the level goes up when you get money no matter if you got it offline or online , when you level 
 up you have access to more races and you get discounts on cars (not all cars that depends on your 
 region) and if you level up your car you get discounts on part such as rims and clutches and turbo 
 etc.. now let me talk about the customization , when you customize a car dont expect yourself in 
 NFSU2 no you can only choose 4 or 3 of the body kits for example when you wanna change the bumper 
 you will find 3 replacements and thats same for the skirts and wing depends on the car type. but 
 thats not really important because what really makes the car look deffirent is paint job , dont 
 be afraid you dont have to draw anime and such to be consedired as artist , like me i hate paint 
 and i hate art class but when it comes to cars you just pick a vinyl here and vinyl there combine 
 them and here you go you have a good looking car , the trick is how to combine them but you have 
 to patient and it requires you a lot of time to do that even if its simple job.
  theres someplace in the game called auction house its the perfect place for lazy people or the 
 people that didnt open new cars yet , im talking about lazy people that who hate to make custom 
 jobs so if you know how to paint a car then the auction house is your place , in auction you can 
 put a starter price and people start to bid or you can put a buyout price and soon as somebody 
 buys it you just go to get your money , very fun to do. online mode is just cool somebody host a 
 game and he makes his own rules you get in the game and you start to race and you win money when 
 you win and your driver gets upgraded ... and theres a lot of things to mention here you can find 
 out about them when you buy the game i dont wanna spoil it more.
  
  Graphics:
  
  i have 12 years old philps sdtv and the graphics looks blast on it the car shapes the vinyls , 
 some people will think when you put a vinyl it will be blurry on the car and not real , no its 
 only blurry when you start to paint it as soon as you finish the paint will be normal and will 
 look like a real paint, the backgrounds looks good and sun looks real , the graphics will not gonna 
 disappoint you.
  
  Sound:
  
  ohhh baby now we are in the best part of the game car sounds , every car have its unique sound 
 and sure when you change the exhaust or put turbo the car will sound like a monster. and dont expect 
 to find a car sound looks like another car sound that will not happen because its sim. what is 
 cool too is crashing sounds , when you crash by a car thats weight is 1500 kgm dont expect to hear 
 beautiful sound, its just terrifying it feels like a real accedint when you crash , the music some 
 of it good and some is just a joke but you will not gonna care much about it coz theres no racing 
 music so you can concentrate on the race, if you wanna music go and download NFSU2 soundtrack and 
 make it as a playlist for your xbox360 and thats it.
  
  Value:
  
  long long long game will take you forever to finish it , a lot of cars to buy and a lot of things 
 to do on your cars , the value of this game is just great.
  
  Tilt:
  
  this game is a must have if you loved GT series ( i loved it to death but not anymore) if you crazy 
 about sims then you are in your home ,and if you hated GT series then stay a mile away from this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetjunks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  First things first, most people who haven't played this are probably expecting a Gran Turismo rip-off. 
 Which you would be correct to say until you actually play this title and realize now that Gran 
 Turismo needs to emulate this game. In Forza its not just the drive physics that are realistic 
 its the whole shabamm. You can't drive a car into a wall and expect to drive away with the same 
 looking and performing car. FM2 actually takes damage and does it beautifully. In fact the graphics 
 are some of the best out on the 360. Another thing Forza does right, is there are no licenses to 
 get before you can start to race. If you race and win enough money your level goes up when your 
 level goes up more races unlock. Other nice touches are the in game snapshots you can take. If 
 you happen to lose control of your car and end up smashing it with another you can pause, go into 
 picture mode and zoom in and out, adding blur and other effects and even post it on the Forza website 
 for all to see. This game is the definite racing game of the year so far on the 360 between the 
 beautiful look and the smooth play of arcade or career it does everything right. The music and 
 sound was the only lackluster part, but is forgivin due to the fact it plays so good. As of right 
 now its Gran Turismo that needs to catch up as Forza is burning past its tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewishhh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  To some it may seem a bit dull, but its a sim so what do you expect, i dont know how to describe 
 it but its just fun.
  
  Graphics
  
  Excellent, although some parts of the game are again a little dull for example the tracks, but 
 great nonetheless.
  
  Sound
  
  The Music is ok, but the engine sounds are awesome, also you cant listen to music while driving, 
 which is disappointing.
  
  Value
  
  Career will take around 40-50 hours, not including modding, buying and painting cars, a very big 
 game
  
  Overall
  
  Get this game, even if you are not a big racing fan, it wont disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjake2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun to play. First its beautiful, the game play is so awesome, the cars are so 
 real. This is simulator not a game. The cars handle like real cars, damage like real cars, feel 
 like real cars. I bought the game 2 weeks ago and im already at 54% in the carreer mode. I played 
 like over 40 hours and im not even close from finished. This game packs a lot of replay value.
 
  
  You will love the fact that there is over 300 cars in the game to chose from. From a honda civic 
 to a pure racing car. The custumization is awesome. You can pimp a lancia hatchback to do 0-60 
 in 2.2 sec lol. There is a lot to do and alot to see. This game is not a rent but a buy. You would 
 have to rent it for so many days it would come out to the price of 5 games.
  
  Go buy this game if you love real fun racing. This is 10 times better then grand tourismo. You 
 cant pimp a car to 1200hp and hug walls. You hit a wall and you might not be even able to steer 
 the car properly. The damage in this game is even more real then the first forza.
  
  9.8/10
  
  Jake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese_krackers
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 blew me away! Just from the start. You could choose which country to start to get ur car 
 and so on. After you get your money, you can do anything to your car, from paint jobs, performance, 
 looks, rims, etc.
  Its crazy all the things you can do to make your car look right, sometimes confusing, but you get 
 the hang of it.
  
  Also, the game itself is awesome, when your driving and your oponent fishtails you into a wall, 
 the damage is done, its really realistic, after a big crash ur car can barely gain speed, its all 
 smashed up and beaten, i really like how its so realistic, its about time for a game with realistic 
 crashes!
  
  The sound is also a good part of this game, really good effects, when crashing you can hear your 
 tires screeching, then your car hitting the wall.
  Everything else, engine, other cars whizzing by you, its great.
  I really liked this game, it 
 was almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the original's release a few years ago, Forza Motorsport has become the Gran Turismo 
 of the Xbox and Xbox 360. Now that Forza has come to the Xbox 360, it completely reinvents the 
 Racing Sim genre again. With a much improved multiplayer, solid single player, more innovative 
 gameplay, Forza 2 raises the bar that Forza 1 set.
  
  The first thing a player will probably do after buying Forza 1 is start a career on his/her gamer 
 profile. The career mode in Forza 2 is very similar to Forza 1, if not almost identical. Players 
 start off by selecting a home region from three regions (Europe, North America, Asia) , in which 
 he/she will eventually recieve discounts on cars, parts, and more from that region, For example, 
 a driver whose home is in Europe will earn discounts from Ferarri, Audi, Volkswagen, etc., and 
 the performance parts for each with each driver level he/she gains. Driver levels play a large 
 role in Forza 2, much like they did in Forza 1: with each level, the driver earns access to more 
 races, performance parts, cars, and discounts. Career mode almost looks untouched from Forza 1, 
 with the exception of some new tracks and car brands. Sadly, there are a few features missing from 
 Forza 2 that were found in Forza 1: primarily the drivatar feature. In Forza 1, the player had 
 a choice to perform a series of driving tests to create a drivatar that could be used to race at 
 the same skill level of the player. I really enjoyed this feature in the first one, but was upset 
 that it could not be found in Forza 2. Overall, the single player remains almost untouched from 
 Forza 1 to Forza 2. There is a series of arcade-type races players can do (which is where the bulk 
 of the game's achievements are) , but most of the time spent on single player will be in the Career 
 Mode.
  
  However, most gametime overall will probably be found in Forza 2's completely redone online multiplayer. 
 The one thing Forza 1 lacked was an extensive multiplayer to keep players playing the game after 
 they finished the Career Mode. Online was limited to Exhibition Races, Driving Teams/Clans, and 
 the ability to sell custom cars over Xbox Live (the latter being the most innovative feature) . 
 Though there are no driver teams found in Forza 2, and exhibition is the exact same, the Career 
 Race mode has been added to online racing modes in Forza 2. This allows players to race online 
 against other people, and earn credits toward their Career Mode bank. This gives players more flexibility 
 in how they play, and how they earn money instead of being confined to single player races. Also, 
 the online racing lobbies and party leader options have been improved too. Instead of having to 
 search for a completely new game everytime a host quits, the lobby automatically selects a new 
 party leader once he leaves ala Halo 2. Also, the party leader can narrow the competition of the 
 race with a large variety of game options that range from turning collisions off, to how damage 
 affects your car. This allows you to get into a fun match without losing all of the time. There 
 aren't too many problems online... but there are a few small ones that can make or break a game. 
 First, the effects of lag on a racer can be almost devastating. The slightest lag spike can send 
 a player flying into a wall, or worse. Also, there are some small glitches that happen during online 
 play: I've experienced races that one person can get into the race while the other people sit in 
 the lobby, allowing him to win a large sum of money very easily. Other than that, however, online 
 mode is fun to play, and holds up pretty well.
  
  The ability to sell and buy cars online has completely changed for the better as well. Instead 
 of being limited to one-on-one transactions, Forza 2 comes complete with its own community Auction 
 House. World of Warcraft players will feel right at home here with the ability to create an auction 
 with a minimum bid, and an optional buyout price for the entire community to see. You can put any 
 car in your garage on the auction house, and even lock the design on it to prevent anyone from 
 tampering with your custom masterpiece. This system works a ton better than the one-on-one buying 
 system because everyone browsing the Auction House can see the amazing custom designs that can 
 be created. Another feature that remains completely revolutionary today is the car designing. Players 
 can almost limitlessly use the vinyls and shapes the game provides to create amazing works of art 
 on their cars. Just by viewing the auction house, you can get an idea of how in-depth and amazing 
 these designs can be. Some are very intricate and utilize almost all of the 1000 available layers, 
 but others are often crude, profane, and otherwise not worth what they're charging. Another small 
 problem with creating and selling cars is that some car designs become very commonplace due to 
 a creator's mass production of cars with that design, or a forgetful owner's desicion to not make 
 his/her car design locked, allowing the buyer to mass produce the same car design. Overall though, 
 it's a feature that has made Forza so great, and continues to add to the value of the game. A second 
 thing that makes Forza 2 stand out so much from other racers is it's fantastic graphical presentation. 
 Especially on HD, cars look exactly like their real-life counterparts. All lighting and texture 
 effects are very well done, and the frame-rate is very solid. Occasionally, parts of the track 
 and the environment don't load up as soon as you get to them, leaving black chunks of track and 
 environment missing for a short time, leading to some indecisiveness on where to go. Also, car 
 damage doesn't really look exactly realistic, but it does give the player a good idea of how hard 
 he's been hit, but after a certain amount of hits, the damage seems to stop piling on visually. 
 Other than that, Forza 2 holds up very well graphically save its minor flaws, and is definately 
 the best looking racer out there.
  
  The final thing that adds to Forza's greatness is its soundtrack. Forza 1's soundtrack I found 
 to be very dull; composed mainly of slow songs with very light guitar riffs. This time around, 
 Forza is sporting a mainly techno, pop/hip-hop album, and it fits right in perfectly. With songs 
 ranging from Gnarls Barkley's version of Gone Daddy Gone to a mix of N. E. R. D.'s Rockstar , and 
 much more in between, Forza 2's soundtrack is one of the best I've seen in a racing game if not 
 the best. Other than the soundtrack, the sound effects are really well done: especially crashing 
 sound effects. The crashing effects can almost make you cringe if you get hit hard enough... that's 
 how good they are. The engine effects are good, however there isn't a huge variety to engine sounds. 
 Overall, Forza 2 builds on the impression the first Forza gave us. It continues to give us a super-realistic, 
 innovative look on cars that only real car fanatics can truely appreciate, but it's not only for 
 the car fanatics. Anyone who has a remote interest in tuning cars can pick up and start tuning 
 cars using Forza's easily accessable upgrade system (though the tuning takes a lot more time due 
 to its difficulty) . Even if you aren't interested in tuning cars, Forza's design system is unparalled 
 by any game, and allows for true artists to show off their works via the new Auction House. So 
 whether you'll be tuning cars, racing them, designing them, selling, buying, trading, or even giving 
 cars away, there should be something in Forza to please any car fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papas_slave
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  The graphics, sounds all that good stuff is amazing. One of the best racing games i ever played 
 but the only problem i didn't like was the single player mode. I usually only have 1 car i race 
 with throughout the whole game, this you have to have multiple cars all upgraded. But other than 
 that little flaw i think the game was amazing all around. It wasn't one of those games you go 200 
 mph and somehow make an amazing turn around a u-turn corner. The drifting and braking i thought 
 we're perfect going around corners. Seemed like i was actually driving my car :D. Oh and the cars 
 look really beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game because I wanted to create cars that were unique to myself and something 
 no one else had and then race them. This game lets you do that and more. The game has a lot of 
 different modes to play in, both online and off, and has a high degree of competiveness built into 
 many aspects of itself.
  
  This is the best racing game to date and hope more people pick it up.
  
  the only issue I have 
 with it, is the lag you experience once in a while in the game, which luckily, is rare.. Getting 
 into online games is easy and there are tons of them going all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I guess the best way to describe Forza 2 is that everything that made the original Forza great 
 is in Forza 2, along with other improvements. Forza 2 has more cars, more tracks, more paint and 
 decal options, and better graphics. It also has solid car physics, good sound effects, and a good 
 soundtrack. This review covers only the off-line portion of the game.
  
  Forza 2 plays just like the original so anyone who has played the original Forza will have no problem 
 navigating through the game and will feel right at home. For you newcomers, welcome to Forza, the 
 game has easy to navigate menus so it's no problem. You will chose your home region (US, Asia, or 
 Europe) , buy your car, and start racing and upgrading your car. As you win prize money your driver 
 level will increase unlocking new cars to buy and giving you larger discounts on cars from your 
 home region. That prize money will also upgrade the car level for the car that your using. Increasing 
 the level of the car will earn you discounts on parts for that make (ex. Ford) and sometimes makes 
 of the same region (Ex. Chevy, Dodge, Shelby, Saleen) .
  
  Cars in Forza 2 are ranked in class, D (the slowest) through A, S and U (the fastest) for production 
 cars. Race cars are R4 through R1. New to Forza 2 is the performace index which is a numercal value 
 that will help you to upgrade your car and still stay in a certain class rating as some races are 
 only for certain car classes just like in the original Forza. All the same upgrade options that 
 were in Forza 1 are in Forza 2, intakes, exhaust, heads and cams, engine blocks, brakes, suspension, 
 tires, trannys, weight reduction, engine swaps, and some other stuff. One complaint I have so far 
 is that it seems that when you upgrade cars it doesn't change the sound of the car like it did 
 in the original Forza. I did extensive upgrades to a Viper and it sounded like it was factory stock. 
 While this isn't that big of a deal it's something I've wanted in games since Gran Tursimo and 
 I thought it was a very cool feature of the original Forza. I have a Corvette that sounded so bad 
 ass I loved watching the replays just to hear that thing roar.
  
  Forza 2 is a great game, fans of sim racers should take the time to check it out, you shouldn't 
 be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin20
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game, like all racing games strives to be the best, the best graphics, the best phisics, the 
 best online expirence, unfortuently I believe that no game will ever be perfect, but this is the 
 best high def racer to date, the graphics are great, yet the framerate is locked at 60 FPS which 
 is the key to a great gameplay expirence. There are alot of positive things about this games but 
 there are some negitve things too, even with the best artistic talent and you lock your paintjob, 
 there are those that use glitch and will steal paintjobs, and those who glitch during games, but 
 patches can fix that with no problem, there is no game now that can beat this as a racer now. This 
 game is a fantastic buy, defenatly worth your $60.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REDLiNE_10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the best racing sim I've played to date. It builds on top of the original 
 formula which Gran Turismo truly pioneered. The thing that really set Forza apart from Gran Turismo 
 has to be the car customization. It has got to be one of the most in depth customization feature 
 in a game (besides Midnight Club 3 Dub Edition) . You can truly make your car your own from painting 
 the car, adding an incredible amount of graphic layers (do you know how many General Lee's I've 
 seen online!?) , even changing rim style, size and width!!! Think of Forza like the World of Warcraft 
 of the car racing genre. Also Forza has actual damage (it's pretty good but not perfect, cars could 
 fall apart more or crumple more) and you leave tread marks on the ground. That alone makes it more 
 realistic than the GT series.
  
  Another thing I have to give the Turn 10 team props for is the A. I. It's a very nice change to 
 have a computer opponent that actually brakes early because you brake early and one that actually 
 tries to go around you. And because the A. I. uses the same driving physics as the user it can make 
 mistakes occasionally. Once you've played enough of the single career and you got some sweet rides 
 to compete with it's time to jump online. This portion of the game is sooo much fun. You really 
 test your skill and vehicles abilities when you race against thousands that are out to do the same 
 thing. Tuning becomes a big factor here. You want your car set up so it's easy for you to control 
 and isn't sliding all over the place (even though yes it does look very cool) . Also one setup might 
 work great for let's say Laguna Seca (tight turns) , but you might have to make a whole new setup 
 for a track like Mazda Speed Way or New York (mainly top speed) . Real world knowledge of cars and 
 driving physics is an asset but it can be learned along the way. This time around you can tell 
 the physics have been tweaked and I think the cars are a little easier to control in this game 
 compared to the first one. If you set a car up properly you can drift a whole course pretty easily 
 (if you're good at counter steering) and make some pretty cool replay videos. The feel of the game 
 feels like a mix between Forza and Gran Turismo 3, hard to put my finger on why but you'll get 
 it when you play it.
  
  My only problem with the game is I wish there were a few more tracks for variety (maybe some point 
 to point racing?) and more deep dish rims to pick from. Both of which can be solved with down loadable 
 content and neither are that big of a deal.
  
  Overall pretty much any racing fan with a 360 should own this game. It can appeal to the casual 
 racer or a hardcore driver (thanks to the ability to turn off or on assists, damage and difficulty 
 levels) . So basically what I'm saying is, if you like driving games BUY THIS ONE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleman60
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game was definitely an improvement on the first. It is a great game with only a few flaws. 
 The only thing that I don't really like about this game that was better in the other game was the 
 prize cars. I know that some people will disagree with me but when you are playing career and can't 
 sell the prize cars, you almost have to race with the prize cars. What is the point of having this 
 huge library of cars and all these options to soup up your cars but only being able to do the cars 
 provided and not the cars you want. I know that people will say then sell them at the auction. 
 rarely a car will sell unless it is dirt cheap. If you find a car you like, then you can get in 
 a bidding war for hours, therefore cutting off another route to get the car that you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepartridge00
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Much better than the first one! The graphics are great, the controls are spot on, difficulty increases 
 nicely, and the options are limitless. I really like being able to make final adjustments to things 
 like tire pressure and suspension components. This is a simulation, though, so don't expect to be 
 flying around corners and powersliding all the time (at least I can't get away with it) .
  
  My only gripe, WHERE IS THE MUSIC WHILE DRIVING???? It wouldn't have killed them to include custom 
 soundtrack options at the least. It gets real boring just hearing the engine sounds.
  
  Other than that, it will do me just fine until Gotham 4 comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_Sentry
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game is infact very realistic in the sense that the cars drive like real cars. However, 
 the models themselves look like matchbox toy cars with an added plastic feel that goes a long with 
 the hyper gloss paint. The race tracks and other game features are very impressive, with incredible 
 detail and visuals that are just good to look at. Disregarding this, is the way the cars handle 
 on the track. The frustrating slugish turning of the vehicles and persistently annoying realism 
 of how the cars handle, makes this game very stressful and not thrilling. Overall, the graphics 
 are nice, but the gameplay proves that this is not a game for gamers who expect some fun after 
 the first 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Well this game is a great step for xbox 360 and it might even rewarded the best racing game of 
 the year , but one thing about this game that makes pgr3 a strong opponent it is the engine sound 
 it's more real in pgr3 but still the fm2 has more racing cars a little bit better graphics and 
 cool upgrades . And by the way the coolest thing about this game is that it has a lot of realistic 
 upgrades like the wheels for example . Ok that's everything thanks for reading i hope you enjoyed 
 my review and liked the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This was a much needed game for the Xbox 360 and it really filled the void.
  The graphics and animation are solid, I didn't notice any kind of frame rate slow down at all. 
 The variety of the cars available is amazing, why some normal passenger cars are available and 
 others not is a little strange though (where is the Chrysler 300C SRT?) . Though the game was very 
 well done, it was still short in some areas that prevented the game from being perfect. These are:
 
  
  1. Can't download ghosts of my friends regardless of where they rank
  
  2. I can't define the a race against the computer where I pick my car AND I pick the computers 
 cars. Racing against different classes would of been fun.
  
  3. As with many other games I am tired of the do tons of stuff you don't want to do just so I can 
 unlock the items. Since I paid for it, give me the option to unlock everything, I don't care about 
 the achievement points (what good are they anyways) . Stop defining the game for me and let me play 
 it the way I want to.
  
  4. The damage modeling was very lacking. If I am driving 100+ and I hit a wall, there isn't going 
 to be anything left of my car. However in this game I can drive it just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5ilver5hadow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the latest addition in the realistic but fun Forza driving series. Unless 
 you are a serious collector, i reccommend buying the standard edition because the limited edition 
 that i bought only gives you three extra cars (which are pretty bad) and a booklet which contains 
 some information on the game, which i dont think is worth an extra 10 pounds.
  The game is very good in the way that it is very realistic (although sometimes cornering at such 
 high speeds seems a bit dodgy) and I can't imagine the game without complete simulation damage 
 on, anti-locking braking system off, traction control off, Manual transmission (it may seem hard 
 at first but once you get the hang of it, it is so rewarding and I now cannot imagine playing the 
 game on automatic at all) , I am still on medium purely because i am not good enough to do hard 
 and i can't be bothered to redo every race like forty times.
  The game length is very impressive, it seems like a daunting task to be able to reach level 50 
 because i have been playing for so long and i am only on level 32, but i still haven't reached 
 the half way point in the game.
  I like it how the races slowly get harder and are very hard by the time you get to the professional 
 series, they also get longer which is frustrating when you crash on the last lap but is very rewarding 
 when you finally do one that has been bugging you for ages.
  In the game you get to choose which continent's cars you start with, i chose European but there 
 is also American and Asian aswell. This adds new content if you want to restart the whole game 
 again.
  You also have to be very tactical about some of your decisions during the first stages of the game, 
 because you don't have much money and sometimes you might have to save your money so you can buy 
 a car so you can enter a certain race which might mean you have to do a few races starting at the 
 back of the grid. One peice of advice i would give to anyone who has recently started playing or 
 are about to, as soon as you reach level 20 do as many endurance races as you can, even if you 
 have to put the difficulty down to easy to do it because you get so much money for doing them and 
 you get lots of driver points for doing them so you will be able to enter more races in certain 
 series.
  I think i have said enough about the gameplay, so now for some of the other features it has to 
 offer.
  The auction house, this is a relatively good idea because sometimes you can end up with some really 
 good bargains but to be brutally honest there are too many caras for sale that people have painted 
 so they are way more expensive than normal (but they're designs are sometimes ridiculously good 
 so take a look now and again and you might find something you like) .
  They have really pushed the boat out on customising your car in this game, you can buy pretty much 
 any upgrades which will affect the performance of the car in any way including spoilers and superchargers 
 :P. Painting and customising your car could not have been made any better in this game and if want 
 proof of that go on to the auction house that I have just mentioned and take a look at some of 
 the crazy designs other people have made. Or if you don't have the game yet, go to http://forzamotorsport. net/default. htm 
 and check out the forums for some of people's designs.
  Multiplayer is awesome on Forza 2, especially if you have at least 3 other friends on Xbox Live 
 because then you play Cat and Mouse, where there are two teams, on both teams you have a mouse 
 who is in a mini, and a cat who is in a very fast car and the aim is for the mouse from your team 
 to cross the line before the other mouse (no other rules) . - Highly Reccommended.
  
  Overall a great game if you like realistic games and if you don't mind having to do races over 
 and over again. (Not for fans of burnout :P)
  
  Join my ultimate 360 Socom Shooters Union today!
  http://uk. gamespot. com/pages/unions/home. php? union_id=360SocomShooter 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hough06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I've played many racing games in my life but... I truly believe this tops them all folks. From 
 customization to tuning the car this game has them all. It's so in depth it truly keeps me entertained 
 for hours on end. What is truly special about this game is the fact your not forced to play Career 
 mode, you can jump right in and play Arcade or even Multiplayer Career mode racing and you can 
 roll in the money that way too. Another cool feature about this game is the fact if you play career 
 mode you can unlock cars from the region you select that no one else gets in the game unless they 
 buy through the Auction house or has been gifted a car by another player. The Region you select 
 determines a lot of things such as upgrades for your car and how much a car will cost. Your also 
 able to change regions throughout the game at any time, tho there is a fee you play for switching 
 regions.
  
  Another part of the career mode is the amount of races you have to complete so there is at least 
 80 hours of gameplay in those races if not more. Another great feature about the career mode is 
 the ability to hire a driver if your having issues with one track or just don't feel like racing 
 at all, but the catch is they take either half or all your money depending on what driver you select. 
 Another amazing feature of this game is the tuning. The tuning is extremely in depth and you can 
 pretty much modify any car to how you like it. I personally like my car with a lot of acceleration 
 so I tune the gear ratio higher so I can fly off the finish line at the start of the race leaving 
 everyone in the dust.
  
  The Customization feature is quite interesting too, you are giving blocks and crude objects to 
 make your design out of and your giving a lot of colors to mess around with just get your design 
 right. There are also racing numbers and manufactures stickers you can put on your car to make 
 it look like a real race car.
  
  And the finally, the online racing. If you complete the game you still can have fun with multiplayer. 
 Race against up to 8 people at a time on several of the tracks you have raced on before in the 
 career mode.
  
  Overall I rate this game about a 9.4 even tho the rating gives it a 9.6 but I will suggest this 
 game to anyone who even remotely like racing games, cause it is definitely... addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsdhagljkgh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The simulation aspect of this game was done very well, and anyone who loves racing games should 
 at least rent this game. As for the arcade, i havent ventured too far into it, but im sure it is 
 pleasing. A new feature i enjoy is the auctioning and gifting of cars on xbox live. I love the 
 fact where after i spend money on cars and then i cannot use it any further, to help anyone out 
 in simulation and to get some money on my side. Another feature in simulation is the damage towards 
 the car, its very entertaining and adds to the challenge of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richb38
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Is this not just another version of gran turismo 4 with slightly prettier graphics? Nothing particularly 
 new or refreshing, and graphically or sheer gameplay wise this is nowhere near the legend that 
 is pgr3. Online play is not up to scratch lots of jumping etc. and difficult to find a lobby worth 
 joining. The soundtrack rocks tho and the variety of cars is cool. Also a good selection of tracks. 
 Can get addictive but just doesnt seem to have that exciting edge of your seat style like pgr. 
 Fair alternative but already find myself going back to pgr for a quick blast!!! If only pgr3 had 
 rx7s mr2 turbo supras skylines etc then life would be good. roll on pgr4!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaatmiami
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Once I jumped into the career mode I could not turn off my xbox. It really gives you the feel of 
 real driving. There is an extense selection of cars and surprisingly a whole bunch of upgrades. 
 I would not at all say this series is better than the Gran Turismo series but shows potential to 
 have the success or even have more than the Gran Turismo
  
  Once I jumped into the career mode I could not turn off my xbox. It really gives you the feel of 
 real driving. There is an extense selection of cars and surprisingly a whole bunch of upgrades. 
 I would not at all say this series is better than the Gran Turismo series but shows potential to 
 have the success or even have more than the Gran Turismo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The game runs very smooth and the online play is fantastic. A nice improvement over Forza's online 
 play. Each car has its own unique feel but that doesnt make the physics perfect. In my opinion 
 F1 -99-02 season which came out a few years ago has better physics. If you are a complete nut about 
 car physics you might wanna check that game because it is the closest to what a car should feel 
 like. Overall the game is great and a blast to play. If you like racing games, you should defently 
 give it a try. As far as console racing goes.... This does beats Gran Turismos physics. Granturismo 
 is still a great game and I cant wait until the new one comes out. I hope it blows forza away. 
 Competition is always a good thing for the consumer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbmcna
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is truly a next gen racer as it has the most realistic physics I have ever seen. When you 
 run into a wall you will not bounce off, you will spin the complete other direction. The most amazing 
 feature has to be the in-depth customization aspect. Put a base coat on and then use 1000 layers 
 to help you make a masterpiece. Then there's the wide variety of races to choose from such as Nissan 
 speedway which appears to be a nascar like track. Also, head into a garage and jack your ride up 
 with tons of parts including inter coolers and brakes. Test drive your car after that and tune 
 it to your specifications with things like aerodynamics and brake pressure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SemperFidelis_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Right now, I'd like to say that this game is the best racing game out. So, instead of all the pros 
 of it, I'd like to concencrate on the negativity. First, this game was meant to be released a couple 
 of months ago. Namely in 2006 october. Of course, everybody saw the delay coming, but after seeing 
 the finished product, I believe it would have been MUCH better for if it was released earlier.
 
  
  For a couple of reasons....:
  
  First of, Forza 1 set a high standard. In it's generation it was the best looking racing game next 
 to Gran Turismo 4, it had the best physics on the XBOX, alot of tracks, challenges, cars....
  
  Well, Forza 2 has those too... well, not really. Let's see
  
  - Graphics: The game really 
 lacks at this area. Don't get me wrong: it looks great, BUT. A few months earlier with this graphics, 
 the game would've been sick. But now, especially now that DiRT is out, it's obvious that the game's 
 graphics is far from Xbox360's limits, in fact, the enviorment really looks like Forza 1 in 720p! 
 The car models are amazing, the reflections are too, but the game totally lacks AA (jaggies) and 
 AF (shimmering) . Yes, 60fps stable, but it'd be ridicilious if it WASN'T 60fps with these graphics. 
 - Physics: Nothing to complain about here. It's AMAZING. The cars behaviour the way they should. 
 Arcade-ish enough so that you could control it with your controller, but sim enough so that you 
 would have to pay alot of attention. Great! The damage model, though... almost completetly reused 
 from Forza 1. And the 360 is capable of much more.... the cosmetic damage I'm talking about of 
 course. Not very satisfying.
  
  - Tracks, cars, challenges: Well, tracks. There are too few. P2P races are completetly removed 
 for example. The thing is, by the time you reach 25% of the game, I guarantee you had raced on 
 every track of the game at least 10 times. The car-count is amazing, though. Unlike GT, Forza concencrates 
 on cars we actually DRIVE or WANT TO drive. Challenge wise, though, again: too few tracks result 
 in quickly tiring racing, and you'll be completetly uninspired.
  
  The game plays well, all considered. If you like racing. If you don't, this game won't change your 
 mind. At all.
  
  But again, if you DO like racing, and driving, you'll find that the game holds much more than graphics 
 and tracks. It holds depth; customization, different driving style for each car, etc. Overall, 
 this game if was released in 2006 would've been a tremendous achievement. But now, it feels rushed, 
 which mostly shows on the graphics and the content. Although it gets a relateively low score, it's 
 the best racing game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolero983
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  After having played forza 2 for over a week now, I realize it is not even close to gran turismo 
 as a racing game. Sure, people will love the degree of customization on their cars but that gets 
 old after a while. The damage on the cars are also a nice addition to this game but that too gets 
 old after a while, even annoying..
  
  Many people seem to have overlooked the fact that forza does not have as many tracks as GT and 
 there are no night races, dirt or snow tracks in forza.
  Even GT3 which was on ps2 has equal, if not better graphics than forza2 where the cars seem somewhat 
 cartoonish when compared to the GT cars. Getting to the most important part of any racing game, 
 the driving. In the Gran Turismo games you get the feel of the weight of the car especially when 
 braking, going round turns and accelerationg of the line. Forza cars do not feel heavy and you 
 do not feel the speed in the cars which makes it more difficult to judge braking distances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. It's like a mix of the gameplay and content from PGR3, throw in the crash 
 damag from Burnout revenge (except its realistic) and then add the customisation options from NFS 
 underground games and FM2 is what you get. The graphics are the best for this type of game, the 
 cars look unbelievable and although the tracks don't look as good as the chars they still look 
 amazing probably slightly better then PGR3. The game play is brilliant if you prefer the simulation 
 side of driving games, however if you prefer the arcade style of burnout or NFS I would recommend 
 that you rent it first. From my point of view this is the perfect driving game it is what i wanted 
 PGR to be but it never achieved because they left out the most important part of a simulation, 
 the damage. The content is also jaw dropingly good there is something like 150+ cars.
  They do lack one or too exotic models e. g. Murcielago GT but they make up for it with things like 
 the F430 racing variant etc. I would personaly recommend this game if you are a member of xbox 
 live then the value goes up even further due to the various online multiplayer modes including 
 tournaments for different classes of cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  While I'm certainly no aficianado on racing games, I do consider myself kept up to speed with the 
 genre'a development, since I've followed Need for Speed's latest releases for quite some time. 
 I was always attracted to the way actual licensed cars allowed for deeper, more realistic customization 
 as well as the impressive physics that newer racers seem to have. Unfortunately, said games suffered 
 from a lack of replay value, as the customization options were a bit too limited for my taste, 
 reducing the game to re-racing the same tracks and events with essentially the same cars every 
 time.
  
  Now that the next-gen has come its no surprise that shooters aren't the only genre stepping it 
 up with the new plethora of options. Forza 2 focuses not on a multitude of race modes but on tweaking 
 your garage of rides in a way that goes way beyond any previous racing sim. Not only can each and 
 every aspect of a car's technical construction be upgraded, but the upgrades can be customized 
 to perform to your particular liking. For example, if you purchase the highest level brake upgrade, 
 you can adjust the locking pressure as well as the front and rear bias, controlling both sheer 
 stopping power and understeer/oversteer. If you buy a top-notch transmission, you can edit the 
 shifting time of each individual gear based on the shifting ratio of the clutch and wheel rotation 
 as well as the car's torque and horsepower ratings.
  
  If the tuning options sound a tad complex, don't worry, the in-game information breaks down the 
 numbers and charts very well. You'll be buying upgrades and tuning your cars to some sweet performances 
 before you know it while learning some interesting automotive lingo along the way. Benchmarking, 
 telemetry, and test driving are some critical parts of tuning that take the game further into the 
 realms of realism.
  
  As far as the actual racing goes, Forza is once again as realistic as it gets. Don't expect to 
 be passing on the grass, as your traction will drop dramatically. If you plan on knocking other 
 cars off course, expect some hefty performance hindrances on your own. Don't plan on taking sharp 
 turns at anywhere near 100 mph either, as you'll simply slide into a wall and incur even more damage. 
 Unlike other recent racers, drifting around corners is not an option. If you lose traction, you'll 
 have to slow it down and gain your footing or take some serious blows to your driving time.
  
  Technically, Forza 2 is one of the best Xbox 360 games yet. The car models are absolutely beautiful, 
 perfectly mimicking the actual counterparts. The game is loaded with details right down to the 
 damage models, reflections of buildings and sunshine on the top of your car as you drive, and the 
 hundreds of onlookers lining the sidelines. The frame rate never seem to dips, ensuring a smooth, 
 luxurious ride. The sound effects further differentiate every detail. An American muscle car will 
 have the beefy, deep rumble to its engine while an Asian tuner car with have a smoother, high-pitched 
 rev. Forza is constructed beautifully to render a stunning visual and aural driving experience.
 
  
  Overall, Forza 2 is sure to provide countless hours of playing time. The endless customization 
 options along with 300+ authentic cars mean rarely will any two cars be identical; every player 
 will tweak and decorate his or her ride to personal taste. The technical achievements also mean 
 you won't be suffering as you watch your car blow around turns in some sweet looking environments. 
 While Forza is labeled as just another Racing Sim, it could almost be said that Forza 2 combines 
 racing with RPG-style depth to advancement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about this game is that it looks great. The cars look fabulous; when 
 driving in 1st person perspective you can see the reflection of the background on the hood, your 
 driver moves, the wheels move independantly, and parts of the car go flying when you hit a wall 
 to fast. The detail on the tracks is great to look at also; the crowd cheer as you go past and 
 there is always someone doing something like cheering or taking photos. The customization on the 
 cars is extensive and you could spend hours just trying out different combinations of vinyl's.
 
  
  But... after all the looks wear off this game is BOORING! There is no variation in the racing what 
 so ever. No drags, drifts, knockouts, time trials, chases, or sprints. All you do is go around 
 in circles, on circuit tracks over, and over, and over again.
  
  To make it even worse, the game is so slow I almost fell asleep racing. When I was doing 120kph 
 it felt like I was doing about 10kph. Its not until you get to about 250kph that you actually feel 
 like you are racing, which is very short lived because the tracks are so small.
  
  Now this game obviously floats a lot of peoples boat, but when I buy a racing game I want to RACE!!!. 
 This feels like going for a drive with Grandma; not hanging on for dear live tearing around a corner 
 at a 120kpm. Sure, the career mode is huge, and so is the multiplayer, but so what? Aside from 
 a different car the first race is the same as the last. I really wanted to enjoy this game but 
 it is so slow, and with nothing to do but go around in circles at what feels like 20kph I am glad 
 I hired it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ataraxis84
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this brief as everyone has been thorough enough already on gamespot. This game is the 
 most realistic racing simulator ever made PERIOD. A few years ago, I played and enjoyed the Gran 
 Tourismo series, but it is prehistoric by comparison to this game. The physics are superb, the 
 simulation of driving a car round a track is second to none, the ability to upgrade cars in a 'money 
 no object' senario is fantastic and will take years for a game to beat.
  
  The only reason im not going to give this 10/10, is that the graphics, although good, are not as 
 good as they could be. BUT, in fairness, that was to make sure that the game ran at a constant 
 60fps. And that is a tade-off that I both love, and applaud, its unusual in the modern next gen 
 titles for a developer to rate gameplay above looks.
  
  The only real limitation of this game is the hardware, (and im not slating the 360 before anyone 
 thinks it) as harware improves, the physics engine will be capable of much more, and we will be 
 able to see photorealistic graphics at the same time.... ... My only slight concern, is that forza 
 3 will only be marginally better on the surface than this game (although no doubt it will push 
 the envelope even further underneath)
  
  So much for brief :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game rocks like hell it got everything i wanted specially the dream car i dreamt 
 of this game covers everything great graphics gameplay everything.
  its a must buy to fans who love driving games i highly recommend this game.
  
  and the other 
 thing this game has the potential not to bore you because it hal alot of options in it you could 
 do many things in this game you could tune your car buy upgrades and paint your car even customize 
 it its really impressive i've been waiting for this game for a long time and thank god its worth 
 the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Truly and without a doubt possibly the best racer currently out on 360, this is 1 game i have been 
 waiting for about 5 months now wondering when it was too come out , it finally came out on the 
 8th which was pretty good really, i really do enjoy the game for many reasons
  -a huge wide variety of the worlds best cars
  - customizable vinyls
  -varied tracks
  -great 
 sounds
  i've also noticed how i really enjoy the online part of the game especialy the online auction house, 
 which is like ebay! and home to some amazing cars people have made using special vinyls with a 
 huge varietie.
  
  i cant sum up how good this game some people may find it repetitive but there is so much choice 
 to do, the acheivments are short and snappy. i think their is so much in this game people will 
 like, the only people i cant think who wont like it are gamers who just suck at it a must buy game 
 go get it now! you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this is how it is...
  You get the Game in your hands... It' feels like the key...
  You insert the disc into the console... it' feels like you are starting the car...
  The first 
 menu pop's up... and you realise you are now IMMORTAL...!!!
  
  This game for me is beyond words, I mean what do you want me to describe about a game where the 
 stunning tracks show you the way... the cars take you ahead .. and the tuning makes you get to 
 your finish faster... and then the car customization?? well lets just say you could have all your 
 anime characters on your car if you have the time and skills to do it...
  
  The game itself already goes into legendary for me and the reason why i gave it 9.9 ?? the missing 
 .1 is to ensure for a 10/10 they make Forza Motorsport 3 .... :)
  
  Words dont describe this game... Play it to believe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisfmar
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  First thing you need to know 'this is a racing sim' for hardcore gamers, so if you are a more casual 
 racer, this is not the game for you, because is going to be too hard and sometimes frustrating.
 
  Tonight I was at the store, and I saw a father doubting what to buy for his 7 year son, and I 
 recommended him PGR2, because is more arcade-like and suitable for those that do not have precise 
 (or professional) driving skills.
  The next important thing : you are going to need a wheel, believe me, trying to do minor adjustments 
 in the driving line using the game pad is something that needs tweaking, because the car tends 
 to veer to much at the slightest input. For those that expect a more forgiving game, this is not 
 the one, remember, it's a racing sim, but still I found that steering the car with the game pad 
 is less than ideal.
  And probably as a result of this 'funny' gamepad steering and sensitivity, it's almost impossible 
 to regain control of your car once you lose it, or trying to perform an aggressive maneuver. For 
 example, if your car starts drifting, any professional driver knows that steering in the same way 
 that your car's tail is going is a way to keep o regain control, whichever you need to do. In Forza 
 Motorsport 2, once you are off the track, or your tail gets happy, be prepared for a visit to the 
 rails, sand, grass etc. or for a ridiculous spin that defies any kind of real physics.
  OK, this is a beautiful looking game, with hundreds of cars, but still limited on tracks. To be 
 fair, this is the same old Forza Motorsport for Xbox with a new coat of paint.
  Final word : I abandoned the first Forza because got too hard and the AI cheated so much, impending 
 further progress in the game. I'm upgrading its score because is really a beautiful game, but to 
 say that this is a next-gen racing game, is to give too much credit to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiocca1992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game. I rented it and im gonna buy it when my rental is due. The graphics in 
 this game are amazing. I mean comon, hook this up to HDTV and your living the race! The Physics 
 are ok. I really like when pieces of the car fall off when you wreck, but when you crash, it does 
 no look real. Other than that its great. The best part of the game is the auction house. I mean 
 WOW that is fricken awesome. The way you can search up cars and bid on them is incredible. I just 
 wish we could bid our own amount instead of it automatically bidding for us. It takes a while to 
 get the price up. Surprisingly this game is E. There is nothing bad about the game accept the vinyls. 
 I was look through some online and they are pretty graphic, including nudity. I mean isn't that 
 already illegal to be riding around with naked women on your car? Its pretty sweet but there are 
 children playin this game and they dont need to see that. Other than that this is a must get game. 
 I rate it 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagheuer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a great driving game. It has all the features you would expect from a driving game. It has 
 the graphics the gameplay it has it all. I had been waiting for this game for a long time and it 
 was worth the wait. It has many modes: career, exhibition races, time trials, free run, and the xboxlive 
 works great with the game. With xboxlive it has a great feature: the auction house, in the auction 
 house you can sell or buy cars. One of the best features is the customization of the car, you can 
 buy parts to make it faster, lighter, better handling and what you can do with the appearance is 
 great. I have to be honest it may take you a while to get used to the handling because its very 
 real. The only thing bad about this game is the music in it, they could have selected better songs 
 and in game driving there is no music so when your driving you can only hear the cars and that 
 kind of cool. By the way the selection of cars in this game is really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  ----------------------------------------------
  Froza Motorsport 2 Is a great Racing Simulator You can do everything to your cars. Upgrade them, 
 tune them, and even put your own custom designs on them! After you do all of that you can then 
 race them, either against NPC's or you can go online and race against other people! The tuning 
 is great, everything works just like a real car, you can adjust your downforce, your springs and 
 dampers, Gearing Ratios, Tire PSI, Tire Cambers, and much more! Everything you tune affects the 
 performance of your car, its speed, acceleration, handling. To drive around the tracks you must 
 slow down around the turns to avoid crashing, if you crash the performance of your car is affected 
 and you have to pay for the damage at the end of the race. There is also Fuel and tire wear on 
 your cars, throughout the race you will have to go into the pit to repair your tires and refuel. 
 If this sounds a little hard, dont worry you can change the difficulty of the race ( The A. I difficulty, 
 you can turn fuel and tire wear off, Damage to your car off, you can turn TCS, ABS, anf STM on 
 as well to make everything a little easier if you want to) The only un-realistic areas of the game 
 are, if you get in last and damage your car you dont have to pay for the damage but your car will 
 be fixed, You can also hire a driver to race for you, and sometime the A. I is aggresive. The last 
 thing I have to mention is that there is also an auction house where you can try and find deals 
 on cars that you want, and if you want some cool designs but cant make them yourself you can buy 
 them on the auction house.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  ----------------------------------------------
  The graphics are good, theres not to much to 
 say about them. The shading is good and everything is well done. They are a big improvement from 
 the last ForzaMotorsport. The Cars look realistic and great! Even when you break your breaks glow 
 red. The tracks look nice and whatnot as well, the only problem I have with the graphics is the 
 auidence, Pitstop workers, and the scenery. The audience is better than most racing games that 
 ive seen but from what ive seen they do not react to your car at all and the pitstop workers dont 
 even do anything to your car, it just magicly gets fixed by the pitstop. The scenery looks nice 
 but it could have been a little better In my opnion its blurry if you look in the distance but 
 it dosent really do anything to affect the game. All togather the graphics look nicely done!
  
  Sound - 7/10
  ----------------------------------------------
  For a racing game all you 
 need is music and sound effects. The Music is not that great some of the songs are cool but most 
 of them are not that great, the songs are not the type of music that I like but everyone has different 
 types of music they like you may like it, if not you could always pull out a custom soundtrack 
 from your xbox and listen to that. There is no way to change the song you are listening to so if 
 you dont like that one song there is nothing you can do about it but put on a custom soundtrack. 
 Music does not play while you are racing only while you are in the menus, auction house, and online 
 lobbies. The sound effects sound great! They sound just like a real car in every way. Replay Value 
 - 9/10
  ----------------------------------------------
  You can up your times on the scoreboards, tune your cars more to try and make them go faster and 
 faster and race online. You can race against your friends and make more designs on your cars. If 
 you like racing simulators you will be able to play this and enjoy it for many hours! This is a 
 game that is easy to get into and fun to play!
  
  Difficulty - Easy/Hard
  ----------------------------------------------
  Like I said you can change the difficulty to 
 make the game easy or hard its morely up to you on how hard you want the game to be.
  
  Learning Curve - 30 to 60 Minutes+
  ----------------------------------------------
  Depending 
 on how fast you pick up the tuning and the racing the learing curve may vary from player to player, 
 it took me about an hour to figure most of it all out
  
  Overall - 9.1/10
  ----------------------------------------------
  This game is Highly addictive and great fun! 
 You will love this game if you like racing simulators! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most anticipated games of this year. I was looking forward to a great racing 
 game on a great new console. What I found was a regurgitation of the XBOX version. Sure a few cars 
 are different but the gameplay is the exact same and there isn't anything revolutionary about this 
 game. Don't get me wrong the first one is great but anytime you have a sequel you look forward 
 to something different. It is fun for anyone who did not put a large amount of time into the first 
 game, but since I did I have to say I was let down. The graphics and gameplay are fun but get old 
 fast. The sound in the game was also lacking. Songs that were featured in the game were played 
 out (Pharrel's Rockstar song, wasn't that already in an XBOX game?) The only thing that I noticed 
 about this game that was different was that you can level up a car, which is not all that fun or 
 worth the time. I say if (and when) they make a Forza Motorsport 3 they need to spice it up a little 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron1111
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  THE GRAPHICS ARE AWSOME AND YOU CAN EVEN CREATE YOUR OWN CAR!!!!!!!!!!!!! it has online tournaments 
 and Prizes. you can pick from any type of car from the 1960's to 2007. This game is addictive and 
 fun for the whole family. you can even play with your buddy in Co-op game mode. This is a good game 
 worth playing and worth the money. Dont go buy Dirt or Cars bc this game cushes them all and it 
 is the best racer to date. And you can pick Cars from almost every Place! Japan TOO! And this game 
 is more realistic not like dirt or Cars even need for speed where you can turn in a sec! BORING 
 but n this game you don't turn unrealisticly you trun as if where real life!!! HAVE FUN MEMBERS 
 OF GAMESPOT! ALSO CHECK OUT HALO 3, Endwar, Enemy territory quake wars, Star wars the force unleashed, 
 Shadowrun, And battle field bad company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercole810
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Forza is a great racing sim, the physics are great, graphics are what you would expect and the 
 possibilities are endless as far as modes to play. Career has a plethera of races from racing cars 
 bone stock to hours of endurance races. Arcade lies as a quick race mode of sorts and time trials 
 can be a fun challenge too. Online multiplayer is great along with the auction house where you 
 can buy or sell any car many with custom paint skeems. You can change gear ratios and adjust the 
 angle or your rear wing..... what I'm trying to say is this game has everything for the car and 
 race enthusiasts. One fault..... provide some music during the race.. it can get a little boring 
 just hearing the car go around the track..... (thank god Forza supports custom soundtracks and mp3 
 playback) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Samsung_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is great, in fact its superb, for a multitude of reasons, the sheer 310 cars, the deepness 
 of customization, and of course the immaculate feel to the driving. What I like in a driving game 
 is a good amount of cars and does this game have it, damn it does, from a Mini Cooper to a Lamborghini 
 Diablo VT-8, there's a lot. To be honest its just nice to have that great choice of cars lying 
 in front of you. The graphics are like real life vision compared to Gran Turismo 4, right down to 
 the last pixel of a hill in the distance. Driving is so realistic it is complimented by the graphics 
 and even without the better quality of the Xbox 360 it would still beat Gran Turismo 4, it seems 
 to concentrate on every little thing such as a bush or a lampost, just to give that overall feel 
 that you're driving yourself.
  
  The amount of possibilities to customize are astounding, I mean when Need For Speed Carbon was 
 coming out, EA was going on about the superb new customization thing and Forza 2 didn't even say 
 a word about it. Overall Forza 2 is an outstanding game with so many qualities it is a must-buy 
 for any driving game enthusiast. That's if you've got a Xbox 360 like me. Happy Gaming, _Samsung_ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmdmd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport, again, has set the bar for driving and racing simulations. The game was brilliantly 
 developed and programmed. The physics are so accurate, its eerie (I own an M3 and a Porsche Turbo 
 and the feel is the same in the game) . On the endurance races, the tire wear model might need some 
 tweaking, but still awesome. The cars, after upgrading them (engine, transmission, suspension, 
 brakes, you name it) , are completely adjustable. The tracks are quite accurate (I have raced in 
 3 of them) , down to some of the off-track landmarks like the Four Points Sheraton hotel that overlooks 
 turn 7 in Sebring, the trees at the bottom of the corkscrew in Laguna Seca, the tower at Road Atlanta, 
 etc... The graphics are amazing and the sounds are super. A comment on the AI, at times it is annoying, 
 not very clever though, but it is a computer after all. It will present a challenge for all except 
 experienced drivers and racers.
  
  The career aspect is pretty good and allows the player to grow as a driver and improve his/her 
 skills along the way. Many cars are available in many categories, so, it keeps you busy
  In multiplayer, you can go head to head with anyone in Xbox Live. In single races or tournaments. 
 You will find great racers that will respect your line and make careful passes, and, you will find 
 demolition derby idiots that will intentionally crash into you all the time and spin you out of 
 control and into a barrier. On each track you race, there is a list of the top players in your 
 area or, more challenging, in the world. So, there is the ever present challenge of perfecting 
 your race line, your braking points and your smoothness to attempt to be among the best and fastest.
 
  
  Again, like In FM1, with the paint and decal editor can't remember the name) you can apply designs 
 to your cars and make them into your dream machine.
  
  I think that despite the fact that it would have been time consuming, the designers should have 
 given us the in-racing-seat view from inside the car, as seen in PGR3. Soundtrack controls are 
 missing or I haven't found them, music is good though.
  
  Bottom line, FM2 is far superior than any other racing game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  What to start off with? The awesome cars? The tracks? Well... they're all nice and the races are 
 somewhat challenging when you first start the game, which is what I love. A challenge. The good 
 thing about this game, is that it offers a challenge every time you race, it's not always 1st every 
 time if you just begin. You can upgrade your car to the max with different things like intake valves, 
 exhaust, turbo, etc. Ya know, the works.
  
  Online- Pretty intense races. You'll find yourself loving the online part of this game if you can't 
 get enough of challenges.
  
  Wide variety of cars allow you to get the car of your dreams. Mine, being a Dodge Viper, I got 
 it and raced with it immeadiately. I love it.
  
  Graphics- Superb
  Sound- Even Better
  Feel of the game- Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  +A lot of tweaks from the original game to make it more enjoyable.
  +Being able to wreck your car is pretty cool.
  -Graphics are so-so and don't really feel polished, 
 aside from the over-polished cars.
  -Tracks are pretty lame. And the same as the orignal.
  
  Before I get started, I just want to say I absolutely love the new Forza Motorsport game. However, 
 I don't really feel like it's good enough to be called a sequel. Not because it's glitched or because 
 it's not fun, it's really just what the game is like.
  
  Forza Motorsport came out and it was, in my opinion, more exciting to play than Gran Turismo 4. 
 A lot of cool cars, a good 'training' line for beginners to racing sims, and the graphics were 
 just amazing. So, I picked this one up, expecting a lot to have changed in the series, being how 
 popular it became on the original Xbox. Well, that's where this review comes in.
  
  As far as graphics, it's actually good, but then again, it doesn't improve that much from the original. 
 From what I could tell is that they beefed up the resolutions, as well as the textures, enough 
 to make the game look really 'top notch'. However, it doesn't look as good as some of the other 
 games out there. For instance, the bloom effects in this game drown out an touch of realism. The 
 sun literally lights up your car to an extreme. Some of the maps, you feel as though the cars have 
 a permanent light attached to them to give them an extra shine. In the camera mode, I noticed more 
 of the problems when it came to just backgrounds and such. The character models for the audience 
 are really low polygon, even when compared to Project Gotham Racing 3. I think the biggest downfall 
 for me is some of the textures. They're really low resolution. I noticed some of the Shell decals 
 were poor looking. It really made me disappointed because it feels that they just borrowed the 
 graphics engine from the original and touched it up. However, the car models are outstanding. They 
 really good looking, and then you can't dismiss the most exciting feature in the game: decal painting. 
 Slapping together several different shapes actually makes a nice JPEG-styled image on your car, 
 which can lead into some major cha-ching. I guess the only other thing to complain about is the 
 dash camera mode. Where is it? After PGR3, racing games haven't been the same for me without being 
 able to be in the driver's seat and check out the inside. Sure, there's 300 cars in Forza, but 
 this is also next generation. That was really disappointing more than anything.
  
  The sounds are actually really clear sounding and definitely something that is a nice feature of 
 the game. There's really no complaint as far as sounds, and nothing really to say. Tires screech. 
 Cars vibrate. Crowds cheer. It's all there, and all done well. The menu music could use some work. 
 I'm not sure why some of the tracks were picked out, but that's just being picky.
  
  Gameplay is perfect. They actually tweaked the game a bit in this department from the original. 
 You can now break using ABS breaking! In the original, when you had ABS turned off, you couldn't 
 help but lock your breaks. Not anymore. Everything is pretty much perfect as far as how cars handle. 
 The only thing I can really complain other than the graphics not being as good as I'd hoped is 
 the limited amount of tracks. All of the tracks from the original return. Good thing? Yes, but 
 when that's really all you're left with, you're kinda thinking how it sucks.
  
  Overall, Forza Motorsport 2 is a great game, but if you've played the original, then you're not 
 missing too much more if you don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoochild865
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  If I had to choose any racing game in the world, this would be it. for starters, the game is completely 
 unique compared games such as Need For Speed, Burnout: Revenge and Colin Mcrae. It offers much 
 more depth, especially when it comes to customization.... its impossible to count how many different 
 things you could have on your car - from custom vinyls and paintjobs, to amazing body upgrades. 
 races can become stressing at times because of the high number of laps you have to do in a certain 
 competition, especially since the game is all about concentration and one wrong turn could leave 
 you in last place. however, if you do complete a race, in first place, it always feels like a major 
 accomplishment because you either get CR which helps you buy upgrades and stuff, and when you complete 
 an event, you unlock a new car for you to play with.
  Online is solid and you get straight into the action as soon as you join a game. you can use the 
 car that you have in career mode and show-off your fully costomized work -of -art. there are over 
 300 cars to unlock in the game and that will definetly take somebody a long time, even if there 
 playing the a game on novice. the part where it loses marks is the sound, there is not enough variety 
 in it and you often hear the same things over and over again, engines, collisons and the crowd, 
 all become boring after a little while. that aside, the game is probably the best racing game in 
 the history of racing games, graphics are outstanding and they actually lokk like real cars, the 
 races are just perfect and anybody who thinks otherwise, deserves to be shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a CLASSIC example of HYPE and scarcity at it's finest. The fact that it took so long 
 to come out with a second installment has created a false hysrteria around this boring game.
  
  Face it, do you REALLY love this gameas much as you think? I don't get it. I bought into the 
 hype hook line and sinker and coudn't believe my eyes when the game ramped up, I really don't need 
 to get into what you do in this game.. it's obviously a racer. The downside which is huge is that 
 this game is BORING and BLAND. I already traded in for DIRT. There is no fun going aroung track 
 after similair track mindlessly while ooh, ooh,,, trying to stay within the guide lights... WOW.. 
 This is exciting stuff. There is no variety in the tracks as there are basically only just a couple 
 terrains, which look like the original XBOX graphics. I popped Forza 1 into my crackbox just top 
 see for myself.
  
  Theis is a waste of money. If your into this type of bore-fest of a game... buy the original as 
 it is compatible with your 360 and spend your $60 on a nice dinner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uthrak
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  BAD I really find this game boring all you do is following specific lines you drive and you drive 
 but you don't do anything fascinating you just follow the lines. And i am not talking about the 
 helping lines , because you have to follow them even if they don't exist. BUT WERE IS THE EXITEMENT 
 ON THAT? GOOD The good thing about this game is that you can crash your opponents and their high 
 A. I. level. Another good thing about this game is the big verity of te cars. IN MY OPINION I am 
 not saying that it's a bad game it's just not my kind of game. So i suggest you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is everything it claims to be and more. I've playing about 25 hours worth now and feel 
 I've accomplished enough to give a qualified review. To start off, I have to mention that this 
 game is for driving simulation fanatics. Anyone wanting something with an arcade feel should shop 
 elsewhere. This game is all about knowing every aspect of what makes your car go faster, stronger, 
 and with more control than any other driving game on the market. The sheer amount of parts and 
 customization offered here is mind bending. There doesn't seem to be anything you CAN'T tweak to 
 make your car perform better. And trust me, you're going to have to learn all these tweaks if you 
 want to win. This in NOT a complaint. This is actually what makes this game all the more fun. When 
 you earn a car, and do a few laps with it, then tune it with new parts and make your adjustments, 
 you can really feel a difference. And how they made every car handle so differently from each other 
 is a true testament to how well the developers researched the true-life counterparts of each model. 
 Driving has never been more precise and thus, true to the form. When you make a mistake on a hairpin 
 turn, you know it's all your fault. Learning each car is a treat, and with so many cars to drive, 
 it's tough to decide which car you like the most. Granted, there are not as many tracks as I'd 
 have liked; after about three or four hours of game play, you'll pretty much have an idea what 
 all the tracks offer. But again, this isn't too much of a complaint. The tracks are varied enough 
 to keep it fresh. The only thing really missing are weather effects. It would have been nice to 
 see some night tracks or some rain. As for graphics, the car models are stunning. I own a flat 
 panel HD television, so granted, these next-gen games look incredible, but the cars are simply 
 a sight to look at. The damage effects are jaw-dropping, and the ability to have that damage really 
 effect your car's performance is icing. And this is no tacked on part of the game. Driving ability 
 is directly linked to how much and where the damage is on the car. Ram into the guardrail at 110 
 mph and you'll feel the car pull to one side, completely altering the way you have to drive. But 
 the developers were kind enough to give players loads of difficulty settings so that you can drive 
 as real as it gets, or have fun barreling down the track at top speed in a battered and busted 
 junk-heap. The environments are okay - the tracks look great, though not everything around them 
 are as polished as the vehicles. Cones, fences, trees, people, etc., all are a little sub-par for 
 the amount of detail the cars have, but that's forgivable. It all streaks by so fast, you won't 
 notice it most of the time. There's actually a second game in this, though some might not consider 
 it that - the paint shop. For anyone with any sense of design, the paint shop is a place you'll 
 spend hours in as you layer your cars with almost uncountable options for paint schemes, strips, 
 flames, decals, etc. Everyone can literally have their own car, and with Xbox Live racing, it's 
 a ton of fun to see the brilliant (and not-so brilliant) looking cars you can race against.
  For any driving enthusiast, this will be a game that should remain in your 360 for months to come. 
 Get out and drive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, the cars, the audio, the physics.... everything about this game is really really 
 amazing. The customization for the cars is awesome as well and the gameplay has many options and 
 ways to play. the choices of the cars really impressed me because of all the research and time 
 the creators put into it. all around this game is really satisfying and worth the money and wait. 
 it is perfect for any age and a huge relief to finally have a very real racing game for the 360, 
 though the Need For Speed series is fun it is not as real feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drudogg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game one of the best racing games for the 360 console but they needed to put more racing 
 places in for how long the game is its too long to have so little tracks gets boring racing on 
 the same ones over and over but all around is a great game. The music on the game also sucked they 
 should of put better toons but besides that and the tracks the game was pretty good
  
  Excellent game one of the best racing games for the 360 console but they needed to put more racing 
 places in for how long the game is its too long to have so little tracks gets boring racing on 
 the same ones over and over but all around is a great game. The music on the game also sucked they 
 should of put better toons but besides that and the tracks the game was pretty good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  There are a few things about this game that disappoint me. The lack of point-to-point racers. The 
 lack of a feature DiRT uses well-The ability to exit a race and carry on with it afterwards. But 
 that's it. Honestly. The tracks are varied enough, the game feels and races well, the wheel is 
 used brillaintly, it has a perfetc lenght and the cars are SPOT on. The paint system is brillaint, 
 auctions fun and get a few friends who have it over xbox live and you'll have loads of races. But 
 there is one feature i want to highlight on- the actual cars. They all are individual- different 
 stats and everything. but they all have, and it's hard to describe, but they all have a Soul. I 
 know it ounds stupid, but bear with me. SOme cars feel brillaint to drive, bring a smile to your 
 face and make you annoyed when the race is over. A classic example is The Ferrari 612 sgalleitti- 
 i love that car so muc. one of my favourites. others, menawhile, feel broing and lifeless. take 
 the Clio V6 for me- i hated it so much i used it for a race and havn't touched it since. But my 
 favourite feature to combine with this is drifting. spending endless hours buying upgrades and 
 fine tuning your car, weeks even, just for that one moment you get a brillaint drift. It's wierd, 
 drifting. maximum effort for, what, wrecked tyres and a bit of going sideways, when its actually 
 slower? But we all like it. there are endless pictures of poeple drifting. and you've gotta try 
 it. It takes ages to learn to drift-and the reward is hours and hours of messing around going sideways. 
 preferably with other people. Seriosuly, this game is worth recomendation. A fantastic, visually 
 brillaint, and absolutly fun tyre-squealing Racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Really great sense of speed, better car physics than any console racer before it, great 
 selection of cars and that all seem to act true to life, ridiculously deep customization system
 
  
  The Bad: Expected it to be a bit of a bigger leap for the series, graphics could have used a bit 
 more polish, split-srceen multiplayer could have been more fleshed out, some tracks from the previous 
 game are missing in action.
  
  After numerous delays the sequal to the critically acclaimed Xbox sim racer Forza Motorsport is 
 finally here and the series makes it's debut on the Xbox 360, so was it worth the wait? If you 
 have a passion for cars the answer to that question is defiantly yes! .
  
  The main modes you can play in Forza 2 are Arcade, Career and Multiplayer.
  In Arcade you basicly 
 cut to the chase and start racing, either exibition, time trial or free run, and by winning these 
 races you will be awarded with different car models that you then can use in the Aracde and Multiplayer 
 modes.
  The Career mode is probably where you probably gonna spend most of your singleplayer experience. 
 First you have to choose region either US, Europe or Asia and that will determine what kind of 
 car you will start of with and also what cars that will be cheaper in the beginning of the game 
 so choose wisely. Here you compete in races all have their certain restricitions wich can be either 
 car class, amount of horsepower, fwd/rwd etc. fortunally though there is no big chance of getting 
 stuck in the game because of that since winning these races will award you with cars that you can 
 use in all of the game's different modes, but you also earn cash that you can use to buy new cars 
 or upgrade those you already have. You as a driver will also level up for your good efforts as 
 will the car you are using wich will earn you various of discounts from certain manufacturers.
 
  Apart from upgrading your ride's performance you can also upgrade it visually by adding new front/rear 
 bumbers. hoods etc. but you can also paint it however you like using manufactured decals but also 
 manipulate all the various vinyl shapes in pretty much any way possible. If I'm not mistaken you 
 have up to 4000 layers you can add to each car so only your fantasy set the limitations, creating 
 crazy designs is very time consuming though, so It's not something everyone will get into but those 
 who want to may end up spending hours and even days working on their designs. However if your design 
 is good enough you can always put the car up on the game's Auction House to earn very big sums 
 of cash.
  
  The driving itself feels great, you can really tell Turn 10 put in a lot of effort into the physics 
 model as the game calculates the physics at whopping 360 frames per second, and all the cars handle 
 and act as they should and you can really tell the difference from a fwd car from a rwd one, no 
 other racer on any console can't simply compete. The computer AI act as you would expect and the 
 game also features a great and dynamic damage modeling system that will affect the performance 
 of your ride. As this is a simulator you will have to get used to to often use the brake in turns 
 and be easy on the accelerator to avoid friction, to your help with this is the suggestive line 
 wich shows the best way to drive on the track you can set it so that it will show you both when 
 to accelerate and slow down or only slow down or turn it off all togheter but by doing so will 
 make the game very difficult and a quite a bit harder to learn if you're new to this kind of gameplay, 
 so my recommendation to most people is to at least have the suggestive line to show you where to 
 brake.
  Some more difficulty can be taken off by enabling various assists like Anti-Lock Braking System 
 (ABS) etc. the difficulty itself can always be changed at any times so no matter how skilled you 
 are you should have no problem progressing in this game.
  The game also have very impressive sense of speed thanks to the fact that the game always run at 
 solid 60 frames per second. The only real complaint on the actual driving is that it doesn't really 
 have the level of realism wich you can find in the racing sim GRT2 for PC, then again Forza 2 comes 
 closer to that than any console racer before it. Another note is that Forza 2 feature no cockpit 
 view at alll, though it doesn't bother me as I never use it is it after all a simulator so it might 
 bother some racing ****
  
  The multiplayer is also very solid, other than the Auction House where you can bid on others and 
 sell your own custom made cars you can also race in online career races to earn money or sit back 
 and look at some Forza Motorsport TV wich is basicly taken straight from PGR 3's PGR TV system 
 aswell as the photosystem where you can also upload all your pictures to the official Forza site, 
 there is also quick and custom races and you can play the game system link and splt-screen.
  Even though the multiplayer is awesome and will last you a good amount of time the split-screen 
 multiplayer could have been more fleshed out as you can only race against eachother with no AI 
 controlled drivers on the track, so there will be no Team Street racing like you can do in the 
 360 launch title PGR3 or simular. despite that the split-screen is still enjoyable but not as much 
 as it could have been.
  
  The graphics of the game are a bit disappointing thinking of the caliber of this title and seeing 
 what Codemasters is pulling of whit their game DiRT and Bizzare with PGR3 and the uppcomming PGR4. 
 What makes the visuals disapointing are that some of tracks look very plain and stale and the only 
 thing that make them seem a bit alive are the spectators you see from time to time. The lightning 
 looks good but not really that realistic though the most annoying part is the aliansing problems, 
 sometimes there are so many jaggies on screen that it looks more than a very high end Xbox game 
 in high resultion rather than a next-gen title for the 360.
  Don't get me wrong though Forza 2 is a good looking game, the car models for example are highly 
 detailed and look as they would in real life and as earlier mentoined the game runs at steady 60fps, 
 It just feels like to many sacrifices were made and the visuals aren't really as polished as the 
 rest of the game.
  
  The sound of the game is great. It features a really good sountrack and the soundeffects from the 
 cars have been greatly improved from the previous game, however there is no music when you're actually 
 racing so have those custom soundtracks ready folks.
  
  With all the differnt modes and options and over 300 cars to try out Forza 2 is a game that will 
 last you for months to come, some of the tracks from the previous game are missing though but they 
 will probably be available later to download from the Markeplace but the over 40 tracks that are 
 there now are good for the time being. I did however expect a bit of a bigger leap for the series 
 such as being able to visit car factories, create your own racing team with logo, garage etc. take 
 part of special sponsored races online with sponsored cars, driving under different weather conditions 
 and things like that, but all that was good about the original Forza has been done bigger and better 
 here, and it is by no doubt the best driving for the 360 game so far and the best driving simulator 
 can find on any console. In other words it's a game that every car fan should try out no matter 
 of your level skill and enthusiasm.
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicTonic22
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Forza 1 supported 8 cars in 1 racec. 3-4 years later on a next generation console, Forza 2 supports 
 8 cars on 1 track. how many real life races have you seen with 8 cars or less? it's very disapointing 
 to buy a $60 to get the same exact thing you got a few years ago, but a little bit shinier. Gran 
 Turismo 5's screens have shown at leat 15 cars on track at one time. Nascar 08 supports 43 cars 
 at one time. Motorstorm allowed 12 or more cars at one time. F1 CE allows 22 cars on track. why 
 do PGR 3 and Froza 2 only support 8 cars at 1 time?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersimpsons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 lets you customize your cars. with aftermarket parts, just like the first forza, choose 
 from 60 car manufacterers, over 40 tracks, to race around on..13 enviroments. As you know from 
 the first forza, the option to paint your car. was a total success in my view. well in forza 2, 
 you can now have up to 1000layers each side, compared to the 100 on forza 1. this has more in depth 
 customization. which i think is a perfect way to make the forza series perfect. Gameplay is superb.. ive 
 never known forza 2 would ever be this good. cars handle like they should, muscle cars handle like 
 trucks. like they dooo.. haha. i will say though, i do belive that forza 1's gameplay is much better.
 
  Graphics, Are good, but no as good as they could have been. could of been improved. a slight bit 
 more. cars can have a jagged edges to the look of them.. not every is smooth looking!.
  overall this Game must be bought. But if you've never played this before. get forza 1.. then forza 
 2.
  If youve played forza 1 seriously think about getting forza 2. is a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pro_310
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game about a week after its UK release, then played quite a lot of it, then stopped 
 to make way for another game. I then decided to pick it up again to get the remaining Achievements. 
 But that was when I saw its faults. Anyway, first to the good bits...
  
  The game has a decent selection of cars, which you can upgrade and paint (apart from the R4 - R1 
 cars) to whatever way you like to. You could make some good designs if you just think about it! 
 The tracks, well, there is just enough on offer, but a few more would have been good. Then I like 
 leveling up as well and buying all the cars is good as well.
  
  Now for the bad bits....
  
  At later stages of the game, you find yourself in races that are just a little too long for 
 your enjoyment, almost turning into a mini endurance race. Also, sometimes the sections of a track 
 begin to go invisible, thus making it harder for your car not to smash into the sides. This is 
 most common at the Nurburgring. At the other thing... I can't remember the last racing game with 
 speed accurately mapped. Go at 80 mph in this game, then look to your left or right. It seems as 
 if you are going at 20 mph, not 80..... That has happened in I think every racer I have played. 
 Anyway, that's all. Just another racing game, I think I'll get PGR4 because it will actually be 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Forza motorsport 2 is stellar. from training to application, graphics to collision detection, textures 
 to details, implementation to execution... you will not find a better game in any genre that melds 
 reality into fantasy so seamlessly.
  
  the game is everything gran turismo should have been. the driving mechanics are so spot on i considered 
 attempting a drift turn in my real car on the way to work this morning. i drive a hyundai elantra... it 
 would have turned out badly.
  
  the customization options alone will eat thru an entire play session like it was a twinkie. this 
 game actually has endless customization options. No One else can say this.
  
  Forza 2 is quite frankly the finest driving experience you will find away from a real car. Excellent 
 work microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boberto13
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I got the game and was immediatley dissapointed tha you could not get inside the cars! Its so cool 
 to see all the different dashes, and plus all the other good racig games have it and i dont know 
 how you could compete with that. Why even have different kinds of cars if you cant see the inside 
 of them?!?
  
  Also, the other issue is the graphics. Before the game came out (which took forever by the way) 
 they were bragging about how AWSOME they're graphics were. And when I got the game the graphics 
 were mediocre. The cars look awsome but then when you look at the scenery it looks like they took 
 the graphics out of some gamecube game. They spent all thier time on the cars and didn't pay attention 
 to, well, everything else!
  
  The up gradeing and tuning cars is kool and all, but the way they simplify it to make people that 
 dont know awything about cars, im a car fanatic and i have trouble playing this game. Also in real 
 life, it's not THAT hard to drive.
  
  It's still a fun game, but as you can see, i just have a FEW complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, I'm really addicted to this game because it has everything you possibly need to keep 
 you busy for months to come.
  
  The graphics on the cars are just breathtaking, they look so real with the reflections on it with 
 metallic paint. But the environment, on the other hand is where it needs some work and besides 
 who looks around rather than pay attention to the road.
  
  The gameplay is simply fun for anyone to enjoy, new players to hardcore players and the cars drives 
 just what they should in real life. You cannot hold down the gas and go around the turn, you'll 
 go out of control. To arcade like. In Forza you need to slow down and take the turn easy and speed 
 up out of the turn.
  
  There are 300 cars in total in this one game disc that all of them are fully customizable. You 
 can take any cars from the 300 list and customize the engine, tires, brakings, etc. or for the 
 artist who likes to design the paint job, you can do custom paint job up to 4000 layers (1000 layers 
 on each side) .
  
  I would really recommend this game for anyone who likes driving or just likes the cars. Because 
 this is what a simulator is surpose to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkskater2007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  extremely realistic game, i really enjoy this game. The cars look so real its like watching a racing 
 movie. what i am really impressed with is customization on cars is extremely deep. You can put 
 1,000 layers of vinyls on your car. Highly customized cars can sell for a very nice price on xbox 
 live auction house. Customization on cars is so deep that most players won't have the patience 
 to make a highly customized car. you can move, change size, warp, and anything else you can think 
 to do to a vinyl shape. Their are flames, shapes, tribal, animals, fades, sooo many different types 
 of vinyls... the most i have personally seen in any racing game. Anyone who likes to customize cars 
 and likes to race.. THIS IS A GAME FOR YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  The original forza was easily one of the best racers to come out not only on the xbox but of all 
 time. Now here is the sequel and its a pretty solid game actually. The game isnt much better than 
 first, but it still a good racer. The gameplay is good but not as realistic as they say. The cars 
 handle good but not perfect. Each car handles some what different but not much. The graphics are 
 very nice but only if you have a full 1080p TV. The game will still look pretty good on a 720 but 
 just not as good obviously. The car models are great. Each car looks like how they are supposed 
 to look like. Though the tracks dont look as great. The sound isnt very good but its not horrible. 
 The cars sound fairly well and could be alot better. There are alot of things to do in the game. 
 There are over 200 cars to unlock, plus the tons of game modes there are. Then there is online 
 which is surprisingly solid. The game does lack in tracks but that doesnt hurt the game much. Overall 
 Forza 2 is a great game though could have been better. If you liked the forst one there is no reason 
 why you shouldnt like this one. This game plays very similar to the first. If you hated the first 
 one then this one wont change your mind unfortunately. If you a fan of racing this just might appeal 
 to you. I have to say its not worth the full price of 59.99 but if you like racing then you should 
 check it out because there is a high chance that you might actually like this game unless you hated 
 and didnt like the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenrisfenris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  When u compare it to the old forza its just a better version of it but then it should be on a 360!! 
 the gameplay is great, the graphics are great and the sound is great. superb game i reckon anyone 
 who hasn't even bought the first one should by the second one if they have a 360!! I think the 
 graphics are some of the best iv seen and seen as tho its still fairly early on in the 360's life, 
 then the later forza that will surely come out should be even better. cant wait for the next one 
 if there is one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillipK88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 combines great racing simulation with great online play and extras to create 
 an awesome racing experience. It has a great variety of cars from all over the world, including 
 classic models. You can also create any kind of design on your car via the shapes and vinyl layers 
 available, which have no limit. The Xbox live auction house is an awesome feature, too. The real 
 life physics are great, and the allowing of changing difficulty allows a variety of users of many 
 skill levels progress their ability or find their niche. It also has a decent soundtrack. Great 
 game overall! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jholassian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I played Forza Motosport on XBOX and it already had nice graphics, gameplay but it had better sound 
 that this new title for the 360. The career mode is great, you have a lot of cars and a lots of 
 upgrades. You can tune your car, style it just like need fot speed games but with the difference 
 that this title is more realistic than need 4 speed. I would&acute; ve like a inside camera like 
 it has in test drive ulimited.
  It would be great thar developers make a game with this kind of graphics and reallity combine with 
 the background and gamestyle of test drive ulimited
  I think its the best simulation game i&acute; ve ever played, so jump in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russell_Leed
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is simply amazing, the level of detail in the physics still amaze me to date, 
 the car models are absolutely a joy to look at, every detail taken to make them as true to life 
 as possible.
  
  I played forza 1 the very day it came out to the day forza 2 went on the shelves and ive never 
 been so excited to immerse myself into this car lovers world, over -&gt;300 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screamingdean
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Forza 1 on the Xbox was a welcome game to play. An alternative to Gran Turismo it added depth and 
 gameplay that was fun, exciting and enjoyable.
  Unfortunately Forza 2 does'nt build on that.
  The good things in this game are the frame rate, 
 boosted to 60fps, the physics which although occassionally contentious are at least dynamic, the 
 car sounds which are much improved over Forza 1, the customisation which is easy and deep and the 
 controls which seem tight and re-active.
  The bad thngs are the graphics. Gamespot gave 9 for the graphics. Huh? All the jaggies? The unrealistic 
 lighting? The cartoony look of the cars on the race tracks? The low-res decals on cars? Even the 
 reflections on cars which has been improved is still average. No, it's not pretty. PGR3 looks better 
 and certainly GT5 and PGR4 will piddle all over it. But graphics don't make the game.
  So, what about the choice of circuits? This must be the only sequel I've played where it has less 
 tracks then the previous game! Sure there are some nice real circuits like Suzuka, Sebring and 
 Mugello added but at least 6+ lost. No night racing either. And of the tracks that do return they're 
 identical to their original version in Forza 1. The lighting, the detail. All seen before. Nothing 
 interesting either. No blowing flags or billowing banners. Boring. Only the spectators seem improved.
 
  For me driving the same tracks time and time again bores the hell out of me. And this is one of 
 the main problems with the game - no variety. It's not even that big a game. I finished the Time 
 Trial and Arcade sections in 2 days with zero difficulty. And all I seem to do in races is race 
 on the same 5 or 6 tracks (in various guises) again and again. Not enough choice, variety or challenge.
 
  All in all it's a bit too similar to Forza 1. It's only the 60fps, the controls and the physics 
 that saves the day. I guess that's what the games only good for, which is fine up to a point. But 
 the fun doesn't last.
  I think there's a lot of rose tinted glasses being worn by people if they think Forza 2 is a 9/10 
 game. No for that it has to have pushed the envelope, done things new, improved in all areas. But 
 it hasn't so it only gets an 8, which is still great but not THAT great!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ydksinister
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game really beats all expectations i had, this is a mix of Gran Turismo and PGR. You can play 
 as all genres of cars, start of with a medium car then when you get enough money blow it on a Lamborghini 
 and then kit it out, it's so realistic in every way you have to ease the break button into corners, 
 because if you just slam the breakes the car starts to skid and go out of control! This really 
 is a top game i would recommend it to any driving fan. Also the variety of the tracks are brilliant 
 from real life F1 tracks to city tracks, and ofcourse you know this is massive on xbox live with 
 features like you can sell your cars on autions to other buyers on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielKhronic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2, the much anticipated 360 debut of the series, has been a long time coming... And 
 i'm happy to say it was worth the wait! First off, the driving model is near perfect (especially 
 with the FFB wheel, more on that later!) . You can really feel the shifting of weight during tight 
 turns, and the gentle breaking of traction from the tires when you come into that hairpin just 
 a little too fast. You know through feedback and rumble as soon as the outside wheels touch the 
 rumble strip, and you can almost feel the G's when your racing on the Nurburgring at 200 MPH! This 
 is not a game for the Burnout crowd though, as the driving physics require intense concentration 
 and subtle throttle and braking inputs, otherwise you will find yourself constantly spinning out 
 or plowing headfirst into a wall. You can definitely scale back the difficulty to suit your skill 
 though, and if you are new to sim racers, these options will help tremendously. You can enable 
 Traction control (TCS) , Anti-Lock brakes (ABS) and Stability Management (STM) , which will help 
 control wheelspin, brake-lock up, and car attitude in tight corners. The racing line is also a 
 very valuable tool in learning the correct braking points on all of the tracks. The A. I. Is mostly 
 very competent, and not overly-aggressive like in the first Forza. They may bump you occasionally 
 but 9 out of 10 times it was your fault for taking a turn WAY to slow with an opponent right on 
 your bumper. The A. I. has 3 settings. Graphics are great and amazingly smooth. Running at a solid 
 60fps, this game is truly a sight to behold when you are tearing through the tracks at ridiculous 
 speeds. The car models look really great, and are probably the best part of the graphic package 
 other than the framerate. The tracks are a little less flashy, but they model their real-life counter-parts 
 to the TEE. And besides, tracks in real life don't have waterfalls and explosions in the background 
 and all that nonsense, so why should the game? Their are a few instances of jaggies, but nothing 
 too serious, unless your playing on a low quality HD set. Also while the lighting is really well 
 done, they chose to go for a more colorful look and not GTHD's more photo-realistic look. The sound 
 is also amazing, engine noises really do sound like the real thing, upgrades all change the sounds 
 dramatically. The sound is leaps and bounds above the first game. The only thing I thought could 
 have been a bit louder is the turbo noises, or more specifically the Blow-off Valve's. But then 
 again, i'm a sucker for the PSHHHT of high powered turbo vehicles. Multiplayer is another great 
 feature, with tons of host options and solid network code. You can also auction and gift cars, 
 watch live races, qualify and race in tournaments etc. Bottom line, if you love cars and car culture, 
 you owe it to yourself to buy this game! You will not regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblunt537
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The replay value to this game is perfect. This game will easily last you as long as games like 
 oblivion (different genre) which have over 100+ hours of gameplay. Many different modes such as 
 exhibition, time trial, and Career mode. Over 300 cars which is a definite plus and all which have 
 their own driving physics / handling.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is almost near excellent. Driving in this game has definitely improved over 
 Forza 1 and is highly addictive and fun.
  
  Graphics: The car models are EXCELLENT , BUT the extreme lack of anti aliasing in this game was 
 every disturbing. After seeing visuals like PGR3 and going to this i feel as if they took so much 
 out of this game just to keep it at 60 fps. The tracks themselves look like they were ported from 
 a ps2 game.... The road in lighting work is perfect but the trees , sand, grass look terrible. 
 The grass is a solid sheet of green with no actual grass which has been something havent seen much 
 this gen. Most games have had good looking grass / dirt etc. I just feel as if its unpolished and 
 deserves a lot more work or a patch to enable some sort of aliasing.
  
  Sound: The sound really didnt bother me, meaning the cars and collisions etc but the music in this 
 game is awful. Thanks to the 360 allowing you to play your own music my ears wont explode. Overall: 
 This is a definite buy for your 360 console if you love simulations like Gran Turismo etc, These 
 types of games can have you playing for hours. This game has so much to offer but i feel as if it 
 failed in the graphical department which it couldve really shown something amazing after seeing 
 its cousin pgr3. Other then that definitely pick this title up it will be worth every dime i guarantee 
 you it will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFluffo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This review is based off of never playing Forza 1 before playing this so i will be grading as a 
 new game entirely. To start off, it is a GREAT game and i highly recommend it to any driving simulation 
 fan. Graphics were good but there was an abundance of jaggies. Damage is a nice feature both cosmetic 
 and simulation. One part i love/hate is that it punishes/rewards drivers, If you are a better driver 
 and turn off the assists and increase AI difficulty it rewards you, well thats fine. However people 
 who are not used to playing these types of games might turn on the assists turn off simulation 
 damage etc and then the game will cut your winnings by 20% completely slowing down the game. Another 
 problem is the early game is extremely easy. After the first race you will naturally spend your 
 money on a quick upgrade to give your car a slight edge over the competitors. Then when you enter 
 the race you find that your car is too powerful and a decent driver can easily outclass hard AI. 
 Finally after many races your car is now U class but only too find out that your new U-class car 
 is unable to compete in the high level races because they restrict your car class to D-A depending 
 on which one you choose. So now your U-class car is only good for online races, so in order to 
 compete in the lower series you will have to un-mod your car. Looking at the back of the case it 
 says Collect over 300 of the hottest cars... Well thats only party true. This actually does not 
 have 300 different cars there is more like 240 or so. This was one of the things i didnt like about 
 the game, They are missing out on major cars but there are different versions of the same car. 
 My preference is german cars and so i start looking at all the cars they have to offer and i notice 
 that in BMW the only have the M3... 3 versions of it... and there R1 rank car.... Well wheres the 
 M5? or the M6? or the new popular 335i? not in the game! Instead the have supplemented this with 
 7 or so different versions of the Lancer Evo! Instead of broadening the car list of Mercedes they 
 add in 7 version of the Supra. Forget the lower end production cars from anywhere except japan. 
 No ford taurus but honda civics everywhere. No chevy cavaliers but never fret.
  Over all the game is good and is a definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e1337prodigy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is Gran Turismo for the 360. Having played both I can say I prefer this a lot more. The AI 
 is fantastic on this, they will make mistakes if you start catching up on them. They will try there 
 best to pass you, ducking down the inside or maybe giving you a little nudge. In one race, one 
 opponent forced me onto the grass, the next lap I got him back. Definitely the best AI I have seen 
 in a racing game. Try it on hard, turn off all driver aids (traction control, ABS, etc) and you 
 get extra credits. This is simulation at its best. I tend to try all races on hard first then gradually 
 lower few settings if I find it really difficult to win. Forza 2 is quite a bit shorter than Gran 
 Turismo games (already 24% through since I got it about 1 a week ago) . But in my opinion thats 
 a good thing. GT3 had to many cars to collect and most of them were not great cars. I haven't seen 
 one car I wouldn't want to drive in Forza 2. Plus you can smash them all up :) . I have had a few 
 spectacular crashes at high speed, seeing parts fall off and other cars go into you nearly makes 
 you cry seeing your pride and joy get totaled. All the cars handle differently and behave unsettled 
 at too higher speeds on corners. So you got to make sure you find the sweet spot for handling and 
 speed on every corner. Great sounds from the cars, awesome music (which dials down as you enter 
 a race, which is good as you don't want to listen to that as you changing gears. You will want 
 to hear your opponents catching you up) . Nice crash sounds and sound effects when bumping into 
 other cars. Graphics are good, little puffs of smoke if you pull a drift or if spin out (which 
 I have done once with a Corvette) leaves you in a cloud of smoke. Nice reflections and HDR. Using 
 the photo mode you will notice the graphics more.
  
  Upgrading cars is little different with the Performance index. I have yet to see a race where you 
 are restricted to a certain class. So I don't see the point in it to be honest (maybe there will 
 be some later on in the game or it is for online only?) . Winning races will get you discounts towards 
 some upgrades. I do have a few little problems with the game, when selecting a race and you already 
 have a car that is eligible to race it doesn't seem to give you a option to view your other cars 
 that can enter (well I not found the option to do that, PM me if you find it) . If you are using 
 a small TV like myself you might find all the options and menu's quite hard to navigate at first, 
 or maybe thats just me. I not tried online as I don't have Xbox live and I'm only 24% through career 
 so this isn't a comprehensive review. Not really looked into the painting and adding decal and 
 all that on cars because I just think it is a waste of time. I rather be racing. My brother has 
 had a few goes at it and he seems to spend hours customizing cars. So it seems pretty addictive. 
 p. s. This is my first written review. Hope you find it useful. Also putting value as 10/10 as I 
 got a discount on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  I went into Forza 2 expecting too much! I played the demo and it was pretty good. Then I read the 
 previews and that's when I put too much pressure on this title! I admittedly was not a big fan 
 of the original. I felt as though MS needed a racing sim in their stable to quench xbox owners 
 thirsts for a Gran Turismo. F2 does add nice touches which help its replay value quite a bit. There 
 is an online auction and you can even gift cars to friends! The Graphics are amazing and the gameplay 
 IS tight! So, why am I not floored like most everyone else? Maybe it's because some 8-10 hours 
 into playing I started the is this All there is? feeling! Don't get me wrong, if you are a sim 
 racer this game IS for You! If you enjoyed NFS MW and/or Carbon or PGR3 you will likely get bored 
 as I and 3 of the 4 of my fellow F2 Amigos did, NONE of us picking this game up since putting it 
 down! Remember the last game you played and couldn't stop until you finished? Perhaps it was GOW 
 or maybe R6V or GRAW 2. My point is F2 doesn't grab hold of you tight enough to keep you on the 
 throttle from start tol the absolute finish line! This is a competent title and hopefully we will 
 NOT have to wait for the Next Platform to release to get Forza 3 along with the touches needed 
 to put it at the absolute pinnacle of racing games! Great effort, but we waited a LONG time for 
 this and it missed the mark a wee bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Deep, Realisitic Racing Simulation. 
  When I first played the original Forza Motorsport, it was a major reality check for me - it was 
 an unforgiving crash course in what racing simulators were. Gone were the days of easy turns on 
 courses that ended up being more about what was under the hood than who was behind the wheel. As 
 someone who was left dissatisfied with Arcade racers like Need For Speed, I found Forza Motorsport 
 to be a breath of fresh air. After I picked up this sequel, I was pleased to find it to be another 
 high quality racing simulator.
  
  Graphics: The car models in Forza 2 are excellent, as are the courses. Each of the 300+ cars is 
 richly detailed with plenty of effects added to enrich the visual experience. The skid marks on 
 the road look very natural - a far cry from the thoroughly artificial marks in other games, which 
 were little more than thick black lines. However, the environments aren't quite so excellent, aside 
 from the clouds/horizon. Still, since you'll be focusing on your car and the road in front of you, 
 the environment isn't much of a big deal - especially since you'll probably be going too fast to 
 get a good look anyway.
  
  Overall, Forza 2's graphics earn a 9.25/10
  
  Sounds: All of the sounds in Forza 2 are highly polished, and sound crisp, appropriate, and never 
 out of place. They never detract from the experience or take you out of the moment, even if they 
 aren't really remarkable otherwise.
  
  Overall, a 9.25/10.
  
  Controls: I know a lot of people who are used to arcade style racers are going to think that the 
 cars in Forza 2 don't turn properly, but they must realize that it's other car racing games that 
 have it wrong - if you've ever driven a car at speeds of 130+ km/h, you'd know that turning is 
 not easy at all. Forza 2 also allows the player to change from the default controls, so most issues 
 with the default controls can be fixed. I haven't encountered anything I object to at all with 
 the controls.
  
  Overall, a 10/10 in controls.
  
  Gameplay: Forza Motorsport 2 is quite possibly the deepest racing game experience available. With 
 over 300 cars available and a plethora of events in career mode, any racing game fan is sure to 
 rack up plenty of play time on this title.
  
  The cars in Forza Motorsport 2 range from the fairly mundane to vehicles that are so rare that 
 even billionaires have trouble owning one. You may start with a low level car such as the Toyota 
 Celica, but using the game's incredible list of customization options (including plenty of brand 
 names and real world practices that add to the realism) , you can work your way up to a supercar 
 like the Saleen S7.
  
  The career mode offers plenty of races, with all sorts of different categories that will keep the 
 player from getting reliant on their familiarity with one certain model, which smooths the transition 
 process from one car or level of racing to another considerably, and is a welcome facet of gameplay 
 in my eyes.
  
  Although the game will at first seem difficult to people used to arcade racing games due to the 
 differences in handling and how much braking is used, Forza 2 offers ways to mitigate this until 
 you're comfortable with its more realistic style. Forza 2 never ventures past difficult into frustrating, 
 but it can get too easy at points (such as when you invest heavily in one certain car, bringing 
 it far above the CPU racers' vehicles, making victory a simple matter.
  
  Forza 2 also uses the Xbox Live service, and I haven't encountered any major problems or complaints 
 with it that can be blamed on the developers. Other players are, as always, a different matter.
 
  
  Overall, Forza Motorsport 2's gameplay earns a 9.5/10, as I felt that there were some minor issues 
 with camera angles.
  
  The original Forza Motorsport was worthy of the praise it received, and this sequel is an equally 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azupanda
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Simply awesome. I was a huge fan of the previous Forza and have been anticipating this for the 
 awhile. I recently just beat all of Arcade mode and the entire Career mode. There has been lots 
 of improvements in the gameplay such as physics, tire wear, engine wear, etc. It was all there 
 in the previous one, but it seems to better done here. However I feel that the AI is still terrible 
 and doesn't put up much of a challenge. Oh well, not much you can do about that.
  
  I mainly bought Forza 2 for the drifting and the customization. I'm not much of a racer but drifting 
 is where I shine. The new physics seem to make drifting easier, which is cool because now everyone 
 can enjoy it.
  
  I don't really even need to talk about the customization because we've all seen the videos of amazing 
 cars people have made. I personally own about ten sweet cars with anime and manga designs on them. 
 The things people can do is just WOW. Anyway if you don't have this game yet and you like racing 
 games, pick this up. Lots of people are debating between DIRT and Forza 2. Keep in mind that DIRT 
 is arcadeish, Forza is sim. Choose whatever appeals to you more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Love this game! It does take a few tries to get the handling down pat and learning the tracks is 
 a must. Gameplay is smooth and cars all react very differently to there specs. I did notice that 
 RWD cars are alot harder to steer out of corners espically ones B class or higher. Does take some 
 getting used to. Cars do feel very realistic on the track. FWD cars are best for beginners. LOTS 
 of cars to choose from too!
  
  For Gran turismo fans out there, the games menu's are setup identical right down to races, upgrades 
 and buying cars... I tried the Auction part a few times but got no buyers unfortunately. really 
 cool feature though.
  
  The online content and custom abilities are endless! this is where it blows GT out of the water. 
 Also online multiplayer with friends is a blast! Graphically this game is really amazing. the damage 
 effects look stunning, environments and right down to the tire marks on the pavement looks great.
 
  
  sound with 5.1 surround is really nice. no complaints here menu music is not too bad.
  
  This game is worth the full value. Get it today!
  
  I have the Microsoft Steering wheel 
 as well. I love using it with this game it feels very realistic and pedals feel just right same 
 with steering doesnt take too much effort or too less. everything fits the way i like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashsc85
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  forza kicks gt and pgr in the bumper on race day everbody thinks pgr rules its aracde racer meaning 
 either the cars are indestructible are go up to like 400 mph those people are amutures in video 
 games let me give u the low down u cant tune cars paint cars let me stop at paint cars for a seconed 
 painting grafix what ever u want to call it if u go to http://forums. forzamotorsport. net/forums/thread/189552. aspx 
 for the slow copy and paste now thos is there fourms it shows most of the cuztimisation of the 
 game now the front waz mostly done when the game first came out so its not so hot so wat i say 
 do jumpe to page 100 to see the best .
  now ur wondering why i am telling u all this cuz on like most games all you do is race well in 
 forza u can spend 100s of hours painting ur cars so it can be you you can sell it
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=ZSwiAbidWOc&amp; mode=related&amp; search=
  here is what some people 
 have done so far
  
  now to racing before i start like always a short clip
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=KKV7yCUx_hg&amp; mode=related&amp; search=
  
  thats a quick race 
 over all the racing feels real the sound is amazing the best u well get graphics are amazing real 
 good damage even the telmentry display helps so if this dosent help buy the game and feel for ur 
 self buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemama127
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's answer to Sony's Gran Turismo doesn't quite match up graphically (GT: HD) but it makes 
 up for it with sublime physics and gameplay. I don't think any game can simulate real driving 100% 
 but this is as close as you are going to get on any console.... the learning curve is fairly steep 
 but since you start out with underpowered cars you will have plenty of time to get the hang of 
 it before you get to the overpowered beasts. Speaking of overpowered... Forza 2 allows you to create 
 beasts that nobody in their right mind would do in the real world... good luck controlling your 
 2500lb 2 seater with 800hp though! I gave Forza 2 a '9' for value because it is almost like 3 games 
 in one.... if you prefer to stick to arcade then you have plenty of races and cars to choose from 
 and winning unlocks even more. The single player career is also great and you can pretty much tailor 
 the game to your tastes.... choose the Asian, North American or European region and then start building 
 your stable of cars. Paint/customize them all individually or choose one design to paste on all 
 your cars to create a team. The online is where this game really shines... if you want to play your 
 career online you can do it.... and also buy/sell/trade and gift cars to your friends. All in the 
 greatest console racer ever... the graphics may be a letdown if you were expecting a massive leap 
 from Forza 1... but they are by no means bad. Just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 954jorge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  In all the game is spectacular just the fact that you can sell and also bid for cars is kind of 
 mind boggling. I thing they did a very good job on detail of the tracks and also expanding the 
 variety of the cars as well. Also the picture taking feature is too addicting, for every time I 
 can remember here I am pausing the game to take a picture and post it online to put on my desktop. 
 But on the other hand this game needed the feature in which you can drag race with others online 
 and also introduce drifting into the game as well, because believe it or not but its allot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the sequel to the Xbox's best selling racing title; Forza Motorsport. Is 
 the sequel up to standard or does it skid off course?
  
  Gameplay: The handiling in Forza 2 is absolutely perfect. It's ultra realistic but also not too 
 hard so that beginners can get right into it. You can turn on a help arrow which will change coulour 
 to indicate if you should accelerate or brake. It works brilliantly. The main chunk of the game 
 is the career. You start with a normal car but you work your way up and it's really addicting. 
 You can also paint your own cars which is awesome. The multiplayer support for this game is amazing. 
 There's 2 player splitscreen and 8 player on Xbox Live. Plus you can buy and sell cars from the 
 online auction or send cars as gifts to your friends. It's brilliant.
  
  Graphics: The cars themselves look amazing with brilliant lighting, detail and damage effects. 
 However the tracks are pretty poor looking and it makes the cars stand out even more but not in 
 the way you would like. The crowds look cool in full 3D but the tracks are a real downer. The menus 
 though look great, the game's presentation is excellent.
  
  Sound: Great sound effects for the cars. They sound authentic and realistic and really egt you 
 into the race. The soundtrack is also pretty good with some great tunes to liven up the menus.
 
  
  Value: The career mode is deep and will last a l; ong while to get up to the top but it's on Live 
 where this game excels. It will last you a long time. Plus for the acheivement hunters there are 
 some really tough acheivements to keep you occupied.
  
  Overall this is a superb racing game and while the graphics are a bit disappointing it can't spoil 
 what is the best racing experience to be found on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfmann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  I cant lay down the controller and go to sleep even if the clock is 0530am thats how good this 
 one is. just the fact that you can drive all or most of the toprunners in Le Mans class .. don`t 
 know what to say other than it&acute;`s unbelievable.. thats how insane this baby is.. BUY IT ,RACE 
 IT... i WAS PLANNING ON BUYING OTHER UPCOMING RACERS BUT NOT NOW cause this will keep me working 
 the wheel for months now.. It gives you the best insight to how it must feel to be a reallife racedriver 
 UNBELIEVABLE. only praise from me to FORZA2.. LUV IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the most amazing car simulation game on any console ever made. I know it 
 sounds a bit far fetched but its not. So much attention to detail as far as the physics are concerned 
 make the lack of incredible graphics acceptable. I mean the graphics are not that bad even. The 
 cars are lovingly detailed to the point of seeing the driver and roll cage inside your car along 
 with your recaro seats. I'm going to keep this short though as time is of the essence and theres 
 no need to write a thesis (which would be easy) about all the amazing things this game has. Bottom 
 line is: If you like cars or playing racing games, this game IS for you. Its so good it even teaches 
 you how to drive and the attention to detail to the cars is top notch. At least the Audis as I 
 drive one in real life. Turn 10 Studios releases another cannot miss racing game, the best ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing!!! Makes and Gran Turismo look like crap. I cant stop playing it. You 
 can feel the power in the cars when you hook them up. I can go on and on bnut there is no need 
 to. Any one who has played this should agree. I love how you don't get started out in a mini van 
 like GT. Forza allows you to instantly get into a classic and build from there. The damage and 
 telemetry is amazing and to the T. Pound for pound this game is easily the best racing game ever 
 created. And its only on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearjamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Equipment played on: Premium Xbox 360. Samsung 56 DLP 1080P HDTV with component cables running 
 at 1080p. Xbox 360 force feedback Wheel. Yamaha 6.1 HT Receiver with center front and rear, main 
 fronts, side rear speakers, and 12 powered sub.
  
  Graphics: 9.5 The car models rock! The environment looks good, I don't spend much time looking 
 at buildings going by at 100mph+. Sim Physics: 9.5 As pointed out in the forums the physics are 
 not spot on. This is my judgment biased on autocross and open track experience with a modified 
 Mustang running 300hp at the wheel. There are some playing the game that have spec race cars they 
 race and have built there cars in the game. Those people have notice that their cars behavior in 
 the game is different that real life with a matched tune. As far as I'm concerened it's splitting 
 hairs. The game dose what it need to, to be FUN!!!
  
  Play and replay value can only be matched by Halo 2. This game will live online for a very long 
 time. I am addicted. My wife is already claiming to be a Forza Widow. Fun factor 10+ !!!! If you 
 like racing games. Ones that go beyond arcade you are doing yourself an injustice not having this 
 game. This is a system seller. A friend got Xbox 360 Elite for this game. I give the game an over 
 all of 10 because the graphics are nice and the game play is awesome. I'm not even going to go 
 into game modes and options. As they say in car adds TOO MANY OPTIONS TO LIST 
  
  Turn 10 YOU ROCK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thEsl1ck3st1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  you have to be a fan of racing to really enjoy this game. it is a sim, which means that you can 
 go 85 mph around a hairpin turn like mario kart. there is an amazing selection of cars, domestic 
 and foreign. customization of the cars is unlimited. you paint up and decal your car however you 
 want to truly make it custom. you can also upgrade your car from the engine, transmission, tires, 
 brakes, suspension, wheels, and body kits, which truly impact the performance of the car. some 
 of the upgrades are changeable, which makes you able to personalize the performance of the car. 
 the only reason the game isnt a 10 for me is the fact that all the tracks are exactly the same 
 from the first forza game. many of the cars are the same too, but this game has definite replay 
 value. each race is different even on the same tracks because of the varieties of the cars. its 
 an enjoyable experience, and the online play is excellent also. if you can look past the repetitiveness 
 of the tracks and you are a fan of racing simulation, then this is the only racing game you need 
 to buy for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  *updated Jun. 18, 2007
  
  The good:
  Intelligent AI unique to each driver, damage modeling affects car behavior, well rounded variety 
 of cars, excellent physics model, gameplay options make it suitable for all types and levels of 
 drivers, car customization, integrated website to show off in-game photos
  
  The bad:
  Limited body mods, limited vinyl shapes and manipulation options - especially with groups, leveling 
 system plays out more like an RPG rather than focusing on skill, range of AI skill levels and car 
 classes in a single race is too large, not enough race tracks
  
  There's really nothing more to say about Forza 2 that hasn't already been said. It's a rock solid 
 simulation racing game. And since comparisons to Gran Turismo are inevitable, let's just say that 
 Forza 2 is a worthy contender if not the new king.
  
  The game boasts over 300 cars, which is significatly less than Gran Turismo's 800 (or whatever) . 
 The biggest difference here is that Forza's cars are all designed for driving fast. You won't find 
 any Japanese K class, 65hp go-karts here or quaint but useless Model Ts. Even the most common, 
 daily driver cars that you'll start out in are ones that you'd be likely to find racing Solo II 
 at your local SCCA event. In fact, it's difficult to find many cars with less than 150hp.
  
  When you start up, Forza is divided into four sections: Arcade, Career, Multiplayer, and Options. 
 Arcade is where you'll go to just get right to the action and is further divided into three more 
 categories: Exhibition, Time Trials, and Free Race. Exhibition mode is just a single race. You'll 
 have access to a pretty good selection of cars from the get go but limited tracks. As you race 
 and win, you'll unlock more cars and more tracks. Time Trials puts you in a specific car on a specific 
 track with a time to beat. Beating the time generally isn't difficult - but beating the players 
 around you can be. A feature of Forza 2 is that it shows lap times for each track based on players 
 on your Xbox, players on Xbox Live, as well as your Live Friends. It provides a great way to challange 
 yourself as you try to get those last 10ths of a second off your time. It's also not limited to 
 Time Trials as all courses, Arcade and Career, display this feature. Free Race is simply you driving 
 around a course. It's similar to Time Trials in that after each race you can have a ghost car drive 
 your last lap line and will record your best lap times, but you're not limited to a specific car 
 and it's a great way to get familiar with tracks.
  
  Multiplayer allows you to play against friends, play online, give cars to friends, or even sell 
 cars to other players in the auction house. You can also take pictures of your cars and upload 
 them to Forzamotorsport. net to share. Options is your standard array although Forza does include 
 the built in abililty to set up multiple screens - no hacks or mods required. It does require a 
 hefty investment however as for each additional screen you want to hook up you'll also need another 
 360 as well as another copy of Forza.
  
  The bulk of Forza however is its Career mode. It's here where you'll race in series events, purchase 
 cars, buy upgrades, and paint your cars.
  
  The racing is solid. But in case you didn't know yet, Forza, like Gran Turismo, is not an arcade 
 style racer. You can change some options around to get it close but the engine here is designed 
 to be a simulator; meaning that if you drive like a bat out of hell you'll be spending most of 
 your time sliding across the grass and into baricades instead of winning races. Luckily, even if 
 you're not about to spend $150 on a steering wheel, the Xbox controller is well suited for the 
 finesse control that demanding driving requires. Trying to gently throttle or brake in Gran Turismo 
 using the Playstation controller was nearly impossible. Using the Xbox controller's triggers for 
 gas and brake, however, provide a wide range of control that allow you to brake without sliding, 
 maintain speed around corners, and accelerate out of corners without spinning. And be sure, if 
 you turn off the driving assists, you'll appreciate that extra level of control.
  
  *edit --
  Still, the racing can be finicky at times and it's not uncommon to find yourself losing 
 control because of a small over-correction. It's these instances that can be frustrating and you'll 
 swear that the physics engine sucks. Is there any truth to it? Probably a little, but I'm not a 
 race car driver so I can't say how a car should respond when taking a J-turn at 75 mph. If you 
 can remain focused and drive with a smooth, consistant touch, however, you won't find many races 
 that you can't win.
  
  The exception would be races where the range of car classes and driver skill is just too great. 
 The AI may be top notch but as long as you're driving well, you'll never encounter 2/3rds of the 
 other cars - while the lead car will generally get a ridiculous lead. I would have really liked 
 to have seen car class not dictate where an AI oppenent finishes or what kind of car they have 
 to drive. Closer skill levels would mean closer races, regardless of car class. It's unfortunate 
 that each race plays out fairly predictably according to car class, with drivers having little 
 impact on each other.
  
  Speaking of which, Forza 2 ships with a handful of driving assists to cater to different levels 
 of drivers. Those that want to simply race and not have to worry about their brakes locking up 
 because they hit a button too hard or think about the best line to take through a turn will enjoy 
 the ability to turn on things like the Braking Line or Stability Control. Others that want the 
 full experience of challanging driving can turn them all off - plus they'll receive additional 
 credits for their trouble with each race.
  
  The driving line is nice, especially that you can just use a braking assist line rather than a 
 constant line that's always on, but it definitely becomes a crutch. It's easy to find yourself 
 watching the line more than the road. That said, the line isn't a hard rule either. To get the 
 best times, you'll have to drive faster when it's telling you to brake, and based on your own driving 
 technique, you may find the line to be relatively out of place. Still, it's a useful tool, and 
 one that's hard to ween yourself off of if you find yourself constantly relying on it.
  
  The other assists are helpful as well (Stability Control, Anti-lock brakes, Traction Control) but 
 my beef with these is that these are real things that many cars have. What car doesn't come with 
 Anti-lock brakes these days? Most AWD vehicles have Traction control. They're nice features but 
 I would have appreciated them more if they were implemented differently. Not as difficulty options 
 but instead how Gran Turismo implemented them as purchase upgrades. And not cheap ones either. 
 Just seems to make more sense this way. Why handicap yourself by disabling a feature that the car 
 you're driving actually has?
  
  As you race in the Career mode you'll unlock new race series, be awarded new cars that can be upgraded 
 or sold, and up your personal driving level. This level affects your relationship with car dealers 
 and part manufacturers. It increases based on how much money you make winning races and the higher 
 it goes, the more discounts you get and more cars you have access too. Drive a particular car enough, 
 and it too will develop a reputation with similar benefits. Personally I think its a good idea 
 and I like the car rep thing. But to me this sort of thing plays out more than an RPG that only 
 cares about how much you play rather than how well you play. Gran Turismo's license requirements 
 may have been tedious, and in some cases, extremely difficult, but they rewarded you for actually 
 accomplishing something. You simply weren't allowed to race with the big boys if you weren't qualified 
 to do so. Forza takes the stance that, if you race enough, eventually, you can race whomever you 
 please. For me, I prefer GT's take on this sort of game progression but it's only a small aspect 
 of the game and as Forza has it set up, how you drive has very little impact.
  
  Forza 2 looks gorgeous. There's a great attention to detail both during gameplay as well as in 
 the interface. The cars themselves are very well modeled, although, along some curves, you'll still 
 see hard points. The one thing that stands out about them is that the cars are immaculately clean. 
 Too clean. They seem a little out of place on the tracks when they're not a spec of dirt on them 
 - ever. The damage modeling is decent. It gets the point across and the job done but doesn't go 
 to any great lengths to accurately represent the damage you've taken. You'll get some small dents, 
 severly scratched paint, broken glass, and fenders that fall off but nothing beyond that. No crumple 
 zones or anything that distorts the shape of the car. If turned on though, damage can be more than 
 purely cosmetic and will affect how your car performs. Taking damage and trading paint with other 
 cars also means that your car will have to be repaired and the costs for those repairs will come 
 out of your winnings. Just another reason to drive with some intelligence.
  
  The tracks looks good as well. They're well detailed with good lighting but there's something missing 
 that makes them feel sparse. It could be that most of the courses take place in open areas on actual 
 race tracks. There's very little driving done in cities or mountains. Perhaps the developers intentionally 
 left out complex environments to mainain its smooth 60 fps. And while Forza does a decent job at 
 making the most of the tracks that it does have, with different track configurations, there is 
 just too little variety to those courses. There's only one course through a city (New York) and 
 it's only a fairly straight-forward loop; as well as only one run through the mountains - the devilishly 
 long N&uuml; rburgring. Which is really a shame because as much as I love the Laguna Seca, there's 
 something to be said for driving through tight European cities or the rolling hills of downtown 
 Seattle.
  
  When it comes to upgrading your car, you're only limited by how much cash you want to spend. Each 
 upgradable item usually has about 3 levels of performance (Street, Sport, and Race) ; depending 
 on the initial performance level of your car. Upgrading your call will also affect its class. Make 
 enough changes and you'll jump up into a new car class. Really this only affects what types of 
 races you can run, although if you upgrade a car too much you'll probably find yourself racing 
 against high performance cars that while in the same class, will rip you a new one on the track. 
 Though well implemented, the upgrade system isn't flawless, mostly due to the games autosave. There's 
 no way to throw on a bunch of upgrades to see the overall performance increase without commiting 
 to them. The game will let you see how a single upgrade affects your car before purchasing it but 
 if you want to put on multiple parts you're going to have to buy each one. This is unfortunate. 
 One of the things I enjoyed about Gran Turismo was fully upgrading cars I would normally never 
 drive - such as the stupid mini-vans. Take them around the track a few times for fun then restart 
 the game, recouping all the credits I spent. Forza on the other hand will autosave just about everything 
 you do. You can't even leave the upgrade garage before it saves and it will save a couple times 
 after every race. Heck, the game saves when you leave the home screen.
  
  In addition to performance upgrades, you'll also have the option to make some cosmetic changes 
 to your car such as unique paint jobs (individually painting brakes, hoods, and spoilers) , tinting 
 windows, and adding body mods. While it varies from car to car, there generally aren't a lot of 
 options in the mod department. You'll usually get a couple good options but if you're looking for 
 anything like Need For Speed Underground, you're simply out of luck. Yet, with all these options, 
 I find it odd that the developers left out wheels with black spokes and chromed lips - or the ability 
 to paint them as such.
  
  Then of course, there's the painting system. Games like Need For Speed simply throw a ton of different 
 designs at you called Vinyls. With these you could change the color and layer a few on top of one 
 another but nothing more. Forza takes the concept of vinyls and gives you complete control over 
 them allowing you to change the color, placement, size (both horizontally and vertically) , rotation, 
 and even skew them a bit. Not to mention that each region of your car has a thousand layers. Although 
 there are some interesting pre-built designs, most of Forza's vinyls are simple shapes and for 
 those that are willing to put in the time, they'll be sticking mainly to the primitive shapes to 
 layer together some truly amazing works of art. Check out the forums at for some examples. Keep 
 in mind that there is no way to upload your own images into the game.
  
  For the most part the layering system works pretty well. Manipulate the right shape enough times 
 and you can create some pretty incredible stuff. Some additional options could have really made 
 the system better however. Such as a way to mirror a layer without having to adjust size and rotation 
 and better yet, providing the same options to groups that's available to individual layers.
  
  If you're a long time Gran Turismo fan like myself that found themselves jumping platforms 
 and need a fix for your addiction to speed, Forza is the answer. Frankly, I found GT lacking in 
 its later iterations anyway. It lost its sense of speed and natural handling. Forza seems to pounce 
 on all the things that made a driving simulator like Gran Turismo enjoyable to begin with and only 
 improve upon them - all the while adding elements that GT has always lacked.
  
  When it comes down to simulator superiority who knows what the future has in store for Gran Turismo, 
 and it may be unfair at this point to say that Forza has won the next-gen war since GT has yet 
 to make its next-gen debut. But for what it's worth, I have no problem crowning Forza the undisputed 
 king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Not only is Forza Motorsport 2 the best racing game on the 360, it's the best on any current gen 
 system. Racing fans everywhere will love it's great selection of cars, amazing online play, and 
 wonderful car customization. Here is my full review.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is excellent. It can take awhile to get down if your new to racing games, 
 but it is very fun. Races can get boring and tedious in the D and C classes, but they really pick 
 up in the B and up classes. The gameplay seems just right in how difficult it is. It is hard at 
 first but it gets better. It gets a 9
  
  Graphics- The graphics aren't the best I've seen on the 360 but they are very far from the worst. 
 They are very good and clear. I give them a 9
  
  Sound- The soundtrack is good, lots of very good techno songs. There is one glaring problem though, 
 NO SOUND DURING RACES! Races can get long and tedious and no music can get old, fast. Make sure 
 to have music on your Xbox to listen to during it, or put on a CD. Car sound effects are crisp 
 and clean but because of no music during races it gets a 7.
  
  Value- Good amount of cars and very good online plus the amazing car designing offers lots of re 
 playability and a very good value game. The online races and tournaments are fun and exciting and 
 the auction house is great. The value gets a 10.
  
  Tilt- I absolutely love this game. I have not been able to put it down since I've gotten it. Buy 
 this game! My tilt is a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  No matter what people make of the variety of software on the Xbox 360, racing games have certainly 
 never been in short supply. PGR3, Need For Speed: Most Wanted, Burnout and Ridge Racer 6 have provided 
 petrol heads with an ample supply of quality arcade racers thus far, all the while waiting for 
 Microsoft and Turn 10 studios to get into gear for the release of a truly heavyweight title. The 
 original Forza Motorsport defined the Xbox on it's release in 2005, providing a level of depth 
 above and beyond anything seen on other formats, with a physics engine that recreated the feel 
 of driving a car like no other title before it. Fans of the series will be relieved to hear that 
 Forza Motorsport 2 is very much in the same vein as the original classic, boldly putting technical 
 proficiency above graphical fidelity, and managing to produce a truly classic game as a result.
 
  
  Offering up a total of over 300 real-life vehicles and a selection of twelve racing tracks, Forza 
 2 has its roots firmly in simulation territory, and this second iteration takes that particular 
 aspect to ludicrously detailed levels. The career mode does an excellent job of introducing new 
 car classes and drip-feeding content in an innovative manner, providing set challenges that encompass 
 the entire range of vehicles on offer. It's rare that you'll be racing the same type of car more 
 than three of four times over the course of the campaign, and the heavy focus on variety is a clear 
 indication of Turn 10's design remit to turn players into car fanatics as well as gamers.
  
  With that in mind, tuning and upgrading your ride is a heavy focus throughout the career mode, 
 with some classes of race requiring a purpose-built machine (specific weight limitations, engine 
 intake etc.) in order to qualify. Each car has a variety of different manufacturer parts that can 
 be added to or upgraded, and the cumulative effect of these tweaks determines the vehicles' overall 
 Performance Index (PI) rating, which in turn affects eligibility for specific race classes. Whilst 
 it may sound complex, each different category of mechanical upgrade is clearly labelled and contains 
 a brief explanation as to its purpose, so even novice players will be able to pick and choose parts 
 with some degree of informed knowledge. This almost turns into a mini-game in itself, and balancing 
 upgrades to stay within a certain class of vehicle can become incredibly challenging.
  
  Continuing along the tweaking theme, Turn 10 has also included a raft of options tailored towards 
 visual customisation. An incredibly detailed paint and decal system is available for use on almost 
 every car (certain sponsored or limited edition cars are not available for alteration) , allowing 
 the player to craft a unique visual identity to be used throughout career or online modes. Paint 
 schemes and car tunings can be saved into separate files and applied to any purchased vehicle, 
 and can even be auctioned up on the online service, which is currently awash with some fantastic 
 designs from the Asian player-base. Famous Anime characters and corporate logos seem to be the 
 flavour of the day at the moment, but hopefully that will expand as the game launches in the various 
 territories around the world.
  
  There does seem to be a maturity in the Forza community at present that comes as somewhat of a 
 surprise. Most players have outlandish and interesting car designs, without venturing into the 
 expected vulgar and shock-inducing variety, although no doubt this will come in time. Online races 
 are made so much more personal if you can visually identify an annoying opponent by the simple 
 fact that they have a user-created Coke logo plastered across a bonnet, and injects the game with 
 a personality as a result.
  
  Whilst it is entirely possible to concentrate on the design aspects alone, to do so would be to 
 miss one of the most technically proficient games yet seen in this or any other generation of console 
 gaming. Racing simulators live and die by the manner in which the cars react to the driving surface 
 and each other, and in this respect Forza 2 can be considered as nothing but an unrelenting success.
 
  
  To put it simply, everything just feels correct. The difference between an AWD, FWD or a RWD car 
 is immediately noticeable coming off the starting line this time around, and true finesse with 
 the throttle and brake controls are needed to get the best performance out of any of the vehicles. 
 The physics model is so detailed that individual bumps in the road affect every wheel in a seemingly 
 correct manner, and bringing up the in-game telemetry options will give you a little clue into 
 exactly how much processing is undertaken by the engine in this regard. Turning off the driving 
 aids accentuates the impact in this regard; leading to a much more robust and lifelike experience, 
 and offering up considerably lower lap times once mastered.
  
  With the incredible amount of detail involved, car choice eventually turns into a matter of personal 
 preference and driving style rather than a straightforward spec-war between the super cars, which 
 lends further credence to the variety of racing on offer. It is entirely possible for example, 
 to take a VW Golf from being a Class D car through to becoming a super-spaced racing machine with 
 a few choice upgrades and a weight-reducing tweak. There is no ultimate machine here, and whichever 
 car suits your driving style is the best choice you can make.
  
  The opposition AI is also fantastically well-implemented, with different drivers staying the course 
 throughout the career mode, and some real rivalries built up as a result. Every protagonist has 
 a unique personality and different methods of reacting to your driving style, with some taking 
 up an aggressive stance and others preferring to back off at the hint of any on-track confrontation. 
 Hitting another car can lead to them noticeably targeting you on further exchanges, and drivers 
 with a more aggressive streak will react as real-life opponents do, quickening up on the final 
 few laps to chase down the leader of the pack, making a few more mistakes in the process.
  
  The only real issue with the complexity of the physics calculations and AI routines is that 
 something had to be sacrificed as a result. The graphical engine will no doubt be singled out by 
 most players as the element that takes most of a hit, but this really bares little weight on close 
 examination. Car models are packed full of detail, with some fantastic lighting and reflection 
 effects throughout most tracks, and a realistic and overcast tone to the design work. Indeed the 
 only area that really suffers is the incidental trackside detail, with some smudgy texturing at 
 points. However, as the only time you'll notice those problems is when the car comes to a halt, 
 it doesn't ever present itself as too much of an issue, and certainly not enough to detract in 
 any meaningful manner from the overall experience. Audiophiles are also well catered for, with 
 some excellent effects and a somewhat irreverent but inspired menu soundtrack. Overall, when the 
 only meaningful complaint in a game of this size and complexity is a few smudgy textures here and 
 there, Forza 2 can be considered nothing but a runaway success. There are enough driving aids and 
 difficulty tweaks within the game engine to coax in novice racers, and experienced players are 
 catered for with more customisation options and a deeper driving model than any other title to 
 come before it. It may be little more than an evolutionary leap over the original Forza, but with 
 such a solid to base to work from, this will come as no surprise. It is difficult to see where 
 Turn 10 can go from here, but for now, we have a new heavyweight champion of the racing genre, 
 and about time too.
  
  Note: This was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2
  
  For: Superb physics engine; great sense of speed; cool paint shop mode
  Against: Pure simulation; 
 repetitive racing; you can buy success early in the game; average textures
  
  Achievements: Medium
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 fills the simulation gap in the X360 portfolio of 
 racing games. The game features 100s hours of racing both offline and online, 300+ vehicles and 
 the best physics engine in any racing game.
  
  Forza 2 is a pure racing simulator, it does however make a decent attempt to improve the accessibility 
 of the game for non-racing aficionados. Novice players can enable various driving assists, including 
 racing line and breaking zones, to instantly jump into the racing without having to worry about 
 oversteer and understeer. Expert players are rewarded for turning off the assists and can dabble 
 for hours with the tuning and vehicle upgrade features.
  
  Forza 2 features three game modes: 'arcade' is a basic race and unlock mode; 'career' is the core 
 game which has you earning money to buy, sell, auction and upgrade vehicles in your garage and 
 compete in a huge variety of class &amp; manufacturer based racing events; 'multiplayer' is basically 
 the career mode online with financial rewards for finishing well and avoiding damage. All game 
 modes are enjoyable and the driver AI is pretty accurate avoiding the drone like qualities of the 
 AI in the Gran Turismo titles. If Forza 2 does have a weakness in gameplay, it is the fact that 
 you can buy success through copious use of upgrades - especially early on in the career mode. However, 
 this does allow you to progress and learn the tracks before the real challenge kicks in.
  
  Forza's party trick is the Paint Shop. Here you can decorate and customise the look of the car, 
 exercising the creative half of your brain. If you come up with a really good design (and not the 
 1000s of Gears of War designs you'll see) you can auction the car and design for more in-game credits. 
 I found myself loosing hours in the paint shop. I always love design style games (SimCity et al) 
 and I find the paint shop feature very satisfying; it is easy to use too.
  
  Forza 2 is a highly polished title with quality presentation in both visuals, music and sound. 
 The track visuals are good, but not special -there's little fancy lighting effects-, but the framerate 
 and animation is super smooth. The engine sound effects all feel right, and the in-menu music features 
 some well chosen songs and tunes.
  
  Forza 2 represents superb value for money, provided you love your cars. It is a real anorak's game, 
 with 300+ cars to collect plus stats to compare and tweak. 100s of hours can be spent without progressing 
 very far at all as you fiddle with stabliser bars, vinyls and gear ratios. The actual career mode 
 is massive, whilst the excellent online racing is infinite. I've seen Forza for sub&pound;40 in 
 most shops, and at that price it is an absolute steal.
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 is the pinnacle of racing simulators. It makes a decent attempt to welcome casual 
 racers, but ultimately it is a game for motor racing and sportscar fans. If you are a true petrol-head 
 you won't need to buy an Alpha Romeo, you'll just need Forza Motorsport 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harperton
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I got this game in the hope of it being a great simulator with great graphics. In reality it is 
 an okay simulator with good graphics. I have played most of the Gran Turismos games and was envisioning 
 this being a next-gen version. Not the case.
  
  Gran Turismo 4 had a 1080i option (if you had the correct cables) . Using this setting, GT4 looks 
 better than FM2. A good example is the Buick Grand National. Also the shading is off.
  
  The game play is off as well. The controls feel sluggish at times and at other times overly sensitive.
 
  
  I do like the menu system for upgrades, purchases and racing.
  
  I know a lot of this sounds harsh. However, it still is a good game, just not awesome like I hoped. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxConfidence3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  First let me state that I am no Sony fan-boy but I have been a huge follower of the Gran Turismo 
 series and will continue to be, however since Forza 2 has come out I have started to look differently 
 at my choice of sim racing games. The first Forza I was somewhat interested in but still had strong 
 feelings about Sony's GT series that was until Forza 2 and the first time I was racing online and 
 the guy's bumper flew off after an altercation with the leader in which the said bumper flew at 
 my wind sheild and resulted in me taking over first place and go on to win the race. That alone 
 has totally changed the way I feel about racing sims, I played the demo for GT 5 and I must say 
 if they don't do something extreme then we may have a new leader in racing sims and I will be happy 
 with either outcome until then you'll find me on xbox live smoking the comp in my Audi R8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I love it flat out, its a great game. They took the base from the original Forza and added more 
 to it. I love the fact that there is like a million cars to choose from and they all drive and 
 respond different. Also the fact that they put a ton more Muscle Cars in it makes it well, amazing. 
 The game play is really cool cause you can go in depth as you want, you can make it well a driving 
 sim or just drive it as the casual racer. I highly recommend you get this game, or at least rent 
 it. If you like the first one you will love the second one it does not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattface
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  The first thing to say opout forza motorsport 2 is that if you like your car racing realistic, 
 then this is the game for you. the wealth of options to tune and upgrade your chosen car are huge, 
 and if you know enoug about cars you can set up the car perfectly for each individual race. The 
 actual racing itself is (i'm led to believe - having not driven a high powered supercar around 
 a race track) , is extreamly realistic. overcook it on the corners and you can expect to find yourself 
 chasing the pack for the rest of the race. If however you're more into the arcade side of racing 
 games such as burnout, then your not really gonna enjoy forza 2, nuff said.
  
  So, why not a Gran turismo beater then. One thing that really annoys me about forza is the ease 
 with wich you win good cars. on gran turismo you'll find your self having to settle for last place 
 and 100 credits per race for quite some time untill your able to buy a respectable car, and its 
 even longer untill you start winning them. in forza you are rewarded with a flashy porche after 
 winning just 3 races. it just doesn't have the same sense of acheivement as gran turismo.
  
  Dont get me wrong... it's a great game, but if you've played and loved gran turismo... get a 
 ps3 and wait.
  
  + Great car physics
  + Fun Graphics editor (if you're any good)
  + over 300 cars
  
  -No in music while you race
  -Graphics aren't much better than what you 
 get on GT4
  -No alfa romeo brera... but its so lovely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Forza motorsport 2 is the must have car game of the century. The gameplay is soli with no bugs. 
 The driving might take some getting used to. But is you been playing Need for Speed or Burnout, 
 it might take 15 min (it did for me) . The number of cars is amazing and the custimization is phenominal. 
 Imagine a Ford Stang with fire red, and custom designes made by you! Also the auction house for 
 Xbox Live is a nice feature because throught the races, you recive car that are crap (nerd cars 
 as I like to say) .
  
  Overall 10-10, PURE GENIUS- MUST HAVE-DON'T WAIT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garpothia1813
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  the game at whole is not bad.. You get a good feature of tuning your car, and the onscreen real 
 time of you car is a good idea. The only bad thing about this game is the graphics look a little 
 to unrealistic... maybe a little too cartoonish. There could be more detail to the cars, and maybe 
 they should use an in car view because to get a feel of racing you have to be behind the wheel, 
 not in front of the car. but other then the graphics downfall, maybe next time they will get an 
 idea. This game will not beat granT 5 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Racing games aren't generally my favorite games, but that all changed once I started to play this 
 game. I hadn't played a racing game on the 360 other then NFS Most Wanted. I loved this game from 
 the second I put it in. The game is easy to get into and really fun to play. The graphics are awesome, 
 but the gameplay is even better. I like how they have real cars and real locations to race on. 
 I also like the driver and car level system. The races are all fun, but I think some different 
 race types would have made it even better. I haven't played online too much yet, but from what 
 I've played I think that its great. I think the online auction house where you can buy and sell 
 cars is a great feature. Overall, I think that Forza is a great game and the best racing game on 
 the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype and great review here on GS UK and being a fan of a good driving game I had to 
 check out Forza 2. After playing the game solidly for a day or two I cam to the conclusion that 
 I really really didn't like this game, in fact I bl**dy hate it!! Ok the presentation and available 
 options are good, but shouldn't they be??
  
  The graphics on the cars are just 'ok' and at best look like they're made out of plastic, and look 
 very much like plastic toy cars! The 'Handling' on the cars is deeply annoying and are just not 
 responsive, no matter what car you have. If you're a fan of Forza on the original Xbox then it 
 will definately appeal to you in the next gen. Sorry but for me there are much better games out 
 those being PGR3 or Motorstorm on the Ps3.
  
  Overhyped and overated. It plays like a slugish Gran Turismo, and thats not good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  i been playing motorsport 2 i am not much of a racing guy. most race games to me are just boring, 
 my big beef with motorsport2 is the AI. i mean they drive perfect. i dont see them crashing are 
 taking a turn to fast and losing it, and to me this should be in the game. i think in real life 
 they do have car crashes on race tracks, it would be nice as well if they would of put some charactors 
 in the game like real life racers. with there on way of driving and acting, i just dont like when 
 you can spin out and lose controll and they dont, its a nice game its fun. but not in my view a 
 gold award. i want to give the game dirt a try it looks like a good game. so i wont buy this one. 
 thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport is a gear-head's dream. While not as deep as Gran Turismo, it still offers great 
 opportunity to customize, tune and even paint the car of your dreams. The graphics for this iteration 
 of Forza are great with extra emphasis on the car models. The backgrounds are decent but boring 
 but the race surface looks great. Multiple camera angles to choose from and a neat three screen 
 presentation mode available round out the graphical muscle for the game.
  
  Many of the game modes offer a slew of gameplay customization. You can select from many different 
 cars to compete in each race (career) and you can also alter driving assists and help options for 
 each race. Tuning your car for the individual track also brings the gameplay to another level. 
 The team decided to take weather out of the physics equation for the game which can lead to some 
 duller races (always a nice day!) . A rain option would have been cool...
  
  The sound doesn't vary much from car to car inside an individual class and all the tire squealing 
 sounds the same. There is a wide selection of music tracks for the time you spend inside the menus 
 but no option to play music while driving.
  
  The value in Forza lies in the amount of cars you can collect either though winning races or buying/selling 
 cars online. Multiplayer is good, allowing you access to every track and every car you have unlocked 
 through the game. The paint/detailing system offers a deep opportunity to express your artistic 
 side. The achievements are predictable but still require a huge time investment into the game.
 
  
  Overall, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesrojao
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game is right on point. I mean you can do anything and everything in this game. I wish their 
 were a little more racing tracks but thats me being spoile. It take a little while to get use to 
 the game with all the turns and breakin but this game is hands down the best racing game i ever 
 played. The graphics are insane good I mean the detail is a perfect 10. All the cars you wish you 
 could drive in real life are in this game like a 1992 porshe 911. My friends and i have been playing 
 this game non stop since its release date and have no intentions of putting it down. Anybody who 
 owns a 360 should make this a permanent spot in thier game collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggatone
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Taken on its own merits Forza 2 is a great racing sim for 360. It plays well, has good sound and 
 a nice blend of music tracks and is instantly accessible both playing solo or online. The graphics 
 are good, but no more than that. Both PGR3 and DIRT have improved presentation than Forza and that 
 is one of the few disappointments. But if you have played any of the other top racing games across 
 platforms (Gran Turismo, PGR, Forza 1) then you will appreciate that the 'envelope' really hasn't 
 been pushed that far. You will feel like you have seen pretty mush everything before, but in a 
 lower resolution, because from the views of the grid pre race, to the unadventurous career mode, 
 it is clear that the developers main aim was to provide as many cars (they do look great) as possible, 
 and not to really expand the genre and try something new. That said, it is a top game, and the 
 Forza franchise will march on, next time they better take some risks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I'm very impress with Forza 2 I've never played the first Forza since I didn't own 
 the original xbox but I have to say if is anything like the sequel it must be a really good game. 
 There is a lot to do in this game and believe me if you're looking for a game to keep you busy 
 over the summer than this is the game to get if you're a fan of racing games like I am. I just 
 picked up this game today and I've already put in a good 5 hours of none stop gaming. There's so 
 much to do you have acrade mode which includes time trials, exhibition, and free fun. Than you 
 have Career mode this is where you'll be kept busy for most of the games. You have over 300 cars 
 to buy and unlock. You get to choose which region/country you want to start off from and depending 
 which region you choose you will get nice discounts on the cars made by that region which is pretty 
 cool so choose wisely. As you progress in the game you level up the more you level up the more 
 races you will unlock as you move up in rank. Also you have the chance to design your own decals 
 and graphics on the cars in career mode. There's also Multiplayer where you can go online and take 
 your cars and race with your friends online which is pretty cool.
  
  Now on to the graphics, gameplay, and sound. The graphics in this game aren't breathe taking but 
 they aren't bad. The game is running at a solid 60 fps which is not bad. You have varies track 
 that you'll race on which at times it gets repeatitive. One thing that I like about this game is 
 the car damage it looks pretty cool when you smash into a while the glass breaks and you see smoke 
 coming out of your car. You also see the outcome of damage being done to your car makes your car 
 run slower the more damage you do to it. Also you loose credits depending the damage you do to 
 your cars in races. Most of the car engines some similar you can't tell the differences sometimes. 
 I've unlocked so far 9 cars in the last 5 hours I've put into it. If you're a fan of racing games 
 than I definitely would recommend this game to anybody being that it has 3 different settings of 
 difficulty and you can adjust them to your liking which is good. If you're looking for a game to 
 keep you busy this summer and are a fan of racing games than there's plenty to do in this game. 
 I suggest you go out and get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  You can nit-pick all you want but when it's all said and done, Forza Motorsport 2 beats any other 
 racing title out there hands down and yes that includes Gran Turismo. In this game you can truly 
 feel the passion of the development team in every facet of this superb racer. It may not make full 
 use out of the Xbox 360's hardware graphically, but you'll not find a finer, more realistic physics 
 engine anywhere. On top of that, the game's packed with awesome features: arcade races in specific 
 cars to compete for best lap times on Live, unparalelled car customization options including engine 
 and tranny swaps, 300+ cars, sickly in-depth livery paint design editor, photo mode, insane level 
 of tuning, auction house, career mode and of course great Xbox Live play.
  
  Positives:
  &gt;&gt; Graphics run at 60fps for ultra smooth pace and cars are extremely accurately modelled 
 down to the finest details including individual LED's in the tail-lights.
  
  &gt;&gt; Performance Index system for car classes gives an easy way to gauge how car upgrades affect 
 performance making it possible for online races to be fair even when racing with a wide variety 
 of different vehicles.
  
  &gt;&gt; Physics engine updates 360 times per second to accurately replicate real world physics 
 in the game and provide in-depth telemetry data for things like tire pressure, suspension movement, 
 tire temp, G forces, damage and much more. &gt;&gt; Every car handles just like in the real-world 
 and tuning changes make a noticeable difference. Driving in this game with all assists off may 
 require the casual driver to do some extra research to learn how to actually race properly but 
 it will surely pay off.
  
  &gt;&gt; Paint editor has so many options that you could spend weeks just designing your own personalized 
 paint job then sell the car on the auction house for oodles of cash. Just look online, there are 
 some jaw-dropping designs I never thought were possible.
  
  &gt;&gt; All car's sound very authentic depending on the engine under the hood and the addition 
 of exhaust systems and turbo/superchargers make their presence known. Good engine sound is very 
 important in a racer and this game does it great to give you that guilty pleasure feeling of hearing 
 a that big block V8 roaring up to speed in a muscle car. Tire squeel and crashes also sound perfectly 
 real for once. And depending on what kind of music you like, you'll either love or hate the soundtrack 
 but I like most of it since there is a wide variety of tunes and most of them are really catchy.
 
  
  &gt;&gt; Photo mode lets you snap pics of your cool rides and upload them for the racing community 
 to see and extensive leaderboards track all the stats which will always give you something to strive 
 towards and new challenges. The online community is pretty good overall. Most players seem to want 
 to drive a clean race.
  
  Negatives:
  &gt;&gt; The high frame-rate and highly sophisticated physics system use up the majority of the 
 360's horsepower making the graphics themselves look a little underwhelming. There is not enough 
 anti-aliasing to remove jaggies and some textures lack advanced lighting effects. However replays 
 do run at 30fps with 4x antialiasing so you do get a graphical treat when you get to sit back and 
 watch the replay where they count the most.
  
  &gt;&gt; The AI is pretty good but there could be more difficulty levels. Easy and medium are usually 
 a push-over while hard is rediculous.
  
  &gt;&gt; There are some sound anomalies/glitches especially during high speed crashes.
  
  &gt;&gt; 
 Very poor 8 page instruction manual barely covers the basics when this game really needs detailed 
 explainations and tips on how to tune. There are some decent tips in the game but no bio's for 
 individual cars.
  
  &gt;&gt; No mirror available for hood view which is perplexing
  
  &gt;&gt; Online competition is unbelievably fierce and will require intense, long hours of practice 
 to earn you wins but the satisfaction is worth it. I also think the online options for a custom 
 game are still a bit skimpy.
  
  &gt;&gt; Many common cars like Toyota Camry SE, Pontiac Gran Prix, Honda Accord, Buick Lucerne 
 etc missing from the lineup
  
  Forza 2 is a true next-generation game. It really steps up to the plate to deliver pretty much 
 all you could ask for in a racing game. Even though the enormous number of options are great, it's 
 the physics engine that really makes the game shine above all. You will feel intimately connected 
 to your cars as you learn how to take turns and push the limit while customizing the cars throughout 
 the game. Forza 2 WILL make a gear-head out of you and I think that's a great thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsports was good, 2 is even better. Still doesnt have a huge verity of tracks but the 
 various race challenges keep them interesting. This is due to pretty realistic driving characteristics 
 and a very large selection of cars, upgrades and configurations. Hell, anyone reading this has 
 played these games before, this one just happens to be better :) It has the same general feel as 
 the original but adds Multiplayer and an Auction house.
  
  Look, just go and buy the game... you cant go wrong. Well, unless you have a crack habit then I 
 would suggest picking up a rock instead.
  
  Nuf said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjxbox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  May I just say this is a totally awesome racing game, full of featires.
  
  The graphics will blow you away - they have got everything so detailed on the cars, the shine off 
 them is good, reflections are good. Its amazing. The tracks are detailed and recognisable, different 
 ones feel different (e. g. bumps, surfaces)
  
  The gameplay is also great - There are many different options to suit any driver. There are preset 
 ones to choose from when you first start, but this is customizable. The AI ability - novice, normal, 
 hard. Transmission - manual / auto. ABS, Traction control, Stability control and others - all optional. 
 The less driving aids you have, the more bonus cash you get for winning races (e. g. 5% more for 
 using manual) .
  
  There are loads of features in the game as well. Photo mode is brilliant, the photo's look great 
 and can be uploaded to the forzamotorsport. net website to save to your computer. Like PGR there 
 are different effects and zooms etc. Painting yor own car is really good and fun once you get the 
 hang of it, there are some amazing designs out there, here is my stewie from family guy - http://img529. imageshack. us/img529/6504/stewie3wr3. jpg 
 - and some people have made some proper masterpieces. All from simple graphic tools which can work 
 together to make impressive results. Auction house is another greate feature - you can buy custom 
 cars and used cars here. People make cash by selling designs on their cars, you can really find 
 something special here if you look hard.
  
  Longlivity - this game will have you playing for ages thorugh career, online and making custom 
 cars. Hours, days, weeks, months or even years could be spent doing all sorts on this game.
  
  UK gamers, go to shop2 (search on google) and its on there for a great price.
  
  9.8/10 
 - only dissapointment is no in-car view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louie33
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I played a 'Driving Simulator', I think GT3 A-spec was the last one, 
 my preferred genre then changed over time and I barely gave a second's thought to that genre again.
 
  
  -Blam!- Forza MotorSport 2. It has everything you could ever ask for, from realism to limitless 
 customisation. If you've spared a moment to visit some of the Official Forza forums you'll notice 
 the power of the Paint Shop portion of the game and understand just what I mean.
  
  I still can't get over all of the things in this game that can be tweaked and tinkered with, some 
 subtle and others not so. You start playing this game, and before you know it; 5 hours have passed 
 and you're late for something really important.
  
  This game simply draws you in and doesn't let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaroxlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Finally, a decent racing sim has graced the XBOX360's ever growing lineup.
  
  Firstly, the basics:
  
  300+ cars
  12 tracks with 45+ combinations
  Career
  Online racing
 
  Tournaments
  Auction House
  Visual Customisation
  Performance upgrading
  Performance tuning
  
  Detailed
  ________
  
  Cars:
  
  300 cars, is a lot, and there 
 is an absolutely gigantic range of cars, from the D-Class (More on that later) road cars (Though 
 still, pretty quick road cars, ie. Golf GTi) , to the B and C class performance optimized sports 
 cars, to the A, and S class Super Cars, to the U class over the top cars (and they are almost undrivable!) , 
 to the racing optimized cars in R4, all the way up to the Le Mans styled cars in R1, there is something 
 here for everybody.
  
  The game is really split into two halves, first you have your arcade, and then you have your career. 
 In the Arcade mode, you start with most of the cars unlocked, and you unlock more by completing 
 exhibition races, and time trials. You can use these in splitscreen, and in multiplayer through 
 XBOXLive.
  
  You can, as far as I can see, get every car for exhibition, but the real incentive to go into the 
 Career side of the game is the customisation of your own car, allowing you to put any car you like 
 into the realms of the super cars, and make them look exactly as you want them to.
  
  Tracks:
  
  One of the first negatives about this game, are the lack of tracks, only 12 actual 
 enviroments, with around 45 variations of those, is far less than many will have hoped, but, among 
 those tracks are some brilliant ones.
  
  From the nurburgring to Mugello, Suzuka, Sebring, Road America, Silverstone, and Tsukuba (and bolstered 
 with a few made up tracks) , there is certainly enough to keep you from not being bored for a while, 
 because the tracks are good tracks, and the gameplay (More later) , makes every moment of the game 
 thoroughly enjoyable to the car loving.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  One of the best parts of this game is how it caters to the driving elite, and the not so elite, 
 because the difficulty is so scalable.
  
  For the less elite, you've got ABS, STM, TCS, Suggested Lines, no damage, and no tire/fuel wear, 
 and if you're anywhere in between, you can take your pick on a number of different levels. The 
 really hardcore, will be going cold turkey, for a truly great feeling.
  
  The game rewards the hardcore, and allows them to excel faster through the game, because you get 
 extra credits if you drive with the assists off, and less if you drive with them on, it gives a 
 good incentive to get as many people to truly understand how the car drives.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence, is a step forward from what has been seen on consoles before, the 
 AI is fairly aware of the driver, and will react to where you are, and if you drive carefully, 
 you won't get too many problems, though some of the slower races at the start can get a bit dodgy 
 with the AI on hard. On hard, they are really hard, and most people are going to struggle to win, 
 however the game does offer the flaw of most similar games... You can massively overpower every 
 other car in most races. By the end of the career it does prevent you from doing this though, because 
 the restrictions are very strict.
  
  Career:
  
  The career mode is a very simple process.
  
  Buy car, win races, upgrade car, buy more car, 
 win races, win car, upgrade car, etc. etc.
  
  The career will take many many hours to beat, and it won't keep anyone necessarily wanting any 
 more from the career mode. I haven't really stepped much into the single plaer career mode, so 
 I'll refrain from saying too much on the subject.
  
  Online:
  For me, this is where this game truly shines, and for good reason, the most amazing thing about 
 this game is that you can play the whole game without ever playing single player if you want to. 
 When online, in the ranked mode, money you win goes to your career money, and you can buy cars 
 with it, and upgrade cars with it... So, if you don't like the AI, you never have to see them!
 
  
  The online system is in most areas brilliant, it has a comprehensive search system, and no area 
 of customisability has been left untouched. The host can choose from dozens of different options, 
 to have the race exactly how he/she wants it. No stone is left untouched. They can even set up 
 7 race series or team racing.
  
  The second flaw in this game is the lack of searching options when searching for a game. Though 
 there are 50 or so options when makig a race, there are only 5 when searching for one, it isn't 
 that bad, but it would be nice to be able to search for the perfect game. Once you are in the game, 
 you can choose a car (Which can be limited to a single car, class, or even more detailed things 
 like certain drive trains, etc etc.) , tune it, or load a premade by you tuning setting. Its all 
 finished off with a smooth as butter interface.
  
  Once in the race, it works like any other race, just with up to 7 others along side you, and this 
 is, like all games where another flaw occurs.
  
  Though mostly, in my few days talking and chatting with people, the community is nice, friendly, 
 and will laugh off an honest mistake, but there are those who are so scummy that they will purposefully 
 take you out to come a place higher, or, when losing badly, just try and make everyone miserable.
 
  
  Collisions can of course be set off, but that loses some of the fun of racing in the first place, 
 which is the risk = reward.
  
  The problem is that, Turn10 (Developers) , probably could have sorted the problem, but the penalty 
 system in the game is fairly poor. It doesn't affect your race position at all, infact, it only 
 really screws you up if you're trying to set an extremely fast lap. It is very much a small and 
 irritating minority who do it, but it can be extremely frustrating.
  
  Online part 2: Tournaments:
  
  One of the new parts of the game are the tournaments. They work 
 simply. Usually about 8 tournaments are on the go per week, and up to 768 people can take part 
 in some tournaments. You get into the tournament through hot lap qualifying, and then you get seeded, 
 and it goes into a knockout. First 4 of each race go through, and eventually it filters down to 
 a final race of 8, prizes, both monetary and car wise are fantastic, and its great fun, if you 
 can make the cut, which most drivers are going to find hard. I haven't yet qualified for a tournament 
 (though I'm on the cusp usually) , so I can't go further in, but if its like most of this game, 
 I'm sure it works fairly well. Online part 3: Auction House:
  
  One of the coolest parts of this game is the ability to sell, and buy cars made by other users. 
 There are a few crucial things which make the seriously expensive cars.
  
  Cool car
  Cool paintjob
  Great tuning
  Great upgrades
  
  The search tools through the auction are 
 excellent, and there is no sniping like on eBay (People buying in the last second) , it just adds 
 on a couple more minutes. The only flaw here is that you can't put in a maximum bid, you just bid. 
 You need to be watching a car you want to buy very carefully through the last 5 minutes, and it 
 can get tedious if you need to do something else. While the auction house can get you some great 
 bargains, there are some extremely expensive cars, the ones with the truly brilliant paintjobs 
 go for an absolute ton.
  
  To put it into prospective, a Honda S2000 just sold for nearly 500,000 credits, which is enough 
 to buy 2 Ferarri Enzos. Why was it so expensive? It had a Dragon Ball Z paintjob on it. These cars 
 are truly collectors items, and there is something for everyone.
  
  Online part 4: Forza Photos, and Forza TV:
  
  A new feature of the game is that you can watch 
 other people racing online in Forza TV, which showcases the big tournament races, and just other 
 good races which are going on, its good to watch, but the slightly dull replay cameras let it down 
 a bit.
  
  The other part of this section, the photos. You can now take photos of your car, with a brilliant 
 tool which allows you to get almost any angle you'd want, and give it a number of different effects, 
 eg. Exposure, Sepia etc, to get it looking how you want, you can then upload it to the Forza2 website, 
 and show it to your friends.
  
  Customisation Part 1: Visual:
  
  Forza 2 comes loaded to the hilt with everything an artist would want for painting cars. Not being 
 an artist myself, all I can really say is what people are achieving with it, and its unbelievable. 
 These people are making anime characters look exactly like their real life counterparts, if you're 
 good, you can do almost anything you want, because the tools are so good. Customisation Part 2: 
 Upgrading Performance:
  
  The performance upgrading in the game is extremely in depth, not much has been left out, with just 
 under 30 different parts which you can upgrade, and each one has a realistic affect on the way 
 your car drives. Everything changes something, even the size of the wheels, or even the style of 
 the wheel (Which affects weight) . There is also body kits, which though mainly a visual customisation 
 do alter performance by changing the downforce.
  
  Customisation Part 3: Tuning:
  
  If you know how a car works under the bonnet, you will be able to tune your car exactly how you 
 want, and make it drive the way you want, from tire pressure, to gearing, wheel alignment (camber, 
 toe and front caster) , anti roll bars, springs, damping, aerodynamics, braking, and the differential, 
 you have everything you need. No idea what that meant? Well, Forza 2 has indepth, in game tutorials 
 for what it means, and it will help anyone to be able to tweak their car, and understand a little 
 more about how cars work in real life.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The most important part of any game is the way it plays, and this is game feels great. Though I'm 
 sure it isn't exactly perfect (and as a non driver, I can't really say) , most people I know who 
 do drive, say this game feels very very good, and very very realistic, there isn't much more to 
 say, it drives right, and thats what you expect from a simulator... right?
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are good... Not great... Not bad... But, adequate. You won't be frowning, but 
 you won't be crying with the beauty of it either. They are good enough, and thats that.
  
  Other, miscellaneous flaws:
  
  The biggest flaw in the game is the loading times, they are 
 long, 10-20 seconds is fairly average, its also a lot worse online.
  
  But, you have to admit, when the worst part of the game is the time waiting to make someone eat 
 your dust... The game must be pretty damned good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkirst
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  If you like racing games even a LITTLE bit, then you will LOVE Forza 2. By far this is the most 
 fun I have had with a racing game EVER. The online play is a blast and it is very well integrated 
 into the whole experience. It is great to go online and see how creative the community is with 
 their car. It's amazing what some people can do with the painting and vinyl in this game. You will 
 spend hours and hours unlocking new cars, buying and selling them online, painting/customizing 
 them, and don't forget the DEEP tuning for all the gear heads out there.
  
  Be warned this game is ADDICTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfie1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Great game not perfect but extremely close. the scope for customization is huge the one section 
 that sticks out is the paint and decal section. The actual racing is great becuase the A. I holds 
 a grudge against you if you unfairly hit them off the track. ( as i found out the hard way lol 
 ..... just you wait till my next race P. Muller i am gonna get you back for wrecking my "w"rs4)
 
  
  Theres only one section that could need a bit of a tweak and thats sound. Being an imigrant from 
 the playstation and ps2 i am used to having in race music but i got used to not having it after 
 about my 5th race.
  The other sound concern is when you upgrade your road car from road parts to raceparts, most cars 
 ending up sounding the same which is a bit of a let down,
  but not enough to turn me off the game completely.
  
  If your looking for an arcade style racer 
 your looking at the wrong game this really is "the real driving simulator" sorry sony but this 
 time you loose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neovdra
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  A tremendous game that appeals to the amateur as well as the racing nut that has motor oil coursing 
 through his veins. The intricate simulation and immersing game-play, especially when playing with 
 the racing wheel, make you you feel like you are right there harnessing every ounce of power the 
 car can give you. Visually, it feels like a next-gen game although photo-realistic graphics can 
 only be seen on replays, but it's something that needs to be sacrificed in order for the simulation 
 and AI to run smoothly, at 60 fps that is! And boy the AI is so good, at the hard level, that gives 
 the AI drivers a human feel, to the point that you end up hating every bone in M. Rossi's body! 
 The audio part of the game is pleasing the best thing being the game soundtrack and the worst thing 
 being the sometimes limited variation of engine noises but that does not tax on the experience. 
 A must have X-360 title that should sell an awful lot of consoles and racing wheels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Sony fan boys will argue the Gran Turismo is THE game for racing. Arcade and Boy Racers will swear 
 blind the Need For Speed is more then avereage. But only in Forza do you have both elements of 
 realistic driving and dramatic customisation, only done better.
  
  Lets start with those of you who haven't played Forza 1. Its a simulation driving game similiar 
 to Gran Turismo, GT Racing and Ferrari F355 Challenge. Driving is a very realisic bussiness with 
 with advance tire wear, strict racing lines, and complex corners. You won't get far with your finger 
 stuck pushing the accelorator trigger...
  
  If that sounds to complicated for you Arcade-racer lovers, then don't worry. Unlike said compertiton, 
 Forza is extreamly user-friendly and anyone who simly likes driving games can play it... even if 
 you preciously was really bad an simulation driving games. You have Advanced Breaks, Stability 
 control and the Forza trademark racing line.
  
  Even if you've never played a racing game before you can pick up and play Forza thanks to the racing 
 line. Simply, Green means go faster, yellow means slow down and red means break hard now. Driver 
 over it and you'll be following the ideal race line. A slightly tweeked version of this is featured 
 in F: MS2. One that only appears going in, around and out of corners, leaving the rest of the racing 
 line up to you.
  
  Of course, for people who aren't knew to this simulator trend, you can turn everything off for 
 the more, Gran Turismo feel.
  
  One thing you can't do in GT though is customise your car... Need For Speed style. Only better.... 
 Much, much better. Body kits and and spoilers are a little content light, but theres plenty of 
 alloys and the real charm of Forza customisation comes from its advanced layer options. These are 
 some cars people have already made.
  
  http://img465. imageshack. us/my. php? image=red1bd5. jpg
  http://farm2. static. flickr. com/1201/536227191_6f4b72d91c. jpg? v=0
 
  
  You'll get into the customisation menu and look at the shapes avaliale to use and think... How?! 
 But with up to 1000 layers for each side of the car, you've got plenty of room to work with. I 
 personally never got into the customisation on Forza1, but after reading a tutorial on the Forza 
 Forum, I had a go and found it to be fairly simple. This is the second car I made:
  
  http://i157. photobucket. com/albums/t51/kinglesus/Kon003. jpg
  http://i157. photobucket. com/albums/t51/kinglesus/Kon002. jpg
 
  
  I've been playing the game all day, and haven't even done a single race... Just making different 
 cars.
  
  For people who have played F: MS1 you may be tricked into fooling you've just brought the same game. 
 The career mode is almost the exact same career in F: MS1. The customisation seems freakishly familiar 
 aswell. The menu is a more metallic theme, and is easier on the eyes, but icons, order of said 
 icons and pretty much everything else, is the same. The pysics feel slightly tweeked, but presentation 
 wise, its identical. Theres more cars and tracks, but not many. 300 cars and 60 track combernations 
 including Forza created and real world. Obviolusly favorites like Laguna, Silverstone and Nurgberg 
 are included.
  
  If, however you have Live, you will notice where the majority of of the changes have been made. 
 In many reviews, Lead Designer Dan Greenawalt said the focus on Forza is designing it for the Car 
 Community, and brining that community together. And its a very decent attempt.
  
  The main new feature is the auction house. Where you can buy people's cars. Obviously the painters 
 of Forza are going to be putting some amazing cars for you to own and race. Aswell as the AH, you 
 also have a gift oprion where you can give a car away. This comes in fairly handy. Today I designed 
 a car for someone. They gifted me their car and I painted it, then put it up on the auction house 
 where he brought it back and I earned 50,000 Forza credits. The above car I showed you that I made 
 (The black and purple one with Kon from Bleach) I have already sold 3 of them, and made nearly 
 200,000 credits. With that in mind, I have made 5 Live friends today, earn money (even if it is 
 game currency) and just genreally chatted about cars. I've been playing the game since I got up, 
 and haven't even raced. This isn't just a game for drivers, its only been released for a few weeks 
 and already forums are flooded with requests for painters. And You might find more fun in just 
 customising cars or tuning them. There is alot more to do then just racing.
  
  Car clubs can be formed, all sporting the same decals. Race meets can be arranged, and tournaments 
 formed. Again, Forza 2 is about community, and unlike the lonly gaming experiance of Gran Turismo, 
 Forza brings people together like no other game. The game does have a weak point, and that is its 
 mucic. Menu music has been replaced from the dull drone of Forza1 to a fully liecenced affair, 
 however, in game music is non existant unless you have custom soundtracks. The cars themselves 
 also don't sound a powerful and beefy as Gran Turismo, And theres been reports of a couple of bugs 
 while using live features. Graphics also only seem like a slight update from Forza 1, and even 
 the GT: HD demo has better graphics. But every thing, except the sound and grapics, can be fixed 
 with future updates. And Graphics aren't the only thing that counts right?
  
  If you like cars, you'll want this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the first simulation type racing game I've ever had, I didn't have forza 1 b/c I thought 
 it was to hard, but I guess I just got better at racing games b/c with the driving assists it really 
 makes this type of game easier to get used to. I have nearly all the 360's racing games, and this 
 one by far is the best. Content wise it's like a mix between PGR 3 and need for speed, b/c you 
 have a ton of realistic cars, plus you can upgrade them and customize them. The graphics are excellent, 
 the super smooth 60 frames per second frame rate is what really makes this game play so well, they 
 got the gameplay/driving physics nearly perfect in this game. So many different cars! A car lovers 
 dream! The only things I don't like: there is a very limited amount of tracks, customizing seems 
 very limited to me in comparsion to need for speed, but they use real parts in this game so there's 
 not as many to choose from b/c they didn't just make them up. The races are easy on medium, and 
 not very hard on the hardest setting, but some cars pose greater challenges due to tougher handling 
 physics, ecspecially muscle cars. It has a lot to do with your car, if you have a lot of upgrades 
 you usually blow away the AI pretty easily, but you have to pay attention to the road b/c you can 
 loose control in a blink of an eye, but that makes for great gameplay. Overall, I highly recommend 
 this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I've got to admit, with all the postponements this game has had throughout its development, I didn't 
 even put this on my radar. When I heard it had come out, I had luckily won some extra money in 
 a poker game the prior night, so I decided to give it a shot. My expectation were high considering 
 how well the previous one was put together. It blew me away with the amount of cars included, and 
 even the auction house is freaking sweet. People from all over can make their cars, decals, and 
 specifications to their liking, and then put it up for sale to make a tremendous profit. The online 
 is top notch, and the inclusion of online tournaments really gives this game some sustaining life. 
 All in all this game delivers in all areas, and most definitely exceeds its predecessor in every 
 way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Forza motorsport 2 is the 2nd game out of 2 so far made in microsofts racing games. Forza is is 
 just plain the best racing game ever!!!! There is no more to say. This game lets you take so many 
 different kinds of cars and do what you want to them. Rims, Nos, body kits all that good stuff. 
 Forza 2 is a real style racing game where if you cant do it in real life you cant in this game. 
 The game has its story line where you try to become the best racer on the street racing all kinds 
 of makes, and modles and classes. This game feels so good when you are playing it no matter what 
 you are using. If any one was going out to get this game I say you should get the wheel too. It 
 makes the game so much better. The online is good to with its head to head racing or just racing 
 for fun or you can start up a little torament and race with people all around the earth. The gameplay 
 in this game is just the best. Nothing beats it. So real and so nice. The graphics are omg the 
 best I have ever seen so far on the 360. The sound is all there so you can hear what ever is going 
 on with you motor. The value I have to say is yes its worth 60$ no matter what. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnhardtfan77
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  i think the cars and the parts were good. but the game was fun for about a week. all the tracks 
 seem the same and there is not really any variations, its like same thing every race with a different 
 look. I felt like each race was the same as the last, and the game got boring really quick. although 
 i do think they did a good job. hopefully the next one has more depth, maybe add some dirt tracks, 
 or a drag racing segent, something to do other than a circuit race. looking forward to the next 
 game. I would recommend buying this game, if you dont have any other games in mind to buy, but 
 i wish i would have just rented it rather than buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I am disapoointed. Forza 2 has good car physics, it`s good online but all the rest is very average. 
 First of all i am getting tired of racing the same tracks over and over again. Twelve tracks is 
 just not acceptable these days. The lack of sense of speed is very annoying as well. After all 
 racing is about going fast and feeling like you are going fast. But my major complaint are the 
 graphics, They seem dull, uninspired and last-gen. I know some people say graphics are not important 
 ? I disagree. The main reason to buy a new console is to have improved graphics that are as close 
 to reality as possible or failing that ,have technology that offers something radically different 
 like the Wii. Forza2 graphics look old and uninspired. Forza is a great brand name. I believe if 
 Forza 2 had a different name and a different game developer its reviews would not have been so 
 favourable. In spite of a bad AI , i loved Forza 1, however, i think that in terms of development 
 Forza 2 is a backwards step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riekeen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Aunque al ver el juego por primera vez, mi primera impresion fue: Estafa!!! esto es Gran Turismo 
 , la segunda, al analizar bien este juego es que es una gran combinacion de GT con NFS, tiene una 
 simulaci&oacute; n que hace que no sea necesario subirse a mi peugeot 307 para sentir que tiene 
 una excelente aceleracion. Graficos preciosos con una iluminacion sensacional, el asfalto es un 
 tema aparte, con reflejos que encandilan, bueno en resumen, una excelente presentaci&oacute; n para 
 todos los poseedores de esta consolita, aunque lo unico en contra seria la falta de musica en carrera 
 pero es solo una peque&ntilde; a caida, recomendado 100 por 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game rocks its got excellent graphics, excellent gameplay loads and loads of different vinyls 
 and decals you can put on your cars. 300 different cars from manufacturers such as Lambroghini, 
 Ferrari, BMW, Vauxhall, Lexus, Porsche, Mercedes, Aston Martin, Jaguar and many many more. Career 
 mode is long and time consuming fun. Loads of realistic difficulty features including: how the 
 car gets damaged, suggested line which shows you the best way to race and when to brake, tire wear 
 and fuel. I know people say it sucks when there is no music during gameplay but you can put your 
 own music on anyway from your harddrive and then you can play what you want and the soundtrack 
 in the main menu rocks anyway. This game rocks get it now if your a massive racing fan or even 
 if your only sort of a racing fan this game will appeal to ypu either way. This is the 360's answer 
 to Gran Turismo and I think it answers it well just another game that makes you proud to be a 360 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hxc_jason
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I have to admit. This is one of the most enjoyable driving games I've ever experienced. No lie. 
 No exaggeration. Just complete truth of what I think about this game. Forza Motorsport has a wide 
 variety of cars and an even wider customability for the cars and for the game. One of the fun things 
 about this game that I thought was awesome was starting about with just an average car, and once 
 you've built up enough experience in doing races, you can add so many things to your car. With 
 that said, there are various races for various places around the globe and it's interesting and 
 fun. Also, another great aspect of this game is the realistic handlings of the car. Truly realistic 
 handling adds so much to the game. The graphics are no less than great and the value of the game 
 is very high. What a great game for all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRC187
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of racing sims as far back as I can remember, I literally remember playing 
 the original Test Drive game on the old school computers way back in the day.. When Gran Turismo 
 #1 was released I was insanely amazed by the realism and immense detail put into the game... With 
 each release after the original GT I was continually impressed. I guess my point being, its very 
 hard for me being the car / race enthusiast I am to rate this game at anything less than a perfect 
 10 . I never played Forza on the gen #1 xbox, but I was blown away by Forza 2 on the 360. Like 
 I said previously, I'm definitely a huge Gran Turismo fan and I absolutely can not wait for the 
 next GT to be released. But I just can't deny the fact that Forza 2 is hands down the best car 
 racing sim to date. The amount of detail, time and effort put into developing this game is purely 
 astonishing, and this alone deserves a perfect 10 rating. Of course someone will always think of 
 something that the developers could have done differently, but that is probably the most ridiculous 
 and naive statement someone could possibly ever make. I'd be willing to bet heavily that the developers 
 have thought of EVERY possible could have that the game may include.. There are definite reasons 
 for certain aspects, details, etc being left out.. It takes A LOT for me to be impressed with a 
 game... But I am thoroughly impressed, thank you so much to Microsoft Studios for creating an instant 
 classic . K, I've ran my mouth enough here............ I gotta whole weekend of racing ahead of 
 me...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  I was feeling disapointed with the Need For Speed series and I needed a new racer. I went out and 
 got Forza 2, and boy was I impressed. The game is easy to pick up and play and doesnt have a long 
 learning curve which prevents some people from playing racing sims. The car selection is massive 
 with over 300 cars to choose from its, hard to choose cars as the game progresses. The decal and 
 paint customization is extensive and gives you tons of options when choosing how to customize your 
 rides. The one thing singleplayer is lacking is diversity in the tracks. Instead of new tracks 
 many are just turned backward which is dissapointing. The multiplayer is great and hardly and lag 
 shows up at all. Overall Forza 2 is a great game that any racing fan or just casual gamer should 
 pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed, PGR, and other arcade racers may provide a little more of a sense of speed than 
 Forza 2. The environments may also appear more detailed. However, Forza 2 is a different type of 
 game, a more pure build it, customize it, and race it with realism experience. You change tires, 
 try them out and notice a small handling difference. Make mass changes for a dramatic difference. 
 It is really a killer game. Just boils down to what type of racing you dig. The incredible realistic 
 car handling does appear to have caused sacrifices elsewhere. The game is customizing and racing 
 and not much else. At the core of this game is an awesome driving game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfutter
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is very easy. Car graphics look great. Online play is not the greatest. Love the online 
 car auction. Multi play is OK. It is almost the exact same as GTA. I would rent this game before 
 I bought it. The car gift is a pretty good idea. The game music is sucks. I turned the music off. 
 The race track graphics not bad. So I would have to say overall... The game is not as great as I 
 thought it would be. I really advise to rent it before you go out and spends the 60.00 on it. And 
 I gave it a 7.7 overall..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovealicea
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 has so many problems it almost seems that its a step back from Gran Turismo 4. For a start 
 theres less than half the tracks of GT4 sure they can be played in reverse but within a few hours 
 you will have seen them all. Theres no weather effects in Forza 2 other than sunshine so no slippery 
 tarmac to contend with in the rain or pretty night-time lights all of which GT4 had. Forza 2 car 
 list while impressive at over 300 still lacks far behind GT4's mighty 700 plus models (including 
 quite a few crap ones though!) . No music in game makes the whole experience seem less fun and i 
 dunno why they didnt include it when its in practically every other racer. The Cars themselves 
 look quite good however they are a bit jaggy and shadows dont move realistically accross them. 
 The best thing about Forza 2 is the A. I of the other cars, which act realistically and make racing 
 more exciting, however sometimes the A. I can be a bit too agressive which can be a bit frustrating 
 on the thinner tracks such as the Nurburgring . Another good thing is the levels of customisation 
 that you can do; you can turn your vw golf into a sexy looking Ferrari beater or cover your car 
 in loads of wierd stickers and put it in an online auction. Overall Forza 2 is the best and most 
 realistic driving game on a next gen console, however you just get the feeling they could have 
 done a bit more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 has been a fair while in the making. It is the ONLY racing simulator on the 
 Xbox360 and will remain that way for quite some time. However this distinction shows off its great 
 points even more, the seamless online to single player career is excellent, the cars in number 
 and handling characteristics, the seemingly unlimited livery editor and the great tuning options.
 
  
  Forza Motorsport 2 goes as deep as you want it to, if you want to treat it kind of arcadey it is 
 kind of possible but the cars WILL bite back and your lack of care. Go a little deeper and you 
 can play it like a Gran Turismo, buy car, race car, earn cash, use cash. Alternatively go into 
 the deep end and find yourself immersed in online tournaments, mini championships, auction house, 
 livery editor.
  
  The demo is up on marketplace and gives a good if limited experience of the full game. I suggest 
 you download that to see if you are interested. I knew I would be from day 0.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camaro_five0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is by far the best driving/racing game I have ever played. I remember getting Forza when 
 it came out two years ago, and have been in love with that game ever since. This time around, they 
 take the original Forza and multiply the content ten-fold. The grapics are spectacular. The car 
 physics are on point. I have a 2002 Camaro SS, and the model on the game looks and sounds VERY 
 close to the real deal. They definately did their research on this game. My one and only compaint 
 about this game is that they took the 1/4 mile drag strip off. Why? I can only hope it will be 
 a downloadable track on Xbox Live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  As if the first one was not real enough the second Forza dazzles. The graphics may let you down 
 a little, particularly the tracks, but games arn't all about looks. this game has what i think 
 is the best physics in any racing game i have ever played, they are like driving the real thing. 
 The cars sound like their real life counterpart, and a so customizable that it becomes to deep 
 at some points. The cars look outstanding and when upgraded with perfomance parts you can hear 
 the difference that that part would make in the vehicle in real life. Learning to drive without 
 having played the first forza i would imagine take longer than if you had played the first forza. 
 The physics are slightly better even though they didn't need to be, and somehow they managed to 
 make them more realistic. Overall it is an excellent racing game. Their are enough assists to satisfy 
 the casual driver and for the hardcore you can turn them all off or just a few depending on your 
 tastes. If any game on the 360 is worth 60 dollars this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsundowner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I felt the same way when I got Gran Turismo 3 packed in with my PS2. At the time, I didn't think 
 a racing sim could get any better. I was wrong. Like Gran Turismo, Forza2 has tight controls, an 
 awesome collection of cars (hello, Porsche 959, my favorite car since I was 11 years old) , and 
 challenging tracks. Forza has trumped GT with crash modeling (no more bouncing off the barriers 
 at full speed) , and a much deeper customization system. Add in online racing and auctions, and 
 you've got some real replay value there. This is definitely geared more towards sim fans, but arcade 
 style fans should have a decent amount of fun as well. Get this game if you haven't, but be warned: 
 you may find your current ride a little timid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Forza Motorsports on the original Xbox and could not wait to get my hands 
 on the new Forza Motorsports 2 on Xbox 360. I was only lightly dissapointed. Graphics are incredable. 
 From the cars, to the tracks, to the damage from hitting the wall at 170+. The one gripe that I 
 have..... come one guys we need some new tracks. Essentially the same tracks are back again in the 
 edition of Forza as was present in last years addition. Yeah there are a few addtions, different 
 variations, but how about some new tracks? Even if they are fictional! How about a super speedway, 
 so we can really wind some of these cars out and see what the can really do. Take a visit to Barbers 
 Motorsports Park in Birmingham, AL. Great course, not very popular. All in all, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TequilaSunShine
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I can't believe they took out nearly all the good ones from the original but left in the crappy 
 ones! Sure Road Atlanta is fine but is it better than Road America? Hell no. New York short sucks (they 
 left it in) and New York Long from Forza 1 was amazing and it's now gone. Tokyo was better than 
 Tsukuba so guess which they took out. Haven't seen the Test Track either and I know a lotta people 
 loved it. And with the new more sensitive collisions, the Nurgurgring is a pain with its narrow 
 track. New track Mugello is the same way. Hello Developers: There hasn't been a serious race at 
 the Nurburgring in 30yrs for a reason, and Mugello is for bikes not cars! Sebring is ok and Suzuka 
 is good but only for the faster cars in the game. And god put Laguna Seca out of its misery. Its 
 just been done to death.
  
  The rest of the game is good though for the most part. I think the best new feature is giving more 
 detail about car classes so you can more easily find equal match-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  When Forza came out on the Xbox originally I wasn't that big a fan. I was into GT at the time. 
 After some months I spent some quality time playing Forza and I was hooked. Not only did it look 
 great, it played great.
  
  And now we have the Daddy. At last.
  
  Forza 2 is every thing you expect a 360 title to be. It looks superb, drives superb and has a bucket 
 of superb features.
  
  You want to learn to tune a car, you can do it here.
  
  You want to play against A. I. thats reacts to how you drive, you can do it here.
  
  You want 
 to have amazing online racing features, you've got them here.
  
  You want to sell your cars with custom paint jobs, guess what, you can do it here.
  
  If you 
 own a 360 you have to own PGR2, GRAW (1&amp;2) , RB Vegas, Gears, Oblivion and now Forza 2.
  
  Buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cymus
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The last racing game I've played before Forza Motorsport 2 was Need for Speed Underground; before 
 that, it was Need for Speed Hot Pursuit 2. I decided that I wanted a racing game to satisfy myself 
 for a good while and I read about this one and watched some videos. Let me tell you, this game 
 is just awesome. The graphics are gorgeous and the realism of the game is somewhat breath taking. 
 It's so realistic that my bad driving pisses me off at times, lol. Hands down, the next great racing 
 game is here in Forza Motorsport 2. If you're shaky on the videos and reviews, definitely rent 
 the game and play it, the game is well worth it. There are hundreds of races in the game that will 
 keep you going for a long time. Another great thing in the game is that there are plenty of cars 
 to unlock as you play, 300+ I estimated. One more thing in the game that sets it aside from other 
 racing games is that the cars you own in the game are pretty much full customizable, as far as 
 upgrades, etc. goes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I know next to nothing about cars. I can't change oil or any of that stuff. So when it comes to 
 tuning my Forza racers every little detail I'm a bit lost. But you can do it all......... this is 
 a real racing simulator. Tire pressure, camber, springs, brakes, roll-bar, soft-hard, stiff-soft, 
 you can adjust and tune every aspect of just about everything that makes a car go. It's very detailed 
 from the inside to the outside of the cars.... and theres plenty plenty of cars. Thankfully, for 
 people like me there's an arcade mode to Forza where I was able to start and get my feet wet with 
 the game. I didn't have to worry about all the simulation and car mechanics. I could just go fast 
 in really cool cars on lots of different tracks. Don't get me wrong. I am getting into the simulation 
 part of the game but I just didn't want to start there. I want to learn to tune my cars down to 
 the finest detail but it takes time to learn. This game also has time trials and leaderboards where 
 you can check your time against the best in the world. There's numerous different car classes from 
 class D Honda Civic to Extreme super fast racers in special race classes that I don't even know 
 the name yet.... cause I'm still racing Civics and the lower classes. I like to start slow and work 
 my way up. The best thing about the game is there's enough to keep us all happy.... from the seasoned 
 vet who has been playing FORZA one for years to brand newbies who've never even played a racing 
 game. There's enough cars to keep any enthusiast excited. Honestly I don't know how a racing game 
 could be any better. The crashes are realistic and your car will take real time damage. Fun, Fun, 
 Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I am over joyed with this game in my gaming library. Games like GT on Sony always are hogging the 
 spot light for the best sim game ever. But really with this game out into the hands of all gamers 
 its hard to over look it and say it is not the original and all that mambo jambo that ppl say. 
 So what GT was the first, Forza 2 has perfected this genre. Where can I start you have too many 
 things to list on this game that tops the GT games on any of Sony's systems. The cars look great, 
 you have online play (something that was promised for the GT series and never delivered) , you have 
 CRAZY customization, and I'm not talking Need for Speed Upgrade, no I'm talking about you can express 
 your self anyway you want with the car your driving than take it online. Want it red? SIMPLE. Want 
 a tiger skin on it, hey spend some time and do it, want it with your name on it, BOOM its there. 
 Its the next level of customizing. And I love it.
  
  Now that is not to say this game is perfect. There is some things here and there worth mentioning. 
 The race tracks are kinda limited. You don't really get that much, but we all know Microsoft and 
 we know they want more money so they will milk us with add ons soon (I hate that) . The 2nd thing 
 is the customization thing could have been taken to the next level by giving us PC users the chance 
 to get our own photos into the game. I mean Microsoft made us download Media player 11 or the Zune 
 Software to interact with the 360, yet they don't let us use anything from our PC library except 
 MP3s into the game. You can't really take any of your photos online. Instead of wasting a 2 hours 
 making that Batman car or Xmen car you could have just gave us the option to swap pictures we have 
 on our PC. But sadly that option isn't included. Also no one in the design team said if someone 
 wants to write a FULL word they don't have to put it on 6 layers??? why do I have to put each letter 
 on a different layer??? kinda stupid. But hey with all the options in this game small things like 
 this won't slow you down at all of designing the best car and enjoying it. I love seeing at least 
 that the developer took these steps into the right direction. Hopefully Microsoft would give us 
 an update on XBL to use our pictures in games soon and not block such an option. The online is 
 great as well, you will have a great time after finishing the game or even during with it. I like 
 how this game kinda set a bunch mark for others to follow, helpfully the Need for Speed and Nascar 
 games coming up would give us such a great way to express ourselves with designing our own cars 
 and taking them online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: There have been countless racing sims, all of them seem to make it very difficult to 
 turn, sometimes totally ruining the gameplay. But in FM2 they have brake arrows that tell you when 
 is the good time to slow down before going into the turn. This helps a lot making the game easily 
 playable for anyone. There are times in the game where you might feel at a disadvantage. I no little 
 to nothing about cars, which for the most part you really dont need to no much to enjoy this game. 
 But there is a tuning feature in the game that can help you make your car more efficient on different 
 tracks. Which is great if you know what the different tunings do. If you dont your at a disadvantage. 
 There are some little annoying things like not having a rear view mirror, no first person mode, 
 some of the menus could have been a bit more user friendly, and the game can get a bit repetitive 
 playing the same track over and over again. This helps with getting to know the track, and each 
 track can feel much different given the car rating, but more tracks could have made the career 
 much more fresh as you proceed into the later levels of it.
  
  Graphics: This aspect of the game is a bit disappointing. All the tracks are pretty bland and boring, 
 there is nothing next gen about them. Different objects will just pop up as you get closer to them. 
 The reflection off the cars looks slow and choppy. Damage only goes so far. Weather defiantly would 
 have added to the tracks, giving them some more depth. Sound: Some of the cars sound really annoying. 
 Value: There is tons to do in this game. There are so many different events to play in on Career, 
 that alone will take a good while. Then there is Arcade mode where you can test your skills and 
 unlock some achievements. Endless possibilities on decals and colors on cars, though there could 
 have been more body modifications available to further customize you car. There is also multiplayer, 
 where there are career races, exhibition races, tournaments, ONLINE AH which is great, you can 
 gift a car to a friend, and then there is the pointless FM TV. There are many things that could 
 have been much better in this game, but with all of the endless things to do in it, its still a 
 amazing addition to racing games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Grab the keys, get in, and take it for a spin around the block.
  
  I will start off by letting you know I am not much of a race game fan, for no other reason than 
 I just find them boring. That pretty much changed about a year ago when I came across PGR3. Knowing 
 that ForzaMS2 was going to be just as good, if not better, I was really looking forward to its 
 release. It was well worth the wait!
  
  You will see some people say the graphics are sub par or  the trees dont look so good or there 
 is no music during the races. Well, my response to those people are as follows.
  
  1) Are you playing on a HDTV? If not, too bad!
  2) Why are you driving around looking at trees 
 when you should be racing?
  3) Throw on your IPOD or learn how to use the music feature of your 360!
  
  This is a RACE 
 game folks, not a nature tour through the hills on a sunny Sunday afternoon. Play the game for 
 what it is. Over all I think the graphics are pretty close to perfect, face it, no matter how good 
 graphics get someone will always complain about them being sub-par. Trees, look pretty good when 
 going past them at 180mph also. The audio in the game is top notch for the sounds of a car. I for 
 one like to listen to the sound a car makes while tearing through s-turns as the engine revs up 
 and down and the tires squeal. Options : TONS OF OPTIONS for cars, and tuning them or adding on 
 to them. If you dont find yourself totally emerged in trying to get just one more HP or just 
 3 more MPH out of a car then this game is not for you. Now the fun stuff : There are literally 
 THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS of way to customize the appearance of your cars. The paint shop area in 
 this game is DEEEEEP and getting sucked in to making your perfect car just might be more fun them 
 playing the actual game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game would one of the best games i've played of all time! The graphics are great, the gameplay 
 is realistic as possible, and there are over 400 different cars!!! This game isn't like pgr 3 it's 
 alot more realistic, and has alot more cars. This game even has auction where you can buy cars 
 from people you just bid on them or you can do the buy out option which means you get your car 
 right away! When you upgrade your car with parts you can feel every little part you upgraded! You 
 can do some cool paint jobs in this game just insane ones but it will take you hours to spend on 
 good ones. The damage on cars is realistic and once you you hit the wall your engine or transmission 
 will be worse depending on how fast you are going. This game also has great online mutliplayer 
 and long career mode. If you like Gran Turismo or just some good racing games then totally have 
 to get this game in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the racer that we have been waiting for. If you are a GT player that needs lots of cars, 
 lots of modification, and performance tweaking, enter stage left FM2.
  
  What's missing: Ok guys no music while i drive? What gives?
  Is this the same track again??? 
 We need more tracks guys.
  volvo s40. Yuppies need to race too.
  
  What it nails:
  physics, tweakability, custom look, lots of cars, intellegent cpu players.
  
  Long story short:
 
  If you love deep racers, this is a solid 60 bux well spent. This is the GT killer on the new consoles. 
 My tilt:
  I am just adding this text because gamespots word count doesnt seem to be working properly, feel 
 free to stop reading this review at this point, or just keep reading to see what i write next.
 
  
  M 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon236
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is a great game if you like Racing Sims. The only flaws the game does have are 
 that when you win a car in a series of races its only worth 100 credits. Also the damage could 
 have been a little more realistic. This game has a great selection of cars the only cars i would 
 have added to the list are the 1988 Camaro Iroc Z and Mustangs from 87-93 that would have been 
 great. The tracks are cool but there are only a few of them. but there are variations of some of 
 the tracks which kinda evens that out. As for the level of customization its pretty much endless 
 as far as paint and decals go. As for performance parts there are three levels Street, Sport, and 
 Racing parts. Just like in the first Forza Motorsport you can also do a complete engine swap, and 
 putting a racing muffler system on the car changes the sound drastically. You may have heard some 
 of the cars sound almost identical this is true. If you are a fan of true Racing Sims and not Need 
 For Speed style games go out and get a copy of this game you wont be disappointed. I put the difficulty 
 as hard for i dont race with any of the assists on, with them on it is relatively easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heil68
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  While it's hard to pinpoint just one thing that makes me love this game so much, I keep coming 
 up with the online multi player races on X-BOX Live. To constantly go head to head against other 
 real life players is worth the price of the game alone. The competitive nature of the races is 
 such that anybody can win a particular race, if you are matched up with similar class cars. I find 
 it most satisfying to use my own cars that I've won and pimped out to race online. It's great that 
 in career mode you take your earnings with you to off line mode. There is so many good things to 
 say about the online play, you just have to see it for yourself.
  The graphics are done very well, but really aren't the focus of the game. It's the racing simulation 
 that's the heart of this game. With over 300 cars and 12 tracks to race on, theres something for 
 everyone. I think the sound is done right on and it seems the developers took painstaking time 
 to get the sound of each car. To me this by far is the best of 2007 thus far. A great game, look 
 and online experience everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nated0gg613
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is the real deal when it comes to simulating auto racing. Forza 1 I felt was already better 
 than the GT series even if it did lack some features, the gameplay was superior. Forza 2 outplays 
 the original and is by far the best simulator to date. Graphics are bomb, audio is bomb, and gameplay 
 is well.. bomb! Mind you, I am using the 360 racing wheel which was built specifically for Forza 
 2.
  
  I'm kind of confused how other people could give a rating of 2 for example for this game though. 
 Someone wrote that they would either go off the track, or crash when they tried to slow down. Clearly, 
 they have never played a simulator before or they don't realize how high of a speed they are going. 
 I ONLY go off the track when i don't break at the appropriate time. If you can't stay on the tracks 
 then try turtle speed until you can finish a race without wiping out. I have and it is extremly 
 fulfilling.
  
  Also, I have yet to try the game on the normal 360 controller.. So i really can't say how the game 
 would feel on that.. But if you're going to buy this game, you might as well get the wheel and 
 get the full experience out of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doogle13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best racer I've played so far on any console or computer. The graphics aren't 
 the best but it still looks great. The locked 60fps is so great. I use to think 60fps was something 
 that was overated until I played Forza 2 and I could never go back to games with less frame rate 
 like PGR3 and so on. The physic in this game is pretty good too. This game is also more of a simulation 
 game the GT4 and GTHD. One thing that I notice that is more realistic about this game the GT4 and 
 GTHD is that when you hit a wall at high speed, your car will actually cause you to lose control. 
 But in GT4 and GTHD, you just bounce off the wall and still maintain control which is kind of fake. 
 A major con of Forza 2, that I hate is the over use of HDR and bad replay camera angle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntAD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Forza motorsport 2 now contains over 300 cars adding 60 new cars to the line up in Forza Motorsport. 
 There are a few new tracks as well. Singleplayer: There are 2 singleplayer options. 1) career mode- 
 career mode is astonishing. The objective is to complete as many events as you can. These are sorted 
 from easy to hard and have numerous restrictions. There is so much depth in this single mode that 
 you can tell the developers paid a very close attention to detail. Every car has it's own physics 
 attached which makes every car feel unique. The various parts that can be purchased and installed 
 also make the car noticeably better or worse. Beyond that you can tune your car and make it feel 
 however you want. The other mode available is arcade mode. This mode lets you complete time trials 
 and just have a quick race if you need to. Multiplayer: The multiplayer component of the game is 
 delightful. You jump into a match and race each other for money (online career mode) . You can use 
 your own custom car or pick from one of the standard, stock cars. The amount of restrictions that 
 can be tweaked make each match feel different. One of the best features added to Forza 2 is the 
 Auction House. The auction house is where the player can submit their car to the world. Everyone 
 else can bid on the car. Surprisingly there are cars added daily with breathtaking detail. This 
 feature is for artists and casual gamers alike. Thoughts: I have been playing Forza 2 every day 
 since I bought it. It REALLY is THAT good. The amount of customization is by far the best aspect 
 of the game. Combined with a nice selection of tracks and cars. the customization is icing on the 
 cake. If you haven't got a chance to try out Forza Motorsport 2, race on over to your nearest retailer 
 and pick up the best racing game on the Xbox 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mj53916
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Like I said it's good but .... no music during the race what the heck is that!!! It's also missing 
 graphic elament's like lenz fare wich is standard in every racer exept this one. The car models 
 are good but not as good as they could be. The arn't that many track's I know there is alot of 
 races but alot of them are on the same tracks sometimes you go in reverse on a track but that gat's 
 old to. The one thing I do like is it has alot of cars to collect... so if you want to live your 
 fantasy like the game say's its good if you want to collect a race cool cars but all in all the 
 game doesn't have much to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The GT series set the standard for the driving genre as a whole. forza take the same formula and 
 gives Gran turismo type games what it needed and that is car damage. To many time have I took advantage 
 of the lack of car damage in the GT game and I won't even get the chance to bump into cars like 
 i would in GT because the damage in the models are so good. But nothing beats the satisfaction 
 of having a POS hatchback and turning it into an absolute hatchbeast and pimping your car is what 
 this game is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougw56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I finally did it. After 20+ years of gaming dating back to my Commodore 64, I have finally 
 bought the game that will make my wife break out the claw hammer and either smash the xbox 360 
 or smash me ha-ha. This game is so much fun. Whether you like racing, collecting cars, or like 
 me, painting them, it's all here for you.
  
  I started in the Asia region although I'm a North America resident. I had some beginning lessons 
 to learn, but even when you lose you can't wait to get back in there and do better. Due to my age 
 (hehe) and deteriorating eye-hand coordination, I couldn't keep up with younger foes on-line. So, 
 wifey bought me the xbox 360 wireless steering wheel, and WHAMO I started winning on the hard setting. 
 Bottom Line: Run, don't walk, and go get this game if you have even a smidgen of interest in racing 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drangel_jam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you like racing games, STOP READING &amp; GO BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW. Thank me 
 later...
  
  Forza Motorsport 2, as you should know, is the sequel to the award winning Xbox racing game, Forza 
 Motorsport. Forza Motorsport 2 improves the formula where it matters most.
  
  Before I tell you about the graphics, gameplay etc, I want to let you know why you should buy this 
 awesome game.
  
  BUY IT BECAUSE:
  --There are more than 300 collectible cars
  --Better yet, the classes are so well done, you will hardly feel that a car completely outperforms 
 its respective competitors, nor under-performs.
  --It is quite accessible for anyone, and by anyone, I do mean ANYONE. The learning curve is very 
 smooth, but you will definitely need some skill and knowledge to master it.
  --The difficulty is very easy to customize according to your skill and driving style, they are 
 all kinds of driving aids, auto transmission, ABS, optimal driving line, etc...
  --The credits you get by playing the online multiplayer allow you to buy stuff offline in the career 
 mode.
  --The realism is unparallel
  
  Gameplay: As I said, it's quite accessible for a simulation game. The customization is so deep, 
 you will learn about car mechanism itself. It's easy to tune any most car according to one's driving 
 style. The physics are superb, if you respect and obey them, you will be successful. The damage 
 system is awesome as well.
  
  Graphics: it's arguably the least impressive component of the game. Yet, it looks gorgeous more 
 often than not. Some cars look like they have more detail than others, the same goes for the tracks. 
 The frame rate can't get any better than that, it's locked at 60fps, and never drops.
  
  Sound: Almost every car has its own engine noise because the developers took the time to record 
 numerous engine sounds, and it shows. Expect realistic sounds (engine, crash, tires, grass, asphalt, 
 etc...)
  The soundtrack is superb. I can't believe some professional websites said it's mediocre. This is 
 definitely one of the best racing soundtracks I have ever listened to. It consists of Techno Electro 
 Dance, Rock, Pop, and Hip-Hop. There is even Gnarls Barkley in it. FM2's soundtrack is only second 
 to the Project Gotham Racing series. Sometimes, I simply leave the menus on just listen to the 
 great tunes. I can't wait for the official soundtrack CD.
  
  Value: This game is HUGE. In addition, the replay value is almost limitless. Yeah, I said it. The 
 paint interface is the best ever. Only your imagination, keeps you from doing more/better. Xbox-live 
 is very well integrated, and people online actually drive seriously and clean [for the most part] . 
 MORE THAN 300 CARS. You can upload your in-game photos online, email to your friends, or post wherever 
 you want. Did I mention the auction house? Alter your cars and sell them online. You can show the 
 whole world how well you can pimp out rides. If you really want a car that you have not yet unlocked 
 offline, check out the auction house, you might be lucky enough to find it and buy it. There are 
 about 12 locales, with different variations of raceways.
  
  I love this game because it is the best racing simulation up to date. Yes, it could have been better, 
 but the fact that it came out only 2 years after its prequel, makes it even more impressive.
  
  Obs: **sorry, I don't really have in mind any noticeable and worthy cons/shortcomings about 
 this game. Ok, probably more tracks, and more Replay options and camera angles.** The difficulty 
 is very hard because if the options are set to realistic, like simulation damage, you pretty much 
 have to drive clean, and obey the rules of dynamics. Remember this, DRIVE SLOW IN ORDER TO BE A 
 FAST DRIVER. Because if you go too fast, you will loose grip, crash, or get off-track and waste 
 time.
  
  BUY IT ASAP. IT IS A MUST-OWN! Forza Motorsport 2 = SYSTEM SELLER TYPE OF STATUS. Gamers will love 
 it; hardcore gamers will cherish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsports 2 is a very nice game, it was put together very well. You'll be able to quickly 
 get the car you'd like to roll down the street in right away, that is if its a 'performance car', 
 no vans or trucks for you odd-ball auto lovers. The tuning ability of the game is very detailed, 
 and informing if you don't understand it. The painting system on the cars is also very nicely done, 
 considering you can add tons and tons of layers onto any car. The level of skill required to drive 
 with all of the assists off is fun, very hard to hang with the computer when you are in a evenly 
 leveled car. The online play is decent, althuogh (and maybe I am missing the option) the ability 
 to mute people I've yet to find, the ability to remove players from the server during a game is 
 also missing in action, unless I seem to be over looking it. The auction system is decent, but 
 there are afew people that have had cars go 'missing' including myself. You'll be able to buy cars 
 you wouldn't be able to buy due to your level being low, and use them ahead of the computers you 
 compete with, as for another thing with the internet play you'll find players don't like to play 
 with the assists forced OFF, thats mostly geared toward the Vet owners who need that traction control 
 to get out of corners, which is annoying because I've taken the time to invest in a AWD, or learned 
 to baby the gas like real drivers do, you don't get a friendly corner car if its got a big ol' 
 turbo on its RWD frame with 800 torque. Either way the game itself performs wonderful, the loading 
 times are decent, the parts upgrades are also decent, but could be more detailed. I wouldn't mind 
 finding a game were you've got the option to pick your injector size, turbo type (size) , tune your 
 cars air/fuel ratios, etc,... but I guess thats all in due time, some players would be turned off 
 by this option of detail because they wouldn't understand... Be ready to have other racers cut-corners, 
 slam into you to help them stop, and piss you off VIA voice, its very hard to find a bunch of grown 
 men with all the assists off, and that show racing respect to one another. Some people just can't 
 stand to be over-taken or even yield to a passing car... It needs a score that sticks with you 
 in general from lobby to lobby to show other players how much contact you've made with other cars, 
 with walls, how often you go off the road, etc,. that way the true drivers will be able to sift 
 out the slammers in a heart-beat.
  
  GREAT GAME, well worth the money, I just have to give my feedback about the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecube998
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and its very realistic!
  
  Gameplay: This game takes a lot of skill and is very fun. If your going very fast you will have 
 to hit the breaks to turn so its not like mario kart where you don't have to break. There is an 
 arcade mode where you can unlock cars in exhibition mode and time trial mode. All the races have 
 leaderboards on xbox live so its pretty neat. You can see the heat of your tires and your car will 
 stop working if you crash too much this just adds to the realism of the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are wonderful! The frame rate is awesome. The cars look so realistic. Even 
 your doors or spoilers come off in a crash.
  
  Sound: The music is kind of techno or something I like it a lot.
  
  Value: Good value because 
 the time trial mode you can play over and over again to try to get up in the ranks. and the online 
 races also adds to the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocool1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Gran Turismo baton has been passed with good measure and Forza Motorsport 2 for the Xbox 360 
 puts the automobile (and you) back into racing! Before all of you Gran Turismo fanboys and generally 
 trolling types start the flaming, let me start it off with the fact that I love the Gran Turismo 
 Series, I am anticipating the next generation version, and love to play other racers as well, everything 
 from full arcadish racing/combat racing to top of the line enthusiast racing. And of them all, 
 Forza Motorsport 2 ranks right up there in the top echelon, in my opinion.
  
  Is it perfect? No. Is it the best racer to date? No. Are there things it can improve upon? Hell 
 yeah. But with all of that said, it sure is fun to play and there is so much content that I can 
 see enjoying it for a long time.
  
  So lets get right to it and discuss FM2! Sound  I rarely ever harp on sound in a game when it 
 comes to music, but FM2 really falls short in this department when navigating menus or doing some 
 of the non-racing activities. Within about 30 minutes of my exposure to the game I was playing 
 customized race tracks from my I-Pod and had the in-game music turned all the way down. The sound 
 effects for the most part are pretty good, although I could never really honestly tell you the 
 difference between a Chevy Cobalt and an Chrysler Crossfire in terms of true engine sound effects, 
 sure they are different, but Ill have to take Turn10s word on this that most of the car model 
 sounds were recorded with the actual cars. However, as Im winding around the track, many cars 
 start to sound the same when upgraded with similar parts so that just may be the way it is, but 
 that and some of crash effects do get a little annoying which leads me to just turning it all down. 
 I know, I know, its a racing game so enjoy the screaming engines and stop crashing and all would 
 be fine but for some reason it annoys me more than other racing games and I cant put my finger 
 on it.
  
  Graphics  Well this is easy FM2 is a GOOD looking game. The car models are great, the cars in 
 motion are great, the environments are pretty... well pretty, and the frame rate performance is 
 top notch. There are little annoyances here and there that could have used a little more development 
 love, like some track details and shading, some environment objects and physics (cones or stiff 
 bumpers falling off) , the supposed damage modeling of crashes in general are pretty mundane. But 
 I understand that some of that stuff may have been sacrificed in order for the game to run so smoothly 
 and have other excellent physics with the cars themselves. So since Im not reviewing a Burnout 
 game, Ill shut up about the lack of damage modeling. An aside question for everyone - seriously, 
 why do sports spectator type games, any of them, still bother putting crowds in the stands or having 
 a gallery? I know they are going for a level of realism and authenticity, but until the technology 
 even goes beyond the next-next-gen, I think we would be happy with just crowd noises. Id rather 
 hear the crowd cheer for me and not see anyone in the stands, than hear the crowd go wild and see 
 cookie-cutter, low quality, blurred, sometimes motionless flagpoles. That goes for all games, but 
 in FM2 in particular, if eliminating the sparse, stiff, blurred crowd would allow the developers 
 to squeeze a little more into the damage modeling of the cars, then I would say, Se la vie! to 
 spectators.
  
  Gameplay  There is a lot of great racing and a sense of accomplishment to this game. I cant really 
 think of any constructive criticism or 2 cents worth to add in this department because the whole 
 host of race types, modes, car performance/handling physics and customization all play out in excellent 
 fashion in FM2. Some of the aspects of the menu system are a little annoying because it takes too 
 many clicks or d-pad movements to get things in motion, but that hardly detracts from the racing 
 experience. For example, after I have completed a particular series and have won the gold (or any) 
 cup, I like to try a couple other eligible cars in that series to get a feel for how they perform 
 maybe add some minor upgrades to them and such. But one of the options I loved was the fact that 
 if Im busy with something else, I can choose a race and hire a driver to do all the thinking for 
 me to win a little extra money while I go eat perhaps. This is great, but also takes 8 button presses 
 and 4 menu movements to set up. Seriously, if the feature is there for convenience and allowing 
 me to make some extra money and be lazy, then set it up for the whole series, or multiple races, 
 or at least with that track cached in memory so I dont have to reload everything again (i. e. Would 
 you like your hired driver to race XYZ again?  A  Yes, B  No thanks, Ill earn it now!) . I 
 know the developers didnt want to make it so easy that someone could set it up at 10pm and run 
 it for 12 hours making $280k in their sleep, but I also think the set up process could be streamlined 
 or a little more flexible, if not, then just eliminate the hired driver game mechanic all together. 
 I like that the game has so many options, thus requires a decent amount of menu navigating but 
 please make it a little less cumbersome. Why do I have to back almost all the way out to get in 
 a different car when I want to sell the current one or put it up for auction? Just give me the 
 option that Im trying to sell my current car (yes) and if Im sure I want to sell it, pick another 
 one to get in. I found many of the menus frustrating when I was jumping between multiplayer, selling 
 stuff or trying to customize things.
  
  Fun Factor  This is another area where there are so many great things that Id probably forget 
 to mention them all. Bottom line is this game is FUN. Some would argue that it leans more towards 
 the car enthusiast simulation racing side, but that just is not the case. There are a while host 
 of options and settings where you can enjoy this as a quick arcade racer, or you can get totally 
 immersed in the depth of the career mode on difficult settings and make it a true sim. Factor in 
 all the multiplayer options and the HUGE amount of customizations both with upgrades and visuals 
 (paint and vinyl groups) and you can have hours of fun and not even realize how much youve been 
 playing. Just last night I thought Id throw in the game for 30 minutes just to kill some time 
 before going to bed and instead I put $40k worth of upgrades into a crappy hatchback and then added 
 my own custom (some may argue - ugly) paint and vinyl job and didnt even realize I was at it for 
 1.5 hours. I was so caught up in the moment enjoying myself that I didnt even notice the time 
 passing. Like a good movie, FM2 will please quite a few people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headwire
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I love everything about this game. The graphics, sound, and gameplay are pretty much all I could 
 ask for from a racing game. I love the fact that you can just dive in and race without all of the 
 tutorials or 'liscense tests' that keep you from getting to the action.
  
  The only complaint I have stems from that though. If you played the last game the is a much smaller 
 learning curve for you than those who did not. While it's nice to be able to jump in and race it's 
 also bad that others can't do the same with you. No one wants to play a game with you if you're 
 just going to walk all over them.
  
  Other than that this game couldn't be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 was my first introduction the the series, as I only have a 360, never had the original. 
 I always heard it was a great game, and knew I was going to have to get it. So off i went on release 
 day and bought this without hesitation. I'm glad I did.
  
  This game offers something that PGR and NFS could never quite satisfy: A real sense of reality. 
 Now i'm not saying this means that there are cars that come flying out of your screen. This is 
 a relative statement. What I mean is that in terms of reality and driving, this game is the closest 
 thing we gamers can call home. There are consequences in this game. If you hit a wall doing 15 
 trying to slide through a turn, you will catch the wall and properly spin around. It's a pain in 
 the ass, and its wonderful. If you take a front wheel drive car and throw it inot turns, you will 
 be rewarded with under steer, particularly if the car has more than 300 HP, which is a reality 
 (i've tried it) . The damage mechanics aren't perfect, far from it, but it does add an element of 
 unknown if your going to continually run your car off the road. This game is for people who are 
 experienced and understand the physics and dimensions of cars.
  
  I was an avid Gran Turismo player for the past few years, and I loved GT4 to death, but the game 
 definetely lacked some features, and supplied a few I didn't care for. I would give GT4 a 9.2, 
 because it was a realistic driver, had wonderful graphics, and presented itself very professionally. 
 But damage, customization, and car feel were lacking in that game. I think there are some things 
 that GT4 did better than FM2, but on the whole, FM2 did many more things right. I always complained 
 about how GT4 the cars never felt any different, particularly with upgrades (minus the tires, that 
 made a world of difference) . All cars with V6's sound the same, and all V8's sounded the same. 
 This has been rectified, or at least done much better here. FM2 has real sounds and real feel. 
 I was driving the 912 Scaglietti yesterday, and it felt like Ferrari. When i chucked it through 
 turns it was insane, felt like I was going to go off at any time, and the engine roared like a 
 high-pitched F1 V12 should. It was glorious, especially when i figured out how to drive it, which 
 took practice (like real Ferrari's do) . Do yourself a favor when you get this game: Turn off all 
 the assists, and crank up the AI to the max. You're going to have to play some races over and over, 
 but believe me, you will come to respect how hard driving really is, and become much better at 
 this game, as well as others.
  
  On the technical level, this game is very good, but i can definetely see signs of needed upgrades, 
 especially graphically. The graphics are great, but there are some points, like the wheel wells 
 and the brakes, that have been sorely missed. The tracks look decent, i know people having mentioned 
 the tracks not being awe-inspiring, but i don't find it that important, especially when the cars 
 should have all the detail. The sound quality is wonderful, most likely the best a driving game 
 has to offer us. V6's are broad sounding, Inline 6's have that awesome roar (a la subaru and porsche) , 
 V8's growl (particularly the Nissan R390) , and V12's sound like monsters in the german cars, and 
 F1 cars in the italians. They are properly done.
  
  The campaign is where this game shines, with more options than I have ever witnessed in a game. 
 The tracks are awesome, take time to learn. There are plenty of real cars. Money is just abundant 
 enough, though it is rough in the beginning. I have not tried multiplayer, but from what i have 
 heard and seen, it looks great. This game is not perfect, but what the hell in life is perfect. 
 For me, this game is the new definition of driving simulation. If you like to drive or are a car 
 enthusiast, stand up, grab your keys, and go get this game.
  
  Let's hope Gran Turismo 5 and the new NFS Prostreet take some queues from this game, because we 
 are in short supply of great driving games here in next-gen land. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing video games since the Atari 2600, and I've played alot of racing games. This 
 game is a winner on all counts. The sounds are realistic. The graphics are very good. The gameplay 
 is highly addictive. There are more cars than you would ever have dreamed possible in a racing 
 game. I will probably be playing this for a very long time to come. My favorite racing game before 
 this one was Test Drive Unlimited. Now I am addicted to Forza. The game is perfect for a newcomer, 
 as well as for a veteran racing gamer. This game will challenge all. Gamespot did this game justice 
 with a 9.2 rating. The graphics could have been slightly better, but without a doubt, the car models 
 are outstanding. You can even hire a driver if you fine one particular race to hard to win. Achievenments 
 are spread out and evenly distributed The Auction House is just icing on the cake to an already 
 outstanding racing game. If you like racing even a little, you owe it to yourself to run out and 
 get this game. This game is a keeper!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertPerk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Dare I say it, but I believe that Turn 10 and Microsoft Game Studios have developed a racing game 
 that classifies as one of the best racing simulations EVER. The game offers so much to do from 
 car auctions, customizations, tuning, racing.... there's something for all racing fans in this game.
 
  
  If you've played the demo for this game and didn't like it, it didn't give the game justice. Rent 
 this game or buy it and see for yourself because the simulation is like 50 times better than the 
 demo gives it credit for in terms of the actual controls and schemes of the overall presentation.
 
  
  The realism that is brought with the car accidents is unreal. When you crash into a car, it really 
 sounds like your banging into another car, its not a cheesy sound or something you wouldn't expect. 
 You get that loud... raw... uncomfortable BANG and if you hit the car or wall hard enough, your car 
 will degrade in performance based on where your car made impact. Forza is the only racing game 
 on the market that does this as close to reality thus it's hands down unprecedented when it comes 
 to this part of the game.
  
  Overall Forza Motorsport 2 is the best racing game on the Xbox 360 and one of the best racing games 
 I've played in a LONG time... possibly better than the Gran Turismo series. They did this one right 
 guys, if you don't believe me, read Alex Navarro's review or other reviews on this site. The game 
 is flawless and there's so much you can do with it that will keep you wrapped up with it for months. 
 So what are you waiting for? Lets race!
  
  - albertperk
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Well done; graphically perfect. Cars handle like the real thing. Truely teaches you how to be a 
 better driver - in game, in other racing games, and teachs you some important lessons not found 
 in real world driver training [not the normal kind anyways!] .
  
  My driving in NFS MW improved bigtime since playing this game.
  
  Very entertaining, and addictive.
 
  
  Umm... trying driving around the course backwords... and plowing
  into other drivers. It is both fun ; and when your car gets banged up
  enough; teachs you how 
 to drive with a disabled car too. This comes
  in handy when getting a feel for each car.
  
  Excellent choice.
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianone24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Well i'm gonna keep this short and sweet. I know that everyone has been waiting for this game for 
 awhile and there are people who love it and hate it. Iove parts of it and hate others.
  
  THE GOOD: I know that everyone is complaining about the realism of this game. This game looks good. 
 For the amount of cars in this game and the detail put into everyone of them is great. I'm happy 
 that someone finally took real engine sounds and put them into a game. instead of a game with 1000 
 cars and looking awful and sounding fake. The cars each feel different and take some time getting 
 used to. The tracks all have a different feel to them and take time getting used to also. I like 
 the way the competition stays all the way through the game. I know that everyone is saying that 
 when you fully upgrade your car that you just blow by everyone. But i found that this is not true. 
 I have the 2004 ferrari fully upgraded all around and there is one car that is constantly on my 
 butt waiting for me to make one mistake so he can pass me. A. I. is ok. They stay away from you... 
 as long as you stay away from them. If you bump into them.... they become more aggressive and will 
 try to push you out of the way when you GET in the way. If you know anything about cars than you 
 will spend alot of time with this game and not grow tired of it.
  
  THE BAD: RWD! For those who don't know what that is.... it means rear wheel drive. These cars are 
 the worst in this game. And the more you upgrade your car the worse it gets. i just get tired of 
 doing great for most of the laps and than on the last lap.... the ass of the car just seems to 
 want to go all over the place except for on the track. Off the track grips your tires better than 
 the regular track does! you get one tire off the track... and the car pulls right off the track 
 and into the closest wall. And speaking of walls.... The no such thing as rubbing against a wall 
 in this game. You brush against a wall, and your car will grip the wall and turn around into the 
 opposite direction! When other cars run into you they drive off just fine, with a little bit of 
 damage, while your left with a broken engine. And you can get engine damage from someone running 
 into your back bumper, realistic? NOPE! I think this game has a lot of great thinks going for it... 
 which will keep alot of people attached to their tv's for a long while. But for others... it will 
 just piss them off and make them wonder why they waited so long for this game. This game can be 
 both frustrating and great! It all just depends on how good you drive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charboiled55
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the whole Gran Tursimo series. Purchased a PS1 because of that game. This game 
 brings a new light to racing games. Customizing your ride is something I missed in GT. There are 
 so many things can do to make your car look original. The Simulation mode is just incredible. The 
 AI seems to react to your actions. Bump them and they seem to remember you and bump you back. You 
 can set the difficulty low and things will be easier. Haven't tried the multiplayer online yet 
 but I'm sure it's great. This game has great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is by far the best racing game that has been released on the 360 since its 
 release.
  
  The graphics are great, the cars have amazing detail, the tracks look pretty.
  
  Its also a 
 lot of fun to smash up a car, even though it could be better.
  
  Here are my criticisms:
  
  I like that over time, you can wear out your tires, but I was a little pissed off when I realized 
 that all 100% tire wear does is give you little-no traction. I was kinda hoping that if you wore 
 out your tires to 100% and kept driving on them, they would just blow, the tire would tear off 
 the rim and you'd be stuck driving on the rim. I don't know about you, but I would have found that 
 very fun.
  
  When I bought this game, I started to see pics of cars that has like cartoon characters, logos, 
 etc. on them as decals. When I seen this, I could hardly wait to try this out for myself. After 
 a few hours, I couldn't figure out how to do it. So I started asking for help on both the Forza 
 forums and GameSpot Forza 2 forums, I was told that it was all done with the shapes that are already 
 on the game.
  I still don't understand how people can make all those things with these simple little shapes.
 
  It would have been awesome though if you could import images and put them on cars though.
  
  I also played a bit of multi player, and there does seem to be a little lag.
  
  It also 
 would have been nice if the engine could catch fire when you get 100% damage on it.
  
  Also I realized if you paint the brake calipers, you can barely even see that they've been painted... this 
 needs to be fixed...
  
  I'm also a little confused why there is no music while you're actually playing the game, only menu 
 music.
  I can play my own music, but unless I mute the menu music, when I go to the menu I end up having 
 both music playing at the same time.
  
  To conclude my review, if you own a 360 and are interested in racing games, this is a must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andres_Afanador
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game but the are 3 or 4 issues that contribute to decrease Forza&acute; s 2 Perfection 
 :
  
  ----Issue No.1 ----
  No drivitar, it was fun to see your persona trainned by yourself taking the Steering wheel
  ----Issue 
 No. 2----
  A lot of junk in the auction House
  
  ----Issue no.3 ----
  Not so Good Camera Angles in replays and in trademak locations on the track
  
  ----Issue No.4 ----
 
  100Cr, with that all the effort to unlock cars, become tedious and worthless.
  
  Besides this personal opinion and some issues Forza 2 is a great Game 9.7 Supeb!!!
  
  Play 
 with all Assist Off see you on the racetrack
  
  Gamertag:
  XCT Atomo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guns90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Un juego que de verdad hacia falta en esta consola de nueva generaci&oacute; n el mejor juego de 
 carreras el da&ntilde; o en los autos es genial cosa que en gran turismo hacia que se manejara con 
 un sensaci&oacute; n un tanto no tan natural la inclusi&oacute; n de marcas europeas es maravillosa 
 amo porche y Ferrari este juego definitivamente me har&aacute; comprar el volante para xbox as&iacute; 
 sacare mas jugo a este gran juego.
  
  El sonido es un poco limitado de cuerdo al an&aacute; lisis de gamespot y las graficas un punto 
 abajo del est&aacute; ndar del la nueva generaci&oacute; n de consolas pero todo esto se compensa 
 con la jugabilidad la cual es excelente. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imjusthatawsum
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  The first truly amazing racer on the 360. The amount of customization and detail is unprecedented 
 and although it is lacking in the amount of tracks, the purity of the racing experience is enough 
 to make me forgive the developers. With the different car classes, and upgradable parts, its a 
 great challenge to build up the best cars you can. Also, this game plays exceptionally on Xbox 
 Live. Even if you aren't the type of person who loves racing games, this is a good starter game 
 with the varying difficulty levels that could cater to anyone from a 14 year old to your grandma 
 to some guy that lives with his mom and plays video games all day long. Overall, Forza Motorsport 
 2 is an amazing game that I recommend to all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdspringer98
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I love playing this game and using the xbox 360 wheel, it really makes the experience feel as close 
 to real as you can get. The driving is what this game is about and it delivers 100% in that department. 
 If you don't know how to drive than this game isn't for you, you'll crash on every turn. On the 
 negative side the graphics are below x360 standards, I see things popping up on the not so distant 
 horizon and there are jagged edges to many things. The driving reality makes up for it though.
 
  
  I recommend the game completely just keep the graphics expectations low.
  Do yourself a favor and buy the racing wheel, it makes the game infinitely better. Same for PGR2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Gran Turismo series from the beginning. This game captures that and more! 
 I am no hardcore racing buff, nore do I know everything that makes cars tick but this game walk 
 you thru and shows you how to mod your car and what it will do. They even give you a comprehensive 
 report on what the upgrade does and why you would use it. The graphics are fine and the game has 
 enough depth to keep you wanting to start that next race! I love the ability to pimp your ride 
 and take photos and put them on-line, cool concept!! They did a great job on this game and it shows! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phunktify
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I rushed out to grab my copy of Forza last Wednesday and have played up to level 26, opened up 
 a number of cars and even tried some of the faster R and S classes. Early on I checked out a little 
 of the online play which has been improved by giving the host the option to force off various driving 
 assists if they'd like a more challenging race. Still, so far I've mostly been playing single player 
 which has been a blast.
  The graphics, the cars and the controls are all outstanding as are the courses (some real, some 
 made-up) . Since those are the basics of any great driving simulator it's nice that Forza is strongest 
 where it counts. And of course the online leaderboards and online multiplayer continue to be something 
 Forza does better then almost any other driving game. The lack of tracks should be helped by the 
 expected downloadable content due out in the coming months, but it's a shame Turn 10 didn't see 
 fit to include a few more tracks in Forza 2. In fact, missing in Forza 2 are the beloved point 
 to point races from Forza 1 (well, at least I loved them) although Turn 10 has added Nurenburgring 
 and a few other real world tracks.
  The issue that remains though, at least for me and I've not seen this commented on much elsewhere, 
 is while the single player campaign is packed with events the races only really get challenging 
 once youre spending most of your time in the faster cars, where theres a better chance of a spin-out 
 or a wreck that severely damages your car making it impossible to continue (the damage modeling 
 and its effect on your cars performance are most reminiscent of TOCA Race Driver 2) . It would 
 be nice if games like Forza and Gran Turismo could find ways to ramp the difficulty gradually without 
 letting it be so easy to simply sidestep difficult races by upgrading your car.
  In any case, its a great game and Ill write up some more impressions of the multiplayer later 
 in the week. Ive just started fooling around with photomode which works just like Gotham 3s 
 did except with the ability to upload your photos to the Forza website and am posting by best shot 
 above. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  After playing the original Forza, I was looking forward to playing this. For the most part Forza 
 2 is an excellent simulation racer. I would recommend to anyone looking for a realistic racing 
 game. Now for the review - When I started the game, i noticed right away that the amount of career 
 races was greater than the original forza, which it better be considering its on the 360 and costs 
 $60! Each race is still restricted by car model, horsepower, year, weight, etc..... which makes 
 it more competitive. The game graphics are clear and crisp. the cars look even better than they 
 did in Forza for xbox and the tracks also got a good boost in graphics. Overall - a nice game that 
 delivers realistic simulation racing
  
  Pros:
  1) excellent graphics - cars and tracks are clear and crisp
  2) smooth simulation race style 
 - makes for a realistic driving experience
  3) more car upgrades available
  4) more gameplay than the original
  5) pretty decent game music
  6) competitive AI - especially 
 w/ faster cars on hard difficulty
  
  A couple negative things do exist
  1) no in-race music - it stops when the race starts.
  2) you win the same cars as you did on 
 the original Forza
  3) less race tracks this time around
  4) the proving ground events are BORING!! you basically race the same track over and over 30-some 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulbutkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is better than forza 1. And i have to agree with almost everything dr_slim said but one 
 think i have to point out the sound is solid i see you gave it a 8 and thats fair enough not to 
 say the engines dont sound very very good but one thing i thought it could of used some more exhaust 
 barbel maybe some more snaps and pops especially in the subaru area and dont worry they sound more 
 subaru than any game so far. Vtecs could be better also. Thats all i have to say because i know 
 anyone who uses 3 percent of there brain knows gamespot reviews are the fairest on the net and 
 they always hit the nail on the head im into driving sims and this is the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_slim2004
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  The game is at the very least a solid 9.2 its coping bad slack so im gonna give it all ten to make 
 up for the haters even though i probably would give sound an 8 and that was kinda a big thing i 
 was looking forward to, everything thing else is spot on all these guys saying overly frustrating 
 in my opinion have no word on the matter and need to just except that driving sims are not made 
 for them or they will get there with age and experience i guess. forza is bad as with a ph y'all 
 and i love it if you love driving racing or your a speed freak or just a petrol head who likes 
 a challenge forza is the racing sim for you. and also people be patient you will get it i use to 
 think myself man this sucks but ive i mean thats what i was like on gt1 but way past that and maybe 
 your younger than me don't worry be happy, you need to turn of assist and practice and practice 
 be a bit aggressive and accept a phew crashes you will get that line going and be in heaven. Please 
 dont review the game simply on how frustrating it is because you cant play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSystemLord1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2, the sequel the the Xbox's great racer and a direct competitor to Gran Turismo. 
 Where the latter series has fallen off in its own age, Forza is enjoying the golden period of a 
 series that is still fresh to gamers and has not been thrown to the commercial dogs in terms of 
 features and presentation. Simply put, Forza 2 is a huge step ahead of the original in its gameplay 
 and fun factor, yet a small step NW in the graphical department. Gameplay: This game shines. It's 
 as simple as that. I've logged about 10 or so hours into the game and can honestly say that this 
 is the most fun racer I've ever played. Driving your car takes patience, and a willingness to learn. 
 Each car being different does present a learning curb that might turn some off. Gamers who are 
 used to punching the accelerator down straightaways and then slamming on the breaks and power sliding 
 for huge point totals need not apply. Ladies and gentlemen, as in real life, if you head into a 
 turn at 130 mph and then slam the breaks you will go headfirst into a wall. Your car cannot possibly 
 defy physics enough to make that turn and allow you to look cool in front of your friends. Speaking 
 of physics, this game is full head to toe with them. Cars with the exact same upgrades handle completely 
 different. Personally, I took a liking to the Wings West Civic, and re-modify it to meet the various 
 criteria of the races and events so that I may use it as much as possible. The Civic is a tight 
 handler, and you won't go drifting all over the place like you will in other cars. Hop into an 
 Integra and be prepared to slam that brake button alot. Those cars are all over the place and extremely 
 good for drifting, just like they are in real life. One might wonder why you'd want to drift to 
 win races. Well, in a recent online match I was up against some particularly beefy muscle cars. 
 Cars with raw power and tight handling. With nowhere near as much power, I was worried. But as 
 it turned out, I was able to push the lines up to 30 feet farther than the muscle cars and pull 
 by them at ease. For those of you who don't understand what I mean, I was able to punch the accelerator 
 a full 2-3 seconds longer than my competition and then lose less mph by sliding through the turns. 
 That's realism that I can use. This game has it all, I mean you have to judge how hard you tap 
 the brake heading into turns to accomidate for the tire friction sending you into a spin. Its fantastic, 
 this game plays like nothing before it.
  
  Graphics: My only complaint. The graphics are very good make no mistake, but they just aren't next-gen. 
 The cars are fantastic and true works of art, but the environments are what brings this score down 
 in my eyes. Sure, occasionally an environment will blow you away (Times Square being a prime example 
 of this) , but plenty are just boring to look at (the desert training levels) . There is some truth 
 to people asking what good the environments in a racing game are, which is why I wrestled with 
 the decision of giving this game an 8 in graphics, but I just feel that as a consumer you need 
 to know exactly how good this game is, and where it falls short. However, I know where all of the 
 disc space went in this game, and as long as the game looks good (which it does) and keeps the 
 physics. I can look past almost anything when it comes to graphics.
  
  Sound: Magnificent. Every engine sounds unique, and every engine sounds good too. Throw this game 
 on a 5.1 or 7.1 surround and it feels like you are standing right in front of the car you're driving. 
 When you switch to the in-car view the engine sounds change to those of a person driving the car, 
 very awesome stuff. The environmental noise is top notch as well, gravel sounds like... well... gravel, 
 grass sounds like grass hitting your tires, you can even hear the invisible little bumps as your 
 car's suspension takes an absolute beating from off road terrain. Add to that an extremely cool 
 soundtrack (some of the tracks are a bit old, but classics (The Chemical Brothers never disappoint) 
 and you can have just as much fun throwing a rave with this game as you can playing it. Let me 
 pause on the soundtrack for a second, from the very get-go you feel like a high class world car 
 collector. The music fits the genre, racing to rock or R &amp; B is nice, but doesn't fit the way 
 a mix of house, techno, electro, and dance music does. simply put, you WILL be singing these songs 
 in your head long after you've stopped playing. Value: This game does not revolutionize the racing 
 genre by any stretch of the word, but it does perfect it. I would find it absolutely boring to 
 go back to your typical arcade racer where every car handles the same, but goes faster. I think 
 Forza is the first game in a very long time to just get it right. The customization is fantastic, 
 especially the painjobs and accessories people are coming up with for their cars. Any game that 
 let's you take a 350 Z with a Goku and Gohan theme into an online race gets my vote. The game really 
 awards creativity as well, with the auction house feature. I've bought 2 cars now over the auction 
 house, both over $100,000. The kicker? The cars retail at about 30,000 - 50,000 points in the normal 
 career mode. Why would I pay so much you ask? Simple, the DESIGNS that the artist who bought and 
 put time in to are simply to die for. Add to the fact that if a certain design gets ragingly popular, 
 you can have it saved in your own personal portfolio to re-create as you wish. Bring 5 of the same 
 car with your custom design to the field and watch them sell like hotcakes. So much fun...
  
  Tilt: My opinions on this game are pretty obvious by now, I love it. Simple as that, this game 
 is one of the best racing games I've ever played and a total shoe-in to beat Gran Turismo 5 in 
 terms of quality and replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Forza 2 is probably the best racing simulator you will play this year. With that 
 being said, the game does have problems . For example, the cars are very well detailed while the 
 tracks look somewhat bland... so when the track's elements reflects on the cars, sometimes it seems 
 like there are pop-ups (which can get annoying after a while) . The tracks look OK for a game like 
 this, but when you have beautiful looking cars at a some what OK looking track, things do stand 
 out. Things like the ugly crowds or the nasty pop-ups on the roof of your cars... could've been 
 easily worked out.
  
  Graphically, F2 looks beautiful on a HDTV, cars are well detailed and you would be surprised at 
 how much of your extra mods show up on your car... very nicely detailed! If you are going to play 
 Forza 2, make sure you play in surround sound and in HDTV... the difference playing in stereo TV 
 and surround sound is simply amazing. You can hear the turbo charger in the car behind you, and 
 even hear the cars that are pitting and getting repaired... very neat. Now, the game play. To simply 
 put, this is the most realistic racing simulator you will play in a long time. The grip of the 
 tire, right tightness of the suspension, and even how much pressure you have on your tires makes 
 a HUGE difference on the way you drive. I took my Lingenfelter Corvette, updated the HP to max, 
 and took about 700 lbs. weight off of the car... the car now felt as if it wanted to take off and 
 fly or something; yes, its that good! When you first start out, the game does seem slow. You cant 
 get enough money from your races and the cars (regardless of your region) you have to choose are 
 just not worth it. Just be patient, once you reach level 10-15, races get lot better, faster, and 
 your choice of cars gets a lot wider as well.
  
  Balancing among cars is excellent, you can tune a class-D car to class-B or A, but when you race 
 a tuned up class-D-to-class-A car against a class-B car you will notice that your tuned up car 
 is having trouble taking the corner at higher speed (probably because you didn't properly tuned 
 your cars) . Its very realistic. Crashes are nicely done as well, but its not totally-realistic 
 because you can crash in to the wall at 100+mph and still have the engine running. However, it 
 is there, and does a very good job of hurting your performance if you do bump in to other cars.
 
  
  The game does support Xbox Live, and its very good. Its always fun to see what people does with 
 their car, and you can even auction your car (or buy someone else's) ... the overall experience is 
 very nicely done. The best part is when you are racing and you would expect the higher rated cars 
 to be way ahead of you, but instead they are only about 1 or 2 seconds ahead of the other cars 
 because he/she has an unbalanced cars.
  
  Overall, I am having a lot of fun with Forza 2 at the time. If you can get over the thing about 
 tracks looking OK for an Xbox 360 game, you will love F2. Again, if you want the best experience 
 with this game, play it on a HDTV (and with a surround sound TV) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Even though Forza 2 feels the same as part one it shure is different from it. The graphics are 
 outstanding. the details that the tracks and cars have are amazing. like depending where the sun 
 is you are able to see the cars shadow on the road. the campiagn is still the same but with more 
 modes like Semi-Pro races, Rivalry Face offs, Regional Championships, Proving Grounds and Amatuer 
 Races. the one game mode i didnt see that was in part 1 was point to point. the game has a lot 
 more cars including more manufactures like Lamborgini and Mesarati. I say the career is a lot easier 
 than part one and they took of the drivatar thing and replaced it with hiring drivers. the games 
 online mode is the same except that they added tournaments now. the games sound is outstanding 
 you can actually hear the engine change gears. the game has 44 achievements that mostly ask for 
 the ones in career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superblaze15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I am not a big Car Racing Fan, yet I had some fun times with Need for Speed in the past few years. 
 But when I heard the hype, I knew I had to Download the demo, and although it wasn't amazing, I 
 knew that it didn't tell the whole story. So when I needed a new game last week, I decided this 
 was a good choice especially from the reviews that said that the level of depth is insane.
  
  So now that I own it, I am speechless, this is one hell of a game, the depth is incredible, 
 and the graphics although not the best on the 360, it still has gorgeous car models. And 300 of 
 them. The games play is a simulation and although its hard at least for me when i first played 
 it, I am starting to understand that this certainly not a Need For Speed, and that this type of 
 game play is far superior.
  
  My only gripe is the ambient music. The sound of the cars is spot on, but the music during the 
 menus are just annoying. But with such a high amount of customization , it makes up for the music.
 
  
  In conclusion this is an amazing games, and I recommend it to almost everyone. At least try it 
 out, and you most likely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  As I am someone who can be consistently found at the track, I lick my chops at just about every 
 racing SIM out there. The GT series was pert good and FORZA is basically the same EXCEPT the physics 
 are much much better in FORZA. Good graphics and exceptional gameplay help carry this serving of 
 racing delight to the podium as the best racing sim to date. So when you ask the low life d-bag 
 that works at the game store if FORZA 2 is any good and he tells you oh bro, its awesome! (which 
 he and his little cohorts say about EVERY game in a pathetic and shallow attempt to sell more games 
 and thus perpetuating the cycle of mediocre gaming) you can actually believe him. The only little 
 problem I have with this game is the sound..... not the soundtrack (whats with people complaining 
 about the soundtrack? When your approaching a corner at 167 MPH who cares what the soundtrack is?) . 
 The actual game sounds and in particular the engines have no variety and in many cases are not 
 accurate. (I know because I own and race them) . But that is the only real downfall to the game. 
 That and it still needs a little more depth (more cars, more track variety) . So in short, FORZA2 
 rocks your mom's panties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkey4098
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game's single player has 70+ hours but that is just the beginning. Take it online for a spin 
 in a tournament, circuit or series match and level up your driver and car , but also win money. 
 The game has over 300 cars and its depth still has me in awe. You start racing you put 20 hours 
 into the game and you have barely scratched the surface. No matter if you use the wheel or controller 
 there is no clear cut winner online. i use the controller and my buddies use the wheel and it is 
 very competitive. The Auction House is an interesting addition to the series. If you can't paint 
 characters on your car then head over to the auction house and buy one from tone of the auctions 
 place your bid and whoever has the highest bids win. If you are an artist and can paint beautiful 
 anime, like my japanese friends; paint your car, throw it up online and make some money. If you 
 are wanting a deep racer with tons of customization and hours upon hours of gameplay then you cannot 
 go wrong with Forza 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Being a sim, and the most realistic one ever made, Forza 2 is sure to be a love it or hate it game.
 
  
  The problems are that the game doesn't really look all that great for a major first party title 
 and the lack of content might upset some more casual fans.
  
  The mediocre graphics are understandable when you consider the game plays at a butter smooth sixty 
 frames per second while processing over 360 frames per second of physics calculations. It's like 
 a lot of muscle cars. It might not be too pretty, but there is a lot of power under the hood.
 
  
  The tracks are mostly repeats, with a couple new ones. A lot of the new tracks look far too similar 
 and this hurts the game's career in that it feels a little redundant how often you'll race the 
 same tracks over and over. But this also allows the more hardcore fans to master these select tracks 
 instead of constantly throwing new mediocre tracks at you.
  
  The gameplay and physics is where this game is in a league of it's own. No other racing game comes 
 anywhere close to this game's level of realism and attention to detail. If you are looking for 
 the closest thing to taking a lambo or a porshe for a spin in real life, this game is everything 
 you'll want.
  If you are looking for an over the top speed rush like Burnout, then you best look elsewhere as 
 this game is more about cornering and controlled racing. Not controlled chaos.
  
  To put it short, Forza 2 is the best racing game ever made for those looking for a realistic driving 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finch9600
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest; I was very hesitant to run out and buy Forza 2 on May 30th. I wasn't sure if 
 it would live up to all the hype of GT Killer and 360 fps physics engine but alas, I've been spending 
 my hours with my favorite racing game of all time. Having played every Gran Turismo from #1 all 
 the way to #4, I know what I want from a racing simulation game such as this. The graphics must 
 be good, but not so good that the framerate drops. This is probably my favorite aspect of Forza. 
 It runs at a constant 60 frames per second. This gives you the ultimate control of your car. The 
 only hiccup I have seen is when the AI conflicts with other AI and causes a mess of twisted metal. 
 I guess that requires a lot of physics calculations.
  
  Anyway, graphically the game is solid. The car models are extremely well-done and I would go so 
 far as to say perfectly modeled and detailed to fit their real-life counterparts. They even have 
 body kits and the performance upgrades such as rims and even tire compounds will change its appearance 
 accordingly. But aside from the cars there is not much eye candy. The tracks are bland and the 
 original tracks are, well, unoriginal. When Laguna Seca is one of the most pleasing-to-the-eye 
 maps you have, that's not a good thing.
  
  The interface is well-done with a few missing elements like shorcuts but overall is modern and 
 stylish. My biggest gripe with this game is the sheer lack of tracks. There had better be some 
 new tracks released as downloadable content or hey, why not free content seeing how we all paid 
 $60 for 12 tracks. I would say it is pretty obvious this part of the game was skimped on. Some 
 tracks are kind of interesting such as the one built on the abadoned air strip where you have to 
 maneuver a 2000 lb car going 150mph over tiled cement. But there just are not enough and they are 
 bland to boot. Gran Turismo had many more interesting tracks and varieties.
  
  But down to the real meat of this game. The gameplay. The game runs at a grueling 60 fps that never 
 skips a frame. What you put in is what comes out. This gives you the ultimate control over your 
 car that some games like Need For Speed lack. It takes away from the immersion when all of a sudden 
 the frame skips. The physics are incredibly well tuned and each car has its own feel. I've driven 
 cars I absolutely despise and I have driven cars I have gained an emotional bond with. The difficulty 
 tuning is perfected to suit every gamer of every skill level that is interested in playing this 
 game.
  
  The career forces you to use all different types of cars and you never get to stay with your favorite 
 car. You kind of have to keep it even amongst all your cars to keep them eligible for the extremely 
 varied race events with heavy restrictions.
  
  As far as online the game is solid and well-balanced. You can create a car and super tune it for 
 the ultimate car of its Class, or just pick from the arcade selection. You can paint your car pink 
 and race it Hello Kitty style and laugh at your opponents whom were just owned by your hot pink 
 civic. A game that lets you do that is a good one. The sound is equally immersive as with each 
 upgrade you can actually hear the difference. However, once you get into the upper echelon of race 
 cars they'll all the sound similar of course varying with engine size, but it is good while it 
 lasts to try out the different stock cars and hear how they sound. But the ambient noises, especially 
 on the oval track, where it sounds like a little kid yelling over the sound of your engine and 
 road noise with the doppler effect, are buggy. This game will easily give you a hundred hours of 
 gameplay. Worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_M_cool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is the Greatest Racing Simulation Ever Made, or G. R. S. E. M. for short. The graphics 
 are incredibly detailed on the cars and most of the environments... Well except for the bystanders, 
 but who cares about them! Accompanying these incredible graphics is gameplay that is outrageously 
 realistic... In a good way. Cars damage realistically, tires take damage over time, and braking 
 is handled perfectly with the racing line. My only real complain about this game is the steep learning 
 curve to someone who has never played a racing sim before. The sound in this game is near perfect 
 the cars all sound perfect in relation to their real life counter-parts, but some of the songs 
 in the game don't fit quite in. Other than that this game has beautiful presentation and amazingly 
 realistic driving. This game is a definite recommendation to any 360 owner, just be prepared to 
 sink some time into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagog19
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I will admit that before this game i was more of an arcade racer type of guy because i didn't know 
 much about cars and didn't know what each upgrade to a car did. The game explains each upgrade 
 very well and makes it easy to understand. The auction house where one can buy and sell cars is 
 a very unique concept that i really enjoy because you can find zelda and family guy cars. The best 
 part about the game is the racing itself. The cars move like they would in real life. The damage 
 is incredible as well and affects the way the cars drives. Do not rely on the demo to decide on 
 this game because it doesn't do it justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Forza 2 is an amazing game, definitely worth the $60. They took the very popular forza motorsport 
 and made it even better. There is alot to this game, with so many cars to race and so many tracks 
 to race them on. The career-mode is in-depth and very addicting. This is certainly the most realistic 
 racing game i have ever played. The cars are so much fun to drive. The graphics are pretty good, 
 they could be a little better, but i cant complain. The Online play is excellent as well, with 
 very little lag. With all there is to do in this game, you will never get tired of it. I would 
 recommend this game to any casual or hardcore racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpideR_CentS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is just flat out awesome. The sheer amount of options is mind numbing. You could 
 spend more time then you spend with most games just painting your car. Or upgrading it. Or tuning 
 it. The Career mode is set up very nicly and blends in with the online play. You can tweak you 
 car and pimp it out, then race it online. There are also arade races. The gameplay itself is great. 
 You can tune your car a little, and as soon as you put it back on the track you can tell you did 
 something. This is the best sim racer I have ever played period. If you liked Forza 1 or the Gran 
 Turismo series this game is a MUST HAVE. One of the best games on 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tat2dchad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  the only thin about this game that is a bummer at all.... lack of tracks! the custom paint is way 
 fun!!! i might have spent more time creating art for my cars than actually playing the racing part!!! 
 could have used a few more options in the creat logo mode... or maybe a free draw tool!! this game 
 IMO took everything good from the original GT and ran with it!!! you can be a never played a racing 
 game B4 kind of person or a die hard car guy..... put this game in and have fun!!! if you like racing 
 games... then this game is a must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rextyper420
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for all that love car games! Hands down best car game on the 360! There 
 is new feature in-game to help you tune your car. The sound track is better then the first, but 
 i still rather hear my own music. The cars sounds so real life. oh also the have LAMBOS!!!! somethings 
 that got me mad was the fact you only get 100cr if you sell a car you earned. I guess they did 
 that cause of the online auction. The graphics are all that! The gameplay has so much replay value! 
 They worked hard to keep any cheats out which i guess a plus and neg thing, for those that dont 
 have time to play through the game to unlock the nice cars, this sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is a total racing experiance. I recommend this game for anyone who is even a bit interested 
 in racing games. It can be played effectively by any level of skill type. If you're a begginner, 
 it can help your hand and get you up an going. As you get better, you can adjust the settings to 
 make for a more difficult, but extremely enjoyable experiance. It's a total blast to play and extremely 
 realistic. You feel like your really driving the particular car you've chosen from your garage 
 and they all feel very different. Moreover, as you customize your car (as I recommend doing slowly) , 
 you can feel the upgrade you've added - i. e. upgraded tires will provide noticible traction. There's 
 tons of cars from tons of countries - I started from the Asian region and the cars are awesome. 
 There are also tons of upgrades to add and you can tweak all parts of the car, building and painting 
 the perfect ride. This game is truely awesome. I've been waiting for this game for about 18 months 
 - thanks MS Games... nice job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game is the nicest game i've ever played, for a car game and i love car games. This one is 
 the best ii will ever play though. There's more than 300 cars to choose from and so much way to 
 upgrade your cars. It's very rare that you will find another car online that would look like yours. 
 The auction feature in this game is nice with the handling feees and how much time you want to 
 leave your car online in the auction. The graphics is great, the sound in great, the gameplay is 
 awsome. This game is meant for real race car fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWJUSTIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  If you like cars i mean like real cars and real driving you will love this game. And to not love 
 this game is simply to not love real driving simulation. Yes there PGR and Need for s [eed but thats 
 not sim in the least bit this is sim and this is fun. Throwing nothing at you but pure driving. 
 Now im only sum 20-25% through the game and loving it. And ive yet to play online where i bet racing 
 people can be AWESOME i mean split screen with my brother is freaking awesome. And career mode 
 is fun and finally beat a game that i though had the best career mode in sim games so far being 
 GT2 (it was my fave GT game with the best career mode IMO i owned them all) So pt it this way if 
 you like cars you will love this SO GET IT WHILE ITS NEW HOTT AND FAST!!!!!!!!!!! FM2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caglemonica
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I am disappointed in this game it is the same game as before. It gives you the same cars as race 
 rewards as in the first one. It took away several tracks, Rio, Blue Mountain, Road America, Tokyo, 
 and most importantly the Test Track Oval. It replaces them with crappy short tracks with names 
 like Copperhead and Momba. It also has no in race music. I guess you are supposed to rip music 
 to your 360 and take up hard drive space which you will need for all the downloads they will have 
 to send to make this a better game. I have not seen that many new cars on here no 07's. No new 
 Camero, Challenger, or even the new Civic Si. Like I said earlier it is just the same game just 
 with a new paint job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 is not only a sim racing game but it is also a huge customization game. All 
 the cars can be painted, loaded with decals, and maxed out with extras. The ammount of cars is 
 awesome. Over 300 cars are represented in the game, so no matter what you like it has it. The actual 
 racing is as complete as I have ever played. With physics that represent the actual true life cars 
 as well as damage to all car models. It is a complete racing sim. The graphics are great as well. 
 The game runs at 60fps so there is no slow down what so ever when racing even when the screen gets 
 full of other cars. You can gon on to x-box live and race other people and also buy and sell cars 
 which really adds to the whole game expierence. The game will keep you busy for a long time collecting 
 and trading and making your own designs for your cars. If you like racing games this is a must 
 have for your x-box 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganjasmugglin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. It delivers on every aspect that a racing game should. Its a perfect fit with 
 the wireless wheel which was very suprising. Every customizible option delivers on the racing experience 
 and the fact that you can customize your cars to an extraordinary level that i have never seen 
 done in any racing game EVER! This game is exactly what i expected this time around and iam glad 
 that i told people to get this game before it came out. I also urge people to get the wheel simply 
 for this game, IT IS AWSOME AND FITS GREAT WITH THIS GAME. Just make sure you have a high standing 
 table and a good setup. I highly recommend this game to anyone racing fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beesters
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsports 2, has it all. The game starts with the complete series of cup series. You start 
 off in any region, North America, China, Etc. With you being a part of that region you tend to 
 be able to recieve cars and discounts from that region more often then you do when you are not 
 from that region. You can even custom your cars paint, this game gives you the choices of different 
 vinyl shapes and you can edit that shape as you please to create your next Divinci! When you get 
 your car that you want, you can include it with upgrades. but be careful you need credits. How 
 do you get credits? You get credits by completing races and earning credits due to your race position. 
 This game is a must buy for any racing fan, and even better yet, its a great collection to your 
 XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I've never really enjoyed sim racers... infact I stayed clear of them for years 
 (after GT3 built frusteration) , but for some reason this game caught my attention. I love the depth 
 of the physics engine and after playing the demo I found the steering to be a lot more accurate 
 than GT3. I decided to plunk down the money on the Wireless Steering Wheel... and let me say that 
 was possibly the best move I made. The whole experience exceeds 10 fold, the force feedback and 
 realism of control of the cars is amazingly real. Even my fiance loves the game... she owns a Volvo 
 and when she took the S60 for a spin the control of the car was practically dead on with her older, 
 but reliable Volvo. In any case, visually the game is stunning and a blast to play.... for veterans 
 or new comers. I would highly recommend the steering wheel... without it the games ok, but the wheel 
 just makes the whole experience beyond anything i've ever played.
  
  Pros:
  -Stunning car models -Car Customization is VERY deep
  -Online and Offline Careers will hold a 
 long time
  -Steering Wheel works flawless
  -Lag Free, Online auctions to sell cars
  
  Cons:
  -Wish there were some more A and B class cars
  -Environments at times may look a bit 
 flat (very minor) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Overall I would have to say that Forza Motorsports 2 is a superb sequel. Everything that may have 
 felt a little off in the first one is fixed and polished to a nice shine. Career mode is of medium/long 
 length if you're a semi-hardcore gamer, it finishes out a little faster than the first game did 
 in my opinion.
  
  Visually the game is wonderful in HD, the car models are detailed and stuning and the tracks provide 
 a greatly detailed backdrop to the awesome sense of speed. While there are only a dozen or so courses 
 each has a myriad of different layouts to race on so there is good variety but it ultimatly is 
 one of the reasons the game leaves you wanting more.
  
  The feel of each car and the small differences between each one is a huge step up from the first 
 Forza. Tuning and customization can really be felt in the smallest of changes to your car's setup.
 
  
  Online play has been a little bit of a frustrating experience personally. The online career races, 
 which you can earn cash while competing with other players is nice, but doesn't seem like an online 
 career, more like just getting money for single events. The tournament mode online is what I had 
 really looked forward to but so far have had nothing but trouble. Each tournament has an open registration 
 that lasts for roughly 24 hours. During that time you can run as many qualifying laps to break 
 the posted qualifying time. Once you are under that time you are seeded and have a ranking out 
 of the number of entrants into the tournament. I realize that the ongoing seeding for 24 hours 
 is needed to provide opportunity for everyone who wants to join, but there is no security if you 
 are seeded. You can be knocked out of the tournament. Personally I don't have the time to check 
 back on the seed at midnight everynight. Not a huge problem but I was looking forward to the online 
 tournament aspect of the game and have yet to race in one.
  
  One additional flaw is the damage system, after watching many of the downloadable videos and keeping 
 tabs on the game for a long while now I had expected the car damage system to be outstanding. It 
 is good, but nowhere near the detail and realism that DiRT shows. I had hoped for a big leap here 
 but was only shown a small step.
  
  In the end Forza 2 is a great racing simulator that should appeal to a wide audience. Everything 
 in the game has stepped forward, but nothing feels like it truly stands out. Maybe my own high 
 expectations, but from what the developers had designed and marketed conceptually to what I'm playing 
 right now seems a little too different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  With racing games, it's hard to please everyone. What's too easy for someone, may be too hard for 
 someone else. What's too realistic and feel right for one person, may not be so hot for another. 
 Forza 2 delivers in every way any hardcore racing fan could think of when it comes to the driving 
 aspect of the game.
  
  But outside of the driving physics, Forza 2 falls short in many ways -- at least to be classified 
 as a simulator.
  
  Turn 10 has classified the Forza Motorsport franchize as a simulator for hardcore race fans ever 
 since its original release for the regular Xbox. I don't understand how a racing game, especially 
 in this generation, be classified as a simulator when it lacks so many aspects a simulator should. 
 Sure, it has tire wear, damage, and pit-stops, but there's more than that to simulating a racing 
 experience. Where's the cockpit view? Where's practice sessions and qualifying? Where's real penalties? 
 All of these are crutial part to simulating a realistic racing environment, and they are all missing 
 from Forza 2.
  
  In the previous generation, it was understandable not to have a cockpit view. With the max resolution 
 being 848x480 (480p) , it would be too tedius to drive with a cockpit taking up your screen. Try 
 playing a racing simulator like NASCAR Racing 4 at 640x480 from the cockpit view -- it's nearly impossible. 
 However, in this generation, we have access to much better technology, which allows for much higher 
 quality images. With most users running at 720p, and some at 1080p, there is absolutely no reason 
 not to have a cockpit view this time around. Shame on Turn 10 for leaving out such an important 
 aspect of emulating an authentic simulation experience. The other views you have to choose from 
 is two chase cams, a front bumper camera, and a hood cam. All of these camera angles are a joke. 
 The chase cams are too close to the car -- even the far one. The bumper cam is still too low to the 
 ground, but not nearly as bad in Forza 1, and the hood cam is too far forward. Why they choose 
 a hood cam over a roof can (which wouldn't have been as bad) , I have no idea -- since you rarely 
 see hood cams. It's almost always a roof cam. Forza 2 is also lacking practice sessions. Part of 
 simulating an authentic racing simulation experience is to give the drivers some time to get warmed 
 up and dial their car in to changing track conditions. Where's the qualifying? I don't want to 
 start randomly, or by the fields PI (Performance Index) , I want to qualify and see how I end up. 
 And then of course there's the penalty system, which is a joke just like in its predecessor. Real 
 simulators have real penalties. Cut the track, and you have to take a trip to pit road. Drive too 
 wrecklessly, and you have to do the same. In Forza 2, they just add time to your current lap time, 
 which has no affect on your overall track position or your race ending position.
  
  Aside from the technical issues, Forza 2 is a very fun, challenging, and realistic driving experience. 
 It runs at a silky smooth 60 FPS with no slowdowns. The graphics are excellent, the AI is incredibly 
 real, and the sounds are decent. Most of the cars sound authentically, but they missed the sound 
 on the Corvettes by a mile. In the real world, Corvettes, even the cheap ones, have a kick-ass 
 rumble to the engine that is missing from Forza 2. Other than that, the sounds are pretty decent.
 
  
  Forza 2 is a great casual driving experience, but for my hardcore racing simulation, rFactor remains 
 #1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentless101
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is da bomb! I enjoy creating my own unique vehicle and racing it online for others to 
 see. The AI in the gamer is fantastic. The cars react to how you race. In one race, I cut off the 
 AI car and it rear ended me and spun me into the wall. The graphics aren't as bad as people say 
 they are, but of course they can improve. I know that fps takes away from great graphics, so I 
 actually enjoy the games realistic speed of play. Damage is always great to see in Forza, even 
 though I try to avoid it any time I can. I enjoy seeing other people's creative ideas. I remember 
 in Forza 1 when someone created a Herbie bug with the #53 on it. I made an ugly Buik that was painted 
 all different types of sickening colors. People online laughed at it. That was fun. This game is 
 highly addictive, and I am glad to see the true racers finally giving it the high scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since January of this year. It is well worth the wait!!! I am 
 a racing sim veteran. I have been playing racing sims since the first Gran Turismo on the original 
 playstation. First thing I will comment on is the physics, it is very close to the real deal. As 
 close as a game can get I think. The graphics are amazing the cars look so realistic and the tracks 
 and surroundings look incredible! Customization!!!!!! There seem to be alot more customization 
 options than the first one. The paint section is a very cool add-on too now people that want to 
 get really creative with body work can do that. I have yet to play very much on xbox live but I 
 have used the auction house and have to say that it is an awesome addition, in my opinion someone 
 can upgrade a car and it be worth xxx amount of dollars but if you upgrade and then tune the car 
 it should be worth a whole lot more but that is just my opinion. Overall I give this game two thumbs 
 up, 5 stars, 10 out of 10! I LOVE IT!!!!!!!! It will be taking alot of my idle time in the future!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Without getting knee deep in review drama, i'll keep this short and sweet. This game is the best 
 racing game out for the 360 or any console to date. The graphics rock, the frame rates are very 
 smooth at a solid 60 fps.
  
  Excellent sound tracks, could have tossed some metal in there but hey, you can't have everything. 
 Career mode is just fine. Multi-player is where this game shines. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who is a racing fan and looking for non stop multi-player fun for months on end.
  
  PS - I love the fact that this game runs at a solid 60 fps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamessports
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Either the bad reviewers did not play the game long enough or they do not understand real racing 
 and driving.
  This game theme is simple, a driving simulator, that means that like real life, you cannot take 
 turns at 80 mph, you do have to slow down greatly. If you understand that concept, you will love 
 this game.
  I agree that this game is a lot like the first Forza Motorsport though. I reserved this game and 
 was really happen when I was finally able to play it. The graphics are a lot clearer then the first 
 game, and the physics and dynamics of the actual racing style are realistic, which makes it really 
 fun to play. I do not understand how people can call this a GT wannabe. It does not make sense. 
 This game is at a whole different level of driving and the cars look like the actual cars in real 
 life, not cutouts. The graphics are good, but the gameplay is what makes it great. The game has 
 good music and rhythms. The car sounds are realistic, but are repetitive. Differences from previous 
 Forza:
  -Car Add Ons
  -Career Mode is harder due to less money given for each race
  -graphics and backgrounds improved
  -Improved Xbox Live Layout
  -guiding line softened so it's 
 actual driving now
  -improved customizations of cars
  -pretty cool picture taking program
  -Overall better game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamk24
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok so that title might be a little extreme but I really do think that Froza 2 is the new peak of 
 racing simulation. I will fill out this review more later on, but for now let me just say the raw 
 quantity of things to do in both single and multiplayer will keep you happy for a good long time. 
 If you are a car fanatic or enjoy racing games, Forza 2 will keep you busy for months.
  
  Check out Forzamotorsport. net for some info on new gameplay modes for multiplayer and get your 
 friends involved. From cat and mouse to tag races, playing mulitplayer outside of the pre-built 
 modes offers more enjoyment than almost anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Let me go ahead and say that this is the first GT that I have ever liked. (I have GT3 and I just 
 thought it was awful and since then I haven't played a GT) Well for starters my favorite thing 
 to do in the game is auction off cars and buy cars for cheap prices. Their are 300 customisable 
 cars that you can paint with vinyls to make different designs or you can just leave it plain and 
 simple with a regular base color. (I have seen Geek Squad bugs, WWE cars, Star Wars, and other 
 cool designs.)
  
  Every car has its own individual feel to it in the way you drive it in corners and slowing down. 
 The only awful thing about the gameplay was the ridiculous glue grass where if you put a tire on 
 it slows you down and it is very difficult to get off of. The career also gets a little repetitive 
 because you race the same tracks over and over again but it makes it easier for you to master the 
 tracks which is a definate plus.
  
  The graphics can be improved in the grass and landscape but who cares when you are going 200 mph. 
 i don't see how they are that awful especially with the tracks being so detailed up to the writing 
 on Nurninburg.
  
  The sound of the cars never sound the same with some being louder than others and different tones, 
 the sound of your engine going out, and wrecking cars. Although the music is not the best but enought 
 to deal with. It does have one of my favorite band's songs though which is a plus for me (POD-Lights 
 Out) .
  
  If you have already bought this game I wouldn't be surprised and as you know it is definately worth 
 your money and time. If you haven't bought this game I want to know what you are waiting for because 
 it is the best racing game on the 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football_legend
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Thats what Turn-10 said months leading to the anticipation to their block buster sequel to... even 
 to this very day, one of the most complete racing game ever in the history of video games. So does 
 is live up to their tag........ of course it does, and probably not surprisingly.. excels it.
  
  The game ships with over 300 cars, and couple of tracks (I think 12) with some various twists 
 for each of them to make you feel a different experience.
  
  Gameplay: Whether you are an arcade player or a simulation enthusiast, this is the game for you. 
 If you are new to simulation play of forza or gran tourismo, you can always turn subtle but effective 
 assistance like stability control to make your life easier. Also you can turn on those imaginary 
 lines from forza 1 which shows with color coded lines, when to accelerate, brake, etc. As for the 
 enthusiasts, u can turn off all the assistance for the uber realism- the way the game is meant 
 to be played. Customization is the deepest in any racing game by far and large and there is no 
 point talking about it in this space:)
  
  The Data used to make the game is astonishing and is very very deep. For example the amount of 
 calculations the game makes every heart beat is mind boggling, u can for example, for simple of 
 terms check the entire temperature at any point of the race and then for future ones, adjust the 
 tire pressure according for maximizing performance from what you have. Also Forza Motorsport may 
 very well be some sort of interactive car wikipedia, for every part of a car, you can get to know 
 what it does and how to improve it, thus can improve your knowledge of cars in the funnest way 
 possible. The AI is very human like and adaptable, they play like pros and so they wont hit u or 
 anything.. but... then again, if u do that, they will return the favor or pull out a desperate move. 
 As expected, a game especially like this is best played with the Microsoft Wireless Wheel which 
 got cost reduction from 150$ to 130$.
  
  Graphics: The car models in the game is as sharp is you can make dream at this gen. Very minor 
 details like thin rims, subtle curves by the wheels is noticeable. The environments are also finely 
 detailed, but dont look as good when u stop to admire as the cars or environments of Project Gotham 
 Racing 3, but.... then again why will you do that in the first place because the game's AI will 
 punish you for the extra 0.6 seconds you took when turning the corner.
  
  Sound: The sound topnotch and the sound of the engines is very realistic, only problem is... there 
 is not much variety in them, some engines sound almost the same. The game has cool sountracks from 
 bands like chemical brothers, only during game menu, thus reiterating the game's realistic approach 
 and wants you to concentrate on driving rather than admiring the tunes.
  
  Online- The game very well makes use of the xbox 360's online and offline connected experience 
 by integrating both of them very well. You can pause the game any point of a race, take a snapshot 
 and the game sends the picture to www. forzamotorsport. net in your gallery so your friends can watch 
 your cool sick move you just pulled. You can also earn cash online by make the cars to be auctioned. 
 Thousands of people will do that, so your best bet is not only performance of the car you are trying 
 to sell, but how it looks, this is where you need to spend your time customizing your ride to get 
 the extra oomph for you 360 spider than Jake's one. Microsoft is also holding weekly tournaments 
 for the game, which you can qualify by posting the fastest times on given tracks or other conditions.
 
  
  Value- With over 300 cars, deep single player campaign, endless online moments, the value should 
 get easily 10, but..... the problem comes to the lack of tracks. Hopefully Turn-10 will be nice 
 enough to release free downloadable tracks in the near future.
  
  In the end, its a fantastic game or simulator which ever way you look it. If you have an xbox 360 
 and drive cars, this is a definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trav3577
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a racing game like the old GT back on the PS2. Although I know they are two 
 different games, I felt the same excitement and anxiety while playing FMS2. First thing I did, 
 was started a career mode, fixed and tuned up a Cobalt SS completely, then headed online. I truly 
 liked the Auction House and thoroughly enjoyed the career and exhibition races. Although you must 
 be very careful as to which cars you allow in each race, as any online player will exploit your 
 likeness to a weaker Horsepower ride, and pick a racer or A class car. I found this out the hard 
 way, in which I intend to play multiplayer as much as I can, at least until I get my Skyline GTR 
 fully equipped. The sheer volume of cars can be overwhelming, and I found myself spending hours 
 on hours deciding which car to buy and how to customize it. If you have any interest in racing 
 or customizing cars, then this is a must buy for your gaming library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I never owned the first Forza game but I played it a little bit and thought it was pretty good 
 but from what I remember, this game is by far much better.
  
  The graphics in the game might not be the best, but it looks nice enough to me.
  Huge selection 
 of cars, lots of modifications you can do to them. Racing takes a bit of time to get used to since 
 its more realistic.... if you think its like need for speed you are wrong!
  
  I would really recommend this to anybody that was a fan of the first forza or if your into racing 
 games, this game is THE SH*T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKizeGT
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest. When I first saw this game I didn't think to highly of it, as I hate simulation 
 racing games. The very first time I played it I fell in love. It provided a wide range of physics, 
 some of which are perfect for people who hate sims like me. The game mode goes about very similar 
 to Gran Turismo 4, in the sense that cash isn't much of a problem once you get going, and your 
 always getting free cars from winning races. One downside I discovered is that once you win a car, 
 it can only be sold for $100, unless you modify or auction it. However, if you buy a car it can 
 be sold for what you payed for or more depending on how you modified it. Another issue is the lack 
 of tracks. Theres only about 12, but the different courses those tracks make will make it seem 
 like a lot more. This caused career to have a slight boredom factor, but it was still worth playing. 
 One of my favorite features of this game is the customization. Rims, bodykits, spoilers, paint, 
 vinyls, all the good stuff. While I admit customization lacks on older cars, Forza makes up for 
 with the huge range of styles available on the newer ones.
  Graphics. Oh my. This is where almost every game I know of lacks. Forza 2 is definitely not one 
 of those games. On a 40 flatscreen, this game is beautiful. Minimal jaggies was one of the first 
 things I noticed. It seemed as if somebody cranked up the AA on my Xbox, because I could not find 
 a single... freakin.... pixel that was jagged. The way the sun reflects off your car in the morning 
 and at sunset is just awesome. Sometimes I just have to pause the game and stare at my screen for 
 a little while.
  Sound in this game was equally impressive I found it was easy to tell where other cars were just 
 by the sounds the cars were making. It created a great sense of realism and improved my already 
 perfect experience with this game. The soundtrack had some nice music too, but I always turn the 
 music off because it tends to annoy me after a while.
  
  So overall this is by far the best racing game on the 360 to date, I I would recommend it to anyone 
 who likes any type of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swollen2thebone
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Granted i took the game out for a quick spin last night, i tried a little bit of everything it 
 had to offer. In every aspect, the game is neatly tied up. Menu options, game settings and multi 
 player setup. Nice and neat.
  
  Gameplay is very crisp and could be setup for arcade feel or hardcore sim.
  AI cars are responsive 
 to situation. Ghosting is very well done.
  
  Visually, cars are beautiful. While the environment isn't animated, you really don't have time 
 to look at it so it could be overlooked. Skid marks and car destruction are on point. menu layout 
 is clean.
  
  Multi player, while i haven't raced i was able to tap in and look in on races going on, lots of 
 fun. Too bad their isn't an achievement to explore this option. it would have been nice to have 
 a few from the stands ala flight simulator tower view. I can't really comment on the gameplay in 
 Mulit yet, but it looked like a load of fun.
  
  Expect to play this game for a while if you are in to Gran Tourismo and Project Gotham. Lots of 
 things to unlock and try out. i only played the game for a while but i will be up many nights trying 
 to explore the customize car and sell feature.
  
  do yourself a favor, pick this game up if you don't have a racing game in your library or try the 
 demo of DiRT, by codemasters, another sim developer that might give this game a run for its money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsolo
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 really put out the game play I was looking for in a race sim. Its deep, immersive, detailed, 
 and most of all, FUN. The career mode is fantastic and really makes it easy to get started on getting 
 your own cars and upgrades. The level of progression in the game is fair as it takes true experience 
 in order to advance into the game. The tracks are also challenging and fun. Multiplayer is done 
 exceptionally well. Its easy to find races and the option of joining tournaments is very cool. 
 Makes it really fun to build up a car and enter it to see what it can do. Overall, the game is 
 superb and to me will always have a long shelf life as it would never get dull with the over abundance 
 of content it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I sat out on Forza 1 back in the old Xbox days. So I guess Im new to this. But what better time 
 on jump on the boat then with the new next gen game to come to Xbox 360.
  
  Gamplay: Forza has always focused on being different from your everyday racing game. You don't 
 ride the wall and hand brake through a track at 200+ mph. This is a simulation and Turn 10 (guys 
 that made it) put a lot of work into making this game as real as it could be. The biggest improvement 
 a racing game can make is physics. This plays the biggest role in everything. If you car doesn't 
 perform like the car should then you got nothing. Forza has focus a lot on the tires. This is what 
 makes the game so real. Every little touch has gone into this. So your car reacts to everything. 
 From turns to dips to hills in the road. And it's implemented into each and every car.
  
  The Career mode is where the meat is. You start off with a starter car and work your way up the 
 ranks. Competing in races to unlock and rank your self up. There's so much to do that it will take 
 a while to beat this. The A I is somewhat easy on medium. But with hard they can put up a better 
 fight. But once you fully upgrade your car. The computer is a joke. I wish things would get harder 
 as you rank up.
  
  But for the most part to game play is perfect. And many races come down to the way you drive (not 
 how the cpu does) . You can get help with braking, traction and other things. But to really enjoy 
 this game. I'll turn them off (do you see brake lines in real life while driving?) .
  
  Graphics: This is racing game and most of the focus is on the Cars. They all look good and life 
 like . The fun begins when you start to customize your whip. There so many options to building 
 you car to your standards. From decals to paint to rims ect. Too many for me. I got lost in everything 
 after a few layers on my car. Then you have the option to upload and take a picture of your car 
 or race to the net. Nice feature when trying to keep a notebook of everything you own.
  
  The race tracks are the low point of the graphics. In HD they don't look as good as other games 
 before this. You can tell they wanted most of the 360 power to go in the car and in the physics/ 
 behind the scenes things that make this game run to well. But at least the Cars look very good 
 racing on a sub par track. For SDTV's this game might take a big hit overall. But with HD you get 
 a little eye candy .
  
  Sound: Like a said in most of my reviews. Why cant everybody use the sound men at ubisoft. There 
 games always sound perfect. And for a racing game that focus on being real. The sounds could have 
 been a lot better. Don't get me wrong. You do get good sound. But in next gen we should be getting 
 more. When your upgrading you car. The sound should be changing with it. Take a Civic for ex. At 
 1st it should sound like a toy car (lol j-k) . But after you take it thought the shop and upgrade 
 it. I should be hearing things I didn't hear before. Right? Well they do get by with the sound. 
 But I just believe it could have been better.
  
  Value: Yes theres some parts in this game doesnt look good and yes the sound should be better. 
 But we still have the best racing on 360 so far. Nothing can compare to this. The depth in the 
 customization is unlimited. The career will have you locked for months and online is the place 
 to take you car and race or sell for money. And with DLC this game won't die. Great game for the 
 hardcore and casual racer fan. Pick this up, see you on live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangpanz
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  First of all, those out there that are complaining about the graphics are ridiculous. If this game 
 were any more realistic you'd be cleaning skid marks off your television! I really don't know what 
 you expect.... if you want perfect realism, hop in your hooptie and race down to the nearest 7-11!
 
  
  Anyway, having spent a TON of time with the first Forza, I can confidently say that Forza 2 is 
 better. Not alot better, but there wasn't that much need for improvement in the first place.
  
  The game plays perfectly... the car physics are spot-on, the tracks are beautiful, the upgrades 
 affect each car in noticeable ways, and each game mode gives you plenty to do. I'm not going to 
 break down each aspect of the game because that's been done a million times. The bottom line is: 
 if you like to race cars, you'll love this game! Even those of you that prefer the arcade-style 
 racing platform should give Forza 2 a spin. You needn't be a gearhead to understand and compete 
 in this game. Even in online racing you can easily compete with most racers out there with a slightly 
 modified car. If you want to get into adjusting gear ratios and making camber adjustments, go for 
 it. But, it's not necessary for you to race competitively. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  This is like the best racing sim ever.
  
  Amazing Graphic, Gameplay, Sound, everything. Really well done the shadow effects are amazing, the 
 cars look like the real things, when you crash pieces of your car go everywhere and if you scrape 
 up against the wall it will scrape the paint off. The gameplay is fun and the Cars turn like real 
 cars, and you also can go one the deapest customization I ever seen in any race game. The sound 
 of th muscle cars and all of them sound really cool. The events are fun, and the Achievements are 
 fun to get to. And you can take pictures of your car and they will post them on the website you 
 can trade cars with friends ect. There are two many things to say but Forza's motto Fuel Your Fantasy 
 they really mean it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time, a game called Gran Turismo dominated. Today, Forza is the brand dominating; whether 
 you like it or not.
  
  For the record, I am not a Sony hater. I was once a believer that the GT brand was so great, I 
 could not foresee then any competition taking over. My opinions began to change when I played the 
 first Forza game.
  
  I am puzzled though on the logic of some Gamespot members and their low scores on this game. This 
 game looks great. So great, I have found myself driving off course admiring the scenery. The shadow 
 effect in some of the tracks are so convincing, that I had to slow down while taking turns.
  
  The car models look great. The sound when hitting a wall, is impressive. The smoke effect from 
 the tires when taking a hard turn, is also impressive; look at your mirror.
  
  IIf there is a small criticism on the game and it may not be a criticism, is the auction house. 
 I put my car in the auction house. When I tried to cancel it, a message came up saying, the cancellation 
 could not occur. When I went back to the same menu, the car that I had in the auction house, disappeared. 
 When I checked my car list, it was not there either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much depth it might make you laugh. Visually its outstanding. I had my hopes up 
 pretty high on the graphics and was not let down at all. Gameplay is as good as or better than 
 other racing sims. The ability to change difficulty based on different elements is something fresh 
 and cool. There is a vast collection of cars that range from almost every type. Parts and customization 
 are the most impressive. They range from high end parts to the more affordable ones. Loading isnt 
 sluggish and i have not encountered any glitches or frame rate issues. This is the hands down best 
 racer on any platform out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  A short and sweet opinion. The graphics arent as bad as everyone is making them out to be. Its 
 not as nice as pgr4 is going to look and its obvious that the majority of the developers time was 
 spend on gameplay, but my was it time well spent. Every one of the over 300 cars handles differently 
 and the experience isnt as immerse without the wheel. The wheel makes this game as enjoyable as 
 it is. Im not a car junky and dont know alot about tuning but I bet after playing this game I can 
 take apart my real cars engine. Easily the best racing game to date and will be until forza 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyranger04
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game sets the bar for other racing games to come. I'am a huge Gran Turismo fan myself and 
 this game is really fun to play. Over 300 cars to choose from i just can imagine anyone complaining 
 they can't find a car they like. It goes anywhere from a ford focus to top of line. So maybe your 
 a tuner or maybe your just looking for that muscle car. Either way I'am sure anyone can find enjoyment 
 in just hearing some of these cars get going. I just tried out a 1968 Shelby Mustang, and not only 
 does it actually sound like a old Shelby but the handling compared to say a FWD car is just so 
 real. Huge selection in customization, engine swaps, customized paint jobs, tuning gear ratios. 
 If your a car enthusiast or perhaps your just looking to add a great racing game to your collection, 
 don't hesitate to pick this one up, I'am sure you will be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrODoyle
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Although I haven't had much time with Forza Motorsport 2, nor have I had the chance to play it's 
 predecessor, I was initially blown away by the demo I downloaded from XBox Live, so I figured I'd 
 give it a chance. I'm glad I did. What originally struck me as just a pretty racing sim, has turned
 
  out to be an addictive car game. True, the graphics are absolutely stunning, with subtle details 
 such as seeing the brake calipers getting red with heat being the tip of a two-tone wonderland. 
 Cars are modeled so accurately, that watching my replays had me believing I was seeing a commercial 
 for the car I was driving. As I've said, I've only begun to scratch the surface, but with a 1968 
 Shelby Mustang being the THIRD car I've WON, I can only imagine how amazing some of the other 300 
 some odd cars
  can be.
  I've never been that great at racing sims. The only other two of the genre that I can think of, 
 stymied me with their incredibly steep learning curves. But this one makes the easy difficulty 
 just that, without making you feel like you're being ridden around the courses, rather than driving. 
 Enemy AI seems intuitive at first play, and the difficulty is fully customizable. Giving you the 
 option of turning offcertain tweaks like ABS brake, or TCS traction control that make the cars 
 easier to control. Why would you want to turn them off? Well, I don't think Shelby was worried 
 about ABS or TCS in 1968, so they do kindof detract from the realism in some of the older cars.
 
  Speaking of customization, this is where FM 2 really stands out from other racing sims. There's 
 nothing quite like spending an hour getting a 1969 Camaro Z28 just that perfect shade of candy 
 apple red, with tinted windows,
  and a nifty CAMARO sticker on the spoiler, then watching it tool around a twisty-turny track making 
 all the other non-Camaro types jealous. Although I have yet to check out the Online Auction aspect 
 of the game, I have a feeling that some of the highest bids are gonna go to the best detail jobs, 
 rather that the rarest cars.
  Like I said, I havent really gotten a chance to sink my teeth too far into this one. I havent 
 even tried to take it online yet. But, as I play for many more hours, Im sure that I wont be 
 disappointed. And neither will you. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox-orian
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Compared to other racing titles, Forza 2 excels at the true simulation aspect compared to Project 
 Gotham and Gran Turismo, which introduce a bit of an arcade style controlling/gameplay. The best 
 way to really describe what Forza is would be Microsoft Racing Simulator 2007. The handling of 
 the cars in the game are near identical to their real life counterparts, much like the planes in 
 Microsoft Flight Simulator -- great care and calculation went into the creation of these games 
 to give you an experience near parallel to the real thing. Much like Flight Simulator, Forza pays 
 attention to a wealth of information your car contains while driving. Information from friction, 
 weight distribution, G-Forces, temperatures, air turbulance, even damage of individual vital parts 
 of the car. In real life, cars are heavy objects, and in order to take a turn, you have to slow 
 down more than you think. Unfortunately on television screens, its a tested fact that scaled speeds 
 appear much slower than in real life surrounding you. Thus, at first, you may feel like your car 
 must come to a crawl before making that hard turn ahead. Back in the day, I used to be a fan of 
 Gran Turismo, then I moved onto PGR3 on my 360, and both games had extremely similar handing of 
 the cars. Playing them for so long, I grew accustomed to their slightly arcade like handling -- 
 where the message The cars in this game do not perform like their real-life counterparts is necessary 
 at boot-up. The first few races I performed in Forza 2 had me all over the road -- I was skidding 
 right off turns and into the grass -- or guardrails if you prefer. I began to learn that, yes, 
 cars do have weight, and especially for the lower-class cars, I must learn to treat them with a 
 bit more finesse to get them to make those corners without kicking up any dirt. After an hour of 
 practicing I really began to connect better with the car I had chosen, learning that its weight 
 cannot take that curve up ahead at 65 mph, it must be taken at 30 mph. I was actually highly impressed 
 at how the game forced me to rethink the way I had to race in a true simulator.
  
  I still love GT and PGR, the inaccuracies of those games make the races much more intense and frankly 
 a bit more entertaining than Forza 2. Thus, I look forward to what PGR4 has to bring to the table 
 in the future, same with GT for the PS3 someday. However, the intense challenge and realism that 
 Forza 2 feeds to me is one that I can't help but embrace, if not just for its technical achievement 
 in car physics.
  
  I could talk about other technical aspects of the game, such as a smooth frame rate, pretty complete 
 and fulfilling graphics, absolutely terrific replay system with a beautiful slow-motion button 
 [post processed with one of the highest quality motion blurs I've seen in a game] , clean professional 
 menu system, pretty nice sound quality and immersive effects -- but yes, whatever. These things 
 are to be expected of games these days. Its the achievement of the pure simulation aspect of the 
 game that makes it so worth owning.
  
  I would love to hook this game up to a force-feedback cockpit and see how the telemetry data really 
 converts to make the experience even more real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majindan
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 30, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Too hard? Psssh, wtf ever. It's a SIMULATION racing game. Racing isn't easy, some people can barely 
 drive on publice roads. Multiplayer focus? Yes, who wants to race a. i. drones? It is as described... as 
 racing SIMULATOR and does it PERFECTLY. The audio actually offer feedback as far as tire squealing 
 goes, enginve revs, you can even hear the clutch pop in and out between gears. The people that 
 nasay this game are either scared of simulation games or Sony fanboys, who knows. The online offers 
 almost infinite gameplay. The graphics in the background could be better, but who cares about the 
 stupid background. The car models are gorgeous, the physics are dead on, overall a superb SIMULATION 
 racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  If you remake a great game. Chances are its going to be pretty good. If you remake a great game 
 on a new machine, that is kinda updated from the last machine. Even better. So Forza in that sense 
 was going to be good. And is. Becuase it was already good on a machine with hardware from almost 
 7 years ago. So here comes the true question. Is this version that much better. Compared to the 
 version played on hardware from 7 years ago. Is their a true 7 year hardware graphics and physics 
 leap? No their is not. So you get a tad upgraded Forza 2. Which is still a amazing last gen game. 
 See this is the problem I have with the 360 games. And everything that is wrong with this supposedly 
 new gen machine. Its not a leap. Its a good game that could have been done on the Xbox 7 years 
 ago, and not looked that much worse. That being said. Forza has another problem it dragged from 
 the first one. It uses the exact same driving assistance. Which is kinda loose. You can say all 
 you want about this. But I have raced real Kart since 10, motocross since 5. So I can drive. Just 
 not on this little controller. A race game thats being played on a hand controller. Needs to really 
 help you out. Heck real F1 cars now have more assistance than this. Its the problem with NASCAR 
 games, F1 on the PS3 has this some also. If you have a 800 dollar steering wheel set up. Fine, 
 it works. But you also just spent 800+400 dollars lol. For one game. But its to loose. Thus you 
 have problems with rear wheel drive cars. If your in a Lancer Evo in this game, vrs a Corvette. 
 Using just the tiny controller, and loose assistance. The Evo driver is just gonna destroy the 
 Corvette. Not because thats what would happening real life. It would be close in real life. But 
 because of bad drivers assistance. Don't believe me. Do 5 laps on this game with a equal Vett, 
 than a Evo. See what you run. I know people talk about good video game driving, and all that BS. 
 But the truth is. The assistance has to work overtime. When you got 35 dollars worth of steering 
 in your hand, and not 4 grand worth. You need a lot of assistance. Gran Turismo does the Assistance 
 thing pretty good, and better than anything now. B
  
  ut you know what game nailed it. Psygnosis's 1996 original first Formula 1. After that thow, the 
 2nd one got weird. But the original game was great. And in that races in the original. You could 
 race long full F1 races, almost like on TV. It did a lot of work for you. But you still had that 
 car. And that was on hardware from the PS1. So the assist is a mess on this game. And you gonna 
 have to drive short 20 laps at the most races. Before you eventually eat up your car or run in 
 the back of 20 cars. Or have 20 run into you. Unless its a slow D or C class FWD race. But it is 
 fun in 30 to 15 minute sprint races. And also the AI is unreal. The one area where GT in kinda 
 lame. It feels like real 15 year old drivers online, who have no clue what their doing lol. Meaning 
 they will change lines and do some bumping. But again this was the same in Forza 1, with 7 year 
 old much cheaper hardware. Its not a Next Gen thing. And the customization is just nuts. If you 
 like making your own machine. You'll love this. And they have added to that quite a bit from the 
 last one. Where on GT you cant really do much to a car, as far as exterior stuff. But will have 
 to see with GT 5 latter? My Main problem is still this. 7 years of hardware. 7 years!!!!! thats 
 like 2 high school lives!!! To get a game,, thats not that much. WOW THIS IS NEW!! from the first. 
 But the fact is the first was so good. That even if you just copied and pasted that. It would still 
 get a good score. Which it has. But its not Next gen. Its a good racer. Becuase the first was. 
 Im sure microsoft will hire people to pretend their racers after this review. But their not. And 
 if they want to race me on any dicaplin of racing for any money. im here. From a real race. this 
 game blows. And yea I know what im talking about. At least when it comes to racing and not grammar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGDetail
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Forza Motorsport 2 will fill in the next generation racer gap left by Gran Turismo. Some of the 
 tracks will be recognizable (and therefore easily adaptable) to those of us accustomed to playing 
 GT. These tracks aren't as diverse as GT, which had more enjoyable city courses, but they still 
 offer a high level of scenic variations. Control is spot-on and the initial training cues (the 
 green-red arrows) allow for novice drivers to catch on quickly. My only qualm here is with the 
 AI levels which go from super easy to super competitive very quickly. Sounds seem to be lacking 
 depth and music is clich&eacute; (if not slightly annoying at times) but this does not take much 
 away from the driving experience. I'm probably going to be the only one to say this line, but can 
 we please get a classical music list added like GT has? The customize options are numerous, but 
 could probably do with a set of out-of-game tools to make it complete. As far as playing online, 
 racers have choices between quick races to full-blown tournaments. Forza 2 is the one game that 
 GT (and PS3) will have to beat in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DETRINIDADBOI
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I have never owned Forza motorsport 1 but forza motorsport 2 is a WOW.
  The game has such real like graphics and the game is very easy to learn how to play. The suggested 
 line makes racing much easier than in GT when they give u the gear. In GT u maybe in the right gear 
 but you might go to fast. Forza Motorsport 2 has so real like sounds. The cars sound as if it was 
 reving up right in front of you. Its worth every cent. When you need to feel the rush on hitting 
 speeds of 180+ Forza can deliver. Unlike other racing games in Forza u dont have to spend 2 hours 
 learning how to play or turn a corner at correct speed. Forza has the option of the suggested line 
 that makes learning easier and the difficulty not to much to handle. This game Delivers the WOW 
 factor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtremeimport
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 30, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Well, everything that was being said about this game had me thinking, maybe I should get a 360 
 for this game due to me being a race fan 
  
  I was let down in many ways.
  1. the graphics to me are sub par for a next gen console, I don't want video game looking graphics, 
 I want realistic looking cars, and backgrounds. This game does deliver on a entertaining scale, 
 with the auction addition, and the ability to do lots of custom work to your cars. The physics 
 are pretty good, but I wanted more. not more in the physics, but more in the game as a whole. I 
 am still working on the game, and will continue to review it as I get a long. but until then, rent 
 this game. because once again, microsoft has made this game for one reason, Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserAlexander
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. It makes other racing games seem like arcade cheese, in part because they are 
 arcadey especially compared to Forza 2. The ultra-realism may not be everyone's cup of tea, but 
 neither is PGR3 or TDU or Ridge Racer... this game appeals to people that want a realistic racer. 
 This game is hard, but dammit - it should be hard.
  I don't even consider myself 'harcore', but I bought the wirless racing wheel specifically for 
 this title to make it more of an 'experience'. It certainly is an awesome one, but only after you 
 have tweeked the settings and options to your liking which took me a while to do and may change 
 with time as I play the game more. If you're going to get the wheel try to make sure you can clamp 
 it to something for ideal gaming - right now I don't and have it on my lap which needs to change... it's 
 still functional and fun, but more sturdiness would be good as well as freedom. At first the wheel 
 seemed to sensitive as i was constantly oversteering, and for others with this problem just change 
 the 'dead zone' of the wheel radius up from the default of '2', mine is about 6 or 8% which made 
 the game much more manageable. At this point i can probably get better lap times w/ the standard 
 360 controller, but probably not over time, and also playing w/ the wheel is much more fun and 
 immersive.
  
  I'm not as upset about the graphics as many reviewers are, I think they are good - and more realistic 
 looking than the Dirt demo which may technically have 'better' graphics, but it doesn't look as 
 real or simulation style.
  
  I only have to major complaints w/ the game
  1) There could be more tracks, but also more varied tracks in road design... for instance I was 
 hoping to trick out a great car in the game to have 10 speed and take it to the top but as far 
 as i know, there is not a straight-away long enough in the game to get near most cars top speed 
 - maybe the racing oval, but you still sacrafice speed in those things, and don't have to brake 
 ever. (I am very glad they do have an oval though)
  
  2) Forza's selection of cars leaves many rides to be desired, and some that are in the game - no 
 one will want to use or care about it. Where is my favorite ALFA ROMEO, especially the 8c competizione!!?!? 
 Also why have the 2003 Boxter S, and not the award winning and record slalom setting 2005 edition? 
 There are also tones of race models that seem to be createable from the stock cars, so over 300 
 is a little deceptive. Many are disappointed over the lack of BMW's. No M6 or M5, or Z4 or Z3 etc... And 
 I also would like to point out a favoratism towards American cars - A clear example is a Corvette 
 z06 having a higher speed than a Mercedes SLR (McLaren powered) ... in real life a stock z06 tops 
 out just above 190mph, an SLR can go just under 210 (stock) ... so how is the Vette's speed higher? 
 excelleration yes, but speed no!
  
  Other than those complaints, the game is one of my best purchases that I probably won't end up 
 trading in, even after a year. Even without the wheel, this game is a must buy for people that 
 appreciate cars and realistic physics/racing. I'm already growing 'attached' to my first car in 
 the game, a pimped out audi TT which I gave custom decals and paint. and made it the absolut highest 
 posible ranking for its class. I can't waint to get my hands on some old ferarri's and to trick 
 out a boxster to the A class and beyond!
  
  Ps. I'm also very interested in any future DLC they may have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I bought Forza 2 at release date, I've been playing the game constantly yesterday and today, and 
 I think its a pretty good racing sim, but it still needs its edges polished.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, I'm not that familiar with racing games, so it was good that there was a ingame 
 racing-tutor that'd gave me tips about diffrent aspects of the game, so if you're not familiar 
 with any racing games and want to look into them, buy this game for the 360, it really helps you 
 along the way with this game especially.
  
  The controls are hard, MS really try's to realistic here with doing one bad movement automaticly 
 makes you loose this many seconds or makes you run in a brick wall, AI isn't much better, mostly 
 AI is professional and know what they do, but after you passed them in top speed, or make the slightest 
 bump into them, their main objective in the game is trying to ram you constantly, it sucks if you 
 just hit somebody by accident, and it ruins the game mostly for you in some cases.
  
  Further: for online play, I found a incredibly enjoyable feature, you can pimp rides and sell them 
 to other players for cash, so you can buy better upgrades and such, people will spend alot of time 
 making incredibly looking vehicles and get somewhat fame for the bad-ass cars they make.
  
  Graphics:
  Damaged cars don't look really damaged, which was a dissapointment because I played 
 Motorstorm mainly for the awesome crashes it has, you can barely see damage after you run into 
 a wall, only if you make a closeup with camera angles.
  
  You get 300 cars in the game, and you'll be wanting to unlock them since the last one is extremely 
 swell (lol) but theres one con: Only 12 envoriments to ride in, 12 maps to play the same 300 vehicles 
 in, doesn't really sound appealing if you want variety when it comes to racing tracks.
  
  Other then that, cars look fantastic, shading is great, but I gotta stand with my opinion that 
 the damages look way to wussy.
  
  AI:
  Good, but their frustating, like I mentionned before: AI is aggresive if you showoff alot by cruising 
 at extreme speeds, or bump into them, they'll hate you and try to crash you, which can be frustating 
 if you're taking first place and on the last second somebody knocks you off the side.
  
  Online:
  Online looks good if you are a pro in this game, its just the same racing game with 
 neat features you see in every racing game, the cust-models can be a good feature online to, but 
 you really have to be a pro in racing games if you want online to be fun.
  
  Is it a good racing game:
  Best racing sim I played since Forza, but its edges needs some polishing, 
 other then that, racing fans should get this game.
  
  (sorry for the edit, I accidently gave the game a 5 for each catogory after thinking the score 
 would be the same after changing a few words.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  The original Forza Motorsport was a good foundation but lacked content to really extend its stay 
 against the behemoth Gran Turismo. Now, in its second iteration, Forza 2 has made some very impressive 
 improvements. Forza 2 includes even some of the licenses that have eluded the GT series which included 
 the Ferraris such as the F430.
  
  Those who have been playing the Gran Turismo Series (GT) will find themselves at home with the 
 physics and car handling of Forza 2. The damage system is also back but a hardcore driver will 
 wonder if denting or breaking the left side of a car's front lip really makes significant changes 
 in the car's handling. Keep in mind that the car's suspension, brake balance, camber, etc. all 
 play a factor during an impact. When you include other factors like the weight transfer of a car, 
 a collision can be quite a challenge to simulate. Compared to real life, Forza has quite a long 
 while to go along with other franchises in this genre. Not even the most realistic simulation can 
 calculate all of those factors but at least Forza has these rules for punishing drivers who like 
 to drive like Daytona USA.
  
  Track variety and the lack of a Rally Mode also seems to be Forza's Achilles' Heel but that's understandable 
 considering that they went as far as making the lap times realistic for each of those tracks. It 
 also looks as if Someone has also been doing their homework because each of the lap times I have 
 made in the game are pretty short from the times made by real drivers in real life made by the 
 same real cars. Whether the developers have also went as far as calculating how much actual performance 
 the mods make to each of the cars in the game is another story. Again, you can't have the ultimate 
 algorithm or formula to calculate all these factors in your driving session but it's there to suspend 
 your sense of disbelief that you are making performance gains on your car. On a lighter note, many 
 seasoned Autocrossers and car enthusiasts will definitely appreciate the game's political correctness. 
 Hardcore car enthusiasts will give a nod for its impressive range of car parts and brands that 
 actually exist for a particular model such as the Subaru WRX or Acura NSX. Even some of the more 
 purposeful body kits that exist today are modeled very well in the game... at least graphically. 
 There are a plethora of parts and performance tools you can use to effectively tune your car and 
 if you're a real car nerd you can definitely appreciate alot of the terms and measurements that 
 are useful before track time. The decal system is ridiculously easy but this can be easily abused 
 during an online session. There are alot of features and interesting things you can see in this 
 game that Gran Turismo can learn from and it's exciting to see two franchises go head-to-head in 
 this demanding genre. Forza 2 gives you a sense of belonging by having you choose your locale to 
 represent.
  
  On the online side, Forza 2's weekly tournaments tries to balance this with the Qualifying Run, 
 the Performance Index and Class which can make sense until you begin to see exploits of maximizing 
 your Class. Don't be surprised if you see only a set of Corvettes competing under the same Class 
 with just minimal tuning which essentially puts your really fast car under the category of Fast 
 Class and not under the Faster Class vehicles. Think of it as a honor student taking a remedial 
 English class. Why excel in a more difficult class when you can ace a lower one? Either way, as 
 long as XBox Live exists, many online matching and rules are expected to be tweaked. The other 
 nice thing is the Gifting and Auction systems they've added. It's a nice touch as long as you have 
 the time to play around with all that stuff but if you're more of a driver that wants to get into 
 the meat of it all, you're probably going to want to stick driving and tuning.
  
  Forza 2 has made some really good strides with this latest installment. If you have been playing 
 Gran Turismo all this time, give Forza 2 a chance. Your understanding of driving, car performance 
 and tuning will be easily appreciated by other good drivers online. You'll be pleasantly surprised. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustMe2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  For me this is by far the most enjoining experience in a car game and i been playing car games 
 since atari, i like sims and i like arcades (except some dull arcades like ridge racer where you 
 dont know if you are driving something with wheels)
  
  The core racing experience is just amazing, the phisycs are realistic, the challenge is regulable, 
 the sound is perfect, graphics are pretty good and above all the AI is just smart and clean! , 
 where Forza 1 was too frustrating because the agressive AI is now one of the strong points of Forza 
 2. They make the races soo enjoyable.
  
  Strong points of Forza 2
  -Driving Feel, if you ask me Forza has de best feel in a car game, the controls are very responsive, 
 the rumble feedback is quite good. The phisycs are incredible.
  
  -Great selection of cars: 303 (plus others you can download) , from the American Muscle, Import 
 Tunners to supercars from Europe such Ferrari, Porsche and Lamborghini.
  
  -Customization: you can paint the car, the rims, the brakes calipers, you can add mechanical and 
 style parts to design, personalise and tune your car. And you can picture them with the Photomode 
 or sell them in the Actuition house.
  
  -Online: you can buy/sell cars, race with others, do tournaments, play the whole career mode online.
 
  
  -Ai: Best Ai on a racing game and probably one of the best ever, they are aware, they drive good, 
 they are challenging and this time they are pretty clean at driving. There like 20 different AI 
 drivers, each with its own personality.
  
  -Sound: It just perfect, sure they could add something new like the wind over the car or backfires 
 but aside from that this quite excellent and another improve over Forza 1.
  
  -Graphics: They are good, sure they dont look as good as Gran Turismo HD (which has only one car 
 on the track) but they are more than enough for racing fans, i mean they are better than Pgr3 and 
 the framerate is smooth, solid runnig at 60 FPS, the car models are excellent (and im a very critic 
 in this matter) -Damage: Very good for a game with production cars, yes Dirt has better damage 
 model, same Toca but Forza has street cars and car manufacters dont tolarate same extensive damage 
 on their products (and image)
  
  -Lots of things to do: Forza 2 is a game that keep you busy for months or even years, the whole 
 career takes about 70 hours to complete (you can play it online if you want) , then you can create 
 cars, tune them, enter to tournaments and do a lots of thins online.
  
  Weak Points:
  -Replays: they could be better, always the same angles, they look great at first but with the same 
 angles over an over again it gets repetitive (every track has diffent angles)
  
  -Graphics are good but needs a little fixes to look as good as it could (for example the color 
 calibration)
  
  -Needs more tracks, but DLC are coming for sure.
  
  -Split screen multiplayer could use AI oponents.
  
  -The game is not for anyone, if you hate 
 games like Forza 1, Gran Turismo, Enthusia or even Toca this game is not for you. If you are new 
 at sims you will need a little time, but i tell you if you use the sugested line and aid you will 
 be racing decent in a few hours.
  
  I hope you all enjoy the game as much as me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymanlo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I remember when the first GT came out. I was reading about it behind the counter of the Babbage's 
 I use to work in. I was so excited to see how many cars it had and all the stuff you can do with 
 the cars. I haven't gotten excited about a racing sim since then. Then Forza 2 came out!!! Beautiful 
 racing sim!!!! It has everything you can ask for in a sim, from the beautifully rendered tracks, 
 fully customizable cars to the extremely challenging AI and the newly added online auction. This 
 game is a total package. Sorry GT, but Forza really stepped up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahnee
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  bad points:
  -no cockpit view
  -sound could've been perfect for this high profile racing game
  
  good points:
  -everything 
 else
  
  The game is the system seller for race junkies, and in my opinion the best simulation racer ever 
 to come out. Let me first start off with the fact that the car customization is huge. It's just 
 unbelievable. The vinyls are endless, I got a couple of masterpieces of the auction house, and 
 I don't know how they did it, but it was amazing. i expected the custom made vinyls not to look 
 so sharp on the cars ,but believe me, it's like it was meant for the game. Most of the classic, 
 popular and other cars are there. And be able to customize them to their fullest, is king. Auction 
 house is a revolutionary step what more racers should have. The interface in this game is clean 
 and slick. The in-game menu's them self also look nice. It fits the style. graphics, while looking 
 nice, could've looked better. but I ain't complaining, because the online is utterly smooth, and 
 no lag at all. The game runs at 60 fps by the way. the road textures are fine, car models look 
 solid, and the grass is as good as green. The crowd does look fine, but not looking better than 
 pgr 3, wich was a launch game. Trees looking nice detailed too, but one thing that does stand out 
 in forza 2, are the car physics. The wheel physics are as realistic as possible, and you noticed 
 that pretty often. The game really gives you this feeling of you controlling your car like it's 
 real life. Graphics all in all are solid, but sometimes there isn't much to look at while driving 
 the courses. with no frame rate drop running at 60 fps, the sacrifice is there, but in the end 
 it's worth it, for me atleast. sound is there, music is average with a few menu songs that will 
 make you dance like a monkey, but also songs that make you want to throw your speakers out of the 
 window. The sound effects of the cars are amazing, the wind effect, and things like driving over 
 road bumps that affect the driving sound very realistic. Some of the cars sound exactly the same. 
 It doesn't make sense (same engine maybe???) . No sound tracks during racing, but no worries, custom 
 sound tracks are allowed in every x360 game. Kudos to microsoft for that.
  
  gameplay is what makes this game shine. The driving is realistic enough to make this the best simulation 
 racing game. The cars are very nice, customization is huge. Online is a big succes (8 players by 
 the way) , enough amount of tracks, 60 hour+ single player, achievements are nice and the racing 
 doesn't get repetitive. The AI actually learn from their mistakes and can be tweaked throughout 
 the whole game. There isn't anything bad to say, in my personal opinion anyways. Yes, it's definitely 
 worth the wait, get this game if you're into racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI3HARDGAM3R
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  With pre-ordering the game months back and although not playing the first Forza, I was definitely 
 sure this game was going to be superb. Excellent racing games are hard to come by on the 360 except 
 for Project Gotham Racing 3 and Test Drive Unlimited. This game is, I have to say, the best racing 
 game on 360. The gameplay is just fantastic with over 100 vehicles tochoose from. You can customize 
 with almost any real-life parts. These cars cars can also be auctioned in the Online Auction House. 
 Graphics are also phenominal especially when you have your car tricked out. With sound, the cars 
 soud like you are actually in it. If you own the outragously expensive Microsoft racing wheel, 
 you will feel the vibrations with the crashes and bumps and as said, feel like you are in the car. 
 For the $60 I paid for this game, I would, without even thinking about it, recommend this game 
 to anyone with a 360. This game recieves a 9.3 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevar
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  The game runs very smooth and the online play is fantastic. A nice improvement over Forza's online 
 play. Each car has its own unique feel but that doesnt make the physics perfect. In my opinion 
 F1 -99-02 season which came out a few years ago has better physics. If you are a complete nut about 
 car physics you might wanna check that game because it is the closest to what a car should feel 
 like. Overall the game is great and a blast to play. If you like racing games, you should defently 
 give it a try. As far as console racing goes.... This does beats Gran Turismos physics. Granturismo 
 is still a great game and I cant wait until the new one comes out. I hope it blows forza away. 
 Competition is always a good thing for the consumer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
