-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fracture
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fracture/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great soundtrack.
 Multiplayer Excavation mode is cool.
 Collecting data chips encourages creative terraforming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terraforming is vastly underutilized.
 Many derivative elements.
 Tons of frustrating, cheap deaths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Day 1 Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The ability to alter terrain isn't enough to save Fracture from becoming the latest run-of-the-mill 
 shooter. 

  By most accounts, the future's going to be a terrible place. Books, movies, and games typically 
 aren't kind when they predict the plight of the human race, and Fracture is no exception. To deal 
 with the rapidly changing climate of the 22nd century, the West Coast (the Pacificans) began altering 
 its citizens' DNA, while the East Coast (the Atlantic Alliance) decided to ban genetic engineering 
 and go the route of cybernetic enhancement instead. Long story short, the Pacificans get all bitter 
 about the ban, secede from the union, and threaten to take over the world. The Alliance isn't a 
 big fan of this tactic and sends you, Jet Brody, to apprehend the Pacifican general responsible 
 for the uprising. The general decides not to go quietly, so it's up to you to spend the next eight 
 hours or so trying to track him down in this exceedingly average third-person-shooter that has 
 few noteworthy features outside of Jet's ability to raise and lower terrain.  

           One day a game is going to predict a bright and rosy future for Earth. This isn't that 
 game.      

  You've probably already played several games like Fracture. You can regenerate your health by taking 
 cover; you've got machine guns, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and more at your disposal; and 
 you'll drive a futuristic (poor-handling) off-road vehicle. Fracture differs from other, similar 
 games in that you're able to use your guns or grenades to alter terrain. Although the game hints 
 at some interesting applications for this ability in the tutorial, the reality is you'll raise 
 the ground to reach ledges and lower it to get under some walls, but not much else. The only puzzles 
 that require terraforming are exceptionally simple. The situations in which you can change the 
 terrain to kill soldiers are few and so contrived that in the middle of the action, the game points 
 out that the ceilings are low so it might be a good idea to raise the ground to crush them. Really, 
 the only time you'll use the mechanic without being prompted is when you make a hill to use as 
 cover. It's a shame the concept wasn't taken further because it has potential, but its execution 
 here is underwhelming.  

  You progress through the game's linear levels by blasting wave after wave of similar-looking enemies. 
 Once you clear an area, you'll hit a save point and then do it all again in the next room. The 
 bad guys aren't smart, but they make up for their lack of brainpower with sheer numbers. In fact, 
 on what amounts to "normal" difficulty, Fracture is quite difficult. Unfortunately, from the first 
 level all the way through to the final boss Fracture's challenge is often more frustrating than 
 it is fair. Enemies will blast you from all sides while you search for a safe corner and struggle 
 to keep the camera at a useful angle. Although save points are frequent, you'll play certain areas 
 over several times as you figure out the best way to exploit the bad AI. If you're able to keep 
 your frustration in check or play through on a lower difficulty, there is some fun to be had. Headshots 
 yield a satisfying spray of yellow goo, and sticking foes with an explosive fired from the black 
 widow gun then taking your time before you detonate the charge is entertaining, if not a bid sadistic. 
 Data chips, which are hidden throughout the game, do little more than unlock the pointless weapons 
 range, but because you need to be creative to reach many of them, they're fun to collect.  

  Like other aspects of the game, Fracture's multiplayer doesn't take any chances. Solo and team 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, King of the Hill... all play fine, but you've seen it all before. 
 Well, almost all of it. Excavation mode has teams traveling to specific areas, digging down into 
 the ground, and then raising a giant spike to denote the location is in their possession. The team 
 earns points for as long as the spike stands, but it can be destroyed by the other team. This results 
 in a cat-and-mouse game where players quickly scurry to an enemy foothold while trying not to leave 
 their own territory undefended. Teamwork yields the best results in Excavation, but you'll still 
 have a good time with the mode even if everyone on your team goes their own way.  

           Raise the ground to make a hill. Lower it to make a hole. Why? Because you can.      

 
  Fracture plays like most futuristic shooters so it's not surprising that it looks and sounds like 
 most futuristic shooters. Jet Brody looks and sounds like his name should be Jet Brody, while enemies 
 are nameless, faceless shiny dudes. There's also enough gray, green, and brown in this game to 
 make you wonder if you caught some sort of disease that makes your eyes unable to see any other 
 colors. Some aspects of the visuals, such as the ground, and most textures aren't much to look 
 at, but they're not all bad. Some of the bigger explosions look nice, and the snow that falls in 
 a later level is impressive. Outside of some hitching at save points, the frame rate is solid -- an 
 impressive feat given the amount of carnage that sometimes occurs. Although most of the audio could 
 have been taken from a CD called  Noises to Use in Your Futuristic Shooter, Volume 1 , Fracture's 
 music is noteworthy. The catchy theme from Michael Giacchino, Chris Tilton, and Chad Seiter is 
 intense, without being overbearing. It's a real pleasure to listen to -- it's too bad it's not featured 
 more.  

  Other than sometimes frustrating gameplay, there's not a whole lot really wrong with Fracture -- but 
 there's not a whole lot really right with it either. If you need another shooter and you need it 
 right now, you could do worse than Fracture. You could also do better.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: B+
  Storyline: B-
  Sound: B
  Graphics: A-
  Replay Value: Medium
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  "By the 22nd Century, mankind had passed the point of no return. Global climate change was irreversible. 
 The melting of the polar ice caps, combined with drastic temperature changes and extreme weather 
 phenomena, changing the lives of millions. Although the development of terrain deformation technology 
 allowed the government to protect both the east and west coasts from the rising oceans, the central 
 states weren't so lucky. The rising ocean levels flooded them, splitting the United States in two, 
 and similarly divided her citizens.
  
  People and governments took drastic action in order to survive in the changing world. Soon, even 
 the definition of what it meant to be human was put to the test. In the Western U. S. the "Pacificans" 
 began altering human DNA to withstand the pressures of a changing world. That's when things got 
 out of control. The Atlantic Alliance chose another path. Instead, they developed cybernetics to 
 protect Americans from extinction. They even passed laws to protect humanity from threat of genetic 
 engineering.
  
  The Pacificans turned their back on America. They've chosen to secede from the United States and 
 to continue engineering themselves right out of their own humanity. Now, the Alliance must fight 
 to stop the Pacifican Army and keep them from destroying mankind."
  
  In Fracture you play as Jet Brody, you are apart of the Atlantic Alliance. There are a lot of interesting 
 weapons in the game. You have weapons that actually terriform the landscape, so you can make yourself 
 cover and whatnot. There are a whole bunch of weapons in the game like: UG-V Black Widow, Scorpion 
 Sniper Rifle, Mole Mine Launcher, Invader Shotgun, Pacifican Raptor Rifle, and a whole bunch more.
 
  
  The game is rather short, personally I wish it was a little bit longer. It also ended kinda cheesy, 
 it was really easy to defeat bosses and there was not much challenges. There were challenges, but 
 not enough in my opinion. Fracture is a good game, but needs just a little bit more work.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Recommend?
 
  Anybody who likes shooters!!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisM95
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the reviews Fracture received, I was shocked. "This game isn't THAT bad," I thought. 
 Yes, Fracture doesn't meet up to what was expected from it, but it's still a fun game well worth 
 the price.
  
  Ups
  -Great soundtrack
  -Fun online play
  -Excavation mode is cool
  
  Downs
  -Doesn't live up to the hype
  -Barely anyone plays online
  -Terrain deformation 
 isn't used for much besides getting over and under things
  
  -Fracture's Campaign is okay for a shooter. While playing, you will encounter Data Cells. When 
 you get a certain amount of these, you will unlock the Weapons Testing Facility, which is pretty 
 much like a sandbox mode. The story predicts a bad future. In order to adapt to the enviroment, 
 the Pacificans decided to genetically alter their DNA, while the Atlantic Alliance went to upgrading 
 their technology. You play as Jet Brody, an Alliance soldier sent to arrest General Sheridan - 
 a man accused of starting a Pacifican rebellion. The story is simple, creative, but overall not 
 very catchy. When I say that I mean - it doesn't grab you. You don't feel, "Oh my God, what's gonna 
 happen next?!" you know? 
  
  -Luckily, Fracture's online play saves the day, with some fun game modes and map variety. Up to 
 12 people can play online. Yes, it doesn't measure up to many other shooters, and not many people 
 play online, but terrain deformation makes playing with other gamers a blast. One mode that is 
 especially unique is Excavation. This has two teams raise spikes out of the ground to earn points. 
 The other game modes include Free for all, Capture the flag, Kingmaker, and Break In, all of which 
 can be played in teams.
  
  -Overall, Fracture doesn't live up to what was expected of it. Terrain deformation makes this game 
 stand out, even though it isn't used for much. This game, however, still manages to deliver a unique 
 experience you can't get from any other 3rd person shooter. TIP - If a store tries to charge you 
 more than $20 for this game, you're being ripped off! 
  
  Review by - ChrisM95 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Action shooters offer a lot of fun. If you happen to be one of the billions of gamers who enjoy 
 lining up for brutal head shots and setting everything ablaze, selection of such games is never 
 in short supply.
  Fracture serves up a 3rd person perspective shoot out with a legit story and solid presentation 
 values. Instead of the usual bazooka goes boom equation; you now have the power to manipulate the 
 surrounding landscape with grenades, specialized weapons, and keen defense tactics. Some areas 
 of the game really energize the genre with new aspects of excitement, while a good portion of the 
 rest reverts back to run and gun tactics seen in most cheesy action movies. Unfortunately, the 
 same funky cheese spills over on Fracture in more ways than one.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Starting off in a barren crash site your commander by ear guides lead character, Jet Brody, through 
 the basics of land manipulation and weapon skills. Everything is pretty clear-cut, as the button 
 layout resembles most shooters -- The shoulder buttons control main fire and grenades. Face buttons 
 handle melee, jump, reload, and weapon swap functions. The D-pad offers customization of the weapons 
 you carry, and then you have the bumpers that allow for land manipulation.
  This land altering ability is where Fracture should really stand out compared to most shooters. 
 I say it should, because it's a gaming mechanic not found in the average shooter. To be under a 
 hail of gunfire and raise the land for pockets of cover while on the move is very helpful, even 
 better; to flank the enemy into a small position, lower the ground beneath them, then toss a well-placed 
 grenade in the heart of the group they can't escape. Yeah, this land altering ability SHOULD be 
 fun!
  
  Fracture falls terribly short as the highlight function of the game is left lacking any real major 
 purpose. There is the occasional switch or passageway that needs to be cleared; yet the function 
 is always forced or painfully obvious. The opposite could be said if the game lacked guidance or 
 assistance in how or when to properly use such skills. Either way, it's a thin line in catering 
 just the right amount of help so that gamers feel good about their accomplishments, but Fracture 
 stumbles away carrying most of the adventurous load.
  Another area of painful interest is the computer intelligence. Games that offer new functions such 
 as clever cover systems or tactical enemy coordination, you would assume these perks in immersion 
 are built with the targets in mind. Sadly, Fracture introduces savvy tools of manipulation with 
 some cool weapons specialized for environmental combat, and its all buried under waves of dumb 
 bad guys that don't realistically respond to your presence.
  
  As you progress through Fracture, the story is broken into 3 main chunks, each offering a few levels 
 of exploration. Every other new area the commander upgrades your abilities and equipment allowing 
 for better shields, stronger melee attacks, double jumps, and bigger grenade blasts. Most of the 
 enemies you face are repeated depending on the current objective -- move from point A to point 
 B and you have to kill regular baddies who are pretty stupid; locked in an area that requires land 
 altering and you'll likely face stronger foes who have immense health. Once you adapt to the 6 
 or 7 recycled baddies, excitement in combat is solely based on how creative you approach every 
 situation. 
  
  VISUALS
  One area of Fracture that really shines through most of its minor flaws is the fact that everything 
 looks good. Character models, environment details, weapons and explosion effects, and especially 
 the stylized news report cut scenes. Most of the details are easy on the eyes as the main character, 
 Brody, is always visible and moves in a believable manner. It's not very troublesome honing in 
 on targets as most of them glow with neon green and orange colors; also distinguishing themselves 
 with particular movement that ranges from large and clunky foot soldiers to agile airborne rocket 
 men.
  Each environment explores indoor and outdoor areas that are usually partially destroyed being that 
 you're always in a hot zone. With an entertaining science-fiction twist that hails from the story, 
 you traffic from the west coast of San Francisco to the east coast of Washington D. C. mixing in 
 real life locations with futuristic foundations. 
  
  AUDIO
  Not only does Jet Brody receive most of his mission objectives through audio feeds, the surrounding 
 environment presents tons of crisp sound effects that never really cause annoyance. If you happen 
 to spam the land altering ability, the warped sound that comes from that might turn you off in 
 due time, but everything else is fitting.
  
  EXTRAS
  Like most games that encourage lots of gaming and destruction, Fracture has its fair share of rewards 
 to offer. Achievements are passed out in various fashions; use every weapon a number of times, 
 complete game chapters on higher difficulties, eliminate enemies in certain ways, and dominate 
 in multiplayer.
  A majority of points can be acquired simply playing the game from start to finish using everything 
 that's accessible. Other areas of pride can be found in secret chips scattered throughout the game 
  100 to be exact. Taking you single player skills to the online world is not a challenge, since 
 everything functions the same way. With the usual modes available; death match, king of the hill, 
 team versus, and a new one called Excavation, where you basically flag certain areas and maintain 
 them for points all work well enough to extend the single player experience. 
  
  OVERALL
  What I loved most about Fracture is how well made it is. Nothing mind blowing, or genre defining. 
 It's a good game based in the future of America where the East and the West battle over human advancements; 
 as the lone soldier behind enemy lines, you take the conflict head on with whatever weapons you 
 can carry and plenty of one-liners.
  Creating a world around such realistic locations and human concerns is powerful stuff, yet the 
 polished weapons and smooth game play make it easy to tag along and simply have fun during the 
 unrealistic moments. Sometimes the game play physics are a bit wonky, and the online portion demands 
 serious gaming if you seek a few hundred-achievement points. Unfortunate follies in some areas, 
 but never enough to ruin what the entire experience has to offer. If you got a weekend to spare 
 and don't mind new gaming mechanics that invite creative combat, Fracture could be that buried 
 gem you've been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I have heard some bad things said about this game that I say is just not true. Fracture is a refreshing 
 game to me that challenges and delight es when played. The game takes place in the near future 
 when global warming finally happens I know already sounds boring hu well just listen. Ok ya global 
 warming takes place but innovation in tera-forming technologies save us and launch us into a new 
 age, but also splits the country into two factions and you guessed it your one of those factions. 
 The alliance located on the east coast is you were people like technological enhancements and live 
 in a peaceful relation ship under a democracy. On the west coast were I live well is the bad guys 
 the faction there likes genetic enhancements and is more of a rebellion. long story short you don't 
 get along and go fight in a civalwar. Fracture has some cool environments the game mostly involve 
 you shaping the landscape to your advantege. By using your gun you can raise and lower the landscape 
 cool right. If there is and enemy in front of you and you need cover raise the dirt in front of 
 you for a nice safe wall or make a trench to hold out fire, but the fun part of this is after the 
 fight seeing this smooth nice plain of dirt become a screwed up pile of crap and just laghing at 
 what you did. The guns are cool to from rocket launchers to vortex grenaids you can %#&@8 up the 
 land. There also is problem solving involved to using the ground to rais switches bridges and other 
 things takes brains and brawn. I almost forgot the game is in third person but that doesn't make 
 it a bad game it makes it diffrent and chalangeing. Now online it ok and I say ok becuase for me 
 it's hard to fined a match, but when you do you can play with the same people and never have to 
 search for a new game. The levals are cool large areas of dirt cover the landscape makeing it fun 
 and crazy to controle I like makeing a gient wall to stop people from getting my flag or team.
 
  After the battle the landscape is almost unreconizable it's amazing. I recomened this to some 
 one to just have fun and play for once go on give it a try I know you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian_gregson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  but could you really just keeping moving ground around like that. plus its like every just simple 
 shooter. but this game reminds me of time shift. and its $40 now the price dropped fast. but i 
 say just download the demo and thats the whole game i think. i think if you were to get this game, 
 you should just get star wars the force unleashed, its by the same developers. maybe if the game 
 goes down to $20 new or used then i might get it. so if you got $40 and free time i guess its a 
 good pick up.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlausRottingham
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  It's 22nd Century America, and the country has been divided into two factions, the western half, 
 known as the Pacificans, and the East Coast, known as the Atlantic Alliance. What's the reason 
 for the split? Global warming. Yeah, it finally fulfilled it's promise and is now destroying the 
 world. To deal with the rapidly changing climate, the Pacificans decided that they would start 
 to genetically enhance their citizens by altering their DNA, whilst the Atlantic Alliance opted 
 for cybernetic enhancements instead. The Atlantic Alliance then decide that genetic enhancement 
 should be banned and the Pacificans don't particularly like the decision and threaten to take over 
 the world (as you do.) The Atlantic Alliance figures that, being a part of the world, they too 
 would get taken over and so they declare war. You play as Jet Brody, an Alliance soldier who is 
 given the unenviable task of apprehending the Pacifican general thus stopping the impending global 
 domination. It all sounds like an exciting Hollywood blockbuster of a game, but sadly the game 
 is essentially a frustratingly average experience that will be quickly forgotten.
  
  As with all the great shooters of the current generation, Fracture has its own unique selling point 
 that supposedly differentiates itself from all other shooting games. This is given to the player 
 in the form of altering the surrounding terrain. By using a special built in weapon, the player 
 is able to form mounds of earth or pits in a split second wherever there is soil to aim at. This 
 feature, although sounding very helpful and innovative is sadly rarely used outside of forming 
 cover or solving mind-numbingly easy puzzles. This is a shame as it seems as though as a shooting 
 game, altering the very thing you are fighting on sounds incredibly helpful, the game doesn't present 
 enough opportunities for its potential to ever be reached other than a quick cover option. There 
 is the odd chance that you will be able to form a hole under the enemies' feet and throw a grenade 
 into the newly formed pit to accompany them, but the action is so fast that it is far easier to 
 just shoot them instead. The puzzles included aren't really puzzles as much as I'll just make a 
 hole/hill where/when the computer tells me too and continue onwards.
  
  The rest of the game is your run-of-the-mill shooter, you run through linear levels obliterating 
 streams of enemies that all look incredibly similar with assault rifles, sniper rifles, rocket 
 launchers and grenades before taking cover somewhere to re-generate your health after a small amount 
 of time. Whilst this experience isn't badly done, it's not well done either. The environments and 
 enemies look fairly bland and the graphics aren't anything to swoon over, yet they aren't so horribly 
 bland that you want to attack your eyes with a rusty spoon. The soundtrack is decent with a few 
 noteworthy songs (including a nice main theme) and at the same time, its just kind of there, not 
 really creditable enough to change the game into something great. In fact, the more you play Fracture, 
 the more you will realise that the entire game is like this. Almost every aspect just falls neatly 
 into line without doing anything exceptional or head-turning, whilst never doing anything awful 
 enough to turn people away. Although some satisfaction does come with whenever you manage to score 
 a headshot, the unfortunate enemy's skull explodes in a vibrant gush of yellow that at the very 
 least warrants a slight smirk the first couple of times.
  
  Adding to this problem is the downright frustrating difficulty levels. Players can feel swamped 
 by enemies that all seem to be able to hit you with every bullet. Attempting to terra-form cover 
 with your handy abilities adds to the problem more often than not as it makes it impossible to 
 locate the enemies before they have succeeded in unloading half their gun into you. Players can 
 also find themselves repeating the same checkpoint over and over again which when coupled with 
 the already average gameplay, can result in a less than desirable experience. The only real variety 
 comes in the form of collectable data chips which take some creativity in locating but unfortunately 
 all they really serve to do (other than to give the player something else to try and achieve) is 
 unlock weapon ranges which are essentially worthless to the overall game.
  
  Much like the game's single player mode, Fracture is painfully average when it comes to multiplayer 
 as it offers up the usual Deathmatch, Capture the flag and King of the Hill as well as their team 
 based alternatives, but again, like rest of the game, it is sadly nothing that haven't seen / played 
 before in a shooting game. The only real difference from other games is the Excavation mode, in 
 which teams will dig deep into the ground before raising a giant spike which much then be defended. 
 Your team must destroy the other teams' spike but not leave your own unguarded. This does as least 
 offer something different from the rest of the game's rather bland modes.
  
  Technically speaking, Fracture rarely has any glitch issues and the frame rate only ever hitches 
 when the game is saving. This is a fairly impressive feat considering the amount of bullets and 
 explosions that are flying around the screen at any given time. The level textures do seem to become 
 slightly less sharp towards the end of the game but it's barely noticeable unless you really look 
 hard at it. During one of the later levels of the game, there is a large amount of snow falling 
 and to be fair, it looks very impressive and is one of the things that Fracture actually does really 
 well.
  
  In all honesty, Fracture is a game of missed opportunities. Had it been released a couple of years 
 earlier then it would definitely have been one of the best shooters at the time, but having it 
 come out towards the back end of 2008, means that it offers people nothing that we haven't seen 
 before apart from the terrain-altering ability, which unfortunately missed out on being a game-defining 
 addition by being vastly underutilized. The derivative gameplay and graphics, coupled with the 
 exasperating difficulty ultimately condemn this game to a rental at best. With games like Gears 
 of War 2 and Far Cry 2 already out, the game is near impossible to recommend to anyone for any 
 reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AddictedGamer50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Fracture is a great game all around. It is very similar to many other shooting games, but with 
 a mix. It involves futuristic government related gameplay, and it sorta gives you that star wars 
 feeling, but very faintly, so if you're not a fan of Star Wars, don't buy the game because of that. 
 If you own a few Tom Clancy shooters, and some Halo games like me, you really don't have to buy 
 it, but it's a great game and a good starting shooter for young gamers. The terrain deforming ability 
 is extremely entertaining, and makes the matchmaking special. You can simply create many hills 
 to take cover behind in many situations. The maps and lighting could use a tune up, but the graphics 
 aren't a problem. The campaign is slightly challenging, but all around made for your enjoyment. 
 The enemies are easy and fun to kill, but finding a way to get through the level is challenging. 
 There are various routes all seeming to lead to the next objective, and sometimes there will be 
 secret doors you must open. Anyway, the campaign alone gets a 6.0, but when you look at the multiplayer, 
 other than the fact that it's fairly unpopular, provides plenty of enjoyment. 
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 8
  Controls: 7
  Strategy: 7
  Customization: 5
  Long-Lasting: 7
 
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarhead20
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone this is my first review, I actually enjoy reading other reviews rather than writting 
 ones myself but with this game I just couldn't agree with the review! I think the writer was a 
 little too harsh on this one, while this game actually doesn't bring anything new to the TPS genre 
 aside for the terrains mechanics which are intuitive and fun to use. But beside the fact that this 
 game looks and plays like a lot of games that we've seen in recent time its a game that has crisp 
 graphics that look pretty good on HD although its true that they look A LOT like clones of shooters 
 like GoW, Haze or something sprung out that kinda universe. The game has good solid shooting mechanics 
 and controls, all the actions are performed without much hassle. The A. I in the enemies is not 
 the most sophisticated and in fact its one of the weak points of the game. At the end of the day 
 we have a shooter that might not be the best or the most innovatibe but yet its capable of bringing 
 a solide experience that any fan of shooters should at least give a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guygirlmandude
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say bout this game great idea but incredably underutilized. there is alot 
 of cheap deaths and the controls are annoying the weapons look ugly and i dont really want to use 
 them and the grenades are useless. As a plus the graphics are good the story is interesting, but 
 the enemy looks stupid and the maps are gay excuse the term. I personally hate the game lucas arts 
 really dropped the ball on this one and prolly should stick to stormtroopers cuse well play it 
 and you'll know. Also just coudlnt play throught it so, dismiss my words if you want and, what 
 i say isnt fare to the game cuz i havent beat it but what i say is true never the less its not 
 for me but some gamers may like it as seemingly retarded as that my be id rent it to see if you 
 like it becuase this one is an aquared taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmbdissr27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game, i was like o my gosh this looks so sweet, then everybody started 
 bashing it and calling it a poser, and that it wasnt worth buying. so i was like hm maybe i wont 
 get it. but now that i have it, i realize, it was totally worth it, the game is so intense, having 
 to make cover with ur entrencher before the swarming hordes of pacificans overtake u is way exciting. 
 its good to have it in 3rd person because u can see around u and thats definately good with the 
 terrain deformation goin on, the weapons are sweet, my favorite so far is the pacifican raptor, 
 pretty much a sniper, except u have way more bullets and it works fine from closerange. to wrap 
 up, fracture is an intense game with some sweet changes to the normal shooter genre. it also has 
 some sweet looking levels and enviroments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2323
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  it was good they had a great idea they could have made this one of the best games of the year i 
 mean comom u could screw with the landsape that was awesome but the only thing u used it for was 
 getting under and over stuff it had good controlls solid looking guns and great graphics but all 
 i'm saying is if u made another game like this put as long amount of time into it as long as its 
 good cause it had the best idea ever but they could have worked on it a bit longer or at least 
 added more stuff and the storyline was a really good idea its just i think u should have been able 
 to choose which side ur on cause i want to be a genetcly alltered mutant with a gun for a arm that 
 would be sweet and again if u worked on it longer it would have been better and i must say the 
 studios did a really good job on this game i mean the graphics and the ability to move the landspace 
 was awesome the weapons were cool looking and there were pleanty of them its just if u would have 
 just spent a little more time u could have almost had another series as good as halo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  this game at first when i rented it, from the reviews of gamespot who gave it a 6, i was kinda 
 wondering if it was worth it. When i put the game in though, it was great! I dont know why they 
 gave it such a bad score, yea the storyline is a little shaky and its anohter typical shooter, 
 but in my opinion, its not. They made a innovative way to make a shooter game have another element 
 into the game.
  
  GroundChanger-
  The main part in fracture is the way you can pull up or push down ground. That makes the game what 
 it is. When your having trouble in a big area, just pull it up for cover, or a big hole for like 
 a bunker. The weapon can also make you beat puzzles, like using spike grenades to repair bridges 
 or connect a power beam. These puzzles can be sometimes challenging, but that is better then easy 
 absent minded ones. The ground mover can also make you double jump to get the platforms you couldnt 
 get to before later in the game, which is pretty useful for getting hard to reach items. This part 
 of the game is what made me think it is so good.
  
  Weapons-
  The weapons is another reason i liked this game so much. The guns in this game are fun to use and 
 never get boring, except a few frustrating ones. The raptor is like a carbon gun from Halo 3, and 
 you can scope and it is my favorite. Its very good to use in a ambush, or if you got to take out 
 far away enemies. The Bulldog and The Pacifican SMG are the default guns and are affective on everything, 
 and i mean everything. The grenades are fun and bring a new way to kill people with a weird enjoyment. 
 Like lifting someone off a pillar and into the ceiling, and other stuff like that.
  
  Achievements-
  The Achievements in this game are fairly easy to obtain, except for a few. From 
 just playing the campaign, and if you use your guns enough to get the Specialists Achievements 
 for the guns you are using, you will get about 490-515. and while if you play mutliplayer enough, 
 that will get you another 75-100. And if you beat the hardcore you get an extra 100 but thats pretty 
 tricky.
  
  Storyline-
  uhh. I think the weakest link in this game. About a advanced civil war between Pacific and Atlantic 
 US, and they now have two presidents and the Pacificans are bringing out their genetically enchanced 
 army people out on Atlantic and you have to stop it.
  Yes its weird but its okay.
  
  So yea this game deserves an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthJavelin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Many people are saying this was an overhyped shooter and shouldnt have been so insanely hyped. 
 But I think it was decent. The visuals were nice ncluding the facial animations that were fantastic. 
 The Soundtrack was great and the varied sounds of weapons sounded great. I also liked the great 
 assortment of weapons and the use of terrain deformation the affected the game greatly (I dont mention 
 multiplayer because i dont have live as of yet but i heard it was fun) . Now the things i didnt 
 like were, The storyline mainly because it seemed short and not very thought out well. I also thought 
 that being put into an area with 80 enemy troops and no allies to help you made the game much harder 
 on higher levels. But overall fracture is a good 3rd person shooter that will be great once it 
 is 20 dollars cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, story has a great premise, terrain deformation is revolutionary, cool 
 weapons and grenades,... sucky powers!
  
  The Bad: Plain graphics, story isn't done justice, very derivative, cheap deaths
  
  The hoopla 
 about Fracture was the terrain deformation technology that Lucas Arts created to hopefully push 
 next-gen games in another direction. The technology works and really changes the way games are 
 played, but it's wrapped around a derivative, almost boring, third person shooter with a luke-warm 
 plot, lame enemies, and cheap deaths. The story goes a little something like this: The world has 
 finally gone too far with global warming and the USA uses terrain deformation to split the US of 
 A into two parts so the northern polar waters can flow through without taking the country under. 
 Knowing our testosterone induced government, both sides create their own little "nations" the Alliance 
 (east) and the Pelicans... I mean Pacificans (west) . A crazy lunatic, Sheridan, who thinks his ideas 
 are better than every one elses' tries to use human modifications to take over the world. So agent 
 Jet Brody (isn't that a girls name?) is sent in to do the one-man-army thing. While the story is 
 really interesting it's never delivered properly and isn't utilized enough.
  
  The game does have some pretty cool weapons... along with annoying ones. They are have weird abbreviated 
 letter-number names, but you have a cool grenade launcher called the Black Widow that lets you 
 detonate the grenades on your command. You have rocket launchers, a sniper rifle that only has 
 two rounds per clip (what?!) , a couple of different machine guns you get the idea.
  
  Now you're probably wondering what this terrain deform-whatchamacallit is right? Well you have 
 a tool called the entrencher and you can raise and lower dirt WOW?!?2!#$#! DIRT!!! Ok really... it's 
 very helpful and you use it to solve puzzles, get up ledges etc. Another part of your terrain deform-whodawhat 
 are your grenades. Some lower the ground, some raise it, and the coolest are the spike grenades. 
 They raise a spike right out of the ground!!! You can use this to get to higher places, make bridges 
 by pushing broken parts of it up, or kill enemies! I also have to mention that the game does have 
 that shield recharging thing like in Halo (damn you Halo!! You've cursed us for life!!!) , but your 
 shield and melee power grows over time. You also have a cool stomping technique to crush enemies 
 and comes in handy at CQC.
  
  Now that all of that is out of the way the game is really cheap. They throw too many enemies at 
 you and you can't really find cover since you have to make your own with your entrencher, but terrain 
 can be lowered by shooting at it so everything kind of negates itself. You can freeze terrain with 
 a certain weapon (who knows what it's called right!) and enemies then BLOW hit them and they EXPLODE! 
 The game also has like a sucky engine where you can use a Lodestone (why that name?!) to suck enemies 
 into one spot and pull debris on top of them. I also love the portal grenade that has this huge 
 swirling sucky... power... that has a HUGE radius and kills everything! Now the enemies are pretty 
 smart. They dodge grenades, get to cover, and will run away from you and melee you when you come 
 too close. I have no complaints about the AI it's really good.
  
  The visuals however are pretty damn good with lots of particle effects, high res textures, and 
 great lighting. The game looks awesome, but everything still looks just plain. The enemies are 
 always yellow (kind of reminded me of Haze and TimeShift for some reason) , there aren't many different 
 enemies, and everything is just too close to the real world. You fight in San Francisco then you 
 move to snowy DC. It's very typical and nothing very awe inspiring. When it comes to multiplayer 
 I can't tell you much because I didn't bother trying it since the single player bored me of this 
 game. You can beat the game in about 6-8 hours and it's pretty darn short. This is a great rental, 
 but for the love of god take your $60 and buy Dead Space, Silent Hill: Homecoming, or go pre-order 
 Fallout 3 and Gears of War 2... just don't waste $60 on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordkonkon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Fracture brings terrain deformation, the editor tool, to the gameplay itself. You are able to change 
 the environment and use weapons to modify it even more. Plus, the enemies in the game react to 
 the different environments and adapt. Your goal is to kill an evil dictator and using these weapons, 
 the battle is always different. Replaying missions is fun to, but they also give you a sandbox 
 mode. You can do anything there. Fractures multiplayer is very fun. There is a scavenger game where 
 you have to find the object. This is my grade on Fracture:
  
  Good:
  Multiplayer
  Unique weapons
  Smart AI
  Sandbox mode
  the overall combat
  
  Bad:
  Short game
  Long 
 levels
  Some levels are extremely difficult
  
  This downs are very small and usually don't effect the gameplay. Which is why this game deserves 
 a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Viper
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  First off i bought this game, despite all the negative reviews. I played the demo and enjoyed it, 
 the game is a change of pace from your run of the mill shooter. Basically if you enjoyed the demo, 
 you'll probably like the game. 
  
  The terrain deformation could have had a little more presence in the game, instead of being more 
 relegated to the occasional puzzle, not to say the ability to create cover wasn't useless. There 
 just needed to be more even use of the deformation, some areas deformed more than others, but there 
 was no way to know without trial and error.
  
  The guns are unique to say the least, ground torpedoes, black hole grenades, and sticky-bomb guns, 
 every basic weapon is here as well as the collection of unique ones. 
  
  The game play is fair , not amazing but not downright horrible either, it works and thats all it 
 really needs. You will occasionally find yourself crouching accidentally, or dieing from something 
 inexplicably cheap, but those are far and few between. 
  
  As far as replay value goes, collecting the data cells to unlock weapons in the weapons testing 
 mode is a good start.
  
  And for all you achievement whores out their each weapon has an kill achievement, even if you don't 
 get it in game play, you can still get them in the weapons testing mode, which adds some value.
 
  
  all in all a good game, while we wait for some of the bigger titles coming soon, if your unsure, 
 rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armydillo978
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  At first the average rating of 6 had me leery, but after seeing some of the lame comments from 
 the power gamers I figured it was worth a chance and sure enough, it wasn't bad. 
  
  It's not an uber-awesome game, but then there really aren't that many anyways. It's a nice average 
 game that goes above average with it's twist on weapons..... mainly the weapons that change the 
 terrain. 
  
  Sure, it's a gimmick, but then every game has a gimmick whether it's run and gun, use terrain to 
 hide behind and shoot, figure out puzzles, etc. 
  
  Fracture does have an semi-cliche apocalyptic future with hero's and high tech weapons winning 
 the day..... almost made me think of Half-Life. But if you look beyond that for something with a 
 twist, I think this has one. The twist being the ground changing weapons. The gernades that make 
 the ground plummet into a sink hole, and the rifle rounds that cause the ground to shoot up like 
 giant moleholes. That's cool. Disney cool sure, but still cool.
  
  It's not uber, but it's a good game without to much graphic violence/blood. It's mindless fun with 
 some neat twists. And so far the online players aren't the trash talking jerks that I see on Halo 
 3 and CoD4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthavic
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  If there's one thing movies, TV, games, etc. have shown it's that the future will suck. Whether 
 it's natural disasters, lack of resources, or alien invasions; nothing good ever happens. Such 
 is the state of the world in Fracture.
  It's the year 2161, and global climate change has flooded the mid-west rendering it a wasteland. 
 This has divided the US both geographically and as a nation. In order to survive the east and west 
 coasts have pursued different paths of research. The east coast, called the Atlantic Alliance, 
 has embraced technology in order to survive the changing world. On the other hand west coast, the 
 Republic of Pacifica, have turned to genetic engineering to alter their very bodies. But when the 
 President outlaws such genetic modifications, Pacifica responds by declaring war on the Alliance. 
 So it's of to San Fran to capture their leader General Sheridan and end the Pacifican threat.
 
  You play as Alliance soldier Jet Brody. Jet's cyber-suit has the now standard issue energy shield 
 that recharges when not under fire. And as expected you can only carry two weapons at a time. While 
 there is a decent number of guns, you'll find yourself using the same two or three for most of 
 the game. There are a few interesting weapons such as one that fires rockets that travel under 
 the ground and another that freezes enemies solid. In addition to your weapons, there are four 
 kinds of grenades available. Arguably the best is the vortex grenade that sucks everything together 
 before exploding. The rest of the grenades raise or lower the terrain or create a tall spike You 
 also have access to a device called the entrencher that allows you to raise and lower the dirt 
 wherever you're aiming. There is only a short recharge time after multiple uses so you can basically 
 use it whenever you want.
  Fractures' claim to fame is that you can alter the terrain. Unfortunately it's not well executed 
 or used creatively. The entrencher doesn't work on anything but dirt so metal, stone, etc. are 
 off limits. Being able to instantly create cover is nice but most of the time you'll just be using 
 it to get over/under walls or raise a device into force fields to destroy them. The few puzzles 
 aren't any better. One toward the end has you reconnecting power to a series of shield generators. 
 Unfortunately all this entails is clearing the room of enemies and lowering a hill or two out of 
 the way of the beam. And you do this at least a half dozen times. A few have debris reflecting 
 the beam but there's only one correct solution so it's just a matter of raising/lowering them to 
 the right place. It's just repetitive and tedious.
  It doesn't help that the Pacificans are unbelievably stupid. These carbon copy morons love run 
 straight into enemy gunfire or just stand around in one place to be picked off. And it doesn't 
 help that you'll be killing the same green, Dark Sector rejects for most of the game. Sometimes 
 you'll run across other green guys with shotguns or red guys that jump and fire rockets, but they're 
 just as predictable. 
  To add insult to injury, I ran into a few weird bugs. Such as my shield suddenly not recharging 
 or my guns not firing, and of course right in the middle of a big firefight too. There is also 
 the requisite driving segment with a buggy that handles like a drunk bumper car. Thankfully it 
 only appears once in the game.
  Fracture is a game that had an interesting premise but just doesn't do enough with it. The terrain 
 deformation could have made it good despite everything else being strictly average. With all the 
 top tier games just around the corner it's hard to recommend it. If your desperately in need of 
 a TPS then give it a rent, everyone else should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  No infact it won't. Fracture is like many of the other games that come out when a prior game makes 
 a big splash, it attempts to cash in on the idea adding very little of it's own originality. Fracture 
 takes ideas mostly from Gears of War, Halo, Resident Evil 4, Metroid Prime 3, and a bunch of other 
 games and slaps them together, puts a package on it, and releases it to the gaming public. Unfortunatly 
 the gaming public will be fools initially by it's package, hopefully reviews like mine will help 
 other gamers from making that mistake. 
  
  Fracture visually is pretty good. You can tell that Lucasarts totally ripped off the Halo Engine 
 and made a hybrid of their own. The name is so lame for your character and the supporting character 
 they don't even bear mentioning here. Let's just say you are the usual bald space marine bad to 
 the bone type with a large arsenal of weapons you've probably shot before in prior 3rd person shooters. 
 In fact you basically look like the main protagonist in The Force Unleashed. The characters are 
 a bit stiffly animated, the back grounds are well detailed, and coloring scheme is ok, and there 
 are some good details in the graphic presentation. 
  
  The best idea, and the only original one is the ability to make the ground raise or lower. It's 
 an original idea that used very slightly through out the game. Otherwise you have the same old 
 arsenal of weapons that are controlled the same old way that you have controlled them before in 
 the games that this one totally rips off. 
  
  The music is kind of annoying, the little that there is. They try really hard to make it sound 
 like you are out on a epic of massive proportions when really you are playing a lame version of 
 Gears of War (did I mention that already?) . The sounds are ok, and don't seem out of place. Everything 
 that you would expect in a shooting game. The controls are responsive, and set up exactly like 
 the games it rips off. 
  
  So basically if you want to pay full price for a game you've already played before, hacked up, 
 repackaged, and presented to you, the gamer, lamely then this is the game for you. Otherwise it's 
 worth a good rental or demo for an hour. Afterward you'll switch back to a game that isn't average 
 and play something worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Most Lucas Arts games are impressive and this one was going to be a silent hit. At first the game 
 seemed interested and I couldn't wait to play the demo. ONce the demo came it I played it for like 
 five minutes..... It was horrible couldn't believe it but hey that's how it goes all the right elements 
 weren't mixed so end of story. The terraforming was kind of cool but the overall concept of it 
 was washed out and had become annoying. Maybe if there was a coop element or a more explosions 
 the game would've been worth the rental. The online component I did not try but if the game doesn't 
 have good story I'm not even going to try the multi player. The guns were terrible, nothing new 
 nothing fun nothing exciting. The graphics were at a decent level and flew very well with the game. 
 Although to me the characters seemed out of proportion compared to the scenery making them smaller 
 then they should. But I hated this game and will never rent it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevgod
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Found it OK, the raising of terrain/lowering of terrain seemed to make it more complex than it 
 should have been. Weapons in the game are pretty cool especially the weapon that shoot under the 
 surface of the earth and detonate when you want it to. I found myself very button happy with lowering 
 and raising earth and mixed with camera bouncing around got disorientated and frustrated. I think 
 if there was auto aim or the weapons where more accurate I could have had more fun. Found also 
 shoot from behind cover almost impossible, strange when you consider that one of the feature's 
 is raising the floor for cover. Effects of the game and weapons is a plus I enjoyed rocked as it 
 left the gun, but it was so slow to target that most time the guy just moved before the rocket 
 even got there. Story line is OK, but the American stereo typical fly in surrender or else in the 
 beginning was boring and play in movie screen could actually do more than what you as the play 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevc079
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  i thought the story line was very interesting and different but the controls where very weird and 
 hard to get used to and there is not a wide enough weapon variety for me and the background colours 
 look all the same you get sick of brown and black after a while. i love music and i loved the theme 
 song absolutely brilliant. The previews looked great on gamespot but in my opinion the video previews 
 makes the game look a lot better than what it actually is. i feel this game was a waste of my money 
 and i was very disappointed wit it and would not recommend it. 
  ddddddddddddddddddddd
  ooooooooooooooooooooo
  nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
  '''''''''''''''''''''
  ttttttttttttttttttttt
 
  
  bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
  uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
  yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
  
  ttttttttttttttttttttt
  hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
  sssssssssssssssssssss
 
  
  ggggggggggggggggggggg
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dibooda
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  The game had potential, i have tested the game since the middle 2008, the game have change a lot 
 since the beginning, it certainly is entertaining for the first couple of hours of play but it 
 is too repetitive, almost all shooters are, but fracture, trying to be too different from the other 
 shooter made it indeed different, but in a bad way. The only puzzle like thingy to do in the game 
 is to either elevate or lower the ground. You can't move farther? You are stuck?, lower or elevate 
 the ground and there you go. The multiplayer is much better though, there are some tactics to develop, 
 but the weapons are not balanced enough.
  
  So in overall the game has brought new kinds of physics in games that can be used, but fracture 
 just fail delivering the fun factor it could have done.
  
  P. S this is my firs review... so it is not deep but i hope it will make people think twice before 
 buying that experimental game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dognutz101
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I get the feeling that the reviewer played the game as quick as he could to get the review out 
 and didn't really enjoy what is actually a pretty good game. Is it the best FPS ever??, not by 
 any means but it is challenging and better than a 6.0. 
  
  For the guy who says "I didn't have to use the ground shaping much" obviously didn't play it on 
 Hardcore. Try playing it without ground shaping and see how long you last. It is challenging but 
 not frustrating by any means. It makes you actually think about strategy, which is hard to come 
 by in games these days.
  
  So my advice is this, if you believe the reviewer from gamespot, then go rent it, its still that 
 good enough. If you want a challenging game that makes you think more than just pulling the right 
 trigger, then go buy it. And I also have to agree with some previous player reviews. I used to 
 use gamespot reviews as gospel, but lately, I find myself looking at other sites or flat out buying 
 the game regardless of what the gamespot reviewer said. I haven't been wrong yet. So gamespot, 
 get your act together and quit canning decent games with ok or bad reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider318
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The idea of shifting the battle ground is entertaining, but it doesnt live up to its potential. 
 the AI is pathetic, the camere is hard to control, but overall it is a good game. the many types 
 of weapons and moveable terrain offer many gameplay capabilities. I really dont know what to say 
 wether its good or bad but one things for sure, its just plain fun. Although the terrain puzzles 
 are too easy. fracture seems like it should be a puzzle game but its not really one. But i agree 
 that gamespot gives very unaccurate reviews. if critic and gamer reviews arent gamespots score 
 than what is? One person!?!?!? I dunno who to reccomend it to. to tell you the truth, i dont think 
 i can really reccomend it anyone. its entertaining enough, but i dont think its worth your hard 
 eaarned money. So thats fracture for ya i say you should play the demo before you think about getting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirza4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Gamespot never gives accurate rating for any game maybe they should be in different bussines, this 
 game is way better than Brothers in arms and they only had one multi playre game capture the flag. 
 By the way Brothers in arms was rated 8.5 but it didn't deserve but 5.0 because that game was joke. 
 Fracture is much better. And lately gamespot is rating good games bad and bad games good for some 
 reason, I dont know why u guys even bother your rewievs r joke, and i'm not only one that complains 
 about this pretty much any gamer that i know had said to me that they dont even bother going to 
 gamespot for rewiev. Because they rewievs r based on how much money is paid to them by the company 
 that is promoting the game so good job guys u know games cost around sixty five dollars and i dont 
 think anyone has 65 dollars to waste thanx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I have to again come back to my benchmark for bad games: Alone in the Dark. Gamespot gave that 
 game (which I viewed as virtually unplayable) a 6.5. So how in the world does Fracture (a solid 
 game) rate only a 6.0? Fracture is a third-person shooter that looks good, includes the terrain 
 deformation feature which is unique and interesting, follows a respectably interesting story line, 
 is well acted, has good sound effects. This is a fun game to play. The complaint that the terrain 
 deformation feature is underused must be born from either laziness or ignorance. Sure, the puzzles 
 involving terrain deformation are pretty easy, but I've used it plenty of times when dealing with 
 enemies (of which there are plenty) . When squaring off against 10-15 enemies at the same time, 
 it is cool to be able to build up a ridge in you front for you to seek cover behind and then climb 
 later to gain a high ground advantage. To the people who complained about the vehicle portion, 
 my comment is: get a life! The vehicle is great for what it is. It's NOT a warthog. It handles 
 in a way that I think perfectly captures the feel of the game - grounded. The ground itself plays 
 a very important role in this game and the feel of the vehicle reflects that. As far as glitches, 
 I had one freeze-up and that's it. The frame-rate stutters a few times, but nothing that interferes 
 with the gameplay. Camera angles are sometimes disoriented, but that happens in lots of games. 
 And given the fact that the developers had to deal with moving a camera around a terrain that can 
 be deformed at the players discretion, it's amazing at how successful they have been. Then there's 
 the complaint that you can only use terrain deformation on dirt. All I have to say to that is: 
 "Well excuuuuuuuse me!!!!!" That is one of the lamest criticisms I have ever heard. That's like 
 complaining that the goose that lays the golden eggs doesn't lay platinum ones as well. These developers 
 have given us a unique capability and incorporated it very well into the gameplay. So you can't 
 deform a mountain-range or a fortress. So what!!! The system needs to retain some control over 
 the environment just to enable you to play the game. 
  Now, Fracture is essentially a run and shoot game. So in that sense it is not unique. But it works!!! 
 Do you stop going to see Sci Fi movies because you've already seen one??? No! That's why they call 
 it a genre. This games fits into a genre and so it has many of the same features as other games 
 in the same genre. So what! If it works, it's good. 
  
  Bottom line regarding the game: This is a good game that is definitely worth playing. It can be 
 challenging at times (in a good way) and, if you're an experience gamer, will even find yourself 
 adopting new strategies based upon the terrain deformation capabilities,
  
  Bottom line regarding Gamespot reviewers: You guys need to get your collective act together!!! 
 If you're ratings continue to be so seemingly arbitrary, they will become useless as a tool for 
 enabling people to decide whether or not to plunk down $60 in return for 10+ hours of entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  In this Halo-meets-Lost Planet-meets-Gears of War shooter, a player has the unique ability to alter 
 the terrain in order to provide cover and dig holes or make ramps to reach different areas. This, 
 mixed with a variety of different grenades, abilities, and weapons makes Fracture stylish, fun 
 to play, and really, really cool.
  
  The story is set in a futuristic United States where the west coast and east coast have been divided 
 by a vast amount of rising ocean water. Civil war breaks out and you find yourself around the San 
 Francisco area of California.
  
  You begin in a very cliche tutorial mode that gets you acclimated to the various weapons and grenades 
 in the game, as well as your ability to raise or lower terrain. The grenades are really cool and 
 each have a different effect when thrown. One in particular is the vortex grenade. When this grenade 
 is thrown, it creates a vortex that will suck in surrounding enemies and objects.
  
  Although the game doesn't really feel original overall, it is still a fun and enjoyable experience. 
 Not as epic as some of the other shooters available, but not bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirvick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what critics these days are really expecting from games. Fracture is a clean example 
 of a pretty good game dragged down by bad reviews.
  This game has decent graphics that even when you got lots of things happening at the same time 
 it holds the frame rate nicely, The game-play is very well implemented, the ability to deform the 
 terrain is a nice twist and this game really rewards the playing experience with a nice set of 
 enemy AI and great firefights.
  Gamespot says the terraforming is misused or underused, but it's all relative, you can play this 
 game using it at its minimum or use it wisely to your advantage. For instance it's a great way 
 of coming up with a quick cover during a firefight. 
  The enemy AI its one of the coolest to fight that came out this year, enemies will try to flank 
 you, and they won't just stand there waiting to take a hit. They'll use whatever cover they can 
 find nearby, and if close, try to melee you down. Combat can get really exciting; lots of enemies 
 at the same time trying to kill you will force the player to use the multiple weapons available 
 creatively in order to succeed. At this point it's worth mentioning that gamespot stated that the 
 game is too hard and punishing, but the point here is being creative and adapting yourself with 
 the terraforming, grenades, melee and whatever you can do to survive the many difficult but exciting 
 firefights.
  That's where this game really shines, it has an incredible pace, you won't find a single loading 
 screen after the main menu or loading your saved progress. You have only one main load after one 
 of the before mentioned actions and that's it. Rock solid pace from the beginning to the end.
 
  If you are tired of those easy-to-beat games that simply feel no rewarding to play, this is a 
 great game that's at least worth renting, especially if you like intense firefights, explosions 
 and all this wrapped with a necessity to think quickly and adapt in order to survive.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
