-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Frontlines: Fuel of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/frontlinesfuelofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting battle-lines model.
 Fun special abilities.
 You get to run over people with tanks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You've probably played a game just like this before.
 The physics are crazy.
 The single-player campaign is not crazy enough.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 2,559 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Kaos Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Feb 25, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This Battlefield-style shooter isn't very original, but it's still pretty fun. 

  The danger of driving a tank into battle is that if you get out to pee, your enemy might drive 
 off with it. THQ and Kaos Studios (who, as Trauma Studios, were responsible for the popular Desert 
 Combat mod for Battlefield 1942 and collaborated with DICE on Battlefield 2) know this, because 
 they essentially jumped into EA's Battlefield franchise when no one was looking and renamed it 
 Frontlines: Fuel of War. Although this tactic wasn't particularly creative, in a console generation 
 that hasn't seen many Battlefield-type games, the outcome is a refreshing return to large-scale 
 combat. With some wonky physics and a weak single-player campaign, Frontlines doesn't beat Battlefield 
 at its own game, but at least someone is giving us the chance to run over people with tanks, borrowed 
 or not.  

  The most important part of Frontlines is its lone online multiplayer mode, also called frontlines. 
 Like in any Battlefield game, this mode has you and the enemy vying for control of specific points 
 on various maps. Unlike in Battlefield, only a few of these points are available for contention 
 at any given time. You see, every map is divided into two sides by a battle line, and only points 
 along this line are open for business. By capturing all of these points, you push the line deeper 
 into enemy territory, to the next group of points. If you push the line all the way back to the 
 enemy's base and capture it, you win the game.  

           Sometimes the choppa gets to you.      

  This is an interesting approach to Battlefield 
 gameplay, with some awesome strengths and a few head-scratching weaknesses. The beauty of this 
 scheme is that every battle, at any given time, focuses nicely on either one or just a few spots. 
 So if you're in a game with a bunch of strangers, you can still count on everybody being on the 
 same page, given that there are only a couple that they could possibly be on. Another thing that's 
 nice about this setup is that you generally know where the enemy will be coming from and where 
 they'll be going, so you don't have to constantly watch your back.  

  On the flipside, it seems silly that you can't do anything useful from within enemy territory (other 
 than hunker down at their spawn points and pick off recently defeated enemy players as soon as 
 they jump back into the world) . It just doesn't make sense that area C would be worth controlling 
 only if you also have areas A and B. Furthermore, considering that all of the fighting is based 
 around particular spawn points, you yourself will get killed off the moment you spawn into the 
 world... a lot. Of course, there are ways around this (such as choosing to spawn in at a different 
 point) , but all the same, it sucks to wait through one long respawn time just to get zapped and 
 wait through another.  

  Before a battle, and any time you die, you can choose a loadout and a role type. The loadouts, 
 of which there are six, determine the weapons you carry. For instance, if you choose the sniper 
 loadout, you'll get a sniper rifle and a pistol. If you go antivehicle, you'll get a rocket launcher 
 and a couple of other guns. All of these have their intended purposes, but they are far from equal. 
 The heavy-assault loadout, with its huge, accurate machine gun, is far more powerful and versatile 
 than any other, whereas the sniper rifle is generally useless due to its lack of stopping power. 
 Balancing issues aside, it would make more sense for you to be able to pick up other peoples' guns. 

  However, the role types are one of Frontlines' most interesting aspects. Each role confers three 
 extra abilities on the player; you start with one of them, and earn the other two by doing normal 
 stuff such as killing people and capturing points. One of the coolest roles lets you control three 
 different types of unmanned combat drones. These are essentially RC cars and choppers covered with 
 bombs and sometimes armed with rockets. Other roles let you repair vehicles, call down air strikes, 
 or nullify enemy electronics. These aren't particularly balanced, either (setting up a grenade 
 turret is pretty futile if someone decides to send an air strike at you) , but on the other hand 
 it's nice to always have some kind of powerful ability at your disposal.  

  You also have lots of vehicles, from jeeps to tanks to aircraft, and they all respawn really fast. 
 The catch is that they tend to spawn only at your base, which is hopefully far from the front line. 
 However, most vehicles have two gears (slow and breakneck) , so getting where you're going never 
 takes long, and it can actually be a pretty fun ride. That is, until you run over some physics. 
 You know this has happened when you try to drive over an abutment and your giant tank gets stuck 
 pointing straight up in the air. Tricky terrain aside, the vehicles are powerful and fun to use, 
 but easily destroyed by rockets or heavy fire.  

  Frontlines' controls, both in vehicles and on foot, are very generic. You zoom with a click of 
 a stick, throw grenades with the L trigger, shoot with the right, and change weapons in a radial 
 menu that can be brought up at the push of a button. Nothing is new or exciting, but everything 
 works. The same can be said for the online play. Running around in tanks and capturing points isn't 
 a new concept, and you can say the same for calling in air strikes, but chances are it's been a 
 while since you've done either, and it's as fun as you remember.  

           This gun sounds even better than it looks.      

  The Battlefield games were never 
 able to deliver a good single-player experience, and Frontlines unfortunately inherited that distinction 
 as well. The campaign tells the story of a future in which only one oil field remains in the world, 
 so everyone gets into a fight over it. The plot isnt all that impressive; it unfolds with narrative 
 lines like: "It all began in that hot, hot summer of 2008." The intro cinematic isn't quite that 
 impressive, either; soldiers and a journalist trade tough-guy banter in a chopper that gets shot 
 down and crash-lands you right into World War III.  

  Anyway, the single-player campaign has you running around with guns, shooting dumb enemies, and 
 capturing control points. For a game so heavily invested in online multiplayer, this isn't bad 
 single-player content, but it isn't really worth your time, either. Once you play online, you'll 
 probably never spend another minute in the campaign again.  

  The graphics lack the level of visual fidelity you'll find in top-shelf games such as Call of Duty 
 4 and Gears of War, but they still look pretty good. There's serious fog of war in a few of the 
 levels, but on the other hand, many of the environments look awesomely apocalyptic, with skeletal 
 sky scrapers and floating pieces of debris. The sounds are also fine for the most part, and in 
 particular the heavy machine gun sounds amazing. It has the audible impact of a jackhammer, which 
 makes it one of the most entertaining virtual guns we've ever fired.  

  EA and DICE will inevitably be back to reclaim their prized war machine at some point, but in the 
 meantime we're glad THQ and Kaos Studios knocked off some of its rust and took it for a spin as 
 Frontlines: Fuel of War. The online battlefield mode is fun and refreshing, the battle-line scheme 
 is interesting (albeit limiting) , and the single-player campaign is predictably worthless. Consequently, 
 the biggest problem is paying top dollar for a used tank when you've probably already had this 
 experience before.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (193 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:52 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is just another military first person shooter with twists and turns but 
 i didn't care for this one. Let's start with the storyline, its good and a good length but you 
 really can't get into the cut scenes their boring and not one bit entertaining. Next lets go to 
 game play, more or less it stinks, in most games a sniper shot in the torso will kill anybody but 
 I had to shoot a guy two times in the chest to get him down and a headshot with a machine gun doesn't 
 kill either, the vehicles have horrible control especially the tanks, the one thing I do like is 
 the gadgets you can use because they are a huge advantage, the graphics aren't that pretty either, 
 now let's move to multiplayer, It's horrible, it lags badly and it's almost impossible to get a 
 kill unless your right in their face. This game I did not enjoy and I was very disappointed with 
 the ending. I do not suggest this game to anybody and stick with Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyguy21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the simple idea of capture the flag of multiplayer games, and replicates it over 
 the entire single player campaign. The problem is, is that this is over way too soon. The single 
 player campaign is fun, and addictive. I found myself playing for almost an hour without knowing 
 it, but by the time you get into it, and the story seems to be coming together, the credits roll. 
 you will get MAYBE 6 hours, and the multiplayer is generic, and has been done before, only this 
 time its 50 people instead of 24. This game is a rental, or if you find it in the bargain bin like 
 me, then buy it. Great time killer while waiting on a bigger release. There are 7 levels i think, 
 but they take less than an hour (some about 35mins) to complete. Weapons feel weak and generic, 
 and they sound horrible lol, but the gameplay is fluid. Best part of this game is the feeling of 
 capturing checkpoints, and using the mobile drone machine gun, that was awesome!! So if you are 
 need of some quick achievements, and like shooting stuff, then this may be for you, but if you 
 want a shooter that can get deeply into, with a REAL single player mode, then look elsewere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I think it's time to play games that are not based on WWII and start thinking about WWIII.
  
  Frontlines has some great merits, it's storyline is well based on what possibly could happen 
 if natural resources deplete, some great looking visuals and a very fun online mode.
  
  Its campaign mode is full of dramtic and chaotic moments and the inclusion of drones make this 
 game very original.
  
  I'm glad I didn't pay full price since the campaign is very short, only a few missions and one 
 of them is teh game trialer, I mean, that's not fair, I understand that some games are short but 
 this is too short.
  
  Also in the campaign mode you do not have acces to all the arsenal and vehicles, for that you have 
 to play online and in order to play online you need to buy maps from marketplace, buying multiplayer 
 maps is the biggest fraud ever, since those could be done by any idiot with free time and a map 
 editor.
  
  Anyway if you manage to find game with the basic maps you'll have great fun since the online mode 
 is great, it's like battlefield but futuristic, more of the same but well done.
  
  It may not be the perfect game, but even with it's failures is still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  i bought this game because i heard such great things about it but when i played it i was like "did 
 i buy the wrong game?". well first off theres nothing different about it. its just a normal fps 
 but worse because theres hardly any guns. i think i only used like 5 guns in the whole game a shotgun, 
 sniper, machine gun, a bigger machine gun, and a rocket launcher. the single player was short and 
 always the same thing its either blow this up or stand here until the smoke turns blue. the vehicle 
 controls sucked so bad i couldnt stand it i had to walk everywhere because i couldnt take the weird 
 controls. the story was lame your fighting for oil.... awesome. multi player was ok but finding 
 50 people took way to long and wasnt worth the wait. i think the only good thing about this game 
 was the easy gamerpoints lol. i just didnt find this game to be very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brand60m
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  While it has pretty sick weapons and a fun campaign, this game can be a little easy but you can 
 just adjust the difficulty. The controls are different from most games so it might take some getting 
 used too and it may not be fun for everyone but this is a great game if you get into it. Suggested 
 get a demo or rent it before you buy it, unless you dont mind spending twenty dollars on a game. 
 Online is pretty fun. iF you like most shooters than this is a good game to get. And if you want 
 to play online then my gamertag is D Brickshaw. Also, some other games you would like if you want 
 this game are battlefeild bad company, Rainbow six vegas 1 or 2 and other  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightDragon45
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Finally a war where you can actually believe is for OIL! Frontlines: Fuel of War is down right Addictive. 
 With the standard Shooter functions and controls it isn't hard to adapt to this game. It's got 
 a fairly simple storyline unless your going for the Ironman Achievements then it's a little more 
 in the just right category. The Online Versus arenas are I'd say remarkable never have I played 
 in a map with 60 other players until now and I'll tell you if your thinking your skilled enough 
 to survive step into the arena and test it against an entourage of bullets streaming towards you. 
 Team work is a must. Over all 10 for 10. This game is for anyone who likes the less complex run 
 and gun with some tactical warfare. For someone who loves shooters but needs a break from the Posting 
 buttheads in other shooters this game is for you over all totally amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game in the bargin bin for $10 I though it had to be bad because the price 
 dropped so much. I was happy to be dissapointed. 
  
  I actually enjoyed this game very much. The gameplay was very smooth and the camera angle wasn't 
 annoying or in the way. You have a large selection of weapons and ammo is plentiful. There are 
 certain levels where you can even drive a humvee or a tank which provide a lot of fun. 
  
  The missions are simple enough, stop the advancing enemy and destroy certain targets. The AI isnt 
 even all that bad either. I played on the normal difficulty and they had pretty good aim which 
 made it not just a simple run-n-gun type of game. You had to find cover and pick out your targets.
 
  
  Although this was not a top of the line, big name shooter, it provided me with an enjoyable experiance. 
 Definately worth the new $10 price tag if you enjoy a decent FPS or just war type games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xspartanx3x
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Yea this is the game i have been wainting for this game if i had too put in worlds is AMAZING i 
 mean if you thought the demo was good just wait untill u play the actuall game it was like 24 or 
 32 players online sumthing like that but since the update its 50 players online CAN YOU BELIEVE 
 50 PLAYER ONLINE BATTLE 1 word for that much chaos and fun is EPIC so if you LUV big team based 
 wars then THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU iam telling you because the graphics are good ESPECIALLY for 
 what this game offers 50 player online battle WITH JETS, HELLICOPTERS, HUMMERS, TANKS, ECT.... 
 this game is awsome if i ever made a game this is what it would be like althought there is always 
 something that is not the greatis is that you cant talk to your whole team WITH REASON cuz i mean 
 that many people talking at once that would get REALLLY confusing lol but yea you can still talk 
 to people within your squad and there has been a recent update to talk to more people or somthing 
 i dont know exactly what it does but it makes it better than it already is so yea this is DEFINITLEY 
 WORTH $60.00 its probably less i think around $30.00 new and $24.00 used but yea BUY IT ITS AMAZING. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel Of War has alot of good things going for it. 
  
  For starters there's the addictive gameplay. 
  Although the single person campaign is short and 
 strangely easy, it does have a whole host of weapons you can use to shoot, blow up and bomb your 
 way through the 6 levels. 
  These range from bazookas to miniature RC Helicopters/Tanks that you can send in ahead of you to 
 kill off the AI. 
  
  It's a Gadget lovers paradise.
  
  That isn't to say that they're all equally as satisfying to use. Your main weapon is your usual 
 army machine gun and too be honest will be what you end up using most of the time. You never get 
 tired of aiming and seeing the enemy being shot down through your rifle scope. 
  However the larger weapons (bazooka, grenade thrower, tanks) lack a realistic jump in their firepower. 
 You'd expect them to create quite a bit of damage but you end up feeling like it would just be 
 quicker to run in and gun each AI down individually with your default weapon.
  
  The Graphics are pretty good as well, not amazing, but more than enough to get you involved with 
 the action.
  
  The Storyline is there, but really not important. The cut scenes are only there to give you a basic 
 reason to go from point A to point B to take over an area, blow up a tower/satellite/building/tank 
 base etc. 
  
  Frontlines is really all about killing enemy AI in as many different ways possible.
  The game 
 does feel familiar, but with so many modern army games that are more serious in nature, it's nice 
 to play through a fun, short and maybe a little too easy sp campaign.
  
  Plus with a 50 person multiplayer included, whats not to like.
  
  Alot of fun but not groundbreaking, 
 can easily be completed and repeated with a weekends rental.
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines looked like it had the potential of being a great game, but believe me it is at best 
 decent. The campaign is awful, with a mediocre excuse of a plot. And I mean AWFUL. All you ever 
 do is shoot enemies, which is lame and the same as in any other shooter, and capture territories 
 called frontlines. This is literally all you do throughout the campaign, and it gets boring quickly, 
 and when I say quickly, I mean on the first mission. The mulitplayer is decent, and there are some 
 fun moments of using tactics. However, there is only one game mode on Xbox Live, which is LAME. 
 Frontlines isn't a good shooter, mainly because it is probably the most repetetive game that I 
 have ever played. There just aren't any forms of variety in the gameplay. It has some fun moments, 
 but don't expect a thrill ride, cuz you're not gonna get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontlinejack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  online/multiplayer review only:
  
  like I said 50 player support... nothing like it on xboxlive... you can open up your own server 
 and practise with the vehicles and aircaft... you'll need a lot of practise since the game has 
 been around for a while so you'll go head to head with good players ... this will be overwhelming... that's 
 why I recommend opening up a room and getting very familiar with the maps and the vehicles... (third 
 person plus 1st person perspectives in vehicles) .... I have put over 1000 hours online with this 
 game... yes 1000 hours and I'm still learning new stuff .... after you put in 200 hours or so minimum... you 
 will be hooked on this game... you might hate it at first but its total addiction after about 200 
 hours... oh i don't like the non-vehicle maps... for run gun i give this game 6/10 for vehicle assaults 
 I give it 9.7/10.... after you play this game for a long time there will be no going back to 16 
 or 24 online player maximum games... because you will be in a 50 MAN GAME no substitute...50 player 
 server baby... if you a scared don't go there... its crazy ........ only for the hard core gamer... 
 posers need not apply 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I went to the mall yesterday to look around for a few used games. I saw Frontlines: Fuel of War 
 and thought "Oh! This looks pretty sweet!" Went home to play it and it took only about 3 to 4 hours 
 to complete the single player game on the hardest difficulty. Here's why...
  
  OK the storyline was pretty good: The whole world's supply of oil has completely run out and the 
 only remaining resource is somewhere around the land, off of the Caspian Sea. Now of course, we 
 can't have ALL the countries in the world snag it can we? So, Russia and China unite to form the 
 "Red Star Alliance" to bolster their army and get the oil. In response, the US and Europe join 
 up to create the "Western Coalition" to combat the Red Star Alliance. YOU are a soldier fighting 
 for the Western Coalition to assist the advancement onto the Caspian Sea, take the oil resource, 
 and put an end to the "Second Great Depression" at home. 
  
  Alright, the story was not so bad, but pretty bland, since your character never talks and he is 
 expendable (meaning if you die, you are replaced with a different character: you're basically a 
 regular infantry soldier, not a main character) .
  
  Moving on, game play: You start out at one end of an area on the map and have to reach enemy territory 
 (shown red on your map) to capture a "control point", which then turns blue on your map, meaning 
 you have the area under control from the enemy. Hence, you keep moving forward to the next level 
 and the next etc...
  
  The first levels were awesome: Your AI teammates actually spread out to contain the enemy and assist 
 you to capture the control points, but as the game winds down, you basically become the one man 
 army, since your AIs don't bother helping at all.
  
  The single play is pretty short as well, but the ending leaves you a giant hint at a sequel for 
 this game.
  
  You can control tanks, vehicles, helicopters etc... Basically everything you would see in a Halo 
 game, where your AIs teammates jump in the vehicle with you to man the gun or to drive.
  
  The weapons are OK: If you die, you can respawn anywhere on the map (assuming you've controlled 
 that part of the map) with a different class: Assault, Anti-Vehicle, Sniper, or Special-Ops (sub-machine 
 gun) . Other than that, that's pretty much what you do: Kill and pray that you can hold out to control 
 the objective and that your AI teammates can actually save you from dying.
  
  The respawn system is based on spawn tokens: You'll be given an amount of times you can die, before 
 you have to start the entire level over from the last checkpoint.
  
  The multiplayer is intense but gets boring after a while. It's basically the same thing as the 
 single player: Control the enemy resource points and hold it out until the time limit runs out.
 
  
  So, this game was OK, but I was expecting more and frankly, it was quite easy even at the most 
 hardest difficulty level.
  
  If THQ is making a sequel they should smarten up the AIs, more weapons, and get rid of annoying 
 points in the game where you are pinned down by enemy gun fire and can't escape!
  
  Overall, a deserved 5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360gamer8807
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  When i got my 360 i didnt have the 60 bucs to fork over for any of the major titles for this system. 
 So i started looking for games. I read the reviews of this game and thought it looked pretty good 
 so i stopped by at Blockbuster and bought a used copy for about 27 bucs. when i got home immediately 
 i put it in. about 8-10 hours later i finished it. I am taking this back game to gamestop. About 
 the only fun i had was using the drones to blow people up, and driving the helicopter but even 
 that got frustrating. Controlling the vehicles is very frustrating. sometimes i would get stuck 
 behind a rock trying to turn around and get blown up by another tank, or get shot down in the helicopter. 
 I also, when playing a shooter, use the sniper rifle alot. i would find myself just purposely dying 
 so i can choose the sniper layout, but the first time i used it i aimed for a head shot, had it 
 lined up, pulled the trigger and missed. took two shots. The only fun i had playing this game was 
 using the recon drone at the end of the first level. i would just sit behind the wall, deploy the 
 drone, fly it tward an enemy, then pull the trigger and blow it and the person up. Sometimes i 
 would have to chase them and get 2 or 3 at a time. it was pretty amusing at first to shoot someone 
 and see them fly about 5 or 6 feet in the air and do ridiculous flips but that got to unrealistic. 
 overall this game is fun for quick bursts in my opinion. i havent tryed multiplayer since my internet 
 connection is too weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l3g3nds
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games =) ! A lot of fun, even if you don't have xbox live. Single player 
 campaign is pretty short, but still a lot of fun.
  
  Has very nice, sharp graphics and is lots of fun to blow through houses on certain levels. Controls 
 are a little weird to get used to at first, but after a couple minutes of playing you get used 
 to them. Lots of different weapons and vehicles to chose from and running people over with tanks 
 is really fun. I will get a weird glitch every once in a while like a chopper getting stuck in 
 a tree, or a tank flipping upside down...? Besides the occasional glitch, the gameplay is really 
 good. 
  
  Good: Lots of weapons and vehicles, guns look and sound really cool, drones are lots of fun to 
 use, and multiplayer is awesome
  
  Bad: Short campaign (though there are some cheats to get extra levels) , occasional glitches that 
 might make you have to start the level over, there are lots of other games like this
  
  Overall, this is a fun game and is easily worth the $30 at gamestop. 
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is set in the year 2024. All of the countries are battling for resources, 
 like fossil fuels, etc. In the game I'm pretty sure you battle Russia and China. You have basic 
 weapons like a scoped assault rifle, a grenade launcher, rocket launcher, sniper rifle, etc. I 
 was suprised at how many weapons you could hold at once. That being eight weapons in your inventory. 
 In the game you will come across drones (robots) that you can control to destroy the enemy. These 
 drons include mini tanks with machine guns, mini helicopters with mini rockets, and mini tanks 
 that blow up like a bomb. The game is very basic with just all of your normal gameplay. You can 
 basically NEVER find a ranked match on Xbox Live, so if you want the ranked achievements then post 
 in the GameSpot forums and get some people together to set up a date to play a ranked match and 
 get the achievements. The single player campaign is very, very short. But normal mode is easy so 
 you will easily get all of the 15 point achievements for completing the level on normal or higher. 
 So that was my short review of Frontlines: Fuel of War. I would reccomend renting this game instead 
 of buying it.
  
  -Shawn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzdisturbed
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Personally I liked the game, I thought the story line was pretty cool. The equipment, vehicles, 
 and drones where awesome. Although the campaign was short and not to hard it was still fun as it 
 lasted. after i beat the game i started playing multi player which is awsome, because the # of 
 people it can hold. I think if you want this game play it at a friends first, or rent it to try 
 it out.
  
  Now to wasit space for the 100 words minimum: this game is cool i would suggest getting it the 
 death and explosions are cool fps rule wahooo wamu lol
  
  
  -------------------------------------------------
  
  
  Personally I liked the game, I thought 
 the story line was pretty cool. The equipment, vehicles, and drones where awesome. Although the 
 campaign was short and not to hard it was still fun as it lasted. after i beat the game i started 
 playing multi player which is awsome, because the # of people it can hold. I think if you want 
 this game play it at a friends first, or rent it to try it out.
  
  Now to wasit space for the 100 words minimum: this game is cool i would suggest getting it the 
 death and explosions are cool fps rule wahooo wamu lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I bought the game a while ago, and started playing it last week. I was impressed, i thought it 
 was another average shooter but it was better than i expected at first.
  
  There are quite a lot of rifles and automatic guns featured in the game, and they all have GREAT 
 sound effects, especially the fully automatic machine gun, which can do serious damage! All the 
 guns, feel powerful and useful. But, it would be better to have a few more guns, but other than 
 that, the game's weapons are pretty nice.
  
  Another really cool thing in the game, is the remote control droids you can pilot which have rockets 
 or automatic guns mounted on them. Thats great fun! But, again there should be way more droids 
 to pilot with more weapons mounted. But still, the droids are awesome!
  
  The story is pretty realistic and might actually happen in the future, since we are running out 
 of oil. So the game's story is pretty entertaining but could've been a bit more original. Nethertheless, 
 entertaining storyline!
  
  Overall, this game is definitely worth a look at and should be bought. There is some quite high 
 replay value since each mission is interesting and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is a decent attempt to add a little spice to the FPS genre by including 
 various combat "drones" to the standard fair of rifles, shotguns, and explosives. The drones are 
 diminutive, remote control versions of military vehicles like tanks and helicopters. While the 
 drones certainly make the game enjoyable, lack of polish keeps Frontlines from being a true standout 
 in the sea of military shooters available today.
  
  The game opens with a stereotypical liberal news reporter painting a doom & gloom a tale of how 
 the world has all but run out of oil and, without an alternative fuel, World War III has begun. 
 The story remains trite throughout, but while the dialogue may be hokey and a bit testosterone 
 laden, the cutscenes are beautifully animated and the gameplay itself is reasonably smooth, in 
 spite of one or two minor frame rate issues.
  
  I use the term "reasonably smooth" somewhat loosely because the game does have its rough edges. 
 The good news is that most of these are offset by positives in other areas. For example, humvee 
 and tank controls can be somewhat finicky but the helicopter handles quite capably. Also, there 
 was a building that appeared early in the game whose interior layout was identically recycled for 
 a different building later in the game. Oops. On the other hand, the environments in general were 
 fairly diverse. Apart from that single building, I never felt any boring repetition.
  
  Inconsistency appeared in other forms, though. In one (and only one) level, enemies continued to 
 spawn in spite of the fact that I had captured the spawn point. And while enemies are crack shots 
 and can zero in from long distance, your weapons lack proportionate accuracy. Area of effect for 
 tank shells also seemed to be flawed as a shell might obliterate the concrete barrier an enemy 
 used for cover but somehow not kill him.
  Even good ol' fashioned clipping was a problem every once in a while, as I found myself temporarily 
 stuck to a wall in one area and witnessed a stationary turret hovering in mid air in another. Fortunately 
 these issues were not game-breaking, merely minor annoyances.
  
  The most exciting feature of Frontlines is, without a doubt, the drones. Driving or flying these 
 toys was just plain fun. You could drive a tiny treaded vehicle that detonates like a pound of 
 C4 or, if the air is more your style, there is a bomb-laden plane as well. You also have access 
 to a machine gun car, mortar car, and my personal favourite- the attack chopper. This little jewel, 
 which has the same distinct engine whine as a real R/C helicopter, carries miniature rockets and 
 lays waste to enemy troops, turret emplacements, and vehicles. I easily spent more time with this 
 gadget than any other. While the diversity of drones was great, the quantity was lacking. My only 
 complaint is that they weren't more abundant. If the developer had put a little more focus on these 
 toys it could have taken the overall experience from good to great.
  
  All in all, Frontlines is a decent effort and worthy of the six or eight hours it will take you 
 to complete the single player campaign. It has a few flaws but the drones really make the game 
 worth playing, even if it isn't a blockbuster title. While there may not be enough replay value 
 to warrant a purchase, I would still recommend taking this game home for at least weekend. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I'm a Battlefield veteran and started playing this immediately after I'd finished (and got bored 
 with) Battlefield 2142. I wanted something that was similar but had enough originality to keep 
 me interested.
  
  Frontlines plays like Battlefield but what keeps it original are the classes, in particular the 
 toys that come with each class. The airstrikes, drones, sentry guns are a hoot to mess around and 
 they all feel perfectly balanced. 
  
  Battlefield has always encouraged teamwork with medipacks and ammopacks handed out by fellow players. 
 Frontlines doesn't have this option; ammo crates are spread around the maps and your heath automatically 
 regenerates. So you could argue that Battlefield is for teamplayers and Frontlines is best suited 
 for the lone soldier. 
  
  The single player campaign in certainly worth playing but only on the hardest setting (which is 
 still easy when compared to online play) . Most of the game's achievements are also obtained in 
 the single player game.
  
  The most disappointing aspect of the game is the lack of any rank structure. You just simply play 
 for points and your place on the Leaderboard. This has undoubtably hurt sales of this game. With 
 no rank structure there really isn't anything to work towards.
  
  Overall it looks great, sounds fantastic and is a lot of fun to play online.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bergstein
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  the game has a lot to work on. for example: a tank should be able to drive into a thin metal wall. 
 insted of the tank knoking it down you just crash into it like its unmovable. in any other game 
 when you shoot someone with a sniper the guy dies the first shot! in this game you shoot the guy 
 in the HEAD with a sniper and he does not die until 2-3 shots. you dont get to use a jet in the 
 campain and you only get to use a chopper once!!! the lag in xboxlive is really long! you shoot 
 and 3 seconds later it hits the ground! you CANT really have the free choise of which objective 
 you want to do first becuse if you go to the objective which is further from you then it says "return 
 back ect.." and then you start to die. the ist bad but its not the best. and im not sure if you 
 can say its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I got the game and I beat it and it was fun to play. Though it has been a bit since, I am reviewing 
 it now.
  
  This game did great. I have many happy memories. One great memory is when the Russians used tactical 
 nukes to hit your tank column. 
  The games plot revolves around the coming oil crisis. While they do it a bit too extreme it is 
 dramatic in the way it is presented. Basically we start fighting for the remaining oil. The United 
 States and Europe team up and China and Russia team up. You play as the US/Europe. You get to use 
 awesome weapons and the action stays pretty constant at times while remaining intense. There is 
 some openness in the battles and the frontline system online is pretty sweet and the things you 
 get to use are pretty sweet. The game ends completing the campaign while also leaving off on a 
 cliff hanger.
  
  Now for the bad. Lack of gore which isn't that bad. But bigger than that is lack of squad commands 
 in the single player this could have made the campaign better if you could tell your men to hold, 
 attack, cover, defend or some insert command. The online multiplayer can get kind of one sided 
 at times depending on your team mates. 
  
  In the end I liked the game and would buy the sequel. And I would recommend this game to people 
 to rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Hype is the downfall of gaming. Look at GTA 4, Halo 3, and Frontlines. All had hype and were like 
 a shiny object to us gaming children, but when we got them, we realized it's not so great. Frontlines 
 was designed to take over Battlefield's spot as the massive online shooter, but fell incredibly 
 short.
  
  The story was pretty dull and illogical. You live through nuke attacks. Right. Nuff said there. 
 I beat it in a couple hours. Oh, and did I tell you that the baddies respawn?
  
  The multiplayer boasted 50 players online. I joined a game and didn't even find six. It turns out 
 everyone was still playing Battlefield 2 (this was before BC) .
  
  That basically describes the game. A horrible review for a horrible game. To all of you who are 
 even contemplating buying this game, do me a favor and buy Battlefield: Bad Company instead. The 
 game has a storyline, and people play online. I assume those are the two things you are looking 
 for in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War on the Xbox 360 is set in the near distant future where the world in World 
 War 3 fighting over the fuel lines in the Middle East. The game goes about in a Battlefield style 
 gameplay that is always fun and never boring. The game also features a multiplayer component that 
 is just a blast. It takes the Battlefield gameplay and it gives it a twist as you can only take 
 certain points as you expand your frontline and eventually take over the entire map. While the 
 game is quite fun, it is also very easy and very short. 
  
  Frontlines: Fuel of War has a great plot, because its quite believeable that something like this 
 will eventually happen with all all the conflicts over oil. The game even opens with quotes from 
 George W. Bush and Bill Clinton in which they talk about the inevitable oil crisis in the Middle 
 East. It is the Western Coalition against the Russians and you are fighting for the oil fields 
 in the Middle East. The single player game is quite short and also quite easy. I couldn't see myself 
 playing through this game more than once, so it is a rental at best unless you really catch onto 
 the multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is an intersting spin on Battlefield. You will be capturing command 
 points just like in Battlefield, but in this game you slowly advance across the map and you can 
 only capture command points that are on the frontlines. If you capture all the command points across 
 one frontline than your frontline is expanded and you move on until you have captured the whole 
 map. I actually prefer this over the Battlefield Modern Combat on the Xbox 360 because the games 
 actually take a long time to finish and having to continue on capturing command points while holding 
 the frontline (if you loose the frontline you can't capture anything beyond it) makes you feel 
 more like you are in a war.
  
  The graphics in Frontlines: Fuel of War are quite disappointing. This game had the potential to 
 be one of the best looking games around. The firey oil fields could have looked amazing, but they 
 do not. The game suffers from quite a bit of pop-up and I really feel like they went the cheap 
 route and instead of having good looking flames shooting up from the fields, the game has decent 
 at best looking flames and smoke particles that cheaply hide the crappy graphics. If they had taken 
 their time with the graphics than this game could have looked amazing. Frontlines could have a 
 lot better sound too, but they are a lot better than the graphics. The bullets and explosions all 
 sound like they should but the voice overs are lacking and somewhat uninteresting make the cutscenes 
 boring and easily ones that you can skip.
  
  I honestly can say that I had a great time while I played Frontlines: Fuel of War and the multiplayer 
 can keep it going for a long time. I would suggest renting this game first to make sure that you 
 enjoy the multiplayer because there is not much reason to replay the single player after you play 
 through it the first time, unless you much have all the achievements. I can honestly say that I 
 enjoyed this game much more than Battlefield 2: Modern Combat and its a game that first person 
 shooter fans should not miss. Rent it first to see if you enjoy it and then make your decision 
 if it is worth a purchase.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  With all the popularity surrounding MMOs and how you can talk with so many people on them, it was 
 only a matter of time before shooters started incorporating larger battles and teams. Frontlines: 
 Fuel of War, is the first in games that allow up to 50 players in a match. But was this game a 
 success, or was it just opening the door for future games?
  
  The graphics are somewhat of a letdown. The graphics in this look alot like the launch titles. 
 They aren't very crisp, nothing looks great, and the only good thing about them is that the character 
 models aren't too shabby.
  
  What is surprising tough is that even tough they did a bad job at designing the game, the sound 
 in this game is done extremely well. If you have surround sound, you might get confused during 
 the game as it might feel like you are in the middle of a battle. The voice acting is great so 
 while enemy soldiers are screaming and your gun is firing, it really does help make that feeling. 
 If you couldn't tell from the last sentence, the guns do sound great. The only complaint that I 
 have about the sound is that the interaction isn't done well. What I mean is that if you shoot 
 the side of a building with a tank and the wall falls, it doesn't sound like it really would. That's 
 just a minor complaint tough with everything else that they've done well.
  
  The controls in this game are slightly awkward compared to other shooters but once you get used 
 to them, they will feel comfortable and you will find it hard to switch back to other games. Just 
 a few control changes from your normal shooter isn't really a bad idea at all I guess and is sometimes 
 very welcomed like in this game.
  
  Now I want to briefly go over the single player story which wasn't too bad for the most part but 
 the problem was, it was incredibly short. I played through on hard and beat it in about 4 1/2 hours. 
 I kid you not, it really is that short. For what you do get tough, it is very enjoyable. The basics 
 are that oil has become scarce and there is one region left with plenty of oil. The problem is, 
 there's not enough for all countries. Blackouts have become common and rioting goes on throughout 
 the nights. This has driven some countries crazy and during what was supposed to be a simple guard 
 watch, WW3 breaks out over the oil. You now play as one of the soldiers in a group called "Stray 
 Dogs" to help the US fight Russia and China during the war. The biggest complain is that they end 
 the story on the climax which suggests then that there will be a sequel. My question is, why not 
 of just added to this game's single player? If the single player was longer and had more vehicles, 
 then it could've been a great single player experience for a shooter game.
  
  The single player's gameplay isn't mind blowing but it does what it needs to which is keep you 
 entertained. You go from point to point capturing areas to push the Russian lines back and as you 
 figure, you kill alot of soldiers in the process. The biggest problem with the single player's 
 gameplay is the lack of vehicles. It seems that they wanted to make sure the multiplayer was filled 
 with them but forgot the single player in the process. You play through about 2/3 of the game on 
 foot which in some occasions, is really frustrating and annoying. The nice thing is that it doesn't 
 get too repetitive but that is more due to the length of the game than the gameplay.
  
  What this game is all about is the multiplayer experience. If you are going out to buy this game, 
 this is the reason why. It's very simple, you try and capture the enemies' main areas while on 
 teams of up to 25 per team. These can include a communications tower, AA gun, or a headquarters 
 but the goal is for the defenders to go a whole hour without losing all their points. Yes, I said 
 one hour. Unless you are playing player matches, you need to make sure that you have plenty of 
 time to dedicate before you go online to play. Now, what makes this so unique is that vehicles 
 are everywhere and it's how you use them that can determine the outcome of the game. While attack 
 helicopters are always nice, a simple mistake and you can be shot down by an anti-aircraft tank. 
 It's just good mindless fun that you can just sit down and keep yourself entertained and have a 
 good time. One complaint tough is that it seems the defenders usually have an advantage on many 
 of the maps.
  
  So while this game isn't going to stop you from playing some of the big titles coming out this 
 fall, it can almost certainly keep you entertained as you wait for them. If you are a fan of shooters, 
 or of the Battlefield series and conquest mode, then this is a game for you. I would love to give 
 it an 8 but due to an incredibly short single player, I can only give it a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  frontlines is the kind of game that when you see it you think that it's gonna be great, since it 
 is a very good idea, and well, the images look good, tough when you get to play it there's a kind 
 of spice that's missing, just like eating a burger without pickles, the achievements were kind 
 of easy, multiplayer was nice, tough it missed co-op, since your GI fellows are quite darned stupid, 
 for the lack of any other way to put it. What I liked a lot about this games were the drones, since 
 it's one of the first games to play that card correctly, the only SERIOUS complaint i've got is 
 the driving of the vehicles, it was actually so sloppy it made me wanna cry.
  Overall was a nice game, it was enjoyable and the controls were quite friendly (except the vehicle 
 ones) and the artwork was good, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is so realistic as you play through you know eventually this will happen! You cant play 
 as red star forces in story mode however but it leaves room at end as (SPOILER!) when you take 
 Moscow the press says china is on the Offense and Russia is in Exile. I believe their will be a 
 squeal where you play as red star taking back Europe.
  Controls are hard at first but soon become second nature and car, tanks hard to drive when in intense 
 combat but still usable. The machines you use are sweet and can kill enemies miles away while your 
 in a safe hiding spot
  The fact that there are so many different types of weapons at your disposal, including the ever 
 fun and delightfully sinister remote control, armed and/or explosive mini choppers and tanks, are 
 just absolutely sweet. The tank rides are quite enjoyable too. ;-) I also like the checkpoint to 
 checkpoint mission system too. I have played games before where it can be easy to get confused 
 as to where the heck you're suppose to go, but it wasn't too hard in this one. I also did kind 
 of admire the idea behind the story, because it's one of those scenarios that makes you wonder. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  If you like military first person shooters, this is a game you will definitely enjoy. Being able 
 to use R/C mini-choppers to wipe out enemies from above or robots to machine-gun them is very fun... 
 but for the same reason, the game is a little too easy in some parts (even playing at hard difficulty) .
 
  
  The storyline is good and coherent... even credible if you see the news these days... but the single 
 player is way to short for my taste... It took me only a weekend to finish it... and I'm not a 
 super shooter gamer hit-them-with-one-head-shot guy either.
  
  The multiplayer is good but nothing to remember this game about... just what you might expect... 
 conquest a flag, kill the other gamers, defend a flag... all pretty standard stuff. What makes 
 it a little better than others is the capability to use all vehicles you can find (choppers, tanks, 
 cars, whatever) and all the weapons you can fetch (SAM's, SAW's, etc) .
  
  All and all, being a first person shooters fan, I'd have to get this game and I've enjoyed it... 
 but don't expect this one to become a classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakie_pooh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines Fuel of War turned out to be a good game to me. Since im into the futuristic war genre, 
 and it's a First Person Shooter, i liked it. The storyline is about the world's demand for oil, 
 so now war has broke out over Europe and Asia over the high demand oil. There are two factions 
 involved in this conflict which are, the Western Coalition, and the NATO Alliance. Battlefields 
 will take place all over Eurasia. In the single player campaign you play as the Western Coalition. 
 The single player isn't so bad as you might hear, but the Xbox Live experience is amazing. In multiplayer 
 you choose a class very similar to what you do in the Battlefield games. You have the standard 
 classes, assualt, sniping, support, etc. One of my favorite parts on the Xbox Live gameplay is 
 hearing the distant explosions, and gunfire, of the people you are playing with, so you can identify 
 where large fire fights are. The only superiority is tactics and team work, you can never have 
 the superiority with any vehicle or weapon because there is a counter to it. For example, say you 
 have a couple of helicopters giving your infantry and armor a hard time, you tell one of your buddies 
 you need some anti aircraft support and they'll come and take out the helicopters or jets out for 
 you, yes there are jets, and can do some serious damage. The objective to multiplayer is sort of 
 pushing back the frontline as far back to the enemies base as possible. You must capture certain 
 checkpoints on the battlefield and once you capture a set of checkpoints the line will move back 
 towards your enemies side. This is a good game in my opinoin and has a great feel to it, you can 
 deffinetly get used to playing this game quickly. The single player is alright, but the multiplayer 
 is what makes this game great. If you want it on computer get the demo here from Gamespot, if you 
 want it on Xbox, get the free demo from the Xbox Live Marketplace, and see if you like it. Trust 
 me this game is a buy for people who are fans of the near future genre, FPS's or massive online 
 battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDustyOne
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Cheap, Boring, Broken. Don't Bother. It is a rip-off of games like battlefield, but not as good. 
 Glitches and lags...
  
  It is filled with places were you can get stuck. It has obviously not been tested by staff; just 
 thrown together. Thank God that none of the designers are God. We would be lagging and glitching 
 through the ground.
  
  Its multi-player setup is worse than any other game that I have played, making you join with just 
 anyone of ANY skill-level.
  
  The guns feel so Been-there-done-that, adding nothing interesting to the mix of your run-of-the-mill 
 M16's and such.
  
  I WOULD tell you to check your bargain bin, but chances are, you already own a better and similar 
 gun game. Don't bother to EVER get this game, unless you find it abandoned on the streets, with 
 no scratches, and with a finders-keepers policy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you don't have Xbox Live, then don't even bother with this game. If you do, then 
 you may want to check it out. Even though the case says that it supports 32 people, in a Ranked 
 match I've seen up to 50 people. This game is very much like the Battlefield series (without destructible 
 environments) in the fact that there is the Assault and Sniper classes and the Spec Ops or whatever. 
 I think that there is about 7 or 8 different classes with their own unique primary weapon and you 
 can choose between being able to get Drones or Airstrikes or whatever. Not to mention the pistol 
 and maybe some C4 or a deployable grenade launcher depending on your class. Also, there is a pretty 
 good range of vehicles available in multiplayer. There are attack helicoptors, transport helicopters, 
 fighter jets, humvee's, heavy tanks, light tanks, and in one level there is a combat bus. Also, 
 the vehicles differ in appearance depending on the team that you are currently on. The maps are 
 pretty good and can suit you for whatever you like to do (snipe, go full-on assault, grenade them 
 from a far distance, whatever) . Also, unless you are currently in a "Squad", there is no way to 
 communicate with teammates. Also, there are five new maps that will be available for download, 
 one is already out and available for a free download and says that there are two new weapons and 
 one new vehicle. Frontlines only drawback is the lag in transferring over to the next round or 
 glitching when the round starts. For instance, once when a match started I was instantaneously 
 killed for falling from a high distance? Frontlines is definately worth playing multiplayer on 
 but the Campaign has no value at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psu5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I read previews for this game, and I was expecting something special, but instead I got THIS.
 
  
  The campaign is just horrible, but it has a great back story, but does a horrible job expressing 
 it in the game.
  
  The Multiplayer is the best part of the game, but not by a longshot. There are a couple of classes 
 to choose from, including snipers, assault rifles, and shotguns. You can tell they haven't spent 
 that much time on servers because they lag out every second. You also have to walk a mile just 
 to find an enemy. The respawning is called deploying, but it is a trainwreck. You have to wait 
 forever to spawn. But the most annoying aspect of the game is the physics. You spend around 2 minutes 
 climbing a tall ladder of a building, just to fall at the top? You also jump off a 2 foot cliff, 
 and are bleeding to death.
  
  Frontlines can be decent at times, but really isn't good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Well originally I played the demo and loved it, well the online portion. Then I played Battlefield 
 Bad Company. Then rented this game and now it just doesn't seem as exciting or good.
  
  For single player I just didn't like it. Kinda boring, like the game really wasn't meant have it 
 or something. Alot of these big battlefield FPS's don't seem meant for AI.
  
  The only thing that really made it fun is the fact its not REALLY far in the future but far enough 
 that you get some pretty cool gadgets that you can see us using in the not to distant future. And 
 like many games you have to earn them. More on that being a negative later. Another fun things 
 is the gameplay seems nice and easy. Its just so simple to do, which once again more on that later 
 being a negative too! And its online is a blast to play.... assuming theres people to play with 
 anymore! Here come the negatives!
  
  When I played this (Juneish 08) there wasn't many people playing this at all online. So for one 
 it was boring unlike when I played the demo online. And second everyone just uses vehicles which 
 makes it less fun as a soldier. Especially the helicopter which has to be one of the most OVERLY 
 simple things I've seen. You could probably cut up some meat with that things blades its so easy 
 and then butter some toast too with the rotors. Its ridiculously easy. Point being he who owns 
 helicopter owns everything.
  
  Another negative is the planet they are on must be a diffrent earth because the physics are funky. 
 Kinda like Quake Wars physics. 
  
  The premise of the control points just doesn't seem to work right in this game unlike in other 
 games. I am not sure why! Maybe its because there wasn't enough people or something but its just 
 played horribly.
  
  Lastly when you first play it you'll think "Wait a sec.... that feature looks EXACTLY like that 
 other games feature!" Because it is. They could have at least been a little creative when using 
 the same idea. Or else people don't feel they are playing something diffrent.
  
  Anyways I'd avoid this game just beacuse SP is boring and frankly theres no one to play online 
 with now that BBC is out and COD 4 is still played like crazy.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines is a perfect example of a THQ game. Terrible graphics, but great sound. Terrible teammate 
 A. I, great enemy A. I. It isn't worth 60 dollars, so if you seriously want to torture yourself, 
 rent it. 
  
  One of the most annoying things about this game is the enemy A. I. They supposedly have the same 
 guns as you, but they shoot EXTREMELY accurately. Also, they have a submachine gun that is far 
 more accurate than a assault rifle. Also, there are some bugs with the cinematics. At the last 
 level, i was fighting COMPLETELY ALONE WITH AT LEAST 40 ENEMIES SURROUNDING ME!! But of course, 
 on the cinematic, there were HUNDREDS OF ALLIES HELPING ME!!! Also, there are occasionally white 
 spots under the ground, so you can't help but feel this game was rushed, and is incomplete. Also, 
 the tanks are extremely frustrating. They tend to drift TOWARDS missiles, and you can't manuever 
 away. Also, at the beginning of the game, they lacked a proper tutorial. When i got into my humvee, 
 I thought someone was driving me while a manned the turret. I was very wrong. I had to drive myself, 
 AND man the turret. Also, the enemies knew EXACTLY when i was coming out of cover. You move left, 
 they shoot at you left, even when you are behind cover.
  
  I would highly recommend staying FAR, FAR away from this one. The only thing that was good about 
 this game was it's beastly sound effects. The poor A. I and the graphics and overall experience 
 were just too bad for me to bear. I think I am being lenient with giving it a 4.5. How could gamespot 
 give it a 7.5??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage5891
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War should more accurately be called "Battlefield: 2042. Almost everything 
 in this game comes straight from the Battlefield games. Although there are a few interesting additions 
 to what would otherwise be an almost perfect replica of the aforementioned series, what is presented 
 here feels very mediocre in comparison.
  
  Graphics: This game looks bland. Seriously. At times, it seems as though the only colors that this 
 game uses are brown and grey. There are two problems that stem from this severe lack of vibrancy 
 in the world. The first problem is that everything looks boring (especially considering there are 
 only two different kinds of environments in the game) . The second problem is it can be very difficult 
 to see enemies that aren't moving because the brown and grey camouflage in the game blends in perfectly 
 with the dusty urban backgrounds. This results in you getting killed far too often by enemies that 
 you cannot see, even if they are in plain sight. Beyond the limited color palette, things look 
 pretty decent. Animations are passable, textures (although bland) seem to be fairly high resolution, 
 and explosions are nice because they break up the monotony of the background. I suppose I should 
 be less harsh about the extremely limited color palette because most of the levels take place in 
 barren wastelands, Russian countryside, or mostly destroyed cities, but you would think that the 
 graphic designers could have used more than a handful of washed-out colors that almost entirely 
 consists of different shades of brown or grey! Although most of the graphical effects look alright, 
 the extremely limited use of colors in this game force me to give the graphical effects a 6/10.
 
  
  Gameplay: If you have ever played a Battlefield game before, you have basically already played 
 Frontlines: Fuel of War. If you have not played a Battlefield game before, it basically consists 
 of choosing a class, joining a squad, and capturing objectives on the map. The single-player mode 
 in this game mixes things up a bit by adding a near-future storyline where most of the Earth's 
 natural resources are diminished and the major super-powers of the world have conglomerated into 
 the Western Coalition, consisting of the U. S. A. and the E. U., and the Red Star Alliance, which 
 is basically a military alliance between China and Russia. In the campaign, you play as a random, 
 unnamed soldier in the Western Coalition and you are tasked with taking over various points on 
 a series of maps set throughout Russian and the surrounding areas. Although the single-player campaign 
 can be fun, it gets a bit boring after only a short period of time because there is nothing to 
 break up the monotony of simply running to the next point on the map and killing all the enemies 
 over and over again. At least the campaign is short. I was able to finish it in an afternoon and 
 I didn't even play particularly well! Dying is only a minor inconvenience because you simply choose 
 a class and respawn at the last point that you took, although it can be a pain having to walk all 
 the way back to where you were before, only to get murdered again and have to repeat the process 
 until you kill all the enemies. At least they give you a decent number of respawns so the game 
 is not overly difficult. Of course, the game could have benefited from more useful friendly AI. 
 Although the enemy AI rarely took cover effectively, at least they attack in large groups and have 
 very good accuracy, forcing you to take cover and carefully murder them one at a time. The friendly 
 AI doesn't seem to know what cover is and their aim is terrible, in fact, I don't recall seeing 
 a friendly soldier kill a single enemy in the entire course of the campaign. A couple of fun things 
 break up the monotony of the game. One of them is the ability to drive various vehicles around 
 and cause chaos. Particularly the heavy tank and the assault chopper are fun to drive around, as 
 they can take a moderate amount of damage and they cause some awesome levels of destruction! The 
 other fun thing you can do is use a handful of disposable unmanned vehicles. There are a couple 
 of mini-choppers and a couple of mini-tanks you can deploy and remotely control to attack enemies 
 while remaining hidden and safe from enemy fire. Although none of the deployable vehicles are very 
 powerful, it is amusing to take out enemy armor with a tiny helicopter armed only with rockets 
 that look more like firecrackers! With all things said and done, it is really too bad that the 
 campaign is so monotonous. Even with the added fun of being able to drive around in vehicles and 
 deploy remote controlled mini-tanks and mini-choppers, you are still basically doing the same thing 
 throughout the game: Running to the next point and killing everybody there. If the campaign had 
 been more fun, I could have given the gameplay elements a higher score than 6/10, but as it stands, 
 the single-player experience is just to tedious, boring, and short to warrant a higher score.
 
  
  Sound: Although the sound effects in this game are passable, nothing really stands out as sounding 
 all that great. Guns shoot and explosions boom and that is about all one can say about the sound 
 effects. Although the music has some good moments, it is still mostly subdued and in the background, 
 so it is easy to miss and quickly forgotten. Many games have used more convincing sounds for the 
 same things, so it would be hard for me to give the sound elements in this game a higher score 
 than 6/10.
  
  Multiplayer: If ever a game seemed like it was made to be a multiplayer game, it would be this 
 one. Large maps with ever-shifting front lines resulting in at least a couple of different objectives 
 available at any given time, plus being able to choose a number of different classes and support 
 abilities. However, even with the best of intentions, this game simply falls apart when played 
 online. For a game that absolutely requires cooperation and teamwork between the players, in all 
 of the games I played online, not a single person was communicating with their microphones. Whether 
 this was due to nobody owning a microphone, or more likely, nobody caring to communicate with their 
 teammates to come up with a workable strategy, in this kind of game, communication is absolutely 
 essential, and without it, all pretenses of strategy disappear and are replaced by random chaos 
 and frustration. Without players communicating, one of the major reasons for forming into squads 
 is gone. Another reason that forming into squads is pointless is because the ability to respawn 
 next to your squad leader is glitched and only works about 20% of the time. The rest of the time, 
 you are either dropped back to the map screen with no stated reason as to why you cannot spawn 
 with your squad leader, or you simply die instantly when you spawn and are forced to wait another 
 5 seconds to respawn, preferably elsewhere so you don't encounter any spawn-related glitches. Making 
 the point of squads totally useless puts yet another nail in the coffin of what should have been 
 a great game to play online. Without any sense of strategy or cooperation, the multiplayer boils 
 down to a bunch of people constantly spawning, running to the nearest objective, and dying. After 
 having done this for several hours, I can honestly say that I cannot think of a game that I have 
 played online recently that I have had this little fun with. The inclusion of such support abilities 
 as calling in airstrikes or using remote controlled drones only further adds to the chaos and aggravation 
 of playing online, as now you are not only being killed by enemies attacking from all sides and 
 being nearly invisible because their drab uniforms are perfectly camouflaged with the drab backgrounds 
 and textures, but you also get constantly murdered by random explosions that appear without warning, 
 and tiny flying choppers and tiny tanks, neither of which will even earn you a point if you somehow 
 do succeed in killing them, because they are unmanned. The final issue I shall bring up is that 
 some of the classes and support abilities are vastly more powerful than the others, so you will 
 usually be killed in the same ways over and over again and wonder why you are the only person using 
 a given class or support power. All of these issues force me to give the online component of this 
 game a 5/10 for being a totally chaotic mess that is in no way fun to play (unless you happen to 
 enjoy dying constantly from enemies that you cannot see) .
  
  Final Verdict: This game is pointless in so many ways. Not only is the online play unbalanced, 
 chaotic, and frustrating, but the single-player campaign is too short and boring to offer much 
 of a respite or help push this game out of the dredges of being average. Although Frontlines: Fuel 
 of War could have been a great game, nothing short of a total re-working could save it from being 
 merely mediocre. Therefore, I am forced to bestow upon this game a ranking of 6/10.
  
  Graphics: 6/10 
  Gameplay: 6/10 
  Sound: 6/10 
  Multiplayer: 5/10 
  Overall: 6/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster12341
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. I rented it because I had played the MP Demo on xbox live. It's campaign was 
 sorta short, but action packed all the way through. Drones never get old, and the vehicles were 
 superbly done. The aircraft handled nicely compared to other games in this genre. All the weapons 
 were great, and handled correctly. Crouching and proning allow better accuracy, which is perfect. 
 The storyline was very interesting, as it is set in the NEAR future, not the FAR future, not the 
 past, not WWII, it's WWIII. What's great is that the storyline is starting NOW, which is new. The 
 spawning system is great, as in campaign, you don't spawn when you die, you redeploy with the same 
 weapons, and can change them as well. You can also change your redeploy spot. The campaign was 
 too short though, and there is rarely that many people online, but the Kaos servers holds 32 people, 
 allowing giant games that almost always have enough room. All in all, it's a great game, and a 
 perfect buy or rent: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game always had great potential it had story it had looks and it had what appeared to be gameplay 
 atleast i thought so untill it got released. Gamespot gave this game a review of 7.5 which in my 
 opinion is pretty accurate. If you are new to this type of gamethen you can probably add another 
 point to that rating to turn it into a 8.5 however if you are a seasoned veteran in BF then this 
 game will feell like a 6.5. it is plagued by dodgy controls that never quiete feel right and a 
 dodgy game engine that seems to love to drop in framerates. if you dont mind flushing 40 down 
 the toilet then its worth getting since the story is pretty intertaining however its not very long. 
 The online multiplayer is intertaining for the first 1 or so since it remains the highest multiplayer 
 game on the 360 (32 players) but this soon wears out as the lack of quality becomes apparent. The 
 only redeemable feature was the ability to select weapon and your "role" were not fixed. Overall 
 forget this game and go get BF: BC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack125
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Frontlines is a game we've seen so many times before. Big maps, and big battles. The only difference 
 is they are not done the best of the developers ability. This game is for people who like big fights, 
 big maps, and long walks. Vehicles are a nice addition, but they are rare to find, and when you 
 do, its stolen by the other 16 players on your team. The good things are the ability to switch 
 abilities from calling in air strikes, to making stationary grenade launchers the entire team can 
 use, and the fights usually are pretty fun, until you die and have to get back at it. The sniper 
 is not all that good and the lag makes it all worse. The sights for all the weapons are all the 
 same and they don't really help. The sound effects from the guns can start to bother you as they 
 sound like bugs flying above you. The graphics could be a little be better and sharper. The amount 
 of weapons in this game could be a little bigger and better. The campaign does not really have 
 a story and is pretty easy. 
  
  bottom line for Frontlines is buy it cheap or skip it entirely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteSnipa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  People often don't observe that this game was developed by a studio without backing from a major 
 company. The developers branched off of the battlefield series and if you enjoy those types of 
 games this one ought to suit well with you. The story follows a growing conflict between the red 
 star alliance (china+ Russia) and the coalition (everyone else with an army) . You play as a unnamed 
 combatant under the stray dog unit. The missions vary in objects and the maps are quite big. Many 
 of the level feature vehicles for your usage. The spawning systems works in the way that every 
 time you capture an objective you can spawn there with you limited number of spawns which varies 
 per level. One of the more impressive displays in the game is that during a level which you mostly 
 play inside tank the red star alliances begins raining tactical nuclear artillery rounds down on 
 the battlefield where your tanks is engaged in combat. The ending of the story is decent but not 
 the best, it does leave the game open to a sequel 
  
  There are a good amount Multi player strays no where away from the vehicles, kits, and large scale 
 battles. The only feature different from other game like battlefield is the frontlines system. 
 Players fight for objectives on the map and lines shown on the mini map shift depending on which 
 team owns which objectives. Once a team clears enough objectives the front lines move up.
  
  Overall this game is really worth a rent, there is some value but not a lot. I am a fan of 
 the battlefield series so thats why i gave this the classification of it growing on a person. When 
 I first picked the controller up to play it, I knew i was not going to be playing halo 3. This 
 game is hard to rate because it plays to battlefield and sandbox loving fans. In general I would 
 rate it a 7.0 but if you like battlefield you should look into renting this if you have spare time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorns301
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I came in to this game with a mindset of cod4 is getting kinda old time for a new shooter. Wrong! 
 Every mission is super easy that takes you maybe an hour at the most if ur like me and like to 
 do secondary objectives etc.
  
  the aiming system is horrible especially with the sniper. The graphics are pathetic and the AI 
 is retarded. They will have no idea that someone is right behind them then when the guy next to 
 them dies with a scream they just stand there.
  
  Multiplayer is not much better. it takes 20 minutes to find a match then unless ur in a vehicle 
 (which arent easy to come by sense ur side only starts out with a couple) you have to run half 
 way across the battlefield only to find that no one there and when u finnally find someone they 
 either kill u becaue of the horrible cover system or u get run over. but once u do get a vehicle 
 nothing is more rewarding then splattering some unsuspecting victim. all in all this game needed 
 a couple more months in the desinging room before it was released on shelfs. the storlyline is tremendious 
 just lacking solid game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rharrigal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I really liked the multiplayer of this game. There were huge servers and large scale vehicle wars. 
 All the guns felt balanced, and it was just cool. But after trying the DEMO of the single player, 
 I did not even touch it. Thats right. I bought the game and did not touch the singleplayer. And 
 if that was not enough, even the multiplayer was only decent. Filled with the Classic war torn 
 world of the future, Almost every map was a desert. And there are really only six real guns, they 
 just look different from one team to another. The roles arre cool, but they only give a small addition 
 because there is no progression system. There are leaderboards, but these were just standard. And 
 matches also dropped out one in every five times. For a game famed for dedicated servers, this 
 was a big dissapointment. So overall, yes I liked Frontlines mutliplayer. But It was only ok and 
 the single player was awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  I was given this game for my birthday and thought it looked alot like BF and the truth is it is 
 alot like BF but who cares!
  
  First the graphics in the game are good not amazing but good and the environments look good and 
 add to the game. The gameplay is fast paced and after getting used to the controls (stuck in CoD4 
 m mode) I quickly enjoyed the gameplay and the story. In my opinion the story is the best part 
 of this game as it portrays a rather bleak future where the US and Europe once again unite to defend 
 against the Russians and Chinese. Although we have seen this story alot of times before I just 
 thought the inclusion of the lack of oil and the West running low on food and supplies as a consequence 
 as being a bit fresh and different.
  
  The multiplayer again is good but not great but does add length to the game as the campaign is 
 quite short.
  
  Overall I would say this game is good but could have been better if they improved the graphics 
 and made the campaign a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  With the releases of GTA, COD 4, and Battlefield Bad Company soon approaching it seems that Frontlines: 
 Fuels of War is often passed by most people. Frontlines brings the battlefield into the future 
 with the options to deploy unmanned vehicles and sentrys to eliminate the opposition. 
  
  For the most part, Frontlines stands out from the battlefield games in that it abandons the capture 
 the flag gameplay and brings forth the unique frontline objectives found in both the singleplayer 
 and multiplayer experiences. 
  
  The single player is subpar when it comes to first person shooters. It isn't as good as Call of 
 Duty 4, but it isn't complete trash. The main complaint with the single player is that it's just 
 too short. In addition, the single player achievements are relatively easy to get to increase your 
 gamertag score. 
  
  The multiplayer is where you will spend the portion of your gaming experience. There you can choose 
 from player matches or ranked matches, unfortunately the as I write this review the ranked matches 
 are dead and non-existent. There are 50 and 32 player caps and KAOS supported servers with minimal 
 lag. The graphics are average, nothing spectacular compared to COD 4, GTA 4, and other games out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueguykisame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game gets an 8.5/10 from me. This game reminds me alot of Tom Clancy's GRAW2, but Frontline's 
 single player mode is a little short, I rented it from blockbuster and beat it within a weak [an 
 hour here and there] . For the time that the game does last, it is extremely fun. There are several 
 difficulties for the advanced gamers, and for the newbies. The graphics are good, the levels I 
 found to be very fun. If you dont have Xbox live DO NOT buy this game, it is extremely fun but 
 only has a renter. However if you do have Xbox live this game could go either way; buy it if you'd 
 like, or rent it. It's not as good as CoD4, but it is still fun with all the deadly gadgets. The 
 story line is alright; nothing special but not bad. When you beat it, you will wish for more levels... 
 It's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  ONE OF THE BEST FIRST PERSON SHOOTER GAMES OUT THERE 
  I JEST LOVED THE ACTION AND BOMS THE STORY LINE WAS GREAT 
  AND THE GUNS ARE VERY POWER FULL 
 IT A SOILD SHOOTER 
  VERY FUN YOU GET HOOCKED ON IT PRETTY GOOD 
  I PLAYED IT FOR LIKE 3 WEEKS I JEST LOVED IT THE COMUNITY 
  AND GRAFICS ARE GOOD AND COOL AND 
 YOUR TEAM IS VERY GOOD 
  THAT YOU GET IN THE GAME ITS ONE OF THE BEST SCI FI FIRST PERSON SHOOTERS I ENJOYED IT ALOT THE 
 MAKERS DESERVE A BIG THANKS AND GAMESPOT FOR HAVEING HOASTING THIS GAME ON HERE BUT I DIDENT LIKE 
 THAT ITS ONLY FOR XBOX360 THO A LITTLE
  DISSAPOINTMINT NOT A BIG ONE BUT A LITTLE BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE DONT HAVE A 360 AND THEY RILLY WONT 
 IT JEST A LITTLE ADVISE AND I THINK THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST GAME IV PLAYED 
  I WILL RECAMEND IT TO ALOT OF PEOPLE THAT LIKE FIRST PERSON
  SHOOTERS ENJOY YOUR SELF AND IM 
 OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Well I had heard a pretty good bit of stuff before this games demo was realesed and I was expecting 
 something very innovative and great and from the demo's standpoint it just wasn't to good. But I 
 rented the game mainly just for the multiplayer which is huge with 64 people battling in intense 
 battles. But that is for later on back to the beggining. So I rented the game and started out with 
 the story mode and from the beggining the story sounded great you are out of oil....... well sounds 
 kinda plain but I liked it. The battles in story mode is good but could have been a little better 
 but if I could give this two classification's I would give it innovative and suprisingly good, because 
 the little Helicopters and little cars and tank looking things is so sweet. I would love to see 
 that in the next COD game but wait it is going back to WWII! There is a nice size of weapons well 
 there is class'es like  enemy AI is hard to explain because sometimes 
 they can be smart and flank you but sometimes they just shoot in the other direction and let you 
 kill them. But the friendly AI is easy to explain you define it as really frreakin bad. They don't 
 help you at all. Another argument I got is the controls of the tanks/helicopters/jeeps they are 
 horrible I mean you control the steering with just the analog stick but no not with both but with 
 just one you will find yourself dying more than a Red Sox fan in the Bronx. The story mode is a 
 decent size and the maps are nice. The story is the lenth that I wont in games I mean I didn't beat 
 it in seven hours but it didn't take me eighteen hours to beat it either in games like GTA 4 it 
 is okay to have a huge single player but war games if you got a large story then I really don't 
 enjoy it.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: Like I said a little while ago the multiplayer is chaotic and huge. You will have no 
 problem getting a at least 40 man game going which is amazing right there but when you get a 64 
 man game going it is freaking godly. There is nice maps and the game types are so fun and entertaining. There 
 is no lag at all that I experienced, so real smooth online.
  
  
  
  Re-play value: There is nice bit of replay value on this one because of the pretty good suprising 
 story and the amazing multiplayer. But the usally bad AI will turn off some people from this game.
 
  
  
  
  End It! Well all-in-all this game was a great new taste to war shooters with the innovative items 
 and weapons. But I can't get over two things the great multiplayer and the bad AI. But to me this 
 is definately a rent and for some big shooter fans this is a buy.
  Real Score:7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinegrinder17
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The game gets a 7 out of its gameplay. A 7 for me is not good. The game has a very small inventory 
 of weapons and i do not like the aiming system. All flying vehicles are basically helicopters and 
 the one player is pretty much the online maps (from what i played) made into stupid objectives. 
 Now the reason it DESERVES a lower rating are the glitches and lag. Many glitches. Much lag. This 
 game does not deserve an 8 so do not bother to read a review that gives it so or higher. If you 
 must try this game RENT IT FIRST. The good things about this game. Loads of vehicles, the weapons 
 they have are pretty cool, there are three levels to each class and the maps are sweet. I can see 
 people liking this game but that is thier personality. The game ears itself a 7. Do not trick yourself 
 either. The first 2 hours of playing you will probably think the game rocks, but you will soon 
 see all the problems and how dull it is. Play till your bored the see if your really want to buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines is placed in the near future where weapons have gone advanced. Things called recon drones 
 have been invented. Such as a "RC" helicopter that can find enemies and outline them and can also 
 explode killing anyone near it. Or a "RC" car that if it goes under a tank and explodes with completely 
 destroy it. Or a "RC" tank thing that shoots machine gun bullets or grenades that explode on impact. 
 Frontlines has a interesting story. Like Al Gore got his message through this game. In the game 
 it says the world runs out of oil and China and Russia gang up and blame the U. S. A for all of this. 
 So I guess they have a war. The guys in this game remind me of the soldiers of GRAW, because of 
 the eye thing. One thing I don't like about this game is how many shots it takes to kill the enemy. 
 If i shoot a guy 2 times with a sniper rifle he should be dead. Some parts in this game are pure 
 awesome like when a atomic bomb hits... twice! Your in the tank and debris is falling everywhere. 
 You have to shoot other tanks while another atomic bomb falls and it's just really amazing how 
 it looks. One thing i also don't like is that when your team mates die they don't come back in 
 a long time. You could be on your own for a while. I wish some of them can't die like in Call of 
 Duty series. Multiplayer is fun, because of the helicopters, recon drones, tanks, jeeps, and all 
 the guns and equipment you can have. There are classes that if you get enough kill you can do different 
 things. Like a engineer or someone who like being a frontline guns blazing kind of person would 
 have a repair system for repairing tanks or vehicles and then would level up and get a machine 
 gun turret. Or a machine that shoots people for you. Or if your a sniper you could have airstrikes.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Story: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound 9:
  
  Overall: 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storyteller213
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 29, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  What Would Battlefield Be Like WITHOUT All The Bugs, Exploiters, and a Better Multiplayer Model? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gial240
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines is a very good game if you exclude the fact that it is very short. I was able to beat 
 the single player campaign in 7 hours (2 Days) . It would have been much nicer to have more missions 
 but it's to late to ask for it now.
  
  The gameplay for the game is very good. A standard FPS game with very easy controls and a wide 
 variety of vehicles and weapons to use against ther Red Star army. Vehicle control is a little 
 hard on some rides like the Jeep and Drone Tank but you get used to it fairly quickly. 
  
  The game has good physics but the dead bodies of Red Star will somtime fly a few metres back even 
 if you shot him in the leg with a pistol. Not much of a problem but it does seem kind of odd. For 
 example, your in the middle of a heavy battle against the Red Star so you decide to run back and 
 find a good place to snipe them. Your first target is shot and falls easily. Your second target 
 also falls easily and realisticly in a way. Your third target is shot in the front of the head 
 with a sniper but his head still flies forward; leading to his death on the ground full of smoke 
 and rubble.
  
  The Graphics for Frontlines are probably 8/10. The effects and Lighting is done very well but the 
 Character models are a little bland. Other than the models, the Graphics for the game is pretty 
 good.
  
  The Achievments for the game are challenging. They are both Multiplayer and Single player achievements 
 that have to do with Accuaracy, Not dying, Completing Levels, Killing Streaks, and a few more. 
 I personally don't play a game again to get acheivement points but others who do should have fun 
 playing it again.
  
  Overall, this game deserves more than Gamespot gave it. I give it an 8.5 because of the Gameplay 
 and variety of vehicles and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsniper177
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  to be perfectly honest frontlines was good but not great, the campaign was fun but very annnoying 
 at times and the same with online play, but if you can avoud these annoyances the game is actually 
 quite good and deserves some respect, however it is now sitting in my sometimes played pile sorry 
 to say but i expected a little more from this game, but it was enjoyable but only for a short while 
 i firmly believe that there are better shooters out there, the campaign mode is fun but confusing 
 at times, and the online is more fun than challenging, it all depends on what sort of gamer you 
 are, i personaly prefer more of a challenge which this game does not give to full satifaction more 
 for the young teenager gamer, ENJOY!
  
  
  you shuld play COD 4 for more excitment, but frontlines is better but only for a few days
  
 
  gamertag-shadowsniper177
  xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is like nothing i've seen before in any of my intense gaming experiences. 
 The ability to take objectives as you please and respawn when you die gives it a multiplayer sort 
 of feel even when your just playing single player, and also makes it perfect for multiplayer, which 
 it actually strives in, and seems to be built for. If you crack down on this game hard, you will 
 have the single player campaigne beat in no time, but like i said, when you take it online, it 
 moves to a whole different, more action packed, level. Does screaming teammates, flying shrapnel, 
 and large scale battle appeal to your gaming hunger? Then grab the keys to you hum-vee or heavy 
 tank, and crash your way down the road to your nearest EB Games and buy this damn game! Oh, and 
 don't forget the Red Bull, this ones gonna be an all nighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiny2x4
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  You just have to give it some time. Once you get used to it you'll love it. Trust me. The campaign 
 is a little short but still very good. Once Kaos gets this update then the game will be a hit. 
 They'll fix the whole spawn killing thing and make the sentry turrets a little weaker. The one 
 thing I noticed is not all the weapons are in the multiplayer. Like the M333 Threesome Machine 
 Gun. Also I've never flown the RS transport helicopter. They also need to make the transport helicopters 
 more agile. I know they shouldn't be able to turn on a dime but still, they turn slow as anything. 
 It's crazy. I just hate that in these reviews how long they have to be. I have said all I've needed 
 to say so I don't know why you are reading this part because it is a waste of time. Lalal alala 
 lalal al alala lalalalala lal alala l alalalal alalala. I hope that that is at least 800 characters. 
 Why 800? Why not 700 or 600. O' well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Another great game by THQ developed by Kaos Studios. Nowadays, we have lots of FPS games being 
 published but not great at all. Although, Frontlines is able to stand up with its quality and fun 
 in gameplay.
  
  Set in near future, Western Coalition is fighting against the Red Star Alliance. The only cause 
 for war is, natural source which the nations are not able to share it out. There is no hero in 
 this game. You play as one of the private soldiers with no name. Every time you die, you play as 
 another random soldier but your progress doesn't reset from a checkpoint but in cost of Redeploy 
 points.
  
  The game offers loads of weapons, vehicles, missions and enemies but during the campaign mode, 
 you may not have the chance to use some of the weapons and vehicles which you can only use in multiplayer 
 mode. There isn't a proper place in the campaign to use them.
  
  The graphics are not bad at all but still the environmental objects does have real bad graphics 
 even if it is using Unreal Engine. The sound effects are awesome though. You are going to love 
 to hear the explosions and gun blazes coming from every angle. The gameplay is not hard at all. 
 Your character is pretty strong and able to stand against heavy damage, which you don't die easily. 
 The enemies have good AI and can be challenging sometimes. They duck, take cover, attack on your 
 vehicle with rocket launchers, running away from your remote controlled machines etc. You have 
 variety of different machine guns to use both from your allies and your enemies. Nearly all weapons 
 support scope which makes easier in shooting. Shotguns have long range of firing and still effective. 
 Remote controlled weapons are fun to use like RC machine gun tank or RC explosive chopper. Most 
 of the time in the game, you have to capture enemy bases by standing inside it for a time. You 
 have the ability to mount portable machines and rail guns and use them or plant a AI controlled 
 turrets to make it easier. After capturing the base you can unpack them again and carry with you. 
 Although you may find some trouble in reloading the weapons because it is very slow.
  
  The campaign mode is incredibly short but challenging. You will have lots of fun in shotting down 
 loads of enemies. After completing the game, play the multiplayer mode or go to bonus content and 
 check out the weapons, vehicles and tools with in the game and learn out their specifications. 
 Other than that you are able to watch lots of nice cinematic cutscenes.
  
  In the end, it is a nice game and much better than those other low quality FPS games. The campaign 
 mode is short and not enough to use all of the weapons. I suggest, rent it first and unlock couple 
 of achievements on your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines tries to revolutionize the fps formula. Let's get this out of the way now. It doesn't. 
 I've played worse games, and mechanically it's sound... but it just isn't fun, and certainly not 
 worth 60$. So here we go:
  
  First off, many thanx to the fella who recommended I buy this game right after finishing rainbow 
 six. yeah, right... So thanx Mr. F..... you know who you are.
  
  So what's wrong with the game? Well a lot. it controls like a pretty vintage fps, all very straightforward. 
 But it doesn't do anything new. it does stuff "knew". which is to say, all innovations that gamers 
 have known since Halo. And no this is not a complimentary comparison. The original Halo was pretty 
 slow in it's control and response. So is F. O. W.
  
  On a bright note, the story concept is near-future apocalyptic, and is well-crafted. Which only 
 adds to the disbelief and dissapointment once you start playing. And it steals, or "cribs" to an 
 almost obscene degree: the cinematics are poor copies of cod4, and the vehicle mechanics are direct 
 theft of the warthog from halo.
  
  The first time you fire your assault rifle (in the first 30 seconds of play) you immediately know 
 something isn't right here. Weapons fire have virtually no rumble effects, and -completely- nonexistent 
 recoil. Your gun fires like a mini-gun, and is always perfectly steady. The tracer rounds on weapons 
 fire is so profuse it looks cartoony; like you're shooting yellow banana bullets at the baddies. 
 
  
  The a. i. is insultingly laughable. Fortunately the future enemies of our "coalition" are apparently 
 all autistic, and in a drug-induced haze... awesome!
  
  The drone usage is a really cool idea, but they control so poorly, the excitement dies almost as 
 soon as you take control of them.
  
  Finally there is the level design and progression method. It's very disjoint, and compartmentalized 
 which makes you feel like your squad is alone in an empty world, with no sense of urgency, not 
 like a tense setpiece of warfare, ala cod4.
  
  The save slots make the entire game appear arcade-y, and broken up for quick bits of action. In 
 and of itself, this is not bad, until you slap a 60$ price tag on it. This game would have been 
 fun and perfectly acceptable... an xbox live arcade download at even 1600pts. As a retail title 
 however; Frontlines Fuel of War is an unmitigated failure both as a revolution, and as a serviceable 
 first person shooter.
  
  Sorry frontlines, you are relieved of duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Though the single player campaign is short the gun play is fun and enjoyable. I dislike the sniper 
 rifle in the game as one shot is definitely not a kill. But all in all the game was put together 
 pretty well. I enjoyed running and gunning and rushing into battle to advance my squad to advance 
 the line. I definitely suggest people try it out just to play and wait for it to drop in price. 
 I have not played it online and would assume it kicks ass. I enjoy the fact that you can switch 
 between classes before respawning, and the use of the drones are pretty fun, but not always available, 
 at least in the single player campaign.
  the characters in the game are well done and the frontlines are amazing as the troops shout out 
 to advance and what not. If you find the game to look interesting i suggest renting it and trying 
 it out to see if you'll like it. For me I think its a fun game that I would wait for to hit the 
 bargain bin, since the single player campaign isn't long . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Now frontlines promised fun from the very start and what was it... 32 player online. While the 
 live came through and can sometimes be fun (if you can find anyone - which i couldn't) , the fun 
 of the game didnt really come through.
  
  Maybe its Gears of Wars fault that i didn't like this game that much. See before my friend gave 
 me this game i replayed through the whole Gears story again and fell in love with it... again. 
 Now after playing through a great game like that, with a great - powerful storyline, great characters, 
 great combat - heck just great everything - and coming into the story of Frontlines, well you could 
 say i wasn't too impressed.
  
  The first player storyline is the most clichae (dont think i spelt that right but who cares) storyline 
 i've seen in quite sometime. Your a soildier right, mixed in the fight for oil all over the world. 
 It's just gay little moments for instance one moment when the squad leader yells out to his troops 
 that (and it goes something like this) now we as a squad have been getting some bad raps lately, 
 and so we need to get out there and show them what were made of ", any way it goes on like that 
 for the whole story basically.
  
  The visuals and combat are also extremely bland, same old news im afraid from this shooter. I guess 
 the only thing that spices things up is the ability to control droids and use them to do your bidding, 
 so you get to laugh a couple of times as you fly a remote control behind somebody and blow it up.
 
  
  The only real good thing to come out of this game is the multiplayer. If you can find a large game 
 on the net then usually it's worth playing but with low numbers it lacks depth. 
  
  Also the game features a wide variety of vehicles but there surprisingly stupid and hard to control, 
 ruining the experience for everyone.
  
  Overall the game is a pretty bland and sort of already done game. With infuriating vehicle controls, 
 a poor storyline and poor characters and i forgot to mention this earlier but poor map design, 
 this game should be overlooked and put to use as very painful toilet paper, a must miss for basically 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel Of War brings you into a not to distant future war. (Year 2024 to be precise) 
 The whole story is in the midst of a global energy crisis. As oil dwindles relations between the 
 East and West become strained. This causes new alliances to be formed. The two major alliances 
 in the Frontlines era are the Western Coalition, consisting of the United States and the European 
 Union, and the Red Star Alliance made up of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of 
 China. As oil fields start to dry up the countries move to secure what resources are left. This 
 leads to several small outbreaks that turn quickly into full scale war. The story is told through 
 someone else's point of view instead of a faceless soldier. The story is told through a journalist 
 embedded with the company "Straight Dogs". So everything is told through the eyes of the journalist. 
 Which is a nice change of pace for story telling.
  
  The campaign can easily be finished in one sitting. The campaign is pretty much a huge tutorial 
 for you to understand how the online multiplayer will work. One problem that makes the campaign 
 so easy is that fact that you get several respawns. Each objective you complete the more respawns 
 you'll earn. Which will leave you with so many respawns that you'll have no problem going through 
 this game on Normal. Another problem that I found is that during supposed high tension moments 
 don't feel so high tension. You'll find yourself going "That's it?" or "Haven't I seen this in 
 another game?" So don't expect an epic campaign. 
  
  But lets be honest, you didn't look at this game for the single player. You looked at it because 
 of its battlefield Esq. multiplayer. Multiplayer is pretty much Battlefield but more unified. What 
 makes the mutliplayer even more intense is the destructible environments. It takes teamwork to 
 push the frontline forward. In order to push the frontline forward you have to complete certain 
 objectives. Such as secure a station or take over a computer station. The more objectives you take 
 the more the frontline moves up. So it really feels like a power struggle in multiplayer. Another 
 astonishing thing is the online play supports up to 50 players through dedicated servers. This 
 makes for some hectic battles. The sad thing is that this can be hit or miss. Sometimes the games 
 run super smooth without any problems. Other times it gets really bad lag. Another thing that this 
 game has in common with Battlefield is the unit class. You have your standard Anti-Vehicle, Assault, 
 Heavy Assault, Sniper, Special Operations and Close Combat. What makes this game different from 
 Battlefield are the roles you can take. Some of the roles are Ground Support is your basic repair 
 guy, EMP Tech can disable vehicles with EMPs, Drone Tech can take control of drones such as mini 
 helicopters, and Air Support which will give you the ability to call in air strikes. These roles 
 help level the playing field so no one can spam, camp, ECT. Frontlines shipped with a total of 
 eight multiplayer maps. The maps range in size and location from a small city block to a solar 
 array over 4 square miles in size
  
  The basic controls are solid and simple. They are pretty easy to get used to. A is to jump, B is 
 to melee, X is to interact, Y is to change your weapon. The right trigger is for primary fire, 
 left trigger is for secondary fire / throw grenade. The left bumper is to reload / Pick up drone 
 or deployable.
  
  Sound in this game is basic yet very powerful. Some of the guns sound generic, but they still seem 
 to pack a punch when firing the weapons. You also hear soldiers shouting orders. So over all it's 
 pretty decent. 
  
  Graphics are good. This game was made with the Unreal Technology. So you should know what to expect 
 on the front. Some maps are murky while some maps look beautiful. But the graphics can be forgiven 
 because the maps are so huge. 
  
  So if you're in the mood for another Battlefield Esq. game with some twists this game is for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines fuel of war is pretty much based off of the Battlefield series, which is pretty good. 
 I will just start off with the single player. The story has to do with the world in a serious Oil 
 crisis and Europe and the U. S team up to take on russia and china for the remaining oil supplies. 
 The story is a little Bleak but could have done alot better if Kaos should a little bit more of 
 just Military personal talking and that just makes the Narrative a litlle boring and does not hae 
 much emotion to it. But a far as the Single player goes it is pretty good. The Enemy A. I is smart, 
 good graphics, and Great weapons such as Remote controled drones. But the most serious problem 
 wih the Single player is that the Teammate A. I sucks bad. They fall behind, get stuck going across 
 obstacles, and run into Enemy fire and Get cut down leaving you to do most of the work. Another 
 Problem is that it is short, I ended up finishing the Game on Normal in just under 8 hours. which 
 is short for the Average shooter coming out these days. The Multiplayer however can get you Hooked 
 and can last you a good amount of Fun. But there is not much Original to it either. You battle 
 with 6 differents classes, in up to 50 player Multiplayer matches across 8 maps. There is also 
 no lag since Kaos has put p Dedicated servers which is a big plus when it comes to shooters. If 
 yo dont care abou Originality and just want to get in 50 player matches and start shooting people 
 the Frontlines Fuel of war might be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregoryssharp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to write a review simply based on the single player campaign, and declare Frontlines a 
 great work of art. But I waited to get deep into the online multiplayer. Graphically, wonderful. 
 Not quite as photorealistic as COD4. (But COD4 is a new milestone no one has caught up with quite 
 yet, in my opinion.) Sound effects are freakin' awesome! Wonderful attention put into the realism 
 of the explosions and distant battles. (I was in the Army so I can say this) . One of my favorite 
 gleaming bright gems of this game is the RC styled weapons. One is a suicide bomber helicopter. 
 You control it safely from a distance with a video screen controller; once you get to your target 
 you detonate it! Beautiful! Then the game flashes back to you holding your RC controller with snow 
 on the video display (Because your little Copter exploded!) You have the option of First or third 
 point of view. Other RC copter styled has little rockets on it, fired correctly, it can even give 
 a tank a run for it's money. There's an RC styled treaded vehicle with a mini machine gun. It's 
 nice to sit safely in a corner somewhere and sick one of these on an enemy group. These vehicles 
 are prone to damage though, so you will have to be careful and not let them take too much damage. 
 1/1 scaled vehicles include helicopters, tanks and other vehicles. Just a thought here, and this 
 may seem silly but with the size of some of the maps, why couldn't you ride the bicycles laying 
 around instead of running the areas. I mean, the closest vehicle is half a map away and you're 
 running past bicycles! Just a thought. Hey, if I can dodge traffic in real life on a bike!
  In multiplayer there are a couple things I liked, like when your airship's health is near to none, 
 and you know one more hit and you're a goner, you can bail out, and pop your parachute. So you 
 don't have to go down with your ship. I've been going back and forth COD4 to Frontlines, and in 
 the end Frontlines is as least as fun and playable. It's going in my permanent Xbox 360 collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Let me start off with the bad things about this game that pretty much rips the concept off Battlefield 
 wich is a problem with this game in its own rights to
  
  1. No spawn Shields make Spawn camping as easy 1 2 3 and mean with these little drone tanks that 
 you put down make it more annoying (Spawn camping mainly is on the map Invasion so watch it if 
 your the Coalition)
  
  2. Singal Player is short and simple
  
  3. problem with your NAT needing to be open wich affects the games you can join and games you can 
 host
  
  4. Straight out of Battlefield Basically Team killing thats it nothing really add to that prized 
 formula just a different Mode of play to top it off
  
  5. Trucks Tanks and Choppers handle Like crap
  
  6. Weapons are under powerd like it Takes 30 
 bullets to kill someone and added all weapons are not to fun to use
  
  ok i now say the little stuff i like
  (lol)
  
  
  1. Graphics are good
  
  2. ok Story 
 i suppose
  
  thats it overall this game is just Crap i mean maybe a rental but in my Opinion this is the worst 
 thing thats happened to a game like Battlefield sence...... oh wait this is the only bad one nice 
 try to replacate Battlefield but you kinda layed down at the end 
  
  
  Creatureriseing Out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkman98
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Nice concept but very poorly done. bullets go everywhere except where you aim. Lacks a lot of features 
 that were advertised as being in the game, most ppl can't even get the game to work on there system. 
 I'll admit the single player game has a great storyline but is extremely short. from the time I 
 installed the game to the time I beat the SP game was 5.5 hrs. The developers are on the forums 
 quite often but always seem to give the same answers to every question,"We are reviewing it and 
 will release info when we come to a decision". It amazes me that this game seems to get such good 
 reviews on websites but on the official Kaos forums nothing but complaints. You can't even give 
 it away on ebay. Maybe one day they'll get it right but I fear It will be well too late to save 
 the game. All in all I say save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Ok so like most games of its kind Frontline Fuels of War is a multiplayer based game. Most fps 
 have a story mode that lasts you a good 4 to 5 hours and you can play ovre and over (like halo 
 3)
  
  Problem with this game is
  1. Weak Story, short cutscenes
  2. Same old thing over and over again (take over spots and kill people)
  3. Unless you have Xbox 
 live it is 1 player, soooo boring
  4. The whole weapon system is weak
  
  I have beaten story mode (very boring) and tried Xbox Live. The difference is amazing. Xbox live 
 is great!!
  
  So my recomendation is rent if you want a story mode game and prepare to be disapointed. If you 
 have Xbox Live rent it first too, just to see if you like it.
  
  Ranking
  
  Graphics:
  9/10
  
  Multiplayer
  10/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Value
  5/10
  
  
 Story Mode
  5/10
  
  So 36/50
  72%
  7.2/10
  
  I hope you agree with this, sorry if you dont
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THATguy-27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines is a great game especially the online multi-player. The gameplay is just challenging 
 enough to test your skills but still let you have a fun time playing it. The sniping is a bit difficult 
 but you will eventually be the best out there. I think one of the best in-game features is when 
 you get killed and you are able to chose a new set of weapons to suit the situation, weather you 
 need to shoot somebody in the face 100 yards away or blast their face all over the side of a tree. 
 The vehicle contorls aren't that game considerating that you have to drive and shoot and the same 
 time which, (and I speak for myself when I say, ) is fairly difficult even when you get the hang 
 of the controls. One thing that is really helpful, no matter where you are, are the air-strike 
 targeters that (oddly enough) you can just find lying around at many of the front lines. Always 
 remember, you have grenades. I always forget that and right when I remember... BAM!!! I'm dead. 
 And thats the end of that... untill I redeploy :P. If you liked my review just PM me and tell me 
 how it was... or not =^) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaindog666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I've read the reviews all over the internet and I hate seeing this game get 9/10s from some reviewers 
 and then 6.5/10s from others. 
  This is an excellent game. I've been waiting for a battlefield 2 style multiplayer objective based 
 game to come to 360 for a long time. This game completely delivers on what I've been waiting for. 
 
  The multiplayer maps are amazing, there may only be 8 different maps but they're all completely 
 different. YOU WILL find AT LEAST one that you'll just love to play.
  The load outs / weapons are pretty standard I have to agree, but the roles are very interesting 
 and you really need to choose what's appropriate for the situation.
  I think people who don't like this game probably don't like working with team mates. Sure, you're 
 gonna have a favorite loadout and role that you like to use, but depending on the map your on and 
 what other people on your squad are using you may need to change up your style.
  The vehicles do feel strange at first, but you get used to the controls pretty fast so I wouldn't 
 even consider that to be a problem.
  As for the single player campaign, stop complaining about it! This was designed to be a multiplayer 
 game, I didn't expect much from the single player game. Personally, I'm glad they put it in. It's 
 still pretty fun to plow through.
  BOTTOM LINE:
  Don't go by the reviews online. Too many people are comparing it to COD4 or Battlefield 2 or Halo 
 3. DON'T DO THAT.
  If you liked Battlefield 2 buy this game. period.
  Rent the game an play it for yourself if your not sure. I bought it and there's tones of people 
 online so I'm obviously not the only one who loves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is actually really good, besides the ground vehicle and jet controls. The jet controls 
 are very awkward and take quite alot of practice to get used to. The tank and jeep controls are 
 bad and sometimes it feels like you have square tires. But other than that this game is good. With 
 many different classes to choose from and 4 different specialties to pick its easy to adjust to 
 your opponents different strategies. The multiplayer actually does a good job of basically letting 
 you do what you want. Snipers can snipe with ease, the vehicle whores get all the vehicles they 
 want, the rocket people get their fix with a lock on rocket launcher, and the run and gunners have 
 the heavy, rifleman, and command units to pick from.
  
  Really the only thing that separates this game from the others is the lack of a open chat system. 
 Players have to either form or join a squad to communicate with other players. So cooperating with 
 teammates never really happens. Single player is a blast until you have to get in a ground vehicle 
 but its short. Your teammate AI is trash and they never really back you up.
  
  Like I said above this game made me laugh and have a really good time. This game is mostly about 
 having fun. Like running jets into helicopters, running jets into jets, running jets into ground 
 vehicles, shooting aircrafts down with rockets, and planting C4 on enemy vehicles and waiting for 
 an unsuspecting player to board it and blowing it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Fuel Of War does show that it has the potential to be a good game but that's just it good. This 
 is the same storyline we've all seen again and again. And how about a little orginality? Fuel problems 
 from GOW and more Russians? I am sick of fighting Russians. Do something else. The Weapon system 
 in this game is extremely odd. The sniper rifle is virtually useless. So if your new to this game 
 or thinking about buying it and reading this review.... the sniper is almost as in-effective as 
 your pistol. It takes 3-4 shots to kill someone. The heavy machine gun is more accurate. Character 
 development is awful. I dont know who my guy is, who my commander is, who that press guy is, or 
 who my squadmates are. I dont even know who the general in cheif is or who the head Russians are. 
 Ovearll a decent game but incredibly sloppy. It seems as if they rushed to get this on the shelves. 
 But for anyone reading this review if you havent bought this yet and your holding this game and 
 Call Of Duty 4 looking to see which one to buy please FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!!! buy Call Of Duty 4. 
 This is a stricly rental only game. Going to its only strenghts the multi-player is fantastic but 
 thats it. Its striclty a online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1907
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuels of War is your basic war game. Takes place in 2024 and oil has run out which 
 has caused a huge war which is basically World War 3. The game makes go to objectives and capture 
 a base or ammo depot, or even capturing a computer. Which this sounds fun but gets very reptetative 
 for all you have to do is blow something up or capture things. 
  The game has unique controls but also this can be its downfall. Driving in this game is more to 
 just get you from place to place not to kill. The controls aren't very fun for you shoot and drive 
 at the same time.
  The gameplay is pretty good but not great. It has pretty destructible environments. The guns you 
 have are usually the only ones you'll have but every once in a while you'll have a drone or a rocket 
 launcher. You can't pick up anyone else's weapon. All though you can change your class weapons 
 are very limiting. Then there's physics. There so unreal you'll laugh.
  So all in all the game is fun but not really worth buying unless for the multiplayer. I haven't 
 played it myself but I heard it was so good that multiplayer makes is worth the money all by itself. 
 SO if you want a war game your better off with Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rpger159
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  So, I have been waiting to get this game, or at least rent it from my video store, for the past 
 two weeks. I was so excited to finally get this game, but as soon as the menu came up, I was already 
 disappointed. First off, it had no split screen multiplayer co-op. Secondly, it only had about 
 seven or eight missions to play, which are kind of repetitive if you ask me. The single player 
 mode is also incredibly easy since it is nearly impossible to die unless you blow yourself up. 
 
  
  The weapons on the other hand are pretty sweet, but the weapons you hardly ever see in other games 
 you hardly ever use. The one weapon that is a real letdown is the sniper. You can't hit someone 
 with that thing worth your life. Either that, or the enemies have more life than imaginable. If 
 you think you've played a game almost exactly like this, you probably have.
  
  The good:
   Multiplayer on Xbox live is most likely enjoyable.
   Sounds are nice
   The Places you battle 
 are somewhat cool.
   Some great weapons
  
  The Bad:
   Single player is incredibly short
   No split screen multiplayer or co-op.
   You NEVER get 
 a game over
   You start out with about 5 or 6 lives, so the game itself is easy.
   The game seems like a lot of other FPS's
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I could describe this Frontlines: Fuel of War with one word if I had to. INSANE. Yes, this game 
 is insane. For one thing, you could play online with up to about 50 people, which increases the 
 intensity of the game, by a WHOLE LOT. 
  
  Basically, the world is in World War Three. Why? There is only one site of oil left in the world, 
 and everyone is fighting to get it. This sounds rather.... disappointing. The campaign sounds dumb, 
 even if you haven't even played the game yet, and each level is pretty repetitve. So, pretty much 
 in the story of the game, you shoot idiotic soldiers who just run around shooting in every direction.
 
  
  Anyway, you'll find the game's controls pretty similar to most other FPS video games, but who said 
 anything about that ruining all the fun? Play on XBox Live against a numerous amount of people, 
 and that will keep your day busy. Go around with tanks, helicopters, snipers, rocket launchers, 
 or machine-gun crazy! There's a lot of action in multiplayer mode, and everyone will get to the 
 fun.
  
  Anyway, this game deserves a 8/10. It's pretty fun, but there are quite a number of tweaks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danoz304
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  I have read a lot of reviews stating that Frontlines: Fuel Of War is a game that is not worth any 
 attention, primarily because of the short single-player campaign. However disappointed you may 
 be with the campaign, you just forget about it when you enter your first multiplayer map and experience 
 the thrill of seeing 4 helicopters flying towards you with enemies parachuting out and suddenly 
 seeing the rockets knock them out of the sky! The first time you dive out of a helicopter is truly 
 enjoyable along with the pure thrill of parachuting into the enemy HQ and stealing one of their 
 helicopters of planting EMP technology. With 24 different combinations of soldier you experience 
 something different every time. Battles are NEVER the same.
  The wide range of vehicles provides an enjoyable experience.
  
  The game is definitely worth 
 buying if you have Xbox Live.
  I would recommend it to anyone that enjoys massive online battles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafimuhd
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  CREDITS TO Anarky
  
  
  
  Let me start by saying that you should NOT get this game if you don't have X-Box Live. The single 
 player missions aren't terrible but they are by no means enough to justify the purchase of the 
 game.
  
  I've been a big fan of COD4 since it came out, no doubt it is a great game but often while playing 
 it I missed the largeer scale vehicle combat of the Battlefield games (I no longer have a PC able 
 to handle BF2) . I got Frontlines to quell my Battlefield jones and it does a capable job of it.
 
  
  Large battlefields-check
  multiple roles to choose from-check
  tanks, humvees, choppers and other vehicles-check
  fun tactical action where teamwork is needed 
 to succeed-check
  
  If you enjoyed Battlefield: Modern Combat on the original X-Box then this game will be right up 
 your alley. If you are a PC purist who derided BFMC as "battlefield-lite" then you will likely 
 have the same opinions about Frontlines.
  
  A lot of people have had serious lag issues with this game, it happens and it can be VERY frustrating 
 unloading a clip at an enemy and not killing him (usually this ends when he kills you with seemingly 
 one shot) . Some of the servers lag, you just have to find one that doesn't. There are other issues 
 that can be irritating, for example when you try to joinga server that is full or whose session 
 has ended, instead of being bounced back to the server list you are sent back to the main menu 
 and have to again search for games. It isn't a game-killer but it IS annoying. 
  
  Frontlines is not a perfect game but I have a blast playing it, especially when I find others who 
 understand that the game is meant to be played in squads. Communication and teamwork are the keys 
 to success and make the game much more enjoyable. If you love the free-for-all of deathmatch modes 
 then this is not the title for you. If you miss BFMC and are looking for some larger battles then 
 COD4 offers give it a shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  With all the great FPS's coming out games are now needing to push for the greater. But the worst 
 thing you can ever do is to say you have a great game then fail to reach at least good standards. 
 This game is a been there done that and seen better. Some people say the multiplayer is amazing 
 while the single player is bad then give it a good rating. But for me if one piece of the puzzle 
 does not fit the puzzle is ruined. 
  The graphics are not the best but also not the worst. While the glitchs are many. I found my self 
 stuck on rocks or caught in the wall. There are not that many guns to choose from either. The sound 
 is good but it is hard to get that wrong. And the A. I. is ok. But the worst thing that totaly kills 
 the game for me is the bland game play and the stupid story. 
  Lets start with the game play. First it is see a guy kill his and takeover the area. thats all 
 you do. Once you take over an area in the single player mode It will stay yours forever. I guess 
 the enemys are so dumb they cant take it back. Then the story make no sense what so ever. If we 
 ran out of oil the power would not go off there are many other means of getting power. For example 
 dams, solar power, wind mills, coal, nuclear, and hydrogen. That just name a few. So the story 
 of the world going crazy with out power is stupid. With that sayed this game is a fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthSnipa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Don't bother with this game, I borrowed it off of my friend and quite honestly, it's broken. The 
 vehicle controls are disgusting, the weapons are completely unbalanced ( two RPGs to a tank, three 
 sniper rounds to one guy, the first gets a kill [and shouldn't] and the second doesn't [but should [) , 
 and there is only one online mode.
  
  
  It looks really good, especially in the trailer, but the game isn't that fast-paced. Spawn delays, 
 bullet lag, and other problems are abundant, and as I said, no substance, all flash.
  
  
  Even though I borrowed this game for free, I felt disappointed. Have you played the MP demo? The 
 full game sniper lag is half that, still far too long. Don't waste your time, maybe as a rent or 
 twenty dollar used when it goes down because of the achievements (5 kill streak = 50G, 10 streak 
 = 75G) , but I was really disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  First off let me just say this game's singleplayer is not worth even playing. Really it is just 
 a bunch of bot matches. If there were just like 2 missions they could just say tutorial and then 
 let you go off into multiplayer.
  
  Well anyway Frontlines is probably one of my favorite multiplayer games. It allows you to pick 
 a weapon layout, a specialization, then lets you level up each specialization 3 times in a round. 
 My personal favorite was the sniper/dronetech combination (Side note: I thought probably the coolest 
 part of the game was the drones, everything else to choose from has been done atleast 5 times in 
 other games) . The rest of the game is pretty basic by now. Maybe the only feature that will entertain 
 you is destructable environments but not EVERYTHING is destructable, it's mainly just fences and 
 maybe a few rickety wooden boards. I hear that the whole control points shifting frontline positions 
 are new but really I feel like i've seen that somewhere before hmmmmm.....*cough* TF2 *cough* *cough* 
 
  
  64 player matches are always fun but unless you have the greatest XBL connection you'll be on the 
 ground crying due to crippling lag. So really you'll find yourself in maybe 32 player matches which 
 is still enough people to have major engagements on the battle field.
  
  Overall Frontlines is a standard game. Nothing drastic or innovative (save from the cool drones) . 
 A solid game and I'll ignore the single player and rank it for multiplayer alone because that's 
 where you'll probably make up 90% of your play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  as i played this game i couldnt help but think i was playing batllefront.... again. it was just 
 capture this base. and of course the reason i rented this was because everyone i play with on halo 
 sucks. (i still love halo tho) but my teammates sucked just as bad in this game. they just ran 
 around and got shot to death. half of them didnt even try to capture bases. still this game is 
 just a modern Battlefront. take this base, choose your class, spawn here. been there done that. 
 the controls are complete crap too. the guns cant aim for there life either. and everyone just 
 runs around with a rocket launcher or their grenade launcher attachment and blows you up before 
 you can even see them. i thought Frontlines would be fairly enjoyable. but i hated the campaign 
 so much i had to play live. which was barely better. there is one thing i LOVE about this game 
 i think all games need. INTERACTIVE SETTING! you can actually plant a C4 on a wall that someone 
 is hiding behind then blow the wall off which is in no other game.
  other than that i practically hate this game. its one of those you rent then dont play because 
 you cant stand it. NOTE: DO NOT RENT, BUY, OR EVEN PLAY THIS GAME IF YOU DONT HAVE XBOX LIVE! the 
 campaign is unbearable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that you should NOT get this game if you don't have X-Box Live. The single 
 player missions aren't terrible but they are by no means enough to justify the purchase of the 
 game.
  
  I've been a big fan of COD4 since it came out, no doubt it is a great game but often while playing 
 it I missed the largeer scale vehicle combat of the Battlefield games (I no longer have a PC able 
 to handle BF2) . I got Frontlines to quell my Battlefield jones and it does a capable job of it.
 
  
  Large battlefields-check
  multiple roles to choose from-check
  tanks, humvees, choppers and other vehicles-check
  fun tactical action where teamwork is needed 
 to succeed-check
  
  If you enjoyed Battlefield: Modern Combat on the original X-Box then this game will be right up 
 your alley. If you are a PC purist who derided BFMC as "battlefield-lite" then you will likely 
 have the same opinions about Frontlines.
  
  A lot of people have had serious lag issues with this game, it happens and it can be VERY frustrating 
 unloading a clip at an enemy and not killing him (usually this ends when he kills you with seemingly 
 one shot) . Some of the servers lag, you just have to find one that doesn't. There are other issues 
 that can be irritating, for example when you try to joinga server that is full or whose session 
 has ended, instead of being bounced back to the server list you are sent back to the main menu 
 and have to again search for games. It isn't a game-killer but it IS annoying. 
  
  Frontlines is not a perfect game but I have a blast playing it, especially when I find others who 
 understand that the game is meant to be played in squads. Communication and teamwork are the keys 
 to success and make the game much more enjoyable. If you love the free-for-all of deathmatch modes 
 then this is not the title for you. If you miss BFMC and are looking for some larger battles then 
 COD4 offers give it a shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 6 - Very average storyline, characters are very loosely made and play no real significance 
 to the game other than in the cut-scenes.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Fantastic graphics, with a primarily destructive environment in some stance. 
 More blood would make this game a bit more entertaining.
  
  Sound: 7 - Great sound, somewhat realistic, nothing really stuck out though.
  
  Environment/Maps: 
 7 - Environment isn't boring but isn't spectacular either. Maps would be what you call sufficient.
 
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 9 - Very nice array of user-friendly robots. Interesting use of air attacks 
 through the use of air-support. Weapons could be a lot stronger, it souldn't take 10 rounds to 
 kill someone.
  
  Interface: 8 - Great and good looking interface. 
  
  Menu: 7 - Good solid menu but nothing new or spectacular.
  -----------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: 7 - Unfortunately falls short of the media hype. Use of military robots and air-support 
 is the only thing keeping this from being a total letdown. Very typical and bland FPS. Sorry Guys 
 and Gals this isn't the big FPS for 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The title of this review says it all. The trailer that was shown on T. V. every couple minutes was 
 very appealing. Full of action. The in-game graphics shown in the trailer were also great. It looked 
 like it had the right graphics, gameplay and idea. However, that is not how it is in the actual 
 game, or at least in the Xbox 360 version. My guess is that the gameplay shown in the previews 
 were for the PC version. The Xbox 360 version is terrible. The graphics are below mediocre. The 
 gameplay is very simplistic. The action is rather sparse. The idea has a little bit of originality 
 to it, but not much. Almost nothing new was brought into this game. The multiplayer is not very 
 fun considering it just does not run well. It is almost always laggy or at least never smooth, 
 and there is also a delay. The graphics are plain, and they have no true detail. The idea is much 
 like Battlefield except there is a "frontline" that is established at the command post that is 
 on the edge between the two factions. Although that is a somewhat original idea it is not that 
 much more fun than just taking over command posts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0406
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Good Multiplayer, Good level design, Not much of a story in singleplayer mode but is inspiring 
 as it is what could happen in real life. The story is about oil/resources running out and countries 
 end up fighting over this resouce . IT IS NOT a battlefield clone, the weapons and combat are tottally 
 diffrent in comparison. If you have a 360, this is a good game to go and get and have fun while 
 getting up ur gamerscore. Weapons include many gadgets that will have never been seen in FPS games 
 and you will have a lot of fun with. Not the best game but is definatly worth the money, if unsure 
 rent it first, you will definatly want to get it after you've seen the solid multiplayer the game 
 offers. Only bad thing i can say about it is the controls are a bit diffrent to what people might 
 be use to and minor glitches with the RC controlled gadgets. But these dont get in the way of a 
 Great Game. 9.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFS-Marc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Frontlines was first announced it was my most anticipated shooter (before COD4 
 existed in any form) and I have had high hopes for the game ever since. Sadly I can't really say 
 many good things about the game. I can say that it has a lot of potential, but I wouldn't take 
 that as much of a compliment. The single-player campaign is fun, but it does have its issues. There 
 is a "story" to the game and it's not horrible like Battlefield, but not great like COD4; it's 
 good enough to move you along from mission to mission. The story takes place in the near future 
 and is focused around an oil crisis. The story is interesting because it's actually something that 
 could conceivably happen.
  
  The single-player experience was actually more enjoyable than I expected, though a few issues really 
 took away from the experience. The thing that bothered me the most was that while attacking a position 
 and having a good shootout; I suddenly die from a huge explosion! How does this happen you ask? 
 Well it seems that the game likes to sneak enemy tanks on your position. Maybe it's just me, but 
 I don't really like having something that big sneak up behind me. I think in some states that's 
 actually called rape, but I can't be sure. The AI isn't always too bright either; on a few occasions 
 I found one of my teammates, as well as an enemy soldier, just standing near each without shooting 
 or doing anything. That didn't happen too much, but the times that it did happen really did take 
 me out of the experience. I also have to say that the controls are pretty bad in my eyes. They 
 just seem "old" to me, but some people may prefer them that way.
  
  The game is pretty much average on the graphical side. I wouldn't call it a great looking game 
 in the likes of COD4, but it holds it's own. Actually I would say that it looks extremely similar 
 to the 2007 shooter Blacksite: Area 51. Even though the game looks fine, I really hope that the 
 Unreal engine is capable of more otherwise we may find ourselves in a market of shooters that not 
 only play alike, but look alike as well. That's a whole other discussion on its own and I won't 
 go into it here. The sound is fine, you hear bullets whizzing by and explosions all over the place; 
 it's all well done and keeps you immersed in the game. Even though the single-player experience 
 has it's flaws (and is a bit short) , I still enjoyed myself which is something I can't say about 
 the multi-player.
  
  The multi-player is a mess, both on a technical level and some of the design choices. The game 
 can supposedly handle up to 50 players on the 360, but I have trouble finding games with just 32 
 players. This is an issue because some maps are absolutely huge and thus unplayable with a small 
 group of players. The maps are a mixed bag as well; they range in size from small to massive and 
 it gives the game a bit of a schizophrenic feeling. There is also an issue with hit detection (which 
 may be related to lag) , but this makes certain things difficult. When I was playing as a sniper 
 I couldn't seem to hit anything, but up close this didn't seem to be as big of a problem. I don't 
 know if they are going to fix these issues, but I can't say I'll care enough in a few months to 
 come back. If they had more time to work out the kinks there could be a really fun game under all 
 of it, but now were just stuck with another generic shooter.
  
  I wanted to love this game and after playing the game I can't even say that I really even like 
 it that much. It ends up just being an "ok" shooter and in a time where we already have plenty 
 of decent shooters; we don't really need more shooters to add to the already over-populated genre.
 
  
  Final Score: C- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTkid20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines Fuel of War brings some new tactics and gameplay to shooters. The vehicles are fun to 
 drive and killing people is REALLY fun; to me, the single player campaign is actually pretty cool, 
 (most people think it isn't so great) although online is probably better. Classes are also pretty 
 cool too. I prefer special ops, anti- vehicle, and sniper; still try the other ones to see which 
 ones you like. The amazingly huge maps are another good part of the game. A small high point of 
 the game is that you never have to stop sprinting. It also allows you to sneak up behind people 
 and melee them, which is a one hit kill. If it had more multiplayer games, it would be even better. 
 Frontlines is still fun though. Squads were also a good idea. I don't know why anybody would give 
 it less than an 8 (at least) . I give Frontlines Fuel of War a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcphilpot
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be the most horrible game I've every played. The single player campaign is 
 horribly short. I beat the campaign mode in a little over 2 hours. The weapons are okay except 
 the sniper rifle. You can get a bead on a guy and shoot him in the head twice before he'll go down 
 with the underpowered sniper rifle. The rest of the weapons get the job done and seem to have very 
 realistic controls and physics. The access to the drones in the game is pretty amazing and I was 
 able to use their self destruct mode to take out enemies that were pinning me down. The multiplayer 
 in my opinion was hastily put together. It seems very unpolished and I found some of the levels 
 so dark it was hard to see the enemy. Overall if you want to play this game I would say rent it. 
 It has a great story line and the graphics and mission based objectives are great but it just seems 
 like it wasn't well developed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunofVich
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War takes the battlefield spawn point capturing system and makes an intriguing 
 change. This change is implementing the "frontlines" system. In Fuel of War (FoW) the frontlines 
 move either forward when your team takes over key points, usually 1 to 3 of these points exist 
 on a map in order to move the frontlines all of the points on the current front must be captured 
 the front moves and then the process starts over again and players can began spawning in at the 
 new points. This makes intense gameplay a constant. Factor in tanks, jeeps, attack helicopters 
 and jets and things can get crazy... sometimes.
  
  The games single player is ok. Its pretty much a multiplayer game except instead of real people 
 in a game with you. you are surrounded by AI half wits. Yes I planted C4 on that SAM launcher why 
 are you still standing there? The games story is about a conflict over the last remaining caches 
 of oil in the world in the year 2024. IMO this conflict is already raging in the mid-east but thats 
 just IMO. But it then turns into the typical save the world from the crazy evil Russians and there 
 radical use of Nukes. The games factions are the Western Coalition, comprised of the US, Canada, 
 Britain, and the Red Star Alliance, China, Russia. 
  
  The conflict between the two factions in carried over to multiplayer where you can fight as a soldier 
 of the one of them. The relief here is that not only do you choose your role but also your weapon. 
 I hated in Battlefield 2 that some roles and worthless weapons. Each role has 3 different abilities 
 which are unlocked by killing members of the opposing team. The air support role gives you a precision 
 bomb good for taking out stationary targets or some one who is in a tank shelling you. The second 
 ability is a cluster bomb if you are Western Coalition or carpet bomb with you are Red Star Alliance 
 more or less they are the same thing they scatter bombs throughout the area and wipe out infantry 
 and damage heavy vehicles. The third for the WC is the Gunship Bombardment. An Osprey looking plane 
 flys around the battlefield and delivers rounds where ever you point through the binoculars. For 
 the RSA you get a Fuel Air Bomb which in a sense is a small non radioactive nuke with an awesome 
 explosion sound effect. Other roles include Ground Support, EMP Tech, and Drone Tech. A for weapons 
 you have Assault rifle, Light Machine Gun, Sniper Rifle, Sub-Machine Gun, Shotgun, and Rocket Launcher. 
 You can take on the EMP Tech role with a rocket launcher and disable a vehicle and then take it 
 out with a rocket or two, or three with a tank.
  
  Ok here are the parts that suck. In multiplayer you can only talk to someone if they are in a squad 
 with you. While the whole coordinate attacks on enemy positions with a squad is pretty cool I still 
 think you should be able to speak with everyone in the game. If I am driving/flying a vehicle I 
 should be able to tell the gunner where the bad guy with a rocket launcher is located. There is 
 a way of marking targets with the LB if you are in the gunner seat but as far as I can tell there 
 is no way of doing this if you are the driver or pilot. How is the machine gunner on a helicopter 
 suppose to tell the pilot that he is out of ammo. Also dieing is annoying. In a game like this 
 it is next to impossible to not die if you are really playing the game. It takes 7 seconds in order 
 for you to press A to spawn it then takes another 7 - 10 seconds to deploy and then there is a 
 chance that you will be immediately taken out by a sniper or some jackass that is camping the spawn 
 point. Some jerk from the RSA may put an automated robot turret down at a spawn point and rack 
 up kills from people spawning and having no time to react to the robot death dealer. Some maps 
 seem to give an advantage to one side or the other. One map called invasion I have yet to win as 
 the WC and have yet to lose as the RSA. It calls for transport helicopters to drop troops off at 
 points outside a town and then move in. The RSA has to prevent this from happening and they almost 
 always do. I can see it possible to win as the WC if everyone could coordinate but no you have 
 to be in a squad to speak with people and even then that is only 4 other people not all 32 players 
 in the game. The game features 50 players and games with a decent amount of players in a 50 player 
 map can be found by using quick match but I have yet to play a match with a full 50. 
  
  The game is fun but it is not going for Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wartotehlock
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  In Frontlines: FOW you are up against the Russians and China in capturing oil reserves all over 
 the map.... lets just hope this never happens in the real world.
  
  The story is actually pretty good, as a reporter following the action is telling his life story 
 and what is going down in the world followed with cinematics. The graphics are not impressive but 
 not bad either so you'll be satisfied in that area. For someone who's played FPS for so long this 
 game brought nothing new to the table but really single player is not what made me buy the game... 
 it was because of the multiplayer. It's the closest thing I can get to BF2 since my computer is 
 not up to par and I've even heard others say it's better then BF2. But again I've never played 
 that so I do not know. But nonetheless happy with Frontlines. 
  
  The multiplayer maps are big in size and chuck fool of fun with vehicles, tanks and aircraft. I 
 was a little hesitant on the vehicle aspect of the game, I'm more of a run around shoot em up kind 
 of guy but I find the vehicles don't take much away from the fun. KAOS is doing a great job with 
 customer support and within the first week they were in the progress of making patches, which is 
 great, you hardly ever see that kind of commitment to a game. Another thing that I like about the 
 multiplayer is how your overall score does not focus mainly on kill and death but more on how many 
 points you capture which is cool because kills come easy to some while others not so much. Oh and 
 do you hate those annoying little kids that breath into the mic and do whatever the hell it is 
 they do? Well KAOS has put a stop to that. You pretty much get to hear what you want to hear, you 
 can form a squad and only this way can you communicate with others... and if you come across someone 
 that is being stupid well just kick them from your squad and find someone more interesting to join. 
 Another advantage to the squad system is when you are killed you can respawn on top of a friendly 
 squad member so it saves having to run and catch up. You can respawn in a friendly helicopter for 
 god's sake how cool is that? But only if a squad member currently occupies it.
  
  I could go on and on with the multiplayer... basically if you are a multiplayer FPS fan then this 
 is something you should definitely look into. But if you're only in it for the single player PLEASE 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Fuel of War
  
  This game was horrible. To think I paid sixty dollars for this makes me feel like I went down a 
 few links of the evolutionary chain. The hype, if one ever existed, is a complete lie and you should 
 think hard before buying this. This game is rated by me prior to me playing online, because I don't 
 see how a game as ridiculous as this could be fun against other strangers.
  
  Game-Play: 3
  Sound: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Replay: 4
  
  Overall: 5.5
  
  Synopsis:
  The 
 story is actually decent, well decent for a political war story, but if you actually follow it, 
 well on you. I sort of just clicked through all the briefings and videos. Sorry, the old oil hype 
 is getting old and I really don't care for it in the games I play. Hear it is. You're a soldier, 
 with some guns, toys, and a lot of ammo. Shoot them, don't worry, it's really easy. THERE'S NO 
 EFFING RECOIL!
  
  Game-Play:
  Did I mention there is no recoil? You have a gun that holds 50 rounds and fires at a rate of probably 
 200 rounds a minute. Probably more. There is no recoil. You can place this on your lap and put 
 your radical where you want, and just press the trigger, your radical won't move a millimeter. 
 What gets me is you can place the radical over someone's head from about 10 yards away and let 
 out 10 rounds, not a single one will hit his head. It's like playing the old beta of Counter Strike, 
 but worst.
  
  Head shots do exist and I usually accomplish them by sweeping my radical horizontally across while 
 letting my auto fire take control and hope two of my 50 rounds will hit something. Enemies take 
 a good 5-15 rounds to the chest before they even think about being hurt. I've expended clips on 
 three people with my radical over their heads.
  
  The guns are non-existent. No, seriously, they do not exist in this world and they simply don't 
 look the part. Driving vehicles is actually the worst part of the game as you have to switch from 
 being a driver to a shooter. Doing both is causes migraines and destroyed controllers. Nothing 
 like being fired at by a million hositles, six tanks, and three APC's. Stay away from vehicles 
 when you can.
  
  I went through the bulk of the game firing into fields of sand, stone, and man while letting all 
 my grenades go within minutes of starting. Why? Because 'Ammo deposits' exist everywhere in the 
 game and refill you with no charge of time or vulnerability. Simply walk up to it and press the 
 use button and you have all your grenades and ammo stocked up. Tactics? They don't exist.
  
  This game is utterly horrible and if you find this fun you should go back to playing Doom. 
 Because the first Doom was way better than this pile of garbage. I am surprised you still have 
 to reload.
  
  Sound:
  The sound was the best part I believe. Well better than the game play. The voices were decent, 
 the explosions were extravagant. However, the main gun you use doesn't sound like a gun so much 
 as does it sound like a fan belt stirring up.
  
  Graphics:
  The best part of the game, it uses sub-CoD4 graphics, but the bulkiness and lateral concept of 
 imaging and collision engines from Unreal. Making this game worthless to a realistic man's eyes. 
 However they did well for making such a crappy game.
  
  Replay:
  I don't play it anymore. Make sense?
  
  Overall:
  I seriously hated this game. I don't think 
 I'll ever pick it up again. I don't want to turn it in as a used game either, because I fear someone 
 may have to suffer as I have. This game was horrible. Stick to GoW and CoD4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, really guys, it is a lot of fun. I haven't played any of the previous Battlefield 
 games so I don't have a reference but this game gives you so many options to approach it. The controls 
 are very smooth, and the fire power is decent. The only thing I don't like is the color of the 
 cross hair (yellow with a light blue spot in the middle) , but I got used to it. That could be fixed 
 with a less than 1kb downloadable content, if it existed. They should have the option to let you 
 select the color. In terms of graphics they are not the best out there, but I think that it is 
 due to the size of the maps and the number of players in the multi player.
  
  Campaign:
  Many reviews have killed the campaign part of the game but in my opinion it was very nice. I have 
 played Bioshock, Halo 3, and Call of Duty 4 so I'm not a noob in first person shooting games. The 
 points I'm trying to reach is that I have some experience in this kind of games and even though 
 the campaign was short the achievements that you can get make you go back and try the maps again. 
 The game is very similar to the multi player version. You have some points that you need to capture 
 and you have the whole map to do your business. The end results is that game is not as linear as 
 Bioshock, Halo and Call of Duty so you can approach the missions in so many different ways that 
 gives you a lot of more replay value. You can approach the game's maps differently in order to 
 get the different achievements in them.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer where could I start? This game is awesome. I have never seen so many different stuff 
 that you can do to attack the enemy. You can ride helicopters, planes, tanks and trucks with turrets. 
 You can jump from helicopter in strategic places and open your parachute, land and keep going with 
 the assault plan. The maps are huge. Most of the time you star playing a 4 against 4 and quickly 
 the room gets full with a 16 vs. 16 game. This is nice since you don't need to wait for too long 
 to start the game. I haven't experience too much lag. Just once and it wasn't terrible, and that 
 because I was using my router and my wife was watching videos and stuff so I doesn't have to do 
 with the actual game.
  
  In conclusion, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  In this game, an oil shortage and massive global recession has turned the year 2024 into a dystopia 
 of bread lines and panic. Boy donesn't that sound like a great not depressing story whatsoever! 
 But that is what they say in Frontlines: Fuel of War, but thanks to the help of your Stray Dogs 
 strike force who is equipped to the teeth with a huge amount of weapons that you can use ALL of 
 them.
  
  First, the positives. The game is rich with a deep loadout, role, and redeployment systems, but 
 the multiplayer is nothing special really. Its only about 50 players max!!!!!!!! The graphics aren't 
 too shabby either.
  
  However, the single player campaign is disapointingly short, the vehicle controls are kind of wanky 
 and their is only one online mode, which sucks a lot!
  
  Overall, their are quite a few flaws to the game but those are merely minor complaints about the 
 game. Oh! and did I mention is uses a COD 4 leveling system? Who knew that death could have so 
 many inventive forms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: Frontlines: Fuel of War
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360/PC
  
 
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: THQ
  
  Developer: Kaos Studios
  
  Genre: Sci-Fi/FPS
  
  Difficulty: Just Right
  
  Learning 
 Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 1
  
  Online Players: 44 (That's Right Eat that Halo 3)
  
  Online Modes: Competitive/Cooperative/Team 
 Oriented
  
  Offline Modes: Story Mode
  
  Release Date: 2/25/2008
  
  ESRB Rating: T
  
  ESRB Description: Violence
  
  Score: 9.5 out of 10
  
  We've seen 
 plenty of games that are about our history, mainly WW2 but what happens when someone produces a 
 game, Two things could happen, It could do poorly like the Desert Storm games or it could do great 
 like what is in our future, the war for oil. It's already started, Oil is over $100 dollars for 
 a gallon of that stuff, Gas is nearing 4 dollars the end of time is here now. Anyway this game 
 takes place in 2024 where there is only one spot of oil left it's near the caspian sea if I heard 
 it correctly. There are two powers left on earth the USA led coalition and the Russian led Red 
 Star. The game picks up with you fighting for your life in a eastern city when your helicopter 
 gets ambushed. You will work through several levels ranging from deserts to down ruined cities, 
 I'll admit I haven't played the multi player, I don't really consider a Multi player for the reviews 
 I do. If i play it I'll let you know. I did hear that you can play anywhere up to 64 (On the commercial) 
 on multi player, but from Gamespot's info it's 44 but that's still a hell of a lot more than you 
 can get with your precious Halo 3, that's right I'm going there, Single and Multi (on the fact 
 you can have a hell of a lot more than 16 freaking players, Maybe Bungie can do a hell of a lot 
 more.) Back onto the review, you get to use a lot more weapons, and fun little remote vehicles 
 there is endless amounts of tactics that you can use in your fight for superiority. Anyway this 
 game would have gotten a perfect 10 if for the fact that sometimes it seems that some enemies took 
 more damage than others. Other than that this game is better than Halo In weapons, graphics, story 
 mode hell it is better than halo 3 in every aspect there is. So if you see this game get it and 
 have pleasure in knowing your playing something that isn't as long running as the halo series is 
 and is way better than that game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azarius2
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  This is absolutely the worst game I've played in awhile. Having recently played Halo 3, Mass Effect, 
 Bioshock and COD:4, this game was a wake up call to how bad some games can be. It seems as though 
 this entire game was built to be a MP platform - the single player game seemed tacked on.... It 
 was short and way too easy. 
  
  Right at the beginning, I had a feeling that this wasn't going to be the game for me... I should 
 have trusted my insticts and returned it immediately for something else - but I figured... "How 
 bad could it possibly be?"
  
  And it was pretty bad. Keep in mind, I did NOT play multi-player. But the entire concept was silly... 
 The AI guys were dumber than stumps.
  
  Even on the final episode in the middle of Moscow, it was silly. I was one guy defending the entire 
 plaza against a few tanks and a few stupid AI guys running around. The only positive thing to say 
 - thank dog I rented it and didn't shell out $50.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  THQ's Frontlines: Fuel of War is a FPS with both a single and multiplayer portion to it. The games 
 singleplayer takes place in our time and takes you across the middle east doing tons of different 
 missions. 
  
  
  The singleplayer is only a few missions long and really is not that satisfying. The story behind 
 it is very weak and really doesn't go that in depth. Not much to say about the campaign some missions 
 are just go in a kill anything that moves while others are going out doing recon. Unless your an 
 achievement hunter or just don't have online ( if you don't have online please dont get this game) 
 then this mode won't really please you as much. 
  
  
  Multiplayer: Now although the singleplayer brings the game down alot at least it has a decent online. 
 The online only has one mode which most people at first would say thats just dumb but the mode 
 is pretty satisfying. Its alot like battlefields mode in which their are nodes placed around the 
 battlefield and you capture them for your team. When you capture a nod not only does it create 
 a spawn position but is starts to deplete enemy reinforcements. To win the battle your team must 
 either capture all nodes for your team or take the enemey reinforcement count down to 0. The maps 
 themselves are all pretty large and you can find tons of vehicles. Another nice addition to it 
 is that there are different classes and even though you can get different guns for each class it 
 still adds a bit of variety to the game. Sniper, Assault, anti tank are just a few of the different 
 classes you will get to play
  
  
  Well all in all the game is pretty nice if you have online and like to play online. The multiplayer 
 maps are huge, you can have so many people on each map at a time, and the classes are a nice touch. 
 Yet the singleplayer is pretty sad, graphics could be better, and more weapons to choose from would 
 have been nice as well. Worth a rent, maybe a buy if you plan on playing online alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilliamRLBaker
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me first Start off by saying i've spent less then 9 hours with this game even on the hardest 
 difficulty the single player was short and easy storyline was very nihilistic in that regard it 
 was like whats the point? war will just go on any ways, so why did i just waste 4 hours playing 
 this?
  
  Graphics: smacks of gears of war which is a given since it uses UE3 but it looks no where near 
 as good as gears of war and is really a bland version of that game, sporadic episodes of slowdown 
 happen in both single player and multiplayer oddly an maximize framerate option is given that literally 
 does nothing for the slow down.
  
  Gameplay: Gears of war again it seems like it was the template for which this game was made except 
 for the fact they took every thing fun out of the game, Coop isn't even present on a local connection 
 or a single machine let alone online.
  Hiding behind cover is all manual and left up to you *like it would make a difference since every 
 thing in the game penetrates any cover unless its a hardended concrete structure* the only good 
 idea was the drones which was a fun lil diversion in the single player only.
  Vehicles are vastly overpowered in the single player and EVEN more so in multiplayer but ill get 
 to the multiplayer problems later, nearly every weapon in this game is over powered and hit detection 
 is for crap many times in single player i would be using a sniper rifle the enemy wouldn't be moving 
 and my sight would be red on the targets head and the bullet would fly through and hit the wall 
 behind them a 2nd shot finally killing them.
  
  Sound: Your basic uninspired fair for an fps like this with annoying squad mates yelling out im 
 going in! or here comes the enemy. *and neither happens*
  
  Controls: Targeting is way to slippy regardless of the weapon its all the controls regardless of 
 the sensitivity used you have to use micromovements to get precise aiming.
  
  Multiplayer: By far the worst thing i've ever seen on xbox live so far.
  Why have an option to 
 change the gametype when there is only one gametype?
  Why is frontlines a bad rip off of battlefields capture point gametype?
  Why is it that all the 
 somewhat good stuff isn't available in multiplayer unless you've survived for like 6 or so minutes?
 
  
  Key to winning in any engagement is to get into tanks and take over because tanks are nearly impossible 
 to destroy in this game, hit detection abounds and why is it that the redstar on nearly every map 
 starts out with more land then you? making it vastly easy for them to rush forward and capture 
 control points thus giving them more land, nearly every good perk is impossible to get because 
 if your on the wrong team you will spend a good 80% of your time respawning, I played multiplayer 
 for a total of 1 hour or so and 80% of that time was spent respawning then dieing instantly as 
 the enemy had camped a tank or 2 right ontop of the spawn point.
  Build types such as anti vehicle aren't very antivehicle emp cannons, grenade emplacements all 
 do nill dmg to tank type vehicles, the sniper is more then useless unless its as an anti sniper 
 build because unless the enemy is standing still you wont be geting too much dmg on them.
  
  Glitches abound online one where the enemy captures control points in a matter of seconds with 
 only one guy there.... and wheres the voice chat? no voice chat in lobby? no voice chat in game... oh 
 you mean I HAVE to join a squad to have voice chat? that is one of the stupidest ideas in a game.
 
  
  Summary: do not buy, or rent this game unless you are going for achievements I tried geting the 
 20 hats off online achievement and no matter how many head shots i got i never blew a hat off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines Fuel of War takes place in 2024. The War on Fuel has erupted due to the fact US and 
 Middle Eastern area have been fighting for fuel. Well obviously it's gone to waste. Times have 
 changed and now everybody is in a damn crosshair for fuel. United States and some others created 
 the Western Coallition while Russia, Japan, and China form the Red Alliance (Villains) . This is basically 
 how the game goes down. You play as a commando in a team of other soldiers forced to save your 
 Country and possibly the world from total destruction. 
  
  
  When you first put in the game you will notice it is slightly clunky while playing. The guns don't 
 feel right and the grenades don't feel right at all. This might be opinionated but it's down right 
 simple as they don't feel like the shotgun from Gears of War or the Battle Rifle from Halo 3. Your 
 enemies seem to be almost stupid in a way that when you shoot at them they either absorb your shots 
 or sit there and enjoy the hits. It almost pisses you off. When you shoot someone in the head you 
 expect them to die, well expect to load four to five rounds per enemy in the damn head. Then you 
 meet the vehicles. Also destroyed by bad controls that seem to make you wanna toss the damn controlller. 
 You have a simple drive button or a boost button. But it doesn't matter because you will get stuck 
 in curves or dents in the walk ways. Or simply can't move the tank the way you can in previous 
 games that do it right (See Battlefield 2: Modern Combat) . But then again when you can figure out 
 a way to kill the enemies you get a usually good kick out of seeing them fly into the air. If and 
 If you figure out the aiming controls you have to adjust. 
  
  
  The Single Player seems to be cursed by repetitive gameplay and stupid putting player in and out 
 storylines. It's almost to obvious and a bit of a drag. Like you will get shot down from your Helicopter. 
 Then you will be forced to push the line up atleast a few times. Blow up some weapon stuff here 
 and there with your Rocket Launcher. Then press forward, invade a compound. Hold the compound for 
 a little while. Then press forward, destroy a damn tank and rescue someone. Yes, if this is a bit 
 of a run on, well welcome to this game's single player missions. Six total missions will run you 
 about 6 total hours of gameplay (Roughly) . This also doesn't account for the game being a pain in 
 the rear for those minutes and hours you sit there and cuss. 
  
  
  Well, if the Single Player is trash to you. The story is trash to you and the overall gameplay 
 is trashed to you. Welcome to the 50 player online mode that is Frontlines!! This is what saves 
 the game from being something you pick up in the 10 dollar bin with Kane and Lynch. 50 Players, 
 25 on 25 furious action in tanks and helicopters is awesome!! It feels soo good to talk to teammates 
 and climb up tall towers and blow peoples heads off. It's really a relief to the campaign. 
  
  
  In Multiplayer you can customize your guy from picking the guns and then you can fix upgradeable 
 packs like EMP Gun (shoot down Choppers and Tanks making the completely useless) or Gun loadouts (Guns 
 that you can place down to guard certain areas) . This is where the game is just so damn fun. It 
 is a bit of a pain because you have to join a Squad within the game in order to talk to the people 
 you want to. 
  
  
  Overall, If you feel tempted to buy this game by all means buy this game. It might be plagued by 
 the usual errors in gameplay but almost every game is. The only bad thing is the steep 60 dollar 
 price really for an online mode makes you want to play some cheap online PC game and wait for GTA 
 or something. If you feel iffy don't do it but if your like it looks good but the single player-Just 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosx96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  it was good but not great it had alot of cool features like the special skills drone tech, EMP 
 Tech, etc..... The guns where very balanced and cool, like the roaming ability of the game the 
 freedom to run but also to keep you focused on a path. Some of the bad things where that the campaign 
 was to short i mean took only like 4 & 1/2 hours to beat which was good and i tought the story 
 line was good to, pretty original havn't seen this aspect in a video game yet. But wasnt long enough, 
 and that took away from it. The characters where also good i like the feel of a small group leading 
 a revoulution in the war and doing what no one else can. Another great part of the story line was 
 that it built off of what was happening in the modern world, the oil crisis ETC.... Some of the 
 other things that took away where the fact that frag grenades dont do much on anything except people 
 same goes with grenade launchers it takes like 20 just to kill a tank. I personally like the fact 
 that one minute your running on the ground and the next your flying a plane or helicopter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is better then people say it is. This game is kinda like Call of Duty 4 but with vehicles 
 and drones. Im not saying COD4 is a bad game, as of right now no war game can beat it, so if you 
 like war games and you dont have COD4 get that first but make sure you get this game next. Although 
 the graphics could of been better and the driving could of been better this is still one awsome 
 war game! And thats really it the graphics and driving could of been a bit better (but their not 
 horrible) and the shooting is perfect along with the storyline! The story line is that in the future 
 we are going to need fuel and we start a war to get it, how cool is that! Well thats it nothing 
 else to say. Oh yeah one more thing the online... its cool how 64 people in one game is possible, 
 finally their putting bigger servers on the xbox 360. The online play is your basic COD4 match 
 but with more people and vehicles/drones making it almost as fun but still awsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  When most people hear the word clone in relation to video-games, they fell instantly prejudiced 
 against the game cloning another. I felt much the same way until I picked up and played Frontlines. 
 This game will give you hours of enjoyment, no matter what shooter type you usually play.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to Battlefield (well, it is a clone) , with the usual "run here, 
 do this, get points/guns" mentality. Rather from making the game worse, this is actually one of 
 Frontline's strong points. The simplicity of the objectives is balanced by the sheer number of 
 ways you can approach each one. most missions will see you in a small town or village, and instead 
 of giving players a set path to follow, you are free to choose. The alleyways and small rooms of 
 the game's locales make for some really involving gameplay and this coupled with the minor environmental 
 destruction (you can blow up walls) puts Frontlines a cut above battlefield.
  
  The control system is intuitive and easy to use, and while it has about half an hour to an hour's 
 learning curve, you'll soon find yourself totally comfortable with the game mechanics.
  
  The graphics are good, but not great. The draw distance in large outdoor areas is relatively small, 
 so long range engagements often involve nothing more than blindly firing until the hit indicator 
 appears on your HUD. Corpses sometimes drop into super low-res versions of their living self, they 
 literally look like something out of a Playstation One game. The living character models, on the 
 other hand, are fairly well detailed, and overall, the environments are convincing and nicely done.
 
  
  Overall, Frontlines is a game for someone wanting a few days of really fun shooter gameplay with 
 the added depth of semi non-linear objectives. Rent it first, but if this is your thing, buy it. 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarric3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  + Excellent Graphics, the shadows are amazing, the people are realistic. 
  
  + Theres always something going outside the combat area, be it anti aircraft fire streaming up 
 into the air or a mushroom cloud on the horizon.
  
  + Most massive multi-player I've ever seen, up to 50 players at once with dedicated servers, lag 
 is thankfully rare.
  
  + The 7 single player missions are adaqueately long.
  
  + Enjoyable story
  
  The Bad
  
  - Vehicle controls can drive you insane, apparently you 
 can drive through a concrete pillar in a tank but not a stop sign on a 3 inch wide hollow metal 
 pole, The different control schemes for the different vehicles can be confusing at first because 
 they are all different.
  
  - Hit recognition can be absolutely terrible and it enraged me on more occassions than I would 
 like to remember. Sniper bullets frequently miss even if shooting at a stationary target while 
 prone, Rockets from point blank range in the face of an enemy on multiplayer is only effective 
 about 65% of the time.
  
  
  The games basic premise is once again a east vs west story line with the Red Star Alliance (China 
 and Russia) pitted against the Western Coalition (EU and USA probably other western powers also) 
 fighting over the worlds remaining oil and other energy reserves. I found my self quite immersed 
 in the story which was executed brilliantly showing the everyday man at war to keep a roof of his 
 family head and food on the table, although there wasnt much character development I still found 
 them to be endearing realistic characters with there own thoughts and feelings on the war and what 
 was going to happen next. I particularly liked "Princeton" the associated press reported assigned 
 to your squad through out the game, he was a very real character always looking at the bigger picture 
 for the entire world instead of his little corner unlike some of the soldiers he had been assigned 
 to film.
  
  The graphics are truly impressive almost realistic in places, running around the streets of moscow 
 amongst all the collapsed buildings or apartment complexes with walls blown out. The shadows and 
 detail are amazing especially the effects on the horizon the anti aircraft tracer fire, the nukes 
 going off with the bursts of wind and the massive white flash that make you feel like your almost 
 there with your squad "The Stray Dogs" right on the battlefield. The mushroom clouds on the horizon 
 are a great touch once again adding to the immersion and realism of the game.
  
  The multiplayer is great fun running around with dozens of people in tanks, jets and helicopters 
 with crap blowing up everywhere. Its excellent barring the issues that effect the whole game. Although 
 the multiplayer at times can be very frustrating because alot of the times teammates play the game 
 like a death match and dont go after the controls points and you quite promptly lose, it can be 
 very annoying especially when your trying to go for some of the online achievements.
  
  The single player missions are decently long enough, longer than the ones on most FPS shooters 
 I have played in recent years. The fact that the missions are divided into 2 parts sometimes makes 
 you think that there are 14 short missions as opposed to 7 long ones.
  
  Hit recognition is my biggest problem with this game, it is incredibly frustrating sneaking up 
 on someone who's sniping your team mates and then shooting them with a rocket launcher from point 
 blank range, having them not die and then melee kill you. The sniping is just as bad even shooting 
 at a stationary target while your stationary takes on most occassions 2 shots for only 1 hit. I 
 am hopeful that this problem will be worked out in a coming patch because it is qualm for a lot 
 members of the frontlines community.
  
  The vehicle controls are very touchy and sometimes its hard not to plow that hummer into a pole 
 by accident. The differing controls between all the wheeled vehicles makes for some confusion and 
 carnage especially when your first drive them, I have been playing this game now for 50+ hours 
 now and I still find a way to hit that stop sign while flying around a corner. Once again I hope 
 this is something they look at for a future patch
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun and the good greatly outweighs the bad, hopefully future patches 
 will eliminate the bad and then frontlines could take its place as one of the 360 FPS shooters 
 that will be played for years to come and join the ranks of Call of Duty 3 and Halo 3. Overall 
 I give this game an 8 its good, but not great but delivers a solid FPS shooter experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Being that this is the Xbox 360, we might as well call it the FPS console. Frontlines is another 
 FPS shooter looking to some how, stand out amoung all the other FPS out there in the market, and 
 it does stand out as a 360 FPS. One thing that the 360 was lacking was a good enough games that 
 brought what we were used to on the PC for massive war battles, which the PC is loaded with the 
 Battlefield series, Quake Wars, Planet Side, ect. The 360 had Battlefield 2, but compared to is 
 PC version, it was very watered down. Frontlines gives you some of those elements back, that you 
 were used to on the PC version of Battlefield, on to the 360. Being able to call in Airstrikes 
 and having a squad system were 2 key things we saw put into Frontlines, that gives you much more 
 of the battlefield feel. Despite there being only 1 multiplayer mode, the multiplayer with vechs 
 and drone vechs are what makes the multitplayer shine. When playing this, sure can easily get sucked 
 into the feel that you really are in the middle of a war. Multiplayer is the shining crown of this 
 game, and hopefully we will see multiplayer expand with some future patches. Single player to this 
 game, is also not to shabby either. Again the plot is pretty basic, Western Powers vs Soviet Powers, 
 stuggle for natural resources which the planet is running out of, war over resources begin, countries 
 launch tactical nukes during this war, ect. Very basic story for a world fighting over fuel, easy 
 enough. Though the plot is alright, not a gem, and not horrible, such events as having tachnical 
 nukes being launched at your army make for interesting plot twists and battle sequences. If you 
 are looking for a Battlefield like game for your 360, that has better vechical control than Battlefield 
 2 (360) did, then Frontlines is for you, plus your going to get a game with a far better single 
 player campaign, thats if you intend to even play the single player of this (which you should) , 
 but the multiplayer is great and a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecREAPER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The Story is relatively short, you can finish it in a snap. Though the sound of the weapons are 
 great the graphics have some issues, for instance your foes can take a good three bursts of fire 
 before they drop.
  At the same time they say you can freely roam around the map but if you want to flank you enemy 
 and get to far from the fight you will be forced back by a message like this one "RETURN TO THE 
 BATTLEFIELD" or the computer will make sure you redeploy in the battlefield. Another factor of 
 the game that sucked is that in the cut scenes or in the introductory video you can see tanks reaping 
 buildings apart while in the game you can only blow some minor structures. The grenades' impact 
 of explosion is awesome except for the helicopter drone, if you miss with the small missile but 
 hit the ground or the wall behind your opponent he wont die, and when I say opponent it goes for 
 multiplayer. One last thing when is any company going to make a game that when you snipe someone 
 with a .50 cal in the chest, back, kill them. For those who don't know what damage a .50 cal does 
 look it up, and you'll see what I'm talking about. The game disappointed me to an extend. Other 
 than that this game makes an ok addition to the shooting games you already own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Where to start. 
  I suppose the start of the game would be a good place. It took me a little while to figure out 
 that the first of the eight levels in actually an introduction video, which make it 7 levels then. 
 
  Oh well, moving on i enjoyed the first level of the game. The game is set around objectives, and 
 in a level there might be five or six of these objectives that must be completed. The game is actually 
 rather easy, which is it's only major downside in my opinion. The only time i dies the entire time 
 i played it was when i fell off of a building. 
  The objectives are simple, which i like, as you don't have to spend 10 minutes trying desparately 
 to work out what to do. 
  The graphics are very good, and are powered by the famous/infamous Unreal Engine 3, which keeps 
 a smooth frame-rate and doesn't crack up when the action-o-meter cranks it up a notch. 
  The maps are huge, and completely destructable, which i will admit to haveing a guilty pleasure 
 in. At one point, probably my favourite bit of what i played, i targetted a group of troops high 
 up in a concrete building.
  Of course, this being in the near futire, i was using an auto targetting rocket launcher, and fired 
 into the building, wiping out the enemies and part of the building, which fell to the ground pleasingly. 
 
  That brings me smoothly onto the near future setting, which is actually a fight for natural resources 
 (a very realistic and probable idea) which i though was a great idea. 
  The stand out thing of the game, however, has to be the drones. Whoever came up with this idea 
 needs a medal, as flying/driving them was great fun, and i enjoyed it. 
  Overall i enjoyed the game and thought it was a shame it never came to PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Frontlines Fuel of War is one of those many first person shooters out there. What makes it different 
 from all those others out there is that you can control drones. You use them to take in recon information 
 or simply to kill the enemy without getting hurt yourself. It is also squad based gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is fun and wild, the phisics are good everything is destructable. 
  
  The 
 graphics are beutiful, the textures are good.
  
  The music is pretty good and the sound effects well it could be better.
  
  The campaign consists 
 of to sides, I played on the Red Star side. The whole game is basicly capturing command posts tell 
 your enemy is defeated.
  
  The really fun part of this game is the multiplayer. Large maps for large 64 player battles. For 
 people who like multiplayer shooters this is a game for you.
  
  Frontlines is the kind of game that is been there, done that but I believe it is more than just 
 a repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  some points on how this game is sold. First is the multplayer this game can go toe to toe with 
 cod 4 gears of war for a online shooter but that is where the game ends the single player side 
 to frontlines is not bad but it is too short only packing up to 7-9 hours on the hardist difficulty 
 and the story doe's not stand.
  
  Second graphics since the game runs on the unreal 3 engine kaoes studies has done a great job in 
 the graphics department but in some cases the textures look bland and there is not enough destruction 
 going off in the enviroment there is only one map that allows walls of houses to be blown off that 
 is good but i want more then that.
  
  so in the end the game shows a lot of promiss even with a weak single player some graphics issues 
 but comes with a lag free online shooter up to 32 players on one server for xbox live should fill 
 a hole for battlefield bad company 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakob_187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Unlike Joe Dodson's rather sad review of the game on the site, I have to disagree with him in many 
 areas of criticism and go on to say that this is very much the game that many of us would like 
 to see EA and DICE step up and make already.
  
  To start, the criticisms of the single-player campaign seem to be coming from the perspective of 
 someone who only plays on the lowest setting in order to get through the game as quick as possible 
 and move on to the multiplayer action. In the single-player campaign, you will be presented with 
 eight missions that offer up plenty of wartime story elements about the loss of worldwide resources 
 and the threat of nuclear winter falling upon us all. The story is told through both the narrative 
 perspective of a press journalist and the action you partake in. While the game doesn't have a 
 huge, gripping personal story, it does offer up more than many single-player campaigns have to 
 offer (in turn, I'm saying that this game's narrative beats the hell out of both the horrendous 
 BlackSite Area 51 AND the critically-acclaimed Crysis) . Many will believe that the beginning of 
 the "Graveyard" mission is a blatant rip-off of "Shock and Awe" from CoD4, but given that the development 
 cycle on this game has been going for almost as long as CoD 4 went, it can easily be dismissed 
 as a mere coincidence.
  
  The single-player AI, on the lowest and even medium settings, can be relatively easy. Crank it 
 up to the highest difficulty and you'll find yourself having to redeploy plenty of times. That's 
 not to say that you can't beat the game... but you may have to put a little extra effort out to 
 keep yourself above water from time to time. Especially in missions like "Mountain King", where 
 the enemy can pinpoint you quickly with a massive force, it seems that the single-player is being 
 bashed for little reason.
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game excels in areas where the Battlefield franchise has continued 
 to fail. Rather than use the idea of uncappable bases, Kaos has instilled a "frontline" component 
 that keeps the battle exactly where it should be. No longer will you find guys sneaking around 
 the back to grab a base miles away from where your entire team is located. Keeping these cat and 
 mouse chases down to a minimum and focusing on hardcore battle action is something that create 
 multiplayer match heaven! Hit detection on the character models is rather iffy, but the guns all 
 handle in very unique ways. Drones can be rather annoying in a multiplayer game, especially with 
 all the hiding spots available for people to deploy and take cheap kills, but the balance of this 
 comes in the form of environmental destruction on almost all the buildings located on any particular 
 map. A prime example is on the Village map, a small 8 player map that features tons of destruction 
 to be had by all, meaning everyone is a relatively open target. The big vehicle maps easily span 
 past the limitations found in BF2 and BF2142, but the only downside to all of this is how few maps 
 are included with the initial package. With only a handful of maps (I believe the count is around 
 10) , it makes for a rather boring time after a while if you are already sick of Solar Farm or Street. 
 Sadly, there isn't really a map that screams out "Strike at Karkand", but at the same time, it's 
 a good thing because it means you're more than likely going to sample all the maps rather than 
 sticking to one particular spot.
  
  The graphics show a good use of the UE3 engine on both console and PC, but for PC users, it does 
 mean you'll have to be sporting some high-end gear to enjoy it. Even with that, you'll experience 
 some bad frame rate drops that can be the difference between staying alive and taking a dirt nap. 
 In multiplayer, I had to bring the graphic qualities down by almost half in order to keep the frame 
 rate from dropping way too often (and a little hint: take the motion blur off) . Regardless, the 
 game is gorgeous, and despite again what Mr. Dodson has to say, the physics are excellent in the 
 game. Crushing buildings with a precision air strike or dropping tank shells on an area full of 
 sandbags is highly satisfying and gives you so many more opportunities not available in "that other 
 game".
  
  Frontlines is a huge improvement on the Battlefield formula, and the criticisms that have been 
 thrown its way seem to be from those who just haven't dealt with the buggy games that EA keeps 
 throwing at us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few days ago and traded it in today.. because it is one of the worst FPS games 
 I have ever played. The graphics are only PS2/XBox 1 quality, your teams AI is bad.. very bad. 
 The firefights are horrible, it takes about 3 HEADSHOTS to take out a bad guy and 5 to 7 body shots. 
 The annoying voice overs are just repetitive and very old school "How about them apples". Overall 
 gameplay is bad. The game is very hard. You get shot even when you are hiding behind something. 
 On the easy setting the missions are just packed with bad guys. The controls are hard to get used 
 to and very weak. I suggest that you don't waste your time and money on this game. Frontlines: 
 Fuel of War gets are 1 out 10. Stay far away from this game. Don't even rent it. Not worth any 
 money. The only good thing about this game is that I took it back to EBgames and got $33 for it 
 and bought a new and better game. So I can't say it enough stay far away from this game. You will 
 be sorry. It's true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Willy Wombat Review - (with assistance ftrom K_g)
  Frontlines Fuels of War, eh?
  What a game! It keeps you hooked from stage one, and with the Drones brings new to FPS genre. 
 
  Incredible graphics for this game are provided by the awesome Unreal engine 3 and create a very 
 good, COMPLETELY destuctable environment. 
  This game has a strong storyline, even though it isnt really needed to keep this sweet game going.
 
  The maps are immense, with awesome multiplayer, and sweet online modes. Despite only being 7 levels 
 long with the whole first level being a movie it has an amazing storyline set in the future where 
 the world has succumb to a worldwide energy crisis where two factions wage war for supremesy, the 
 Western Coalition and the Red Star Alliance.
  The game is set in in the near realistic future where there are amazing new weapons and vehicles 
 and amazing drones.
  Hover drone: Self destructs to take down enemies and objectives
  Heli drone: is armed with 2 rocket pods to deliver destruction
  Assault drone: Just pure awesome, 
 Infantry BEWARE
  Tiger drone: small unarmed drone, can drive under tanks and detonate itself, HANDY :)
  3 words
 
  Buy
  This
  Game
  !
  !
  ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralph1628
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I like multiplayer games. Today everyone is crying...
  "It does not include multiplayer!". Gamespot is doing it as well. There are still people that enjoy 
 single player games and this one is GREAT!. High replay value.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like multiplayer games. Today everyone is crying...
  "It does not include 
 multiplayer!". Gamespot is doing it as well. There are still people that enjoy single player games 
 and this one is GREAT!. High replay value.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like multiplayer games. Today everyone is crying...
  "It does not include 
 multiplayer!". Gamespot is doing it as well. There are still people that enjoy single player games 
 and this one is GREAT!. High replay value.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like multiplayer games. Today everyone is crying...
  "It does not include 
 multiplayer!". Gamespot is doing it as well. There are still people that enjoy single player games 
 and this one is GREAT!. High replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_Rockhead
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  The campain had some flaws in it. Some of the flaws would include when you die you just spawn at 
 your HQ with your character as if nothing had happened to him. The story line of the game was okay 
 but it was very short. On the upper hand the games multiplayer is very well done. The multi-player 
 mode is amazing due to the amount of people that can play on the map. Some of the maps have up 
 to 64 people playing on a map battling it all out. The game could have also had the accuracy of 
 the guns a little better. The vehicles in the game are great and fun to use especially when running 
 over other soldiers. The fun part about the game would be the weapon classes and the the secondary 
 weapons you get. The weapons range from assault rifles to shotguns. Some secondary weapons are 
 you get mini robots to use and you also get to set up turrets from a wide variety. The multi-player 
 has different class types. The different class types are ground support which includes A fusion 
 cutter to reapai vehicles, and turrets. Emp class which includes emp waves, emp turret, and a emp 
 rocket launcher. Air support class which includes precision air strike, cluster bomb, and call 
 in gun ship. Frontlines fuel of war is only good for the multi-player unless you're the type of 
 guy who enjoy doing campain. If you don't have Xbox live on your system i would recommend to rent 
 this game and not to purchase it since the campain is short and it is a big yawn. |-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Why do I say that? Because yo can easily beat the game, and tire out the multi player in less than 
 a week of casual playing ( 1 hour a day-ish) .
  
  The graphics are... OK. the textures suck, the models are pretty good, but you'll find yourself 
 staring at some blurry congealed messes taped on to a building, trying to figure out what it is. 
 It is a computer, a switch, a trashcan, or a dead cat? 
  
  The Sound..... it's OK. The music is nice, but the sound effects are lacking, and the voice acting 
 is below average.
  
  The Storyline is lousy. It's somewhat creative, but you really don't give a hoot about any of the 
 characters, feel in anyway attached to what's going on, and it's really nothing more than a series 
 of cut scenes used to drag the character around into various settings, And the ending SUCKS. In 
 the game, you are supposedly fighting Russia and china, but you never actually fight china, yet 
 you somehow won. Meanwhile, a liberal blogger with bad stubble and voice acting constantly follows 
 your squad around making annoyingly over dramatic speeches about the post oil era.
  
  The main issue is that you can't have an open ended battlefield style game, with characters. In 
 an FPS or RPG, when your character dies, you start over. But in Front lines, they just plop down 
 another generic guy.
  
  The Game play is where is this game COULD have really shined. It is promising enough, having characters 
 control territory ala Rise of Nations, while having to accomplish objectives in order to expand 
 the front line.
  But there are still issues.
  
  You see, in order to simulate the chaos of battle, as seen in action movies, as opposed to real 
 life, Your AI team mates seem to just run around/ spawn in random locations, while shooting at 
 enemies, who also spawn randomly. When your running around on the ground, you thinkcool, it's 
 like a real war", but as soon as you stand back and look at it, it looks more like a haunted house, 
 wiht generic characters popping up to trick you into thinking the developers made the game realistic. 
 Also.
  
  THE AI WILL N-E-V-E-R KILL ANY THING. You can watch 5 American tanks fight 1 Russian tank for 10 
 minutes, and the Americans won't kill it.
  
  So all in all, it's nothing more than an average FPS, with capture the point gameplay slapped on.
 
  
  And in a world where games cost 60 bucks, 40 British pounds, 100 Quid, or 50,000 yen, do you really 
 want to waste it on this, when there are so many better games out there? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdo1536
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Time for another review, I will keep it simple and fact filled, so i'll just do it in a good/bad 
 list format. I have played this game a lot, and ill try and be fair about it.
  
  The good:
  -Somewhat "indepth" character customization. This allows weapon type and role to be 
 seperate, but after a while you do wish it had a bit more.
  
  -Mainly base spawn. Keeps it objective oriented (hence the name of the game) .
  
  -Versatile 
 Territory. It seems like every base has a different way of attacking it instead of just choosing 
 heavy gunner/air support, blasting in and gunning down the first people you see. The Street for 
 example is more about baiting/rushing on the left side, and more about sniping/long range combat 
 on the right.
  
  -Vehicals/turrets. Most shooting games are fine as is, but its nice to have vehicals and other 
 "mountables" to use, if not just for same transport.
  
  -Secondary gunners/transports. Not only are the vehicals just for killin, there are also other 
 vehicals that are primarily made for ally transport. Holding up to 5, these can be like a car full 
 of mexicans and just unload on a base drive by.
  
  -Tactical squads. Players can form into squads for organized attack squads, allowing the leader 
 to place markers for attack/defend. Allys can also spawn with the squad leader, which can be abused 
 if he just sets safely behind enemy lines.
  
  -Altitude! Lots of levels have very high points (High enough you can parachute off of onto other 
 nearby landscape) , great for sniping!
  
  -The maps. Most are large with lots of destroyable terrain and vantage points. The destroyable 
 terrain really makes maps fun when someone tries to hide in a shack.
  
  -Reward for doing the objectives. You gain role experience for taking/destroying/repairing a base, 
 more than you get for just killing an enemy.
  
  
  The Bad:
  -Limited chat. You can only talk to players that are in your squad, resulting in a lot of kicking 
 of players without mics.
  
  -Too many vehicals. Sniping is near ruined on big maps due to the overwhelming amount of vehicals. 
 They need reduced in number, and greatly increased respawn times.
  
  -Broken sniper rifles. Lots of times it seems the bullet passes right through the player unless 
 they are standing still. This can be annoying, but it just takes 1 shot to get the target into 
 critical health, usually resulting in an ally stealing your kill.
  
  -Explosives! It seems everyone is anti vehical, which would make sence on some levels with mass 
 amounts of vehicals, but its called ANTI-VEHICAL not ANTI-PERSONEL. Explosions look MUCH bigger 
 than they really are, and the air strike is near useless as a precision strike, more of a flash 
 bang before you run in.
  
  -EMP Class. It had no offence skills. You would think the EMP rocket would be useful, but unless 
 you are an anti-vehical class, its useless since it wears off and doesn't disable vehical attacks. 
 If you are anti-vehical, you really have no need for the rocket anyways. The emp field is much 
 larger than it shows, and it really shouldn't show anyways. The emp field/rocket needs to PERMENANTLY 
 disable vehicals/drones or else its pointless.
  
  -Drone Class. Most drones are overpowered (except fliers) , the gun drones have seemingly sniper 
 rifle accuracy with high damage, not to mention they take a beating. A rocket doesn't even kill 
 them in one shot. The flying drones are fine as is, except for the Red Star's 3rd drone. It can 
 only take 2-3 bullets, and has NO accuracy. It can even miss it's target within 5 feet. The rockets 
 it fires do nearly no damage unless hitting the target's person, and even then might not kill in 
 1 shot. The mortar drone is too inaccurate to really be used as a mortar, more of a shotgun tank 
 that shoots explosives. The deploy timer on all drones is so annoying, it takes you 3-5 seconds 
 to actually be able to control your drone after you decide to free it. The flying drones have an 
 annoying instruction box at the upper middle of the screen telling you the buttons for up/down, 
 this REALLY needs to go away 2 seconds after you send the drone flying.
  
  -Ground support. Repair, thats fine and all, but you should have to be outside of the vehical to 
 repair it! The turrets, talk about a sitting duck. They LOOK like they have cover, but it never 
 seems to work for me. They need FULL cover on the front, and even then rockets lock onto you. The 
 grenade launching turret is near useless on vehicals. You are a sitting duck with minor damage 
 output, and has no defence compared to their attacks. The railgun turret should be a 1 hit kill 
 on any vehical, especially since it is a 3rd level role unlock. Much like all explosives, it has 
 very minor splash damage, near useless vs infantry. The main problem with ground support is the 
 Red Star's 3rd unlock. The auto turret has both high damage, increadible accuracy, good range, 
 and quick rockets for armored targets. It can also take a beating like a drone, and is only really 
 destroyable by a long range rocket, air strike, or c4 (if you can get close enough) . The auto turret 
 stays after you die, making it ideal for camping, which is already a problem.
  
  -Air support. The precision strike (1st skill) is too slow and lacking in splash damage to be used 
 as anything but a guess blast before you run in. Since it is so slow, it can't be used against 
 enemy tanks, really defeating the purpose. The 2nd unlock is much better, it has a much wider splash, 
 multiple explosions, and a decent recharge time. However, the 3rd unlock (on both sides) isn't 
 the same. It has more splash, more damage, but also comes with a 30 minute cooldown timer, resulting 
 in 1 use per match, IF you get it unlocked. The 3rd unlock for the Western Coalition is a gunship, 
 it shoots where you see so altitude is handy, but once you stop shooting you lose it and have to 
 wait for it's cooldown. It also has limited ammo, so you can only use it for so long. I hope this 
 is fixed soon.
  
  -Camping. Players spawn in mid air like a manican, then drop to the ground, any enemy nearby can 
 easily spot this movement. Players always spawn in the same areas, regardless of enemy presence, 
 and can easily be camped 5+ times before the area is cleared (an auto turret can result in multiple 
 spawns being camped) . This game REALLY needs a 5-10 second invincibility timer after being spawned 
 (unless you fire) .
  
  -Lag. This problem has been largely fixed since it's demo, but it can still be difficult for even 
 medium range firefights. This can result in unknown methods of death (seriously, you randomly drop 
 dead sometimes) , to bullets having rediculous travel times (up to 1-2 seconds for a bullet to hit 
 a wall about 10 ft infront of you) . They have recently added more servers, so this is likely to 
 be fixed soon.
  
  -"Large rooms"? I have only seen up to 32 player limited rooms, even when I try to host my own 
 rooms. The Kaos servers are always just up to 32. I don't know if this is a personal thing, but 
 many players have said the same thing.
  
  -Ground support only. The Infiltration level is big on this. You HAVE to have the ground support 
 role to repair the Anti Air turrets and satelite dish which count as your front line spawn points. 
 Too bad these turret with giant missiles does NOT do anything. The attackers have several helicopters 
 at their spawn, but they don't have to worry about the anti air turret.
  
  -Quick heals. A players can take cover for about 5-8 seconds and fully recover from the lowest 
 of health. This is very frustrating for snipers!
  
  -Shot in the eyes? nope. The more damaged you are, the less you can see. You get a red tint (which 
 can be very blinding at critical health) Not to mention black veins across the screen. Even minor 
 falls can result in a red tint.
  
  -Dodgy bastards! A player's base move speed is so high, he can actually just bob left and right 
 during a close fire fight and dodge bullets. Very unreal and seems to only work 1 way.
  
  -Vehical enter/exit. Players have no animation for entering or exiting a vehical, resulting in 
 instant safety from infantry. Not only can a player exit from the vehical at an instant to ambush 
 the enemy, they also pop out a good ways away from it, making the enemy have to do a 360 degree 
 spin if near the vehical to find their target.
  
  -Scope issues. Not only do the scopes have nearly no zoom, they also often put you back into scope 
 view if you quickly exit it. You often try to exit this scope again quickly once it does it, resulting 
 in a back and forth of in/out of scope, VERY annoying.
  
  -Unreliable terrain. You studder up and down on a sloped wall, or pop to the top of things, resulting 
 in very good dodges if ambushing, but is overall annoying and too abusable.
  
  -Slow ass reloads. I think they did this to give a purpose to the side arm in combat, but that 
 gun is so weak and inaccurate, it really is best just to toss a grenade as you head for the nearest 
 cover for a reload.
  
  -Wasted ammo. This game goes by clip amounts instead of ammo number. This can result in wasted 
 clips at up to 60% capacity just because with the smallest amount of lag, you will need a full 
 clip if you plan on hitting a moving target more than twice. With the sniper rifle, this can be 
 very annoying since it already has small amounts of ammo as is.
  
  -Eye peices. You are SO easy to spot in dark areas just because of the red/blue glow. This can 
 easily give you away, making the only real effective camo setting inside a bush.
  
  -Indestructable enemy mines. I have shot, blow up, and even melee hit these to no avail. They seem 
 impossible to destroy, unless its just me. Setting these at the top/bottom of a ladder or staircase 
 must result in a kill if the other team every wants to get there again. Not to mention they stay 
 active after you die, which I guess IS required for these to be of any long term use.
  
  -Deploy timer. After each death you have to wait a small amount of time to redeploy, which is fine 
 if you are changing your class/role, but once you choose to deploy you have to read a "Deploying" 
 loader for about 6-8 seconds, which is INCREADIBLY annoying if you choose to deploy at a base under 
 attack or if you happened to get spawned in the middle of an air strike. They need to add this 
 deploy timer to your redeploy wait timer if possible.
  
  -Close combat. Not in general, I mean the weapon (shotgun) . This weapon is so useless and limited, 
 it isn't even worth using in close combat situations since all close combat situations also have 
 some aspect of medium/long range combat. This gun often doesn't even kill in seemingly point blank 
 shots.
  
  
  The bad really outnumbers the good, but its a pretty good game. I expect changes to be made in 
 the future, hopefully fixing a lot of the minor issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  OK this game looked awesome when i saw it advertised in the official xbox magazine but when i actually 
 brought this game it felt really, umm unbalanced like REALLY unbalanced because i won a whole battle 
 just using drones as the infantry are rendered almost useless to vehicles and support options but 
 the infantry battles are fun its just the kit options are frustrating as you have to dire to change 
 your kit which is annoying and a lot of the soldiers who just died you see their faces about 2 
 mins later.
  
  The only great thing about this game which saves me from giving it a lower score is the multiplayer 
 it is quite fun but they you still get these foul mouthed ultra skilled 15 year olds who play the 
 everyday for eight hours who are REALLY ANNOYING.
  
  But less on that this game had potential but in the end you cant beat battlefield on its homeground 
 can you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtom3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Good game, frontlines idea is a nice change, very much like star wars battlefront. Multiplayer 
 is really good. Graphics obviously great.
  
  Good game with ONE BIG DOWNFALL waaaaaaaaay to short - only 7 levels. Overall: Get it when it comes 
 down in price. UMMM... THIS HAS GOT TO BE 100 WORD LONG... BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAHTO BE 100 WORD LONG... BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strongbad900
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  There's no denying the obvious roots of Frontlines: Fuel of War in the Battlefield series. However, 
 considering how fun and popular the Battlefield games are, and how sparsely they populate the Xbox 
 360, that's not necessarily a bad thing. I went in expecting to find a terrible battlefield rip 
 off, and was pleasently surprised by what I found. It's certainly not the next major shooter, but 
 it is a fun experiance.
  
  Frontlines brings a lot of the good aspects of battlefield, and even works to fix some of the promlems 
 the PC juggernaut has. In both single and multiplayer sections you spawn as a soldier (though only 
 the Western Coalition forces are available in single player) on a battlefield with a series of 
 'control points' on the map. Each map also has a 'Frontlines' feature, which colors areas of the 
 map blue or red, depending on who controls them. Capturing points will push back the frontlines, 
 advancing your teams color further down the battlefield. Only points on the frontline are available 
 for capture, however, so backcapping (a popular battlefield strategy wherein someone sneaks around 
 the side of a map to capture a control point far behind enemy lines) is done with completely. While 
 this keeps the action focused and consistent, it also takes away some of the strategic value of 
 getting behind enemy lines.
  
  In order to capture these control points, you have a number of guns, vehicles, and other tools 
 to use. In the single player you are able to aquire different guns and gadgets from where they 
 lie, but in Multiplayer your gear will be dependent on the class and specialization you choose. 
 There are six classes, and while some are unique and specialized, such as sniper, close combat, 
 and anti-vehicular, the rest of the classes have guns that feel very much the same, with different 
 zoom and clip size. In addition, some of the classes are a bit imbalanced. For example, a heavy 
 machine gun can be more effective than a sniper rifle at long ranges, because the sniper rifle 
 lacks stopping power and the heavy machinegun has excellent accuracy. On average, the classes are 
 less impressive and varied than those of Battlefield or even other class based shooters.
  
  However, this is redeemed by excellent specializations. Ranging from air support, which enables 
 the player to call down airstrikes to RC vehicles, giving them remote control assualt vehicles, 
 these specializations are all fun and, for the most part, quite balanced. The air strikes work 
 wonders when paired with a class such as the sniper, which would otherwise lack any sort of anti-vehicular 
 capabilities. It makes for some very fun combinations and strategies, especially with the remote 
 controlled self destructing recon drones (after playing this game for a while, the sound of their 
 rotors will get you looking around frantically) .
  
  However, this fun gameplay is occasionally marred by some strange glitches and problems. I once 
 played an entire game wherein people could easily walk through walls and fall through the level. 
 Keep in mind, this was an official ranked online game. The spawn points which serve as control 
 points occasionally have capture requirements aside from just staying in the area, and while this 
 does a good job of mixing up the experiance, it also allows for a lot of spawn camping. The vehicles 
 are fun, and while some of them have good controls and handling, others handle like dead elephants.
 
  
  In the end, if you're looking for a fun console game with large scale multiplayer that isn't afraid 
 to be a bit derivitive and arcady, this is perfect for you. If you're looking for a involving single 
 player game with a deep storyline or lots of polish, this probably won't find yourself getting 
 into this game at all. In the end though, it's a fun experiance that will grow on you as you play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pungent231
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  All in all, Frontlines does right what so many other games have done so very wrong: large-scale 
 warfare.
  
  To clarify, first let me point out what I mean by "so very wrong". The battlefield games are great. 
 I love them. The games similar to battlefield (Battlefront, etc.) are just as good. But they do 
 not do what they proclaim to do. They make themselves out to be games full of epic battles, balanced 
 warfare and many options as to how to kill your foes. This is not true.
  
  Battlefield games in particular can be explained in a simple chart: ("means wins against)
 
  
  Planes Helicopters Tanks APCs Cars Infantry
  
  Face it. In any battlefield game, if you are not in a vehicle at all times, you are assured some 
 form of horrible mutilation is about to find you. There will be planes bombing your uncaps, helicopters 
 harassing everything, tanks charging you, APCs shooting you, cars running you over, and then an 
 artillery barrage.
  
  Not very balanced. In my humble opinion, the only way to truly balance a game is to make everything 
 overpowered. REALLY REALLY overpowered. Then when you pick up anything in the game, you will be 
 able to kill pretty much anything else.
  
  Frontlines does this. I have never seen a game this balanced. You know why? Because every time 
 you pick up a gun, or use a turret, or drive a vehicle, you say "Holy crap, this thing is amazing". 
 You never pick up a gun or enter a vehicle and say "Awwww this thing sucks". Infantry can kill 
 helicopters. Turrets can kill APCs. Drones can kill tanks. There are so many counters to everything 
 that it all seems overpowered. There is no way to guarantee that you will win a fight, with the 
 possible exception of helicopter vs shotgun. Even then, they are probably not stupid enough to 
 go running around alone. If they are, then they deserve to get mowed down by a helicopter. 
  
  The absolute balancing of the classes and sub-classes creates a battle in which you do not 
 have to worry about your gun sucking or your vehicle being too weak. 
  
  On that note, The battles are far more intense than any other game like it. In Battlefield games, 
 you could be in the middle of a major battle for a control point (as rare as major battles are) 
 and suddenly realize that one man has run around in a jeep and taken the rest of your teams points. 
 Frontlines solves this by only letting points on the front line be captured, moving the front line 
 forward. 
  
  This makes the fighting more compact, pushing more people into a smaller area. The maps are smaller 
 as well. This eliminates that annoying prick that just runs around willy nilly, doing whatever 
 he wants without worry of being found. You know the people I'm talking about. By putting more people 
 in a smaller area, it creates more intense battles. 
  
  The controls. I love them. There are two different control schemes for vehicles, the tank-style 
 and jeep-style, not including planes and helicopters. The driving is just right, though it is a 
 jarring change from the typical control scheme, Halo-style. In the end, the tank-style controls 
 make it easier to go one direction and shoot another, while still maintaining a great deal of control 
 over what your vehicle/drone is doing. 
  
  The graphics are not the best, but who honestly cares? They could have done more, true, but the 
 gameplay is not hindered by the middleground graphics. The sound is great, lots of nice explosion 
 noises. The environments are so very atmospheric, with background war noises and great lighting 
 effects creating a different mood for each map. I actually felt like I was in a war on an oil field, 
 or fighting over a serene little village. Very destructible environments added to it even more. 
 The mood is just perfect for the game, amplifying the experience.
  
  All in all, Frontlines may be labeled a rip-off of Battlefield, but it does so many things right 
 that Battlefield does wrong. The balance, the mood, the destructible environments and the epic 
 battles make up for it a hundred fold. The single player is not bad either, putting the player 
 in the middle of a crisis we are actually spiraling towards at mach-10. 
  
  Good night, and good gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAmber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is a semi-groundbreaking game that introduces every aspect of warfare onto 
 the virtual battlefield. Air vehicles including fighter jets, all types of vehicles from light 
 armor to heavy, and of course four roles with three upgrades each. It is perhaps the most squad-based 
 teamwork-oriented game on the market. Is it too much teamwork? Let's set up a scenario; some of 
 the enemy forces are holed up in a bunker, by some I mean three or four people. You are an EMP 
 technician; you've seeded your skill from the start and have reached level three. One problem; 
 the EMP tech has no special ability that will allow him to clear out that bunker; the obvious answer 
 would be a drone technician and a shotgun. The shotgun is an easy fix, just grab one next time 
 you respawn, but what about the drone tech skill? As with any other skill drone tech is something 
 you need to seed and let grow from the start of a match if you have any hopes of level three. Even 
 with a possibility of getting to level three by the end of the match, the people in the bunker 
 will have surely left by then. The answer to this problem is a squad; if a four person squad contains 
 every specialist then the squad should encounter no problems, right? Wrong. The major problem that 
 a complete squad faces is one that a bullet can't answer, no matter what size. The drone technician 
 sends his drone in, while the EMP guy does what? Sits down and reads the newspaper? What if that 
 battle is the main point of the entire round? The EMP technician can't just switch skills without 
 becoming incredibly useless, compared to what he used to be. The ground support guy is going to, 
 at some point, grow tired of the air support guy's fireworks. The point is, every gamer wants to 
 see his name at the top of the game scoreboard, and as long as the game is so teamwork-oriented, 
 that's impossible. The problem is boredom; boredom of individual people trying to work in a squad 
 just to survive and then having to sit down and watch others work.
  To fix this, the game has to update, and focus on the individual aspects of the game, like making 
 skills either permanent or semi-long term. Perhaps if the skills reset every three days or so, 
 it wouldn't be so bad for the individual who just wants to work for himself. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's an incredible game with a lot to prove, but also a lot to learn.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  it shifted the SCI-FI FPS to a new era, i think; you must play it as a gamer then you figure out 
 what i am saying;
  this game send you to real war-field as a real war-lord; your equipment is your mighty friends and 
 will guide you to victory or loose; the enemy are like you but they do not have your human' feeling 
 and their decisions are so different; you can do what you want on the fields but the power is the 
 technology and the AI; how much you manage them rightfully, you can reach your goals sooner; you can 
 do things lonely but you will see the death text rapidely;
  wishing an easy gameplay, ok then do not start the game; it turn you so hungry for more levels and 
 fields; the story is well-shaped and the AI is so amazing;
  all thing come together to build an amazing game and make you experience an amazing gameplay;
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyTheSober
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game plays through smoothly enough, the graphics definitely aren't its strong point, neither 
 is its single player. As it opens up rather well throwing you into the action straight away, but 
 runs out of steam after the 3rd or so chapter. The graphics are standard, shadows and high-res 
 textures pooping in rather late, the destructible environments in single player look rather cool 
 though, epecially when you've been hiding behind it as cover when a rocket reducing it to rubble. 
 Where it really shines is in its MP, with up 32players battling it out on large scale maps. I haven't 
 experienced any serious lag in the larger matches, just a few problems connecting too them. The 
 character classes and special weapons really help balance the odds out against the vehicles in 
 on most maps. The special edition seems decent enough value for an extra 5, including a t-shirt, 
 poster, art book and soundtrack cd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon001620
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a Battlefield game like 1942, 2 and 2142. I have and Frontlines trys to be 
 like that, problem being that it is the exact same thing but worse just placed in a time between 
 BF 2 and 2142.
  
  When playing online you will find that a lot of the time the players are sread out and you sometime 
 have to wait quite a while to find someone. You must go and capture the control points which is 
 at first confusing because the bar starts red when neutralizing and stays red when capturing. you 
 can drive vehicles but I found the control system quite off. 
  
  Graphics disappointed me thinking that they would actually be amazing when in fact they're ok. 
 My computer which is fairly weak compared to new computers can runs games with smooth frame rates 
 and good graphics better than Frontlines. That is SAD!!!
  
  The weapons are nothing special, you have your assualt riffle, your LMG, rockets and a few others. 
 classes are the exact same as Battlefield ; Assault has the assault rifle, Support has LMG, ammo 
 boxes not needed because there are large crates at the CP's, Spec Ops has SMG silenced with C4. 
 So it ripped off the BF series there. You can choose a role though which lets you choose from drones, 
 EMP, airstrikes, or ground support. The drone are somewhat useful as they can self-destruct or 
 at higher levels shoot. The self-detruct kills only when within two feet and the drones that shoot 
 can be quite inaccurate. The airstrikes are weak except for the one use nuke which kills anyone 
 within approximately 60 feet from impact. EMP just disables drones, minimap, etc. Ground support 
 has a repair wrench and stationary turrets that are weak and easy to get killed in.
  
  To wrap this all up, if you have $45 go buy the entire BF 2 set, or for $15 get BF 2142, or wait 
 untill the next one on the 360, or get the free third person shooter animated one this summer because 
 Frontlines is a rip-off of the BF series and why pay $60 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roarofthedragon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the BEST FPS Action game I have ever played on xbox 360. Personally I like everything about 
 it. The Graphics are just fine ( great engine really ) It would have been even better if it had 
 utilized the maximm power of xbox 360 , but still they are great :) . The gameplay is really Fun 
 and Fantastic! The single player mode is excellent! you run around the battle field with solderis 
 covering your ass just basically blowing things up and shooting everywhere! bombing ,explosions! 
 you can use vehicles such as tanks and jeeps and they are all fun! you have cool variety of weapons 
 from pistols, assault machine guns, shot gun, bazooka and lots more. you can even use mini weapons 
 that look like toys lol but deadly like ( mini car bombs and mini helos and other little toys you 
 play with lol! The sound and music are great ! Online modes and multiplayer are great too ! Personally 
 I think this is way much better than Halo 3 :) . I really recommend this if you are into action 
 FPS! 10 / 10
  
  Game spot please Give this game a good rating. Give it what it really deserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toronto_Dorsa
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game had a somewhat scary realistic plot. Oil prices keep rising enough that the remaining 
 powers move into the Middle East and start to claim the last regions of oil. It uses the standard 
 premise of American/EU vs. China/Russia. The storyline for the single player is surprisingly short, 
 with only 7-8 missions and about 4-5 sub-missions inside that. You can complete the game in around 
 5-8 hours, depending on your difficulty settings.
  
  The enemy AI are somewhat intelligent, but limited in their use of attacking skills. In the beginning 
 you'll see the guards run for cover and pop up when shooting, only to hide back down for reloading. 
 Later in the game, they realize that grenades are handy and will start to throw them at you.
  
  The maps are a good, and use a sandbox approach. Unlike games, where you are driven a single 
 path, you have way markers on your HUD, and you choose which objective you wish to hit first.
 
  
  The fun part is using the Radio controlled weapons at your disposal. Throwing a chopper up and 
 using the rockets to wipe of a mass of enemies is fun, especially when their holed up inside a 
 building. The only part I couldn't understand was that you find all these RC weapons at enemy bases, 
 yet you never see the enemy use it.
  
  The one problem I found with the game was the online component. The game breaks down almost like 
 the Battlefield franchise. You can go solo, or you can join a squad and work as a team. The VO-IP 
 for the game allows you to speak to your squad mates and work together. 
  
  The game suffers from some lag at points, especially when the action kicks up. If you have a large 
 explosion around you, except to be killed by some run-gunner while your system catches up on the 
 frame-rate. Basically, if you stand in the same point (if you can) for sometime, the game will 
 try to map the mountains far off in the background, at the expense of a lower frame-rate. In some 
 cases, even the building your hiding behind, will suddenly disappear and begin to remap. What this 
 does for you though is allow the enemy to suddenly see your hiding spot.
  
  With luck, hopefully the developers will bring out a patch for this, but as it stands, I'll leave 
 it on my shelf, unless some friends want some on-line action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Have you played Medal of Honor? How about Call of Duty? Have you played Halo? Let me rephrase these 
 questions and simply ask... Have you ever played a FPS?!?
  
  If you answered YES to these questions then you have ALREADY played Frontlines: Fuel of War. The 
 difference being George W. and Bill Clinton make cameos.
  
  The world is torn apart in the quest for control of Oil. Eurpope and the U. S. vs. Russia and the 
 Chinese.
  
  The game uses the typical "Halo" life system (if you get shot, duck behind cover to restore life) 
 as well as A Battle front 2 type of check point system. It even uses the same color scheme. Find 
 the enemies red smoke, hang out for a while, then claim that land as your own, turning the smoke 
 blue. The one thing missing in this modern formula is the GOW duck and cover system, as well as 
 over the top graphics.
  
  Your weapons are average and what you would come to expect in a FPS. They do manage to steal COD4's 
 air support system, but even this seems uninspiring and weak.
  
  The AI is nothing special. Well it could be considered "special" in certain cases. I would love 
 to see the AI from this game have to duel to the death against the AI from FEAR or Even TIME SHIFT. 
 Just because it would be awesome to see this game get its ass handed to it. It would be similar 
 to seeing Mike Tyson take on Stephen Hawking.
  
  Thank God I get my games for free, other wise I would be pretty upset about having spent 60 bucks 
 on an average , nothing spectacular and unoriginal video game. I can't even call this game nex 
 gen. This game would of been great if it was released on the ORIGINAL XBOX. But in a world OF GOW, 
 COD4 and BIOSHOCK, games like this don't have a chance, and it seems to me their only purpose is 
 to rob some poor kid of his (or his parents) hard earned money.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orbz_jr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The game's Tom Clancy style ' What if? ' plot is a strong one. It takes on the ever increasing 
 issue of the diminishing amount of oil. The last reserves of oil are located in the Caspian Sea 
 area, and two sides have gathered to duke it out in a tactical death match, ironically using oil-chugging 
 machines to fight over the oil... sounds a little silly to me, but oh well.
  
  If you intend to buy this game for it's single player value alone, DO NOT! While the game looks 
 stunning and plays very well certain features of the game really effect storyline consistently. 
 As the captain of the 'Stray Dogs' you're given a stray cat's nine lives; free to respawn with 
 new equipment wherever you've captured a spawn point. All well and good... except for the fact 
 that, given the realism of the storyline, you should only get one chance, then have to start again 
 completely... maybe I'm just crazy?
  
  At one point there is a 'recon' mission, where you are inserted solo into enemy territory to 'scout 
 out' enemy positions. With an un-silenced, 50. cal sniper rifle. Upon hearing the shot of the weapon, 
 ever AI on the map instantly knows your precise location and comes down on you like a tonne of 
 bricks. Nasty. These enemies can fire at you from twice your visual range, with brutal accuracy. 
 Those red star soldiers sure are elites! To further complicate matters, with this Sniper loadout, 
 you are given a shotgun (yes a SHOTGUN) for close quarters self defense. Don't get me wrong, it 
 looks and sounds fantastic! But the enemies don't get anywhere near close enough to it's effective 
 range, and take about 6 shots (up close) to kill. Given that every bot on the map knows your location, 
 this is not good. 'Oh well, when I die i'll just come back with assault weaponry'. And exactly 
 the same character. :S Realism? Sorry mate, not 'ere, on your bike.
  
  Multiplayer. Ah! the redeeming feature, thank god I didn't repackage the game and send it back 
 as 'defective'.
  The much talked about (in interviews) 'Frontline' system actually comes into full focus here, with 
 every game revolving around the frontline of the battle. On this frontline there are 2 - 4 different 
 objectives which the two opposing teams (up to 16 players each side) battle it out Black Hawk Down 
 style to control. Once all of the objectives are captured by one team, the Frontline moves in that 
 team's favour, expanding their territory thus creating more places to spawn. This is amazing, as 
 it stops that old 'Battlefield' tactic of sneaking behind enemy lines and stabbing them in the 
 backside. The gameplay feels authentic, like you're actually fighting in a war alongside your fellow... erm... 
 Union members? :S If played properly, as a team effort, the games can be very entertaining and 
 feel very rewarding. Joining a squad can also give you a sense of real world military service, 
 as you can take a specific role to support and strengthen your squad i. e. Becoming an anti-tank 
 gunner to support your squad in assaulting the enemy's motor pool, or joining an armoured column 
 in supporting the other 12 players on your side with superior fire power.
  
  The vehicles are easy to use i. e. if you can drive a Scorpion in Halo, you can drive a Main Battle 
 tank in Frontlines. It aint rocket science.
  The game can be frustrating however, if your side decides to battle as single players that just 
 happen to be on the same team. Some players don't take this into account and just frag everyone... 
 sorry but isn't that what Halo deathmatches are for?
  Luckily the hosts tend to boot these idiots.
  
  The final verdict then:
  Single player: Fun 
 for a short while, but overall not very rewarding (I can't even be bothered to finish it :P) with 
 a flawed AI (even on your invincible team-mates) , strange respawn system (for a character driven 
 story) and a very short campaign.
  Multiplayer: Awesome! It lives up to most of it's hype (i. e. the servers don't really support 50 
 players) and the Frontline system is a good step forward in the Battlefield style genre.
  
  The visuals are stunning for the most part, but water seems to be an issue sometimes. Driving through 
 a puddle often looks terrible. The sound is very good, especially as seen as all of the sound in 
 the game is created by what the other players are doing, there are no background overdubs, creating 
 an authentic wartime feeling.
  
  If you're looking for a great game for online multiplayer battles: look no further!
  If it's 
 an immersive storyline with a just as immersive and real feeling single player experience: save 
 your cash for Rainbow Six Vegas 2 or EndWar. (or buy GRAW 2 if you haven't got it already)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pickles14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  i downloaded the demo from xbox live and played it some. Its not a bad thing, but it really remindes 
 me of bf-2142. Like i said, its not a bad thing, i enjoyed 2142 but after a while, i kinda got 
 sick of it you know? Annywayz, i dident play the full game yet, I think i'le just rent it because 
 i dont want to buy the same game twice. Another thing i kinda found weird is the graphics and how 
 they changed the gameplay, the people move arround kinda weird and theres a disturbing ragdoll 
 effect when u die. Its also hard to spot the players. I wouldent mind this if they were ment to 
 be camoflaged but its like evereything blended in together, i cant really explain this, its the 
 kinda thing u have to see for urself. This next comment is a personal preference and dosent take 
 away from the game, there are bright yellow crosshairs out of zoom, and when u zoom in thay are 
 still there. I like when u zoom in and there are some different c-hs like if u were looking in 
 the scope or using the sights instead of the same yellow crosshairs all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed Army of Two and that game had bad graphics but their actually better then this games. 
 I waited for this game for 3 years. The campaign is sad for telling all about WW3 so don't get 
 it for campaign. What I was really interested was the 32 via live which ran good at first then 
 crapped out. P. S. TRY THE DEMO THEIR BOTH THE SAME. Most of the time I couldn't get in a big battle 
 and uneven teams is a big problem for frontlines. Teams can go 3vs8 or 30vs2 because theirs no 
 team balance. The voice squad was smart but you can only talk to 4 other people that are in your 
 squad. 
  MESSED UP CONTROLS BIIIG TIME!!!
  Play the demo don't waste your money.
  COD4 classes beat Frontline classes.
  
  The classes in frontlines are nice but it's very easy 
 to upgrade to top drone or EMP tech.
  
  My 4/10
  Gameinformer: 7.75/10
  TOO SHORT FOR A WW3 GAME AND SERVERS NEVER WORK AND LAG CAN GET PRETTY BAD. ALL TOGETHER A BAD 
 GAME THAT WOULD MAKE A BLIND PERSON RIP OUT HIS OWN EYE BALLS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The majority of us remember an xbox port to the 360 called Battlefied: Modern Combat. The game 
 was plagued by bad frame rate, server connections, and choppy, poopy graphics. 
  Enter the world of Frontlines. 
  
  The draw distance is not so good, server connections are 
 decent, lag has been a mild issue.......
  
  When it works, it is probably the most fun that i've had on xbox live!! Period!!! The battles are 
 enormous (gonna support 50 players) , the vehicles all respond fairly well for a sandbox open world 
 game, the guns are believable, and the different types of soldier class and perks to go along with 
 them will have me playing this game for quite some time. Drones are hillarious; airstrikes, after 
 you level up enough, are an absolute blast to execute; lock on effects of the rocket launcher are 
 a much needed breath of fresh air; ability to shoot chaffs and flares from any vehicle to avoid 
 a missle lock is amazing. 
  
  It doesnt look like Call of Duty 4 or play like it.... but... it's not supposed to. there are prettier 
 games out there.... but not too many as fun as Frontlines. I recommend everyone giving it a shot. 
 It's a move in the right direction for online shooters on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoidbergUK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  "Oil was running out. It's what we grew up in.
  
  Post Middle East,
  Post peak oil,
  Post everything."
  
  Frontlines: Fuel of War is the new first-person shooter 
 developed by Kaos Studios recently released for both PC and the Xbox 360. Frontlines takes place 
 in an alternate, dystopian (anti-utopian) future where the world's oil reserves are drastically 
 low. World politics and negotiations crumble allowing for the formation of two new supergroups, 
 The Red Star Alliance consisting mainly of Russia and China as well as The Western Coalition consisting 
 of the United States and the EU.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Frontlines: Fuel Of War (Hereon, FFOW) bares a striking similarity to the Battlefield series of 
 games, which isn't surprising considering that Kaos Studios (formerly Trauma Studios) was the brainchild 
 behind the extremely popular Desert Combat Mod for Battlefield: 1942. The single player campaign 
 takes players across a series of missions in varying locales (Russia, Turkmenistan, etc) as a member 
 of the Western Coalition. Aside from your regular first-person shooter mechanics, FFOW allows players 
 to not only hop into quite a few vehicles such as jeeps, tanks and helicopters but also provides 
 an interesting ability to control drones of varying ability. These drones include not only scouts, 
 but also heavy duty chainguns on treads which can tear through the opposition while you remain 
 behind cover, and even sneaky drones that basically act as speedy bombs on wheels! The possibilities 
 are pretty varied and allow you to tackle situations differently depending on your play style.
 
  
  The main basis to the game is of course, The Frontline. Players are tasked with a series of objectives 
 and can attempt them in any order that they choose. As objectives are secured The Frontline will 
 move forward (or backwards if you lose objectives to enemies!) and give you more  
 to use. It's simple enough in theory, but can certainly be tricky at times depending on the level 
 of difficulty you're playing on.
  
  Graphics
  
  FFOW is powered by the Unreal 3 Engine and it definitely looks pretty good considering how large 
 the levels are and the amount of onscreen action happening at any given time. Of course you'll 
 notice the occasional "pop-up" of textures (similar to Gears of War when you first start a round/map 
 and it takes a second or so for things to look normal) but it's not really a problem at all from 
 this reviewer's perspective.
  
  Character models look impressively detailed for the most part, especially during cutscenes, and 
 all of the different weapons look great as well. Smoke effects aren't the best in this game, but 
 the explosions are mostly satisfying. The box also proclaims destructible environments, but don't 
 expect a house to literally crumble apart when you shoot a few rounds from your tank into it. SOME 
 things are destructible, but certainly not that much. The most I noticed was when I was playing 
 in a village map and had pillars and such crumbling around me. On the same token however, one thing 
 that usually DOES get destroyed is a lot of the "cover" that you can hide behind, such as sandbags. 
 A well placed enemy grenade or rocket will easily explode those sandbags and leave you out in the 
 open, so be prepared!
  
  Controls
  
  Really I don't have much to be picky about in this section. Your character moves well and just 
 "feels" like he's moving at an alright pace (you know what I'm referring to.... especially if you've 
 played games like Conflict: Denied Ops or Turning Point: Fall of Liberty where you move like a 
 Special Olympics contender) . It takes a little to get used to the odd placement of certain actions 
 (like sprinting with RB, I'm so used to LS Sprint on Call of Duty 4) , but this shouldn't take you 
 long to get accustomed to it.
  
  The ONE complaint I have is probably with the ground vehicles. They are certainly difficult to 
 control, but not impossible. Of course, I take this with a grain of salt when I put it into perspective 
 that I AM controlling a huge behemoth of a vehicle.... it probably doesn't turn on a dime like 
 I want it to anyways in real life.
  
  Sound
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to see that FFOW comes with a free soundtrack! Sure, most of the time 
 these games are filled with random music, but it's still cool to get free stuff with your purchase 
 without having to buy some Collector's Edition! The music for the game is certainly good and I 
 have no complaints about it. Also, all of the weapons sound great. Silenced submachine guns purr 
 in your hand as you unload a clip into an unsuspecting opponent, and your subwoofer booms while 
 your controller rumbles in your hand as you unleash hell from your tank's main cannon.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Ahhhh, the multiplayer. This is the section that everyone is probably interested 
 in, so it will probably be the longest.
  
  FFOW HAS DEDICATED SERVERS.
  
  Ok, now that that's out of the way let me continue. Yes, FFOW has dedicated servers run by Kaos 
 Studios. Why? Because the game supports up to FIFTY (25 v 25) players at once. I know, I know.... 
 it's about time we got the chance to play with this many people at once on our beloved 360, and 
 let me tell you, it works out GREAT without any lag. It's like a breath of fresh air honestly....
 
  
  Here is the hitch though, you can ONLY play 50 player matches on Kaos's dedicated servers. If you 
 host your own match you are reduced to a maximum of 16 players in game. No big deal really in my 
 opinion. Dedicated Servers have default options however, but by hosting your own matches you can 
 adjust sliders to take out certain weapons/vehicles, adjust reinforcement rates and upgrade rates.
 
  
  At the onset, players are tasked to select one of 6 "classes" to play as which will reflect their 
 starting equipment as well as one of 4 "subgroups" which will reflect their upgrade possibilities 
 (three levels of upgrades possible, obtained by killing enemines/securing objectives) . These can 
 be changed at any time and any time you respawn as well. The classes include:
  
  Assault - Spawns you with an Assault Rifle
  Heavy Assault - Spawns you with a powerful LMG capable 
 to destroying small vehicles/helicopters
  Sniper - Spawns you with a Sniper Rifle
  Anti-Vehicle - Spawns you with a Rocket Launcher
  Special Operations - Spawns you with a silenced 
 SMG
  Close Combat - Spawns you with a Shotgun
  
  The 4 "subgroups" and their base abilities are as follows:
  
  Ground Support - Allows you to 
 repair vehicles with your repair torch
  EMP Tech - Makes you invisible on the radar
  Drone Tech - Gives you a UAV, also equipped with a self destruct bomb to explode enemies
  Air 
 Support - Allows you to call in airstrikes
  
  The Voice Communication is also interesting and somewhat annoying at the same time. When you hop 
 into a game, you will NOT be able to speak with anyone on your team. In order to communicate you 
 must either form or join a "squad". This is accomplished by pressing on the D-Pad and accessing 
 the Squad Options. By forming your own squad, you can invite others to join. Once this has happened 
 you can only speak to people in your own squad, and it's limited as far as I know to FOUR MAN SQUADS. 
 This is great because you won't have to listen to Billy the 8 year old scream into your ear, but 
 at the same time you won't be able to tell Roger the 46 year old R-Tard to stop teamkilling you! 
 So, essentially the game allows for 4 Man Squads to battle other teams of 4 Man Squads. I have 
 hopes that they will patch this and hopefully allow for maybe 6 or 8 people within a squad.
  
  Again, the main mechanic of the game is The Frontline. The two teams battle back and forth, 
 attempting to capture/reclaim objectives and push The Frontline all the way in one direction or 
 another. As objectives are captured/reclaimed the teams gain access to different weapons/vehicles. 
 Players can respawn at any captured objective, or if they are in a Squad they can respawn directly 
 on top of their squad leader.
  
  Conclusion
  
  8.5 out of 10!
  
  FFOW offers players not only an interesting and fun single-player campaign which you can tackle 
 in many different ways, but also an engaging and action-packed multiplayer experience. With over 
 60 different vehicles/weapons to choose from the gameplay is sure to not go stale for quite some 
 time. Also, being able to play with NO lag on a dedicated server was sorely overdue for our Xbox 
 enjoyment. Unfortunately, the singleplayer demo released does NOT do this game justice, and the 
 multiplayer demo only allowed for 16 players at the time, so I hope people don't rule the game 
 out solely based on that experience alone. Two Thumbs up to Kaos Studios for delivering a fun and 
 enjoyable game!
  
  
  
  Pros:
  Ability to tackle objectives in whatever order you choose
  Cool use of "Drones"
  Lots of customization 
 for the multiplayer
  Dedicated Servers + FIFTY Players = Awesomeness
  
  
  Cons:
  Voice chat is annoying/too limited
  Occasional texture issues
  
  
  *Reviewers Notes* There 
 is a "mystery" option in the multiplayer hosting options. There is a box labeled something like 
 "Gametype" that says "Frontlines" in it with arrows left and right as if you can change it (and 
 they are clickable but don't do anything) . Does this mean that there will be some DLC? Mods to 
 change the gametype? Who knows..... what I do know, is that this game is just what I needed to 
 pull me away from Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lkerniskey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game, the multiplayer is fun, very reminisicent of Battlefield 2, but when 
 playing a MP match with more than say 10 players, life expectency drops and getting shot as soon 
 as you spawn or after moving a few feet from your spawn point gets in the way of being fun rather 
 quickly. Also not being able to pick up a downed enemy's (or teammate for that matter) kit takes 
 away from some of the fun. As far as I've been able to tell the servers have been pretty decent 
 and lag is never too much of a problem. The biggest thing again is too many players at once really 
 takes away from the fun. My ideal game is 10-12 players total, unless you can get one really huge 
 map and get people spread out, the total chaos of a lot of players makes it frustrating. Single 
 player is nothing to get all worked up about, decent but nothing new, it's a good way to get some 
 practice on your controls, because uf you've been playing COD4 for any length of time, I guarantee 
 you'll try to use iron sights at some point forgetting you're playing a different game and end 
 up throwing a grenade. Overall it's a decent game, worth a purchase if you love FPS war games, 
 if you're just casually interested, go for the rental. My biggest question is why GameSpot hasn't 
 put up a review yet, the game's been out like 3 weeks or so now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ngentot25
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Well ok, it's been a long time since I've been into FPS's so I'm kind of an older born-again FPS 
 player so take my advice for what it's worth. I'm starting to think that I've been incredibly spoilt 
 by CoD 4 because most of the games i've played since just simply don't cut it. Frontlines: FoW 
 is just plain ordinary. The game is set some time in the future and the guns primary gun is some 
 sort of laser shoting thing that has mixed results in game play. Sometimes it takes a million shots 
 to down an enemy while others will die immediately. The graphics are ordinary and there are several 
 glitches that shouldn't be present in a next gen console game. Driving around in the vehicles is 
 probably one of the first aspects of the game. Invariably you find yourself running into everything 
 while trying to shot at enemy soldiers and vehicles. I found the best bet was to park the thing 
 and shot from afar... What was boring but effective. The other alternative is unrealistically ditch 
 the vehicle and run across the open space and use the rocket launcher to nail your opposition. 
 Either it's not very exciting and even less realistic. The drones have limited appeal and can get 
 quit boring while you're sitting back killing everything from a distance. You have to wonder the 
 enemy doesn't kill the character while he's playing with his remote control vehicles. Overall, 
 this is boring and definitely not worth the investment both in terms of time and money!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldhilt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the first update to the Battlefield-esque games on the console (and on the PC) . Frontlines: 
 Fuel of War also boasts some console firsts in the first-person shooter genre.
  -50 player online games
  -flyable jets in multiplayer
  -remote controlled vehicles in multiplayer
 
  
  **You should DEFINETELY buy this game if:
  -you have played any Battlefield game and enjoyed it
  -you are into large battles and firefights
 
  -you are into vehicles in shooter games
  -you are more concerned with multiplayer
  
  **Glaring cons that the inquiring buyer should know immediately:
  The game has no split screen 
 on console. 1 player per console
  
  **Gems of the game:
  The multiplayer. Intense firefights, explosions, lots of depth, with various subpackages letting 
 you do some cool things (drones)
  Variety of maps, emphasizing various things- some with many vehicles, some with no vehicles at 
 all.
  
  **Myths
  The multiplayer is laggy and unplayable.
  -When the game was released, this was the case. However, everything is fixed now. There are servers 
 located in the various corners of the United States, allowing you to pick the one closest to you.
 
  
  The multiplayer is unbalanced, and spawn camping is rampant.
  -Some games the opposite side presses you to your spawn point, and occasionally people take the 
 fullest advantage of this by sending drones into your base or by planting turrets in your base. 
 Games like this do NOT happen often. 
  -The subpackages are quite balanced! Drones are easily taken out by the Antivehicle class (one 
 rocket that even locks on) , and can only be remote controlled to a certain distance. Turrets shield 
 only the front of the user, the other 270 degrees is exposed.
  In other words, you are incredibly vulnerable in a turret. 
  
  The hitboxes are all screwed 
 up; I can't hit anything.
  -This was the case when the game was released. Lag tends to do that to bullets. The one nuance 
 is that you have to aim a little bit ahead of sprinting enemies. It is quite realistic, simulating 
 human reflexes.
  
  Something you should know that may be a con or a pro depending on how you interpret it:
  There 
 is one gametype in Frontlines, called Frontlines. It involves capturing points that move the frontline. 
 The catch is that you can only assault points at the frontline. There is no walking across a map 
 and capturing a territory when nobody is there. Such a system is supposed to have an inherent aspect 
 of teamwork to it as people focus on particular objectives (or, as I would call it, an inherent 
 aspect of mass explosions) .
  
  Graphics / Sound: 8.0
  These are good graphics. The in-game engine cinematics boast some very clean, detailed models. 
 The textures are decent, as well. But two things are very well done: lighting and explosions. Shadows 
 are really, really noticeable in this game, and I can't how many times I've hid in the shadow of 
 a hill, in some bushes. The game begs for some stealth in this regard. As well, the multiplayer 
 map 'Invasion' boasts almost complete darkness. Obviously, the hardcore players will turn their 
 gamma settings all the way up (how I wish this was impossible!) . Otherwise, this map truly demonstrates 
 how amazing the lighting is in this game. The typical strategy in surviving on the ground in this 
 map is to stay AWAY from the lights! Explosions in this game are abundant and flashy but balanced 
 enough to not screw your framerate over. The physics engine, combined with these explosions, makes 
 for a very heartpounding game. Placeable doodads go literally flying (though there arn't as many 
 as I had hoped) .
  The sound effects may sound bland at first, but when EVERYONE starts shooting, and vehicles start 
 going off, they work to really immerse you in the firefights. The music throughout the game is 
 decent, but certainly has some amazing tracks.
  
  Single Player:
  Story: 8.5
  Compared to the stories of other shooters on the market, this is a good story. That is how you 
 have to deal with the shooter genre. Someone might play Frontlines as their first shooter, and 
 say, this story deserves a 7.5. But someone who has played many shooters will see the ones of HIGHER 
 quality. The narrations may seem corny at the very, very beginning, but quickly become realistic 
 and moving. The story tries to follow a particular vision of the future as World War III is fought 
 (without nuclear weapons) over oil and energy. The idea is original, and decently executed. What 
 becomes immediately apparent is that the story really tries to be a 'what if' story. And it does 
 give you such a feeling. However, the story is indeed short, although sweet.
  Gameplay mechanics: 8.0
  The singleplayer is objective based using the Frontlines gametype. The 
 enemy AI is pretty good, but not exceedingly. A pro is how the difficulties are balanced. In many 
 shooters, the developers make the mistake of making a high difficulty difficult by making the AI 
 expert shooters. In this game, the enemy AI is good by their use of cover and tactics. A major 
 con is that your allies don't die. They shoot at things, things shoot back, but only YOU can die. 
 Still, it is quite fun.
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay 9.5
  As Frontlines is a Battlefield game in everything but name, multiplayer is unsurprisingly the jewel 
 of the game. It has only one gametype as stated, Frontlines. You have various class types- Assault, 
 AntiVehicle, Sniper, Close Combat, Special Ops. Then, you have various packages that give you further 
 abilities- Air Support, EMP, Ground Support, Drone Technology. Air support allows you to target 
 any spot you want and bring down air strikes. Ground support allows you to put down turrets- as 
 in, 50 cal turrets, for example, and man them. Drone technology, the most ambitious of these already 
 cool ideas, allows you to remotely control a robotic drone. EMP I have not tried, but involves 
 disabling vehicles and preventing air strikes.
  Each of these subpackages has 3 abilities. The first ability is available immediately. The other 
 2 are unlocked as you gain points. Every ability has a cooldown, with the third ability having 
 the longest cooldown.
  The subpackages put an amazingly cool edge on the online play. You can combine a subpackage with 
 a class type and decide on YOUR way of playing it out. The packages also beg for teamwork. Cluster 
 bombing an area 25 people are assaulting is a good idea.
  -The two sides you may play in multiplayer, Red Star and Western Coalition, each have DIFFERENT 
 sub package abilities. For example, where the Western Coalition gets a minitank drone, the Red 
 Star gets a c4-explosive drone. There's a lot to see and do!
  [Vehicles] Frontlines boasts helicopters, tanks, light and medium assault vehicles, and flyable 
 jets. Not all vehicles are on a map, and flyable jets appear on only one map. The vehicle controls 
 are very beginner-friendly. Jets have the steepest learning curve, unsurprisingly. Vehicles are 
 quite balanced in this game in terms of their vulnerability. 
  
  The multiplayer is without a doubt, action-packed and fun. It has a lot to offer, a lot to see, 
 and is quite accessible. 
  
  Replayability 8.5
  The single player is short and sweet, but begs to be replayed over for achievements, considering 
 how short the levels are.
  The multiplayer is very much worth playing, and has a lot to offer, and a lot to learn. However, 
 Frontlines fails in the area of advancement such as that offered in Call of Duty 4 (additional 
 perks, weapons that open with rank) . However, you just have to overlook that considering how ambitious 
 this game is. It is the harbinger of shooters to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TP500
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Let's get something straight off the bat, I love Call of Duty 4. I used to think it was the best 
 game in the world and nothing could ever beat it. I realized something when I played Frontlines, 
 you have to stop playing Call of Duty 4 or at least stop making that the standard for which you 
 rate stuff. If so you will never like another game again.
  
  Singleplayer in this game is boring. It's true. I played the SP demo on Live before they removed 
 it completely. It was very dull. The full game is the same. Basically it feels like multiplayer 
 with dumb AI. But that is not this game's focus.
  
  Multiplayer is awesome. If you take your mind off of CoD4 for a little bit, you will really see 
 how sweet this game is. Im not sure about people saying hit detection is off and the cant connect, 
 because when I shoot someone they get hit, and I'm not sure people are understanding the dedicated 
 servers. When it says 0/32, its not running. Because if you look at the server info, it will say 
 max players 0. I see people rating this game going, terrible framerate, boring weapons, not like 
 Call of Duty 4. If you're going to say that, shut up and play CoD 4. This game is much different 
 that CoD, so stop comparing it. It's not a straight guns only game like CoD4. It has vehicles, 
 classes, real gameplay strategies and mechanics. The EMP skills are really useful for taking down 
 choppers, and then planting C4s to blow it up. This game takes a lot of teamwork whereas CoD4 people 
 are always playing the lone wolf. In this game it does not work. 
  
  Bottom line is if you stop comparing everything to CoD4, you will see this game has a lot to offer 
 and is a really cool game. You also have to play this more than 10 mins before saying "this game 
 sucks" and playing CoD4 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  FPS Fans who have a 360, and have not bought this game, what the Heck is wrong with you. This is 
 the funnest FPS I've played in a long time. The campain is awesome, the story is intrequing and 
 fun, it's all great. Sure, it only took me two days to beat, wouldve been three if I didn't stay 
 up til 2:00 in the morning playing it. Seriously, it's by far the best FPS in a long time. This 
 is my new Halo. If you like games with blood, this is the game for you, if this game has as much 
 blood as it has and is rated T. Man, I can only imagine what amount CoD4 and Halo3 have. If you 
 like challenging games, well, there's another reason to buy it. Even playing on casual at times 
 you feel as if you're in a Hell Hole. The last level is the most intense battle I've ever played 
 in a video game. This game reached all my expectations, it lived up to the hype.
  This is a pretty much flawless game, the only reason I gave it a 9.5 and not a 10 is because of 
 the length, but even with that length, it'll take a LOOOONG time to get tired of it. 
  Do yourself a favor and get this game, if you don't love it, you got some issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeTheRage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Well when I picked up this game I had pretty high expectations for the online play. And i was not 
 dissapointed. With 32 people to a map, many vehicles to choose from, and the maps being so large. 
 It gets hard for me to get off and stop playing because it is so addicting. The single player however 
 ive noticed a few easy bugs they could of fixed, but with this game being centered on multiplayer 
 really the only reason i did the single player campaign was for acheivement points. Don't get me 
 wrong the single player is still fun.. but after playing on live you won't want to go back and play 
 the single player. The only problem with live is that not many people have this game yet, and all 
 the people that do are probably playing halo 3 or someother game. So usually there are only about 
 10 matches total taking place at a time. But with so many people to a map, it's still a blast! 
 This is one of the best FPS games this year and I would highly recommend picking one up if you 
 can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja95
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I turned from my PC back to my 360 to get a look at this game as my PC just kept crashing and I 
 would rather throw money at a problem than let it get in the way of fun. So the game play seems 
 easier on the PC then Crysis did for me, and on the 360 it just rocks. I bought this and Army of 
 Two the same day, bad move. You get caught wanting to play both and this game won as I really like 
 First Person Shooters and Army of Two just takes some getting used to. My 11 year old got a copy 
 of Army of Two and is rocking on it within seconds, while I at 42 just can't get my brain to wrap 
 around the idea of a game based on two guys, not a team of guys. Oh well I really like this game 
 play enough to buy the game twice, PC and 360. If you like a good First Person Shooter that doesn't 
 drive you to the action then your going to love this one. It lets you use all the cool new military 
 gadgets like handheld UGV's and UAV's and boy do they change the tempo of the game when you get 
 good at using them. I was on a mission and leveled a ton of guys with this little RC Heli and 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NordicDelight
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  About one in ten servers I try to connect to boot me out with an error before I can get any play 
 in, but when I can finally get into a game, it is amazing. I've never had more fun playing an xbox 
 360 game online. The drones you can fly or drive around have got to be the best part for me. This 
 isn't like HALO 3 where you need to be running around like a manic just to stay alive. You can 
 pick out a nice quite spot in this game and snipe/drone/whatever for the duration of the game if 
 no one sees you. I also am enjoying the 50 player servers. It's great to go into a large map filled 
 with enemies and tear into them with the spec ops kit. The full-size helicopter flying is a little 
 hard to get used to at first, but once you master it, you have total control over the bird which 
 makes you a very dangerous enemy.
  
  When the server problem gets fixed, I'll give this game a 10/10 for online play, but for now it 
 gets an 8/10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltrA_999
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War uses the advanced Unreal 3 engine for futuristic, intense fights in an 
 open-world battlefield. In this all-too-bleak future of constant wars over natural resources, two 
 sides compete for global supremacy: the Western Coalition (the United States and the European Union) 
 and the Red Star Alliance (Russian/People's Republic of China) .
  
  Frontlines literally puts you on the front line; asking you to push the enemy back by reclaiming 
 key strongholds, technology and positions. It's the same kind of king of the hill approach that 
 was favoured recently by Enemy Territory Quake Wars - get to the waypoint; secure or destroy it.
 
  
  
  The single player portion is alright, but the best part of Frontlines is taking it online. Now, 
 at this point, there is only one online mode, but it is a lot of fun. Basically, you choose one 
 of the two sides, then select a character class and role. After that, it's epic warfare with vehicles, 
 lots of weapons and 32 players online. 
  
  Graphic are gud, story is good , U can Enjoy playing the Game!
  
  Overall, Frontlines is a 
 solid shooter with great multiplayer 
  
  
  i like the game very much.
  
  Conclusion - So another War Begins!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I like this game as a result of playing, "Turok" for the past few weeks and experiencing 
 frustration levels beyond what I have ever experienced playing a FPS title. I openly admit, I am 
 a huge Halo fan. I rate other games of the genre based on my total enjoyment of playing all episodes 
 of the Halo trilogy. There is maybe one other title released in recent years that comes close to 
 same level of enjoyment as Halo as far as my opinion. That title is, Half-Life (Orange box) . I 
 digress however.
  
  I have not finished FL as of tonight, but I have enjoyed it very much to this point and I look 
 forward to playing it when I have the time. This is more than I can say about, Turok. I have a 
 beer coaster for sale.... and the label does not have the, "Frontlines" title. Go out and buy this 
 game! Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thomas-Gibson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well at last i took the time to play Frontlines: Fuel of War. and all i can say is that i loved 
 it let me make it clear I LOVE THIS GAME and i gave it 10 but its really 7.5 or a low 7 so right 
 off the bat the campaign is great im the story is a little cheesy but the gameplay is true to its 
 in combat you end up in frontline side by side with your comrads battling it out with the RED STAR 
 ARMY tho since gamneplay stays the same it will get old at some point 
  
  Now for good stuff multiplayer this some of best multiplayer out there 
  Now if you like battlefield 
 youll love this
  
  [lets start with maps] 
  the maps are great the small ones are perfect the big maps ehhhh not so perfect. maps are laid 
 so there always a frontline so no more walking around looking for somone to shoot
  
  [Now lets talk class and guns]
  one to love about this games is class options players choose 
 class then a subclass now its not cod4 buts pretty nice now there are a few anyoing things like 
 the wonderful noob tube (grenade laucher) and the kick on sniper riffle makes bieng a sniper a 
 little tricky other then that its perfect.
  
  WELL THATS ALL I HAVE SAY
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggycow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  the story mode i loved i wish they would have made it longer that way you could fight the rest 
 of the war too but like i said who complaining. If you like explosions and shooting this game is 
 for you I do hope the second one comes out soon. The achivements are actually kinda hard to get 
 cause on some levels everywhere you go you get shot at but i like those kinda games where they 
 are actually a challenge. The one thing I wish thing they would have done with it was make it co-op 
 that way i could play with my friends. They need to put a total destructible enviorment in the 
 game like call of duty 4 that would have made it alot better too. The blood graphics are a little 
 cut back on this game too and they could add smoke and flash gernades into it. I did not get to 
 fly the jet in story mode in the second one they should make it where at least some of the missions 
 for the first part of it you bomb the enemy fortresses with them. There are too many tank missions 
 too i got pretty tired of driving tanks around. But besides all this i would have to say it was 
 over all a pretty good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebowtie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The game is great with good controls for all the different things you get to drive or fly. The 
 levels are nicely done but they sometimes feel like your being funneled to your goal. The levels 
 could stand to be a little more open leaving you with more options to get the job done. The single 
 player game just happens to be very short. Although they put in achievements to play for so that 
 there is at least something to replay for. I don't play on-line so I can't speak for the multi-player 
 side of the game. The fact that you can play the game to reach harder modes of the game just to 
 replay the same levels over may just be a way for the game maker to cheaply make the game longer 
 without making more levels or longer ones. Not trying to bash the game. I love playing it but its 
 over before you know it. I would rent it if your just playing single player. Buy it if your the 
 type of person that must get every achievement or your going to play on-line. Then I would say 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brickwork
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  The first project for Kaos Studios (a division of THQ founded by veterans of Trauma Studios, creators 
 of Desert Combat and Battlefield 2 R&D projects) , Frontlines: Fuel of War uses the advanced Unreal 
 3 engine for futuristic, intense fights in an open-world battlefield. In this all-too-bleak future 
 of constant wars over natural resources, two sides compete for global supremacy: the Western Coalition 
 (the United States and the European Union) and the Red Star Alliance (Russian/People's Republic 
 of China) . The game's nonlinear single-player campaign has players advancing their side's frontline 
 into enemy territory. Drawing heavily from tactical shooters as much as run-and-gun arcade combat, 
 Frontlines literally puts you on the front line; asking you to push the enemy back by reclaiming 
 key strongholds, technology and positions. It's the same kind of king of the hill approach that 
 was favoured recently by Enemy Territory Quake Wars - get to the waypoint; secure or destroy it.
 
  This is a great first person shooter, worth spending your pocket money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  Being a avid BF2 player on the PC, I was very much looking forward to the release of Frontlines. 
 No more would we be stuck playing 6 vs 6 multiplayer games, or even 10 vs 10. Nope, Frontlines 
 boasted 16 vs 16 and OMG even 25 vs 25! This was going to be direct competition for BF2 fans.
 
  
  Upon putting the game CD into my 360, I figured I would spend a little time with the single player 
 campaign. Not only do I like to get the story going, I like to practice a little vs the computer, 
 I like to be familiar with the controls before diving into the online beat downs that were sure 
 to happen.
  
  Without getting to much into the story, the only thing you really need to know is that it's about 
 WW III, and it started because nations across the world were fighting for control of oil, go figure! 
 
  
  Right from the start you are pretty much thrown into some pretty good, intense battles. Even though 
 you are never really fighting a large group of enemies, they do a good job with level design to 
 make it feel tight and intense. The bad news is, your AI counter parts are about as useful as a 
 second toe. You will find your self doing all the butt kicking. 
  
  The big part that separates this game from other FPS is the number of weapons and vehicles you 
 get to use. From the standard issue light machine guns, to the multiple remote control drones, 
 you always have many options on how to bring the fight to the bad guys. To me, there is nothing 
 better then using the remote controlled heli that is loaded with air to ground missles. Fun fun 
 fun, is all I can say. Don't want to run into a building because you are unsure what exactly in 
 there? Launch the drone and fly through a window to scope out the situation. Got a nasty enemy 
 tank around the corner and no RPG to use against it? Use the remote controlled demo drone to drive 
 underneath it, detonate, and no more tank.
  
  The two big things that took away from the single player campaign were 
  
  1) A VERY short 
 story, only took me about 5 1/2  6hrs to beat.
  
  2) Some graphics/frame rate issues. There were times when there was a lot of pop up, and freezing 
 that would make things a little choppy. Not a lot, but just enough to be annoying.
  
  
  Now, where this game should have shined, MULTIPLAYER.
  
  Did you notice that nasty word I just 
 used in the sentence above? That word is "should", With everything this game had going for it, 
 online should have been awesome, instead it is more often a wasteland of battles that already took 
 place. The maps are so big, and there seemed to be so few players that you spent most of your time 
 just looking for a fight. Even when in a crowded server, the intense fights were few and far between. 
 Not to mention the lag issues that start when more then 20 people get into a server.
  
  Don't get me wrong, online is not a complete disaster, it's just not as great as I wanted it to 
 be. Over all this game is fun, the graphics are decent, the story is good, and all the fun weapons 
 are a blast to use. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x360maniac55
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Like i always dreamed of having a game were you can destroy everything on the battlefield, and frontlines 
 fuel of war is perfect for it. The graphics, the shooting motions, the explotions, the great created 
 guns, the crontroled little vehicles (that you control) and make them blow under tanks, the explosifs 
 you put on the walls so you could pass and EVERYTHING you can blow. 
  
  Look guys i played almost all army games and i think the one with the more experience, more destroyable 
 stuff, more multiplayer fun and having a cool zoom in machine gun is frontlines fuel of war. The 
 only thing they should of improved is the driving, at my opinion its just the tank. When you go left 
 and after right, hes gona stay left for like 5 seconds and after go right and that makes your task 
 real harder. 
  
  Well, if you are trying to find a war or army game, Frontlines: fuel of war is wath you are looking 
 for. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oUtlaWmaSTEr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The overall game is great and fun to play, every experience is covered from sniping from afar to 
 blowing tanks up from the choppers. The only thing that currently hurts this game and greatly is 
 the fact that more then half the games you go to find online are either no longer happening or 
 finished and yet when you refresh the search the same game comes up that it had previously told 
 you had ended after clicking it to join the first time through. This makes the Quick match function 
 almost completely useless because it keeps bringing up the same game over and over despite the 
 fact that its not actually running. So that leaves you with either creating your on game and hope 
 that enough people join or search the servers on custom match until you find one thats running. 
 This also limits what maps you can play because not all servers are running. I just cant stress 
 this enough that this glitch is really hurting the overall game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PMThor
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game at first look, because it is very well done graphically. But the mechanics of 
 driving a vehicle while shooting is just not good. Also, the use of the drones is not so good either. 
 Differenciating between shooting in one direction, and backing out in another is nearly impossible.
 
  
  This game also favors the aspect of being able to drive a drone into a target way too much. The 
 individual soldier is completely useless on here, because they are totally picked off by the smaller 
 and faster drones, who just happen to be overly armed too, just to make it that much worse.
  
  If they addressed the fact that driving vehicles and pointing weaponry should not be one in 
 the same in the single player, then that would be a huge, huge step.
  
  Also, catching an enemy out in the open is great and all, but it takes multiple hits to put down 
 even a sim enabled soldier. When in sniper mode, don't even worry about heartbeat and the whatnot, 
 because they don't apply and don't exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOML
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  BUT, not all is well in the world of Front Lines. no no tis it not be that when thou fires the 
 weapon upon the enemy doth they don repent but simply..... lag away. woe is to the brave soul that 
 can only do so much in a corrupted world of laggnesnes and dropped connections. thou shalt not 
 kill... because the cannot kill. soooo basically there is bullet lag, big chicken block (the male 
 chicken) and the trouble connecting to servers. but overall a few fixes here and there and this 
 female dog is ready to rumble. 
  
  The flight controls for the jets are realistic but how hard is it for a jet flying 600 MPH to fly 
 around in a map thats 2 square miles. The drones are very nice but i find that the WC may have 
 been doped by getting 2 lumbering drones (thats the #2 and #3 upgrade) while the RS gets a very 
 nice little RC car that can blow up tanks (and people) and then #3 upgrade witch is a mini version 
 of a gunship.
  
  but over all apart from that the game is balanced and plays fairly well, but those are all critical 
 issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid graphically, great destruction and visuals, vehicular warfare, fairly intelegent 
 AI, epic 32 player warfare, lots of cool weapons, the shotgun is awesome.
  
  The Bad: Extremely short single player, fairly bland storyline, doesn't have anything that really 
 makes it stand out from other military shooters, iffy vehicle controls, the sniper rifle sucks.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The military shooter has been done so many times over, and only a select few series have acually 
 succeeded in making us want to go back to war, over and over again. It is really tough for an unknown 
 shooter to make a name for itself in a war mangled genre in which Medal of Honor and Call of Duty 
 reign supreme. Enter Frontlines: Fuel of War, which isn't really anything new, but supplies a great 
 online experience and lots of fun in a pinch. 
  
  The story behind Frontlines is that in the not too distant future, the war for oil boils over and 
 the world is suddenly really lacking in oil. To survive, China and Russia form the Red Star Alliance 
 and make a push to take control of the last few remaining oil wells in the world. The US and allied 
 countries form an alliance as well to combat those dirty comunists and fight for oil. What ever 
 happened to that research for alternative fuels anyway? You play as an unnamed soldier who is part 
 of the "Stray Dogs" platoon, who are similar to a band of brothers, but have much less personality. 
 You along with your squad must fight the Red Star in order to save the oil for you and your allied 
 countries. 
  
  Ok, so the storyline isn't exactly exciting, but it's a military shooter, so the story isn't really 
 a big part of the game anyway. The single player portion of Frontlines is only 7 levels long, and 
 none of these levels are particually hard, or really stand out for any particular reason. The last 
 level has you storming through Russia and getting into the heart of the war, which is fun, but 
 it's nothing spectacular or anything. Honestly, the single player portion plays out just like every 
 other shooter with a few minor exceptions. You are able to remotely command various types of drones, 
 which allow you to clear a path without going into harms way. These are cool and do add a little 
 something unique to Frontlines, but it's not like remote controlled drones haven't been used before 
 or anything... There is also vehicular combat using humvees, tanks, helecopters and jets. These 
 are all cool and fun to use, but the controls are a bit wonky. Still, it is a welcome addition. 
 Your arsenal includes your standard military weapons, but there are some more technological guns 
 there too including a shotgun that has a fairly long range and a rocket launched made spacifically 
 for locking onto vehicles. The guns are fun to use and work well, which is a win for any FPS. However, 
 let me warn all of you snipers out there that the sniper in Frontlines sucks. It takes a min of 
 two shots to kill most enemies. 
  
  The single player portion is alright, but the best part of Frontlines is taking it online. Now, 
 at this point, there is only one online mode, but it is a lot of fun. Basically, you choose one 
 of the two sides, then select a character class and role. After that, it's epic warfare with vehicles, 
 lots of weapons and 32 players online. That's a war you want to be in. It is a bit tricky to get 
 into an online match at this point, but once you do get in, it's a blast to play. The online is 
 relitively lag free and everything you wanted the single player to be, the multiplayer is and then 
 some. Sure, it may be very similar to the Battlefield series, with a hint of G. R. A. W. but hey, 
 it's fun, so all is well. 
  
  Overall, Frontlines is a solid shooter with great multiplayer and a decent solo mode. It might 
 not be anything new, but it works well and is a lot of fun, so why not give it a shot?
  
  Gameplay: Battlefield meets G. R. A. W. in this fairly generic shooter with a great and epic online 
 mode.
  
  Graphics: Great destruction and solid visuals.
  
  Sound: Fairly bland voice acting, but the music and sound effects are solid.
  
  Value: It's 
 a fully priced game, but it's worth owning if you like the multiplayer.
  
  Final Thoughts: Well, yet another war begins... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GadsDad
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I was so glad I rented this game. As a fan of first person shooters and the Battlefield series, 
 I wanted to like this game. However, try as I may, I never thought this game rose above mediocre. 
 The graphics were fine, the weapons were okay, but in the end I just don't think this game matches 
 up in quality to many of the other fine choices in this market right now.
  
  It's hard to truly nail down why this game falls so far short in my opinion. One of the reasons 
 that was apparent in the demo was that it's somewhat buggy. Significant frame-rate drops are not 
 uncommon, especially on certain levels, and polish in general feels lacking. Using a generic universal 
 scope instead of iron-sights is also a substantial shortcoming. In my opinion the weapons also 
 lack punch, and melee seems ineffective.
  
  Level design seems alright, but is unimaginative, and the enemies are absolutely forgettable.
 
  
  All in all, I believe the game just does not have the feel of a quality first person shooter that 
 the past six months has shown us is possible for console shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csbbs
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Hi. I'm Repeat The Review My Frinds : tony0011 : 
  the game has fair graphics and i like the open battlefield.
  nice helicopters and tanks etc.
 
  the drones are great.
  its just a great game.
  i dont have it very long so couldn`t play it very much.
  but i think its the best in it`s kind.
 
  better than battlefield.
  i like the roles its nice to change often (not that it`s new) .
  but the multiplayer is bigger than the campaign.
  wich is pretty crappy.
  since i still need 
 to buy an ethernet cable.
  i like using air force.
  the gunship is awesome, you can shoot with tremendous power.
  i easily wipe em away with the 
 gunship.
  also handy is the precision strike and all otherr air strikes etc.
  i also like the EMP class.
  its nice to disable a vehicle and then crush it with a rocket launcher.
 
  sniping is easy in singleplayer altough is sometimes hit the enemy but you the bullet hitting 
 a mountain behind him.
  which can be frustrating sometimes.
  but it doesn`t happens very often.
  
  this is the conclusion of my crappy review.
  i like 
 the game very much.
  and if you don`t then don`t play it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radams01
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Although it was ok for a short diversion from Call of Duty 4, there are just too many things that 
 made this title sub-par.
  
  Single Player 
  - Short! All the levels were about the same difficulty. No real challenge on Normal level. No realy 
 "end boss or challenge".
  - AI poor. Repetitive animation. Only a few classes of enemy they all look and behave the same. 
 Shoot (if you hit them, then the run sideways.. etc) .
  - Graphics look OK in still screenshots, but building interiors are bland. Outdoor environments 
 look OK. Many glitches, pass through walls, etc.
  - Gameplay worst aspect. Hit detection terrible. Aiming feels sloppy and unsatisfying (unlike other 
 recent FPS games) . Sometimes you can empty a clip and just barely kill a guy, other times they 
 die from a single shot with the same weapon. 
  - Drone weapons interesting, when you get a chance to use them. They are only available in certain 
 areas for pickup.
  -Vehicle control terrible. This is no Halo. Vehicles respond poorly and can get stuck easliy. You 
 don't get the chance to try many vehicles. Tank is the most widely used, and only one chopper flying 
 section and that was brief.
  - Sound was good, especially with Dolby Digital 5.1 decoding. Sounds work well (explosions and 
 rockets whizzing by) . Sound not as good as COD4 for enemy ground troop detection. 
  -Weapons - You start out with a loadout and can only change it when you die. You then have the 
 option to change to a different class. You can't even pick up enemy weapons (same for multiplayer) 
 so your pretty much stuck with your main weapon. Sometimes you can get the anti vehicle weapons 
 or drones at amunition crates, but those are not as plentiful as you would like, seeing how the 
 game demo's spotlight these cool devices.
  
  Multiplayer
  - Took a long time to even connect to the limited servers that were available to choose from. Connection 
 showed good strength, and many people playing, but when you try to join, you get some error (session 
 no longer available) or something to that effect.
  - Gameplay - once you do get in, the gameplay "feel" is even worse than single player. You can 
 really glitch through walls or have problems moving smoothly. If feels like there is constant "hit 
 detection" lag, even though you are not lagging in general. 
  - Classes - you have a little more flexibility choosing your weapons loadout (unlike single player) 
 but you still are very limited to your weapons. You get one primary and a pistol, and one weapon 
 from a class. 
  - Maps are big, wide open, but can cross a lot of uninteresting areas until you get near the capture 
 points. These areas look OK, but the gameplay feels so loose and sloppy, you just want to take 
 it back to Blockbuster! So that's where I am headed now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fLaMbOaStiN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  "FrontLines: F. O. W" is a first person shooter with a great plot. It takes place in the near future 
 when natural fuels like gasoline, oil, and electricity are nearly depleted. The two current super 
 powers at the time (Russia and China) form a massive army and call themselves "The Red Star". While 
 America and the rest of Europe form a army themselves called "The Coalition".
  
  Throughout "FontLines: F. O. W" you'll play as a group of soldiers from "The Coalition" who's code 
 named The Stray Dogs. You will fight all across the globe struggling to take control The Red Stars 
 major advantage points; places like tanker stations, oil fields, and even in the capital of Russia. 
 The maps are huge and the enemy AI is vast on most of the battlefield.
  
  Even though the battlefields are big, I wouldn't call "FrontLines: F. O. W" a 'Open World' like the 
 back of its box claims. You will be able to explore almost every nook and cranny of each map, but 
 there is still a boundary, which you cannot pass, but instead of just hitting a invisible wall 
 like in most games you'll just start to lose your health if you wander to far. I love how much 
 you can explore the maps and everything, but, when your wandering around aimlessly for minutes 
 without shooting anything you sort of get the feeling that the maps are TOO BIG.
  
  I like how there's plenty of enemy AI, but they're only dense in certain areas of the map, so you 
 tend to get bored walking from one battle point to the next. Another thing I noticed with the enemy 
 AI is they really cant aim at all, especially when your right in front of them, it almost seems 
 as if they're trying to ignore you. In fact, the only time I ever died is when an enemy tank, helicopter, 
 or an AI with a rocket launcher shot me. You're AI teammates are plentiful too, but it doesn't 
 really seem to matter because they too cant kill a single thing!
  
  "FrontLines: F. O. W" also claims it offers over sixty different types of weapons, but when it comes 
 to the guns I only remember using five or six throughout the whole game. But I didn't care that 
 much about the lack of guns when I got my hands on the remote controlled helicopters, tanks, and 
 drones. The R. C weapons are really the funnest feature on the singleplayer mode, and are really 
 what set "FrontLines: F. O. W" away from the hundreds of other military/army FPS games out there. 
 Along with the R. C weapons there is also these portable cannon-like guns which you set up in the 
 middle of a battle and use their powerful lazerbeam-like projectiles to take out waves of enemy 
 AI, then when the battles done you move on to the next.
  
  The game's story is impressive and surprisingly fun to play through, thanks to the plot twists 
 and impressive cut scenes. All together it makes for a fun singleplayer mode, but at the end it 
 leaves WAY TOO MUCH to be desired. It seems like the game ends right when you're getting a feel 
 for it and the stories about to hit its climax.
  
  Still the singleplayers not that bad at all, but "FrontLines: F. O. W" is really going to appeal 
 to the masses thanks to its multiplayer mode! You can play with up to fifty players on several 
 different large maps that leave rooftops and buildings exposed so players can hide out and explore 
 them; which truly makes for epic and real-like battles. You're also allowed to drive tanks and 
 fly helicopters, but best of all just like the singleplayer mode you have R. C Weapons at your disposal 
 too. The online battles are huge and lots of fun, and thanks to Xbox Live "FrontLines: F. O. W" is 
 worth every penny spent.
  
  All and all "FrontLines: F. O. W" is a great game, even though there are quite a few problems I have 
 with it. Including the AI with mush for brains, the lack of guns, the fact it's not entirely an 
 open world game like it claims to be, and most of all it seems like it ends right when it's starting 
 to get interesting. But thanks to the multiplayer with big maps and tons of people "FrontLines: 
 F. O. W" is a solid title, oh yeah, the R. C helicopters helped out a little too. Buy this game if 
 you like military FPS' and have a desire to know what it feels like to be on the battlefield of 
 the future!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-Fei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War represents excellent shooter for all fans of games of a genre action. In 
 this game are perfectly combined tactics and actions. Unlike game CoD4 here there are more than 
 opportunities for tactical passage of game not only due to various fighting units but also due 
 to more extensive locations. However the combat vehile too plays an important role.
  Tanks, helicopters considerably facilitate passage of game. The command mode for one player is 
 well realized also. Partners very much help, instead of run as fools around of you and stay idle. Often 
 happened that they very much expedited tasks without me. The truth was one case when it was necessary 
 to keep for a while two points. There they have a little brought, but as a whole consulted not 
 bad. The graphic too top-level from a portrayal of units up to landscapes. The sniper mode is very 
 precisely realized. In general very good game for all fans it is good to do some shooting.
  Good: Gameplay, graphic
  Bad: Too Short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely hard to review and even harder to rate. First off the single player. I am 
 tired of hearing people say its some horrible thing that needs to go die. The single player is 
 a good training for the multiplayer which is what a single player is supposed to do especially 
 for an online game like this. Second about lag most people now have broadband and I only get lag 
 on a small occasion while this is really however you have a set up so please stop attacking the 
 game about this..
  
  To move on to the game I HATED this game at first. Absolutely hated myself for buying it but at 
 the same time no matter how frusterated at seemingly cheap kills that happen on the multiplayer. 
 First sometimes when you join a game and the team you get thrown on is losing horribly the spawn 
 killing is horrible. People will camp out the spawn points and mow you down before you even get 
 to move. Second the multiplayer is fun but not memorable unless you have a lot of people.
  
  Now to move on about the bad I LOVE this game now. I started getting used to the guns and how 
 everything handled and within about 2 days of playing it the game turned into a ferocious amount 
 of fun. The drones and the extra things you can use to fight add to a lot of tactics. This game 
 needs tactics it is not just a run in and shoot thing. 
  
  The action is intense in a large game on multiplayer the sounds of explosions and small arms fire 
 from every direction while seeing helicopters firing flares and missiles at AAA batteries as they 
 fire flack and missles right back at the heli. Along with that the helicopters have planes to worry 
 about in the air and ground units have to worry about bombs and air strikes.
  
  There are maps that are primarily armor and it is obvious that it is the intended purpose and there 
 are levels based mostly on infantry against infantry.
  
  Overall this game is fun and intense and I believe is getting a lot more slack then it should be. 
 I also think that people need to force themselves to play this and get used to it because the guns 
 and vehicles handle a lot different from any game of this kind. The single player is a great learning 
 tool for the game as it runs through every kind of vehicle and weapon type. Finally have a good 
 internet connection, nothing truly spectacular but a good connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundspeed2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game appears to be quality. I was a bit worried about weapon accuracy after I played 
 the demo, but for the most part that does not appear to be the case in the final version. Also, 
 vehicle gameplay can be a little bit akward, but after a long time you could figure it out. I find 
 the vehicle gameplay is not much different from driving the MAKO in mass effect. 
  
  The campaign seemed too short. I was able to finish the campaign in less than 5 hours of gameplay, 
 and thats on the normal difficulty. I emphasize this point because the campaign is generally pretty 
 good. It really creates the feel of a battle instead of having small groups of enemys over and 
 over. The AI on both sides appears pretty bad, as the AI spends most of the time running away. 
 The story is somewhat vague, but you still want to follow it. 
  
  The much anticpated multiplayer is quality, although it is somewhat difficult to get into matches. 
 However, when you do get into a match, it is very enjoyable. 
  
  Overall, despite a few small technicalites, it is a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathRaver-_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is if you have the fastest internet connection in the world, THIS GAME WILL ALWAYS 
 LAG. Missiles take about 3-5 seconds to come out of the helecopter. Jets jerk around (because of 
 lag) and if you can video tape yourself keeping it in the air while doing any (even simple) manuvers 
 for at least 30 seconds, I will mail you $500. This game just cannot be played in the air. 
  
  As for ground vehicle combat, its a joke. Mounted machine guns dont do jack, and the heavy 
 tanks have a very small damage radius with there guns. No matter where you hit any vehicle, you 
 will do the same amount of damage too. Also, each faction has the exact same vehicles, just with 
 different models (looks) except for there anti-air vehicles, which have a few differences. Lag 
 is pretty bad here too. 
  
  Infantry combat: not much better. The guns barely do any damage. The sniper is a joke (I wont go 
 into this because you can find complaints on the sniper rifle on any gamer website) . Lag is still 
 bad here as well. 
  
  
  The Campaign, well nobody cares too much about campaigns but I will tell you that it is extremely 
 boring, repetive, and unrealistic (while trying to be realistic) . Graphics look like my wife (if 
 I had a wife) too. 
  
  
  I would really give this game a 2.5/10.0
  I just gave it a 7.5 so that people would actually read this review. 
  
  
  Its just pathetic. 
 The whole game is a disaster. When I get some time Im going to go over to Gamestop and beg them 
 to take it back and hopefully get a couple of bucks out of it. 
  If your like me and deciding that this game looks awesome and screw all the bad reviews, heed my 
 warning: RENT BEFORE YOU BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconghost179
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Alright , For starters .. This game is not a horrible "let down" like some people are saying. Yet 
 it is not a GREAT game. I will be totally honest in this review for people who are looking to purchase 
 this game. 
  ALL SCALED 1-5 .. 1= Poor 5= Superb 
  
  Graphics : 4 
  Game play : 3 
  Diversity :4 ( Things that you can customize , player roles for ex.)
  Realism : 2 ( Some guys 
 act like terminator when shooting them )
  
  Id have to say that the one thing that I really didn't like was the Cross Hairs... When you zoom 
 in with your assault rifle its a yellow cross hair.. no red dot scope or anything.. a yellow cross 
 hair. The worst p [art of the game has to be the whole aiming aspect .. don't get me wrong this 
 game is fun as hell but the aiming you will see is almost like they put it together for a 2 yr 
 old to use. not real at ALL in that aspect. All in all the games graphics are good in their own 
 way , the Scale on this game is AMAZING you feel like your in the battle , Your squad actually 
 help you they don't run around like chickens with heads cut off.. Play it on Hardcore or Normal.. 
 casual is pointless. The mutliplayer on the the other hand is by far one of the best on the market.. 
 feels like your straight up in WWIII .. So if your more for online play then story mode.. you will 
 love this game. I love online and this game delivers one hell of an online experience for you ! 
 Never get bored online.. never. This is a must buy if you want to kick some azz online and feel 
 like its you doing it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief5761
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and all its just needed more work to the single player. What about the people 
 that don't have xbox live, it seems they put to much effort into the multiplayer than the single 
 player campaign. It derserves an 8.5. It would have been a perfect 10 if they would have balanced 
 the single player and multiplayer gameplay. Its worth the buy if you have xbox live; but rent it 
 first if you don't. The gameplay is real great the grahics look good. The drones are real fun and 
 great to play with, and the controls for all the vehicles and drones were will easy and not too 
 difficult. They did put a good story line together on the campaign, but they should have made the 
 view of the campaign more like call of duty 4 to where you could move your view around in the cutscenes. 
 Just a little more tweaking to the single player campaign and it would have been a perfect 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony0011
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  the game has fair graphics and i like the open battlefield.
  nice helicopters and tanks etc.
  the drones are great.
  its just a great game.
  i dont have 
 it very long so couldn`t play it very much.
  but i think its the best in it`s kind.
  better than battlefield.
  i like the roles its nice to change often (not that it`s new) .
  but 
 the multiplayer is bigger than the campaign.
  wich is pretty crappy.
  since i still need to buy an ethernet cable.
  i like using air force.
  the gunship is awesome, 
 you can shoot with tremendous power.
  i easily wipe em away with the gunship.
  also handy is the precision strike and all otherr air strikes etc.
  i also like the EMP class.
 
  its nice to disable a vehicle and then crush it with a rocket launcher.
  sniping is easy in singleplayer altough is sometimes hit the enemy but you the bullet hitting a 
 mountain behind him.
  which can be frustrating sometimes.
  but it doesn`t happens very often.
  
  this is the conclusion of my crappy review.
  i like 
 the game very much.
  and if you don`t then don`t play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mel4teza
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  A solid effort but could use a few tweaks. Such as it could use a better dedicated server of sorts. 
 The graphics can be comparable to COD4 but to me not as good. The game mechanics are easily manageable. 
 And the levels are pretty expansive. All in all. This game is a pretty fresh offering in the world 
 of War Games out there. It's a definite "Try!". So rent it first before you buy it. It's a love 
 or hate type of game. Depending on your preferences. I enjoyed it's storyline, it's a fair new 
 take on the war type genre that is out there right now. What I like about this game is that you 
 don't have to feel like you're running around in a cereal box sized world. But, rather you have 
 plenty of area to cover. I really love being able to Helicopter to the enemies territory and parachute 
 near the objective points or using it as an aerial flanking technique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xspecopsx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  not bad, could of been better but faster than bf2: mc. and certainly nowhere near as all out as 
 cod4. bf: bad coy has got to pull the stops out now. the maps aren't too bad with a good mixture 
 of big levels and confined urban warefare. just gonna have to have more downloadable content soon. 
 more maps please thq!! but where is the custom creatable content? or is that just for pc gamers? 
 graphically looks cool but does suffer from lag online sometimes, so the much vaunted kaos dedicated 
 servers aren't actually up to the job at the moment, but has'nt got the same problems as cod4 when 
 that came out. overall good game could be better but it's early days yet so we'll just have to 
 wait and see. i like the game but some more work needs to be done on the vehicle controls. single 
 player has some nice achievments encouraging you to move fast to get the stopwatch achievments 
 and be cautious to get the ironman ones. nice mix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjay31
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Frontlines has been screaming about it's multiplayer for the longest time. Then right before the 
 release they continue by saying "forget 32, 50 players online". Sadly, it's the online that makes 
 this game suffer. Player matches are OK but before trying to join a ranked match, say some prayers 
 and bring some extra patience. Ranked matches is enough to drive anyone insane. Creating a squad 
 good but unfortunately limited to only 4 people. As stated earlier, the campaign is the only positive 
 aspect of this game. I have a hard time getting into the story but I at least I do feel a sense 
 of accomplishment. Vehicle controls are awful IMO. Also for both single player and multiplayer, 
 it takes entirely too many hits to kill enemies. There was such a disappointment especially after 
 playing the demos and liking them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  When i got frontlines fuels of war i was expecting it too be the next one up from Battlefield 2: MC
 
  I actually have to say im dissapointed, the graphics on Frontlines: Fuels of War are terrible. 
 They just look like they are painted on!
  Explosions, Charecter Details ... everything graphic wise is just poor ...
  
  I Read somewere 
 that they wanted to make a brilliant Multiplayer game with also a brilliant Campaign ... The AI 
 Is awful, Its just stand up, shoot, drop stand up, shoot, drop, over and over again and it gets 
 repetitive and boring.
  
  However the multiplayer is pretty cool, the graphics suck but you cant not enjoy a 32/64 player 
 online mode! It is quick and well planned its just a shame it wont make you feel as good as you 
 should if you blow up a vechicle because of the horrible graphics, yeah so pretty sweet campaign.
 
  
  In Conclusion even though Battlefield 2: MC has been out for a lot longer i recommend not buying 
 this game, when you get into GAME or Gamestation or whatever, avoid this game and purchase Battlefield 
 2: MC the campaign is nice and the multiplayer is amazing. And if you dont want to get Battlefield 
 2, Battlefield is out soon for XBOX 360 and im not sure which other consoles its on!
  
  God Speed people! Hope this helped!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me of the good old days of battlefield 1. When that first came out and all my 
 buddies got it we played for hours and hours, on any and every server that we could get on. There 
 isn't much more enjoyable then blowing up a friend driving a tank.
  Frontlines is a kinda a lite version of Battlefields, but with missions and a ton of goals. 
 
  Like Battlefield the game is made up of missions, and you need to reach certain points on the 
 map and capture that point, pretty much like capture the flag. Then you are hauled off to the next 
 mission, so though the battles are pure Battlefield, the structure of the game is more like any 
 other FPS like COD or Ghost Recon.
  The game play is very fast pace, and exciting, with teams of your men running around pretty much 
 doing their own thing, though there was seem to be few near you to help you with the goals. After 
 you are killed you re-spawn just like in BF, then you rejoin your team and continue to fight.
 
  The graphics are very good but not great; the sounds are pure FPS with bombs and missions blowing 
 up all around you. The game has tons of very, very cool futuristic weapons, like drones, and Future 
 Combat Systems, remote flying vehicles. You have more then enough high tech guns to keep you going 
 for a long time.
  I've played on the single player, since I don't have Xbox Live Gold, but I heard that the Multiplayer 
 is very well done, but a bit laggy.
  There are a few things about the game that I didn't like, like the weapons, as cool as they are 
 seems to be underpowered. I mean a high powered sniper rifle like the M1000 should be able to take 
 down anything short of a elephant with one shot, but I find myself hitting the target a few times 
 to bring them down. Most of the weapons seem a bit underpowered and not very realistic but there 
 are so many types of weapons you soon forget about that.
  Also the enemy AI seems to be pretty bad, the enemy runs around like they don't have a clue, but 
 they do a fine job of hiding behind things. Also the Enemy AI seem to be more then excellent shots, 
 they can hit you from a very long way away. My teammates seem a bit lost at times, getting stuck 
 in the junk laying around on the ground, or behind walls.
  The story is pretty sound, using some of the problems we have today, and making them much worst 
 in the very near future. 
  This game maybe not in the caliber of a COD 4, or maybe even a Ghost Recon, it's not quite seasoned 
 enough to be up to speed with those games, but it is a lot of fun, and has some really cool weapons 
 that I hope to see in COD 5 or Ghost Recon ATF 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HESSLER1960
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  There, I said it. This game is just flat-out unbelievable! It has everything I love about modern 
 era first person shooters. Life like graphics, accurate and deadly weapons and PLENTY of action. 
 It really reminds me alot of GRAW2. Every level consists of multiple tasks to complete, so there 
 are no scripted paths you have follow. Your map is wide open as far as the order in which you attack 
 your targets. Defending those targets are fast moving, lethal enemies who require well placed shots 
 to take them out. There is also a great variety of really cool weaponry including ground based 
 AND aerial drones, various anti-vehicle weapons and fixed guns for your dining pleasure. I'm only 
 halfway through the game and am totally hooked. The only thing I think could be held against this 
 winner is that the vehicle control can be a little sluggish and tricky. Three cheers to THQ !!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  -- [Opening Comments] --
  "Frontlines is one of the only games that can complete with the awesomness of Call of Duty 4. If 
 not just as good as Call of Duty, it is better."
  -- [Story] --
  Probably the best excuse we have seen for killing russians in a long time. The World is running 
 out of oil, China and Russia have made an agreement and teamed up, America is out, and we must 
 fight for it. You are the "Stray Dogs" a squad in the U. S. army. You'll drive tanks, jeeps, helicopters, 
 and more to get what we deserve. 
  
  -- [Scoring Breakdonw] --
  
  
  [Gameplay]
  -Frontlines probably has the easiest to handle, and best gameplay of a First Person Shooter out 
 there. It's basicly a mixture of Halo and Call of Duty, it fixes the faults in COD4 controls and 
 adds what COD4 had, that Halo didnt, but all in an easier to get to manner, concidering how hard 
 it was to knife and run in COD4.
  -- [10] --
  
  
  [Graphics]
  -The graphics are crisp and clear, they run smoothly and the frames hardly every drop, explosions 
 have never looked better and the enemys animations have never been better. The Enemies' AI is superb 
 too. All around (Yah, Im going to compare it to COD4 again) the graphics are top notch and better 
 than COD4 with better textures, animations, and all around.
  [9.5]
  
  
  [Value]
  -Concidering it has Online play, which is great and lag-free and loads of fun, it wont be very 
 low in value, online is very fun. Story mode isnt by any means short, but isn't much longer than 
 any other war game we have seen these days. The game is addicting, it is seriously great, which 
 will make you want to reply levels, and you WILL want to replay.
  [9.0]
  
  
  [Tilt]
  -This game is top notch in Gamplay, probably the best we've seen in awhile, and the graphics are 
 also Top Notch, beating the Call of Duty competion that eats the dust of Frontlines. Great online 
 equals great value. Bring the tilt up 5 points are the freaking awesome drones, drive a micro remote-controls 
 helicopter that packs a punch and knock out tanks with exploding drones and tanks, it is really 
 cool. An awesome story mode makes a happy Camper and a great game. All around, get this game.
 
  [9.5]
  
  [Closing Comments]
  "Drive micro remote controls drones and have a heck of a time doing so, play a great story mode 
 and have loads of a long lasting awesome time with it, play great lag-free online, play this close 
 to perfect war game that blows away its competition from Kaos Studios"
  
  [9.5]
  -----
  [10.] 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patiux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful multiplayer game, definitely one of the best out there for your XBOX360... 
 Some people have been talking about a very bad/short single player campaign, personally I like 
 these games for the multiplayer part only, and I think this game was intended to be mainly a multiplayer 
 game. I would think of the single player as a very good way to get familiar with the many cool 
 things this game has to offer in for the multiplayer experience, there is a very good balance in 
 the special abilities you can choose from, which makes you want to try them all.
  Some folks have been comparing this game with COD4, and I believe that it's a good thing to do, 
 because COD is one of the best FPS ever; however, these two games are different, although COD is 
 an unbelievable good multiplayer game it focuses more on tactical 4v4 and a max of 8v8 matches, 
 and Frontlines is a MMO game with battles that have as many as 50 players (25v25) online, I think 
 this is one of the major differences between the two. I'm not saying either one of this two games 
 is better (if I had to choose I'll probably choose COD4) I'm just saying they are just different. 
 Like I mentioned before I like multiplayer games a lot, and most of the games I buy I buy them 
 for the multiplayer side of them, believe it or not, I've owned COD4 since it came out and I've 
 never finished the single player campaign; however, I've played most of it, and I think it is one 
 of the best FPS single player games ever. For this reason I agree with the guys saying that COD4 
 single player is much better. 
  Frontlines is a game focused in large scale multiplayer battles and if you like any Battlefield 
 type of games this is must buy until Battlefield: Bad Company comes out. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone interested in online gaming, if your thing is to play offline games and you are 
 looking for an awesome single player campaign, you may get disappointed, especially if you have 
 played COD4. You just need to know what you like and what you are looking for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_klein
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I totally fell for this game when I played the multiplayer demo. This is a good game, inspired 
 directly from Battlefield and Halo, but much more accessible.
  Looks: This game looks great. Good FPS (you get a framerate drop when zooming in at long distances 
 with a sniper scope, but nothing horrible) . The field of view is perfect, you know in some games 
 (Halo 3) where it seems like your POV is always slightly zoomed in? Not this one, it's good. You 
 also get the pleasure of choosing 1st person or 3rd person view when in a vehicle. The models and 
 environments all look pretty dope.
  Control: Overall the controls are pretty intuitive. There are a couple of control issues:
  D-Pad: 
 found some of the mapping here to be a little clumsy, Up = squad menu, right = full screen map, 
 down = mini map zoom toggle, left = nothing. When you access the squad menu, it's also all mapped 
 to the D-pad. This sounds alright, but feels strange having 2 tiers to the D-pad.
  A button and X button: When in a vehicle, A launches flares and X exits. Mixing these up is often 
 disasterous when in an aircraft!
  Ground Vehicle controls: Tanks handle much differently than jeeps. I found it wierd transitioning 
 between the two control styles, but it's not horrible.
  Aircraft controls: Worst part of the game. The aircraft controls are AWEFUL! The helicopter isn't 
 so bad really, but the jets? OMG! Ok it took me plowing in the ground 10 times to finally figure 
 out that UP on the stick is to go UP in the plane. WTF? That's NOT HOW IT WORKS!!! I guess they 
 never heard the expression "pull up". So I go into the options and invert the control for aircraft, 
 but then that messes up the helecopter controles. Argh! -2 points,
  Soldier setup screen: Very strange, it took me awhile to realize that I could just tab over to 
 the other panels to interact with them, but that's more of an interface issue than control issue.
 
  Sound: Great immersive sound. All the weapons and vehicles sound awesome.
  Single Player Gameplay: Not bad actually. I bought this game after playing the demo, which was 
 multiplayer only so I didn't even expect a single player campaign. It was very short, but cool 
 nonetheless. You know what, screw the single player, it's good fun (there are nukes!) , but the 
 multiplayer is where it's at!
  Mulitplayer Gameplay: You start by choosing your class. A decent variety of classes here, but nothing 
 extraordinary for this type of game. However, you then get to choose your ROLE, and this is where 
 the game really shines. 
  It determines what kind of gadgets you get to take with you, and no role is exclusive to any class, 
 which is awesome. Each role gives you three tiers of capabilities. You start each game with the 
 first most basic one, but the better you play, the closer you get to unlocking the second and third 
 tiers. This isn't permanent, just for the duration of the game, which is okay as it encourages 
 you to play smart. 
  The coolest roles IMO are the drone tech and the Airstrike tech. The drone tech lets you pilot 
 remote control little robot you drive or fly around for the purposes of recon or destruction. Very 
 fun and always satisfying. 
  For instance: Sniper got you pinned down, send out a little remote helecopter, fly it up to his 
 perch, and blow him to smithereens! Yeah!
  Or: Are you a sniper who has an enemy pinned down behind cover, and the little rascal isn't coming 
 out, call in an precision airstrike on his position and blow him out, or better yet, call in a 
 fuel air explosive drop and wipe out the whole area, just to be safe :)
  So, you pick your class, role, then you choose your spawn point, and it's all about taking over 
 key position on the map. This is another area where the game really shines. It's all about moving 
 the "frontline" toward your enemy. You can't take over any position that is too far back. So you 
 don't get people scattered all over the place, it's all concentrated on the frontline and keeps 
 the game focused.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steesprinter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The graphics aren't amazing but theyre good enough. The sound effects are incredible, so when things 
 go boom, you know that you're in for the real deal.
  Multiplayer is awsome. 32 peeps online is kick-ass and the array of vehicles to use is awsome. 
 Both sides have sleek guns to chose making the Western Coalition and the Red Star alliance both 
 great teams to play as.
  There are also huge multiplayer maps to battle on, making online battles epic and large-scaled. 
 
  
  The single player campaign is rather decent and exciting. It's fun to battle along side an AI squad 
 and not have to do things alone. At the same time, you can still use ur gadgets against the enemy 
 such as the drones. 
  
  The only let down is that loading times can be a little lengthy while waiting to respawn, but otherwise 
 its a great game.
  The game is definitely worth playing and the achievements are easy to earn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS's that has come out this year, even on casual difficulty the game presents 
 players with a series of very difficult tasks ranging form storming Red Star Alliance held villages 
 to securing the few remaining oil refineries. 
  
  The players are armed with some of the most realistic high tech weaponry, that looks as though 
 it was taken right out of the latest issue of popular science. The arsonel is your standard FPS, 
 including pistols, assault rifles and grenade launchers, but the addition of drones that can destroy 
 the enemy from a far away distances is a very nice feature.
  
  The game's storyline though is by far it's most haunting aspect, because it's backstory is drawn 
 from today's actual headlines, including oil shortages, aveon flu, etc. It presents the year 2024, 
 in relation to two other events, namely the two World Wars. The game shows the world devided into 
 two armed camps, the Red Star Alliance consisting of Russia and China, and the Western Collition 
 consisting of the US, EU, and other Western nations, which mirrors the world of 1914 and 1939, 
 and tensions over the world's remaining oil supplies are at the point where a single spark is needed 
 to ignight a Third World War. 
  
  This game in particular, in addition to being a fantastic single player/multiplayer game, is also 
 a warning for real life that unless things dealing with energy change the future this game shows, 
 may in fact become our actual future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The story line is based on when we run out fuel, a topic which will ultimately affect all of us, 
 blows a chill down my spine because what is depicted in the first cut scene is the type of thing 
 that's just waiting to happen .
  
  Back to the game frontlines suffers from some minor faults in the controls but the over all game 
 is a gem, not a master piece but a cold fusion of two other game types, described as "battlefield: 
 Recon", and you know what, it works!!!!
  
  The single player game is good very good (not brilliant) . You will love the new toys, mini rocket 
 helicopters, tiny tanks flying bombs of fun all waiting for you, Fantastic when you switch to Xbox 
 live head straight for the drones, and there's air strikes too, these are cool the sound of a cluster 
 bomb attack is awesome. Also you get to fly jet fighters which can take a little practice, of course 
 you get helicopters lots of them to fly around, and yes you will be humming Wagner's music from 
 apocalypse now, these are by far the weapon of choice and don't forget to use that "chaff" button.
 
  
  You also have anti aircraft units, jeeps, tanks and even more tanks even a bus!!!!
  
  And 32 players on line!!! 
  
  The maps are cool and large lots of vantage points and cover. 
 When you play oil fields you can feel and smell that black thick smoke of burning crude great fun 
 
  The maps fall also between Ghost recon and battlefield MC with great affect.
  
  Bad points
  - Minor control issues
  
  Good points
  - Helicopters !!!!!!! Lots of them
 
  - Jets
  - Drones
  - More drones that go boom!!!!!
  - Tanks
  - Jeeps
  - 32 players online
  - Did I mention helicopters?
  
  
  If you ;love ghost recon or battlefield 
 you need this in your life!!!. Frontlines is very enjoyable with some excellent moments waiting 
 for you, I hope KAOS try again, they have done a good job on this.
  
  Must buy game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pouria_T
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  When i saw the trailers i thought this game isn't going to be very popular but when i played the 
 playable demo i was surprised about the gameplay , it was really good but it had some glitches 
 ( It still has some glitches now! ) but as long as the gameplay is good , i don't care about anything 
 else : )
  
  Frontlines has a good collection of weapons , The tanks are really cool , it has some cool gadgets 
 (drones and ...) and is really easy to learn , yet the single player mode is really short and takes 
 about 8 hours to finish.
  
  It isn't the best game and doesn't have a chance against game like Halo 3 and Bioshock, but you 
 can enjoy it for some time and it's worth playing.
  
  still, this game could be better : Aiming , AI , Graphical glitches and ... with some work , Frontlines 
 could have a higher rank , it had the potential to get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  frontlines fuel of war is one of those games that the first time you go through the singleplayer 
 you dont see it all. you have to go through this game about 3 to 4 times to find everything. the 
 graphics are very nice, although there is a basic loading issue with the graphics. it takes only 
 like a half a second or a full second to load, but its not that noticeable. the character detail 
 is very, very nice, such as the ai characters actually have fingers, their body armor bounces on 
 their backs as they run, and theres much, much more. the sound is good, but they use a few really 
 old (like from "return to catle wolfenstein") . the guns sound really nice, the voice acting is 
 pretty good. and the vehicles sound good too. the gameplay is my favorite part. like i mentioned 
 above, you almost cant see it all the first time thorugh. the ai is pretty smart, not the best, 
 but good. the difficulty levels are just right for someone that is looking for a challenge, or 
 an easy time. the only thing that i can say bad about this game is the stand/crouch/prone controll. 
 you have to click the left analogue stick three times to get it to go to prone, you cant go from 
 prone to crouch, but what can we do but play the game. anyway, this game is definentally a must 
 buy for that gamer looking for somthing different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalGib
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is a great first person shooter in the same light as the Battlefield series. 
 The single player campaign is nothing revolutionary except that this series introduces the use 
 of drones as weapons. Players may use cars, helicopters, or unmanned tanks that are little remote 
 controlled vehicles. Players use these vehicles to move around the map and find enemies and kill 
 them. the rest of the single player is pretty standard issue. The multiplayer is where you will 
 get the most out of this game!!!! The multiplayer is very similar to BFMC but it is something newer 
 and all of the weapons and drones used in single-player can be used for multiplayer. This creates 
 some intense multiplayer battles where players are getting chased by a real tank then find themselves 
 ducking and hiding from drones as well. At this point I did not see too many of the 50 man player 
 matches that were promised. When I did see it they were only found using quick match and were on 
 the one map village. I am confident that FL will patch their server problems ( problems that all 
 FPS multiplayer games experience at first) . Also ss of this point FLFW does not have any other 
 modes except for the frontline mode where you simply capture objectives to advance the frontline. 
 I am sure they will download other game modes in the future but I really feel that DM, TDM, CTF 
 are all standard issue when creating a FPS and should always be included in all FPS games. Heres 
 hoping that THQ will not charge us an arm and a leg fot standard issue game modes. In the end I 
 feel that this game is highly addictive and fun for FPS fans. Even people who may never have liked 
 BF for whatever reason should give this game a try because it builds on the BF formula and is very 
 entertaining for fans. Also it sets the bar for BFBC because FL is great.. so lets hope BF will 
 take this formula and add to it when BC comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishlocard
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to immerse yourself into a playground of war mayhem at its finest! The single 
 player campaign is not only fun, entertaining, and addictive but it throws you into a game with 
 huge maps and unlimited exploration of the maps themselves. It has a great learning system that 
 fully explains what buttons to push to make something happen, and clearly marks your objectives 
 without any confusion on where to go or what you need to do when you get there. This "Battle System" 
 combines multiple classes of soldiers, and allows you to choose which one best suits your gaming 
 style, and takes it even further in multi-player by allowing you to choose a soldier class along 
 with a specialty weapons class. This in itself allows a player of any type to customize the feel 
 of their soldier to their personal preference and also allows them to change customizations during 
 a muti-player battle so that they can adjust to the ever changing scenerio before them.
  
  The vehicles on this game are amazing! You will find yourself racing across the desert in a Humvee 
 on minute and flying a Helicopter Gunship or Jet the next. The controls feel natural and are well 
 fitted to the individual vehicles themselves. You cant beat jumping out of a helicopter and free 
 falling because you are about to be blasted out of the sky, and then pulling your Parachute as 
 low as possible to the ground because you dont want to be sniped before you hit the ground. This 
 game has a lot of versatility with its vehicles, and they have great counters for every type of 
 vehicle in the game.
  
  The weapons, especially the drone class weapons, are highly addictive and equally balanced in both 
 of the Armies armament. You have a huge selection of weapons to play with and they bring their 
 own individual advantage to the batttlefield.
  
  One thing that I love about this game is the dedicated servers. You can jump into a 32 player battle 
 with almost NO LAG. (The reason I say almost is because it is going to depend on what type of Internet 
 Connection you have. I suggest that you have High Speed DSL, or a Cable Modem.) You also have the 
 option of hosting a game yourself, or jumping into someone elses custom match.
  
  To sum this game up, its amazingly innovative and has taken Online gaming a giant step into the 
 rite direction for future games. We now will expect huge maps with great exploration features, 
 and we will now expect more customizable weapons classes and special abilities, and we will expect 
 a good number of different vehicles that have that natural feel to them when you drive them. Of 
 course this game does have some bugs that need to be worked out but this game is a "work in progress", 
 and has been said to have patches being released in the near future to fix these problems. The 
 "Good" outweighs the "Bad" ten to one in this game and I suggest that you find out for yourself. 
 It is a great buy and an outstanding game that is only going to get better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gimli285
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I started off playing a multiplayer session with about 15 guys in it. 
 In that one 30 minute session, I engaged in six helicopter duels, called in eight air strikes, 
 detonated eleven C4 explosives, and killed 39 enemy soldiers (while dying seven times) . In short, 
 the multiplayer is absolutely fantastic, with incredible, immersive action that will keep you on 
 your toes for hours on end. The number of ways to dispatch your enemy are endless. I ran over enemy 
 soldiers with an attack helicopter, wired an F15 with four C4 explosives, and even called in an 
 AC-130 gunship (equivalent) to wreak havoc on enemy tanks. The action is spectacular, and the maps 
 are all different and adhere to unique styles of gameplay (my personal favorite is Solar Farm) .
 
  
  The single player hooks you in from the very beginning, with wave after wave of enemy coming at 
 you. Luckily you've got your squad of guys to watch your back. The AI isn't necessarily incredible, 
 but it's workable and makes the single player very enjoyable. The story is well done, and the in-game 
 cinematics are fantastic. There's nothing like being engaged in a battle against waves of Chinese 
 tanks while seeing tactical nukes explode off in the near distance while constantly getting shelled 
 by artillery emplacements. The single player is absolutely gripping, and the gameplay mechanics, 
 such as drones and airstrikes are fun to play around with, although there's nothing like taking 
 out communists with a good ol' assault rifle. The weapons are very satisfying and contribute strongly 
 to the gameplay.
  
  Note: I did have a minor problem with lag for a minute or two in multiplayer, but it was over quickly 
 and I was still able to rack up kills.
  
  Overall this game is excellent, satisfying, and just plain fun. It will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War is a great first persons shooter for the Xbox360. The graphics are crisp, 
 clean, and mostly glitch free. The textures are amazing and the way everything flows is truly great.
 
  
  The gameplay is great. Easily the only war game that condends with Call of Duty 4. The controls 
 can be a bit awkward at times but extremely easy to master. the sound effects add to the great 
 illusion that your in the battlefield. In the game you can use droids like remote controlled helicopters, 
 tanks, and weird airplane things. You can send them in buildings to kill everyone or go kill a 
 tank by exploding right next to it, this makes the gameplay awesome and its extremely fun to steer 
 and shoot missiles with a mini helicopter. Though at times this game can get pretty hard which 
 can also be a good thing.
  
  With online play it makes the fun go on and on. The "nat" thing though can get irritating. Online 
 play is fun and just as crisp as the single player campaign mode.
  
  Overall... go out right now and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalabuck92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines: Fuel of War single player follows a coalition called the "Stray Dogs" as theyfight through 
 the Oil Wars in 2024. Troughout you must obtain info, take over bases, and destroy certain objects 
 (Ex. AA Guns) . Single plays pretty much like Battlefield, but better in many ways! Single player, 
 although short, will keep you playin with a pretty good story. From getting nuked to deactivating 
 a missle launch or detroying tanks, single player will keep you in for a while. But the main thing 
 to buy this game for is multiplayer. You can fight with of to 49 other people! Now that is one 
 heck of a fight! As long as you have a good connection, you set. Graphics and sound are also very 
 good. Overall Frontlines makes a bargain for your buck and is a definite must buy. Combine all 
 of this, you got Frontlines: Fuel of War getting a....
  
  10
  ----
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhswn1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  ^ Unlike AA: True Soldiers I quickly traded that in for this. The running speed has improved, not 
 much bullet lag that I've been hearing about. Those RCs are easier to control, and quite frankly, 
 I just had fun shooting Russians and Asians with a variety of weapons. (Ever run a RC under an 
 tank, blow it up, and enjoy the fireworks?) I classify it as a Guilty Pleasure, for what I've seen, 
 not alot of people like the game. I haven't tried multiplayer yet, since I have yet to renew my 
 account. I just got it today, so only 9 hours played, and the difficulty... well Casual has it's 
 tough moments, so the best I can give it is Just Right for difficulty. There many other classifications 
 that I feel fit for this game, but like I said, this game is like my guilty pleasure for many different 
 reasons. So if you want to believe the low scores or critics thumbs down, take my advice, and atleast 
 spend a little money to rent it. If you like it, good for you! If you don't, oh well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumbreak1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game very much reminds me of call of duty 4 from the era gameplay and setting. It takes place 
 in the Middle East in the South Russia area. You are at war with the red star army which is China 
 and Russia, fighting over what remains of the oil around the Caspian Sea. The graphics are in fact 
 even better than Call of Duty 4. You get an assorted amounts of drones such as mini helicopter 
 that self destruct, and vechiles such as futuristic tanks and HMVs. All though there only 9 single 
 player missions (including the bonus village mission) , who said they weren't amazingly detailed, 
 and fun. In single player you have a choice of 3 classes, assault, heavy assauly, and special forces. 
 (not exactly the most original names) They dont differentiate too much, although it's a nice touch. 
 The online play is pretty good if you can get enough people. About half of the game's achievments 
 are for online play. The acheivments are much similar to Gears of War. Although this game isn't 
 all about just pushing the frontlines forward over and over using your plentiful resources of drones 
 and explosives. You have objectives of taking out and blowing certain factories, securing certain 
 points, and rescuing innocents such as the press. Overall pretty good campaign short. Reall weird 
 how pretty much all levels are easier until the last level where everything is just very hard then. 
 Probably just a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csartinian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for single player. The use of planes, helicopters (with a parachute bailout) , 
 tanks you name it all handle as you'd expect and can wail upon your victims with rockets and other 
 destructive measures makes this game very immersive with some of the best sound implemented in 
 a game of this sort. Lots of customization and the nice perks such as remote control vehicles and 
 unmanned drones are very fun and add to the fun. If you were looking to buy this game for the online 
 hype then BUYER BEWARE! Imagine spending 30 minutes trying to connect to their dedicated servers 
 while constantly fending off "game session no longer available" errors and for the few you can 
 connect to frequent lag and dropped frames. It's really a mess and it is sad that a game with this 
 much potential fails to offer a rock-solid online experience and raise the bar for online shooters. 
 Rent Only! Not worth $60 if you are looking for online mayhem. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 may soon make 
 online players forget about this game and finally be able to quench their thirst for fresh and 
 stable online fun. As of March 1st 2008 the Kaos team updated the games Server Issues Forum here 
 at Gamespot and advised they were in the process of adding more servers and working on fixing the 
 code to prevent the 'no longer available' server connection problems. A resolution remains to be 
 seen. Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, Rainbow Six all delivered online - maybe sometime in the future this 
 game could earn the 8.5 it deserves and join the list of quality Xbox 360 shooters. Crysis would 
 be nice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdmPatriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  I love the multiplayer aspect of this game! Before you know it, you just spent half the day slaughtering 
 your enemies. The single player game was too quick & easy though. This aspect could have had a 
 bit more time invested to make it better for those without XBOX Live. I have to admit though, I 
 did not buy it for the single player missions.
  
  I play a game like this and I think it is pretty darn good, but then I think of all the things 
 that could have been inlcuded that would have truely made this an exceptional game. Could you imagine 
 if you could import some of the Halo3 features to a game like this? I would have loved to take 
 a few photos of my kills and a map making feature would have been awsome as well. Still a really 
 good game, I just think that Halo 3 has really set the bar high with what a great game CAN do. 
 This one COULD have been a LOT better!
  
  I liked the squad aspect as well. I get tired of listening to the useless banter that you run across 
 in other online games. You can pick & choose your squad mates, which is cool. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDraven666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  They have finally brought pc gaming to the XBOX 360 console. As for the lag in multiplayer it is 
 a NEW game!! IT WILL GET BETTER!! Just give it time people! They are working on the lag.... This 
 game has one of the best multiplayer systems i have ever had the pleasure to play. JUST GIVE THE 
 MAKERS TIME TO FIX THE LAG!! I hate it when people jump the gun and blame the game... this has never 
 been done on a console game it's the next step in mass multiplayer gaming on XBOX 360. Rainbow 
 Six Las Vegas had some really bad lag when that came out and so did Battle Field 2 but after some 
 time they fixed it and they became some of the best multiplayer games ever made! 
  
  As for the vehicles... AWESOME!! I love how they put some jets into the game... The upgrade system 
 is cool too... In some ways it is better to Battle Field 2 because now we have a more array of choices 
 in class selection... i love the little RC vehicles.... COOL LOOKING AND DEADLY!! Weapons are cool 
 too. 
  
  PATIENCE!! BlackDraven666 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  The campagin is unbelivably short. The story is lacking any type of flare or substance and feels 
 like you don't even know why your fighting. The entire game you will face horrible AI, like your 
 men and then enemies will stand 2 feet from one another and not fire a bullet. Every AI will also 
 run around franticly with and fire randomly at you. Also, they mught as well paint a giant bulls-eye 
 on you cuase all enemies will ignore your allies and focus all fire on you. 
  
  Multiplayer could have been great but it has way way way too many flaws. first off finding a match 
 w/o lag is impossible and most matches will say they are no longer available when you try to join 
 them. Once in the matches the glitches make the game unplayable. Such as, if u use the coalition 
 copter the weapons have to fold out to fire, they do this when you get in, but at times they will 
 fold back up not allowing you to fire so u have to abandon it. The standard guns make it impossible 
 to kill anyone reasonably. Also, the lag is so bad people will move around erratically around your 
 screen.
  
  Do not buy this game unless you favorite pass time is to waste good money. This game isnt worth 
 $5 let alone $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics = Killer
  2. Game play = Killer
  3. Story = killer
  4. Control = Killer*2
  5. Sound = Killer*2
  6. Replay = Killer
  7. Multiplayer = 
 
  
  I cant get enough of this game. It reminds me of Tribes soooo much I cant even stand it. I ghost 
 rode a hummer into a squad of 4 dudes.......... what game allows that? Yeah yeah I know. Some fool 
 flew his jet fighter thru my chopper mid air. I'm not going to say this is the best game ever. 
 But I will say I haven't had this much fun in a loooong time. So many different ways to do things 
 and its fun every time I log on. These guys have a franchise on their hands. Kill all the other 
 noise Frontlines is the business. I know it like this game 7 like that game, but you have to realize 
 every game is like something. I like the fact that it ripped all the best qualities out of some 
 other popular games, thats the point . Ripp the meat leave the fat. -Fin- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiaba13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If you liked BF2 then you'll love this. The single player is alright, and it is fun to use all 
 the different tech and wander about the levels, but it is a short campaign (I beat it in 6hrs on 
 Hardcore) . The headshots seam a bit off in the game, as in you can be aiming clearly at a guy's 
 head when neither of you are moving and fire and the bullet won't even hit him, but other than 
 that the weapons work great. The multiplayer is where the game shines though, the maps are huge 
 and the different weapons and spec combinations make for a good bit of diversity. The specs level 
 through each game and can be switched with any loadout allowing you to continue using your preferred 
 weapon/best weapon for the situation while being able to adapt to the battle. Make sure that you 
 join a squad in every game and that the members of said squad know what to do otherwise it can 
 get a bit frustrating if everyone is just doing their own thing. Highly recommend if you have Live, 
 if not just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad_d
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game will appeal most to those who have played BF2 Modern Combat for the 360 that came out 
 in 2006. The R & D team for that game developed this game, so you can think of FFoW as its spiritual 
 successor.
  
  Single Player 5/10: I feel as though the single player is simply a lengthy tutorial for the real 
 deal - multiplayer. I am halfway through the game at this time and believe it or not it took me 
 3 hours to get there... on the highest difficulty setting. The campaign is pretty fun, more of an 
 "OK soldier we need to control these two points" and then 10 min later "It turns out we need to 
 control another 3 points... here's some armor to help you get there". The game allows you to take 
 an objective in any order you choose so it is non-linear in style. I am more intrigued about the 
 storyline... finally a game that takes current events such as an energy crisis and bases the game 
 around this. Driving vehicles in this game is the probably the most annoying thing. In most cases 
 you need to drive land vehicles with your left analog, using RB as a boost button. It's hard to 
 control some vehicles and you seem to get stuck on annoying little things (I mean can a tank really 
 get stuck on a dinky little barricade?) For air based, the helicopter controls are a little more 
 intuitive and work better. I have not witnessed the jets yet. 
  
  Multiplayer 8/10: This is the most fun aspect of the game, so those who do not have a XBL Gold 
 account should stay away from buying the game. With up to 50 player MP supported, this game is 
 the most intense to date. Currently there is only 1 gameplay setting which is Frontlines, basically 
 think of it as "coordinated domination" You rush from your base trying to gain control over access 
 points, however several must be captured in sequence in order to gain new ground. It works well 
 in this game. The game makes use of character classes much like CoD4. You can be a sniper or assault 
 soldier for instance, and then choose support functions such as drone tech or air support. The 
 more kills and objectives you complete, the quicker the recharge time for these perks. You also 
 gain access to upgraded support features based on your milestones. For instance you will start 
 out with a precision airstike in air support perk mode, but after reaching a certain number of 
 points you will gain access to cluster bombs, which causes far more damage. A great feature. Note: 
 in the search field for multiplayer matches you can select gametype and there is a slider bar there. 
 Currently Frontlines is the only selection but that obviously means that more game modes are on 
 the way. I have a hunch that KAOS will release a DL pack in the near future with new modes and 
 weapons, a la GRAW. At this time I have only seen a max of 32 player servers instead of the much 
 awaited 50 but KAOS may be waiting to set it up when more people buy the game? I notice the server 
 screens are a little buggy as a lot of closed servers show they are active even when you refresh 
 a search. The KAOS server games are relatively lag free, but the ones hosted by XBL members are 
 a shot in the dark.
  
  Graphics 7/10: Don't expect CoD4 quality or anything, but FFoW definitely delivers on the graphics 
 front. Backgrounds are highly detailed alhough those little jaggies are evident in some places. 
 The framerate suffers depending on how much action is going on, but not annoying enough for me 
 to bash it. Unlike games like Halo 3, FFoW graphics are equal on single player and multiplayer
 
  
  Audio 8/10: The sounds are very detailed and varied for this game, especially the weapons. You won't 
 be disappointed.
  
  In closing, I would first recommend downloading both the single player and multiplayer demos from 
 XBL. The game is identical to these two so if you like 'em, you'll like the game. Personally, BF2 
 was one of my favorite games so this game is all that and more. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very solid and critics out there are just plain stupid. Only reason this game is getting 
 some bad reviews is because it is been compared to call of duty 4 and BF2 wich in peoples on way 
 those are the games they like and they dont like it when other games come in and steal the spotlight. 
 Trust me i know i am a halo fan. I remember when CoD4 came out. But hey i started playing it and 
 like CoD4 better than halo. Anyways back on topic. This game Is very fun online! If you dont have 
 online you are missing out on way to much because this game has very good things to offer. For 
 those who say Horrible and this and that i know for a fact they have not played it and if they 
 have they played it for 2 to 3 minutes and say holy **** this sucks and the menu screen didint 
 even come up yet. Over all I give this game a 9.9. No game desserves a 10. No game is perfect. 
 This game has some flaws but very few and people dont give it to much credit. For those who have 
 not played this game please play more than 3 minutes of it and make sure you get pass the menu 
 screen before judging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllBOOMSTICK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  gamespot is often 3+ days behind everyone else, I thought I would review it for those of you on 
 the fence waiting to buy or try. 
  
  I purchased the game today at 11:00am. Most EB or Gamestops got them in today FYI. I began the 
 game's single player portion and was relieved that the game play has improved over the XBOX demo. 
 While still not perfect, the AI is much improved. The weapons feel more solid and less "wild." 
 The movement is smooth for the most part and the drone controls are no longer warped. I had no 
 problems with any weapons, however the rocket launchers sometimes forget to reload after firing 
 until an additional trigger squeeze. The steering of the BMP and LMV are spot on and require little 
 skill. The sniper rifle seems more powerful and the MGs and LMGs recoil is nonexisitant. Overall 
 very fun single player and often challenging more so than the retarded AI from the demo. Graphically 
 the game seems enhanced and the textures have less "pop" ins.
  
  The multiplayer maps are a blast, yet I havent found a 50 player server. The jets are very hard 
 to fly and will require some practice to be useful. The balance of teams seems to be an issue, 
 yet not as lobsided as the demo. Weapons in the game feel like the demo, lag seems minimal however 
 only played once on each map, and the vehicles seem more texture rich. Overall a fun experience 
 with the edition of new vehicles and employable tactics based around the rock paper scissors format.
 
  
  A coulple of things I found lacking from the game are 
  
  1. No first person view from the Humvee like some of the demo movies released by Kaos.
  
  2. The 
 sniper rifle in single player is awesome and provides a huge advantage, however the sniper rifle 
 damage does not crossover to the Multiplayer mode.
  
  3. The animation for the drones especially the flying ones are better and does not require multiple 
 trigger squeezes to employ, different from demo as they are easier to control.
  
  4.8 maps for multiplayer may only provide so much until everyone figures out the hiding spots.
 
  
  5. Flares from vehicles seem to have less cool down and can basically be spammed to avoid rocket 
 contact. This could be fixed by adjustment of cooldown or limiting availibility until resupply 
 from crates.
  
  6. All scopes look the same and are kind of generic. All weapons feel the same with + or - range.
 
  
  Overall a great game to hold you over until BF Bad Company. The only real way this could compete 
 is for additional maps and patches to be made. There is fun to be had for the single player or 
 multiplayer content. As the days go by more and more people will get this and more 50 player games 
 will be availible. With the 2 additional maps availible from codes from EB and Best Buy offer a 
 little extra for single players for free which is nice. Both codes can be found in this forum. 
 I did want to see this game on the PS3 graphically, however the FPS controls seem far superior 
 on the xbox in my experience. Hope this helps some of you on the fence, but its the best FPS I 
 have bought since Orange Box.
  
  Xbox gamer tag: IllB00MSTICK
  
  good luck and cheers guys!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulater777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Like all the reviews before me, yes this game grows on you very fast. But the fact everyone is 
 comparing it to Battlefield 2 or Call of Duty 4, this game is unique in it's own way. For the first 
 time on a Xbox 360 Live game , you can fly jets on the multi player maps. Good luck flying them 
 in the beginning, the controls are hard to get used to in the beginning, but practice makes perfect. 
 But also consider the current news around the world considering the issue on oil and oil prices, 
 this games brings reality on what could happen in the future. Some of the maps are huge. In one 
 match I went threw a whole game and only found one person and it was 16 vs 16. And you are thinking, 
 is it worth 60 bucks? In my opinion, yes! There is a few things they need to patch up later on 
 the online play, like making the sniping more accurate. But over all you will like this game. The 
 demo gave it no justice and other people slamming the game, just really did not give it a chance. 
 Rent it, buy it, play it online, see you in my sniping scope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Although the single player was way to short the game hit home and turned out to be a really fun 
 war game its close to the battlefield series which is based off the popular war series games for 
 the PC and the other ones for the Xbox and 360. The single player may be confusing and it may take 
 awhile to get what the hell is going on and why, but you learn the World is running out of Oil 
 and Russia and China form the Red Star Alliance and USA Makes the Wester Coaltion. They battle 
 to get the remaining oil and protect their home lands. The story is like the Battlefield Modern 
 Combat game for the Xbox 360, but this has more cinimatics and cooler characters. The Multiplayer 
 is where this game shines fully the Multiplayer puts you in intense action. The maps are beautiful 
 and destroyed so you will be fighting in completely destroyed cities to oilfields and other maps, 
 the weapons are really cool looking and fun to use they sometimes can be a pain in the butt to 
 use, but its all cool. The vehicle combat takes more from the Battlefield game, you can use choppers, 
 tanks, turrets, and much more. The unique thing the makes this game special is the roles. You can 
 get drones, deployable turrets, engineer items, and airstrike equipment. The game is a solid war 
 game and takes its place in my good game list it gets a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't even sure if this game had a single player campaign because the multiplayer got so much 
 attention prior to release. But I pre-ordered it anyway. So being that the single player campaign 
 really got no hype at all prior to release I was a bit weary; wow, was I in for a surprise. I was 
 honestly blown away by the single player campaign. This is a futuristic type military shooter where 
 the oil on the earth has run out so whatever is left is all we have on earth and we're going to 
 war for it. The gameplay is so smooth and solid and the difficulty (i played on normal) was just 
 plain perfect where it keeps you right in that "fun-factor" mode pretty much the entire time. You 
 can pretty much go anywhere you can see on the battlefield, yet there are objectives you must complete 
 to keep the story moving. Alot of times you will have to control certain areas of the battlefield 
 for a length of time until it's yours. Other times you will need to plant explosives to blow up 
 an AA cannon or other such objectives. To help you in your mission you get some awesome weapons 
 such as helicopter and tank drones that you control via remote control but you get a bird's eye 
 view and these drones can shoot. You can control real tanks and helicopters and other combat vehicles. 
 Then there's whole array of weapons such as missle launchers, grenade launchers, machine guns, 
 snipers, pistols, grenades, and much more. This is by no means an average military shooter...... there 
 are certain things that set this game apart, that make it special, and make it fun. I think it's 
 a combination of the graphics, the weapons, the gameplay, the way the missions and objectives are 
 set up and how the game progresses. It's smooth, challenging, and fun all at the same time. And 
 that's only the single player campaign. For a console video game to be great to me these days it 
 MUST have an awesome single player experience and this delivers (although I don't know for sure 
 yet but it may be a bit short from what I saw but don't know for sure) . I didn't play the multiplayer 
 for long but tried it out in a team deathmatch type game. I was able to jump in some choppers and 
 shoot down enemy tanks, use tanks myself, and run around with a machine gun, and a sniper gun to 
 rack up some enemy kills and to control certain areas of the map. It was quite enjoyable but I 
 had already been playing the single player for a few hours and it was time for a break. Sort of 
 reminded me of Battlefield 2 and Mercenaries. This is fun stuff and I highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Although the single player was way to short the game hit home and turned out to be a really fun 
 war game its close to the battlefield series which is based off the popular war series games for 
 the PC and the other ones for the Xbox and 360. The single player may be confusing and it may take 
 awhile to get what the hell is going on and why, but you learn the World is running out of Oil 
 and Russia and China form the Red Star Alliance and USA Makes the Wester Coaltion. They battle 
 to get the remaining oil and protect their home lands. The story is like the Battlefield Modern 
 Combat game for the Xbox 360, but this has more cinimatics and cooler characters. The Multiplayer 
 is where this game shines fully the Multiplayer puts you in intense action. The maps are beautiful 
 and destroyed so you will be fighting in completely destroyed cities to oilfields and other maps, 
 the weapons are really cool looking and fun to use they sometimes can be a pain in the butt to 
 use, but its all cool. The vehicle combat takes more from the Battlefield game, you can use choppers, 
 tanks, turrets, and much more. The unique thing the makes this game special is the roles. You can 
 get drones, deployable turrets, engineer items, and airstrike equipment. The game is a solid war 
 game and takes its place in my good game list it gets a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, if you are interested in this game, download the Multi-Player Demo and try that 
 first. If you get a kick out of that, then pick the game up. After playing the single player demo 
 last year and feeling very underwhelmed, the release of the multi-player demo provided a more polished 
 and exciting representation of where the meat of this game is centered: big multi-player shooter 
 matches. If that appeals to you, you will find much to like about Frontlines. If you are looking 
 for a single player experience with a narrative the likes of Bioshock, go back and play that game. 
 
  
  If you played Kaos' last console outing Battlefield Modern Combat, you already know what to expect 
 here. Two sides compete for objective points on a map. By taking the objectives, you limit the 
 other teams ability to spawn, take new vehicle points for your side, and hopefully maintain battle 
 momentum to push the other team all the way back. Unlike their last outing, a good army can not 
 only push back the opposite team, but also take their home base, effectively ending the match instead 
 of slowly killing off the other team slowly in a spawn kill marathon. For those of us who know, 
 this concise victory arrangement is welcome and keeps the games moving quickly. 
  
  Once again, vehicles play a huge role in the battle, and there are plenty to go around this time. 
 On the larger maps, there can be more than a dozen different tanks, light infantry, and airborne 
 vehicles causing all kinds of carnage. For the most part, they control quite well, and with a little 
 practice, anyone can put the hurt down behind the wheel of a heavy tank. Most have two rider options, 
 meaning that a twosome, on with rockets, the other with heavy machine guns, can really cause some 
 trouble on a map. Jet and helicopter controls can confuse and seem unwieldy at first, but thats 
 not new to this genre. 
  
  Battles can be big, with 32 player maps (and they are huge) and smaller maps for more intimate 
 battles. Kaos handles VOIP in the match by allowing four players to form squads and speak to one 
 another. While it cuts down on random and annoying chat from 16 players at one time, it does seem 
 to isolate players a bit. It would have been nice to implement some kind of commander system to 
 allow some kind of coordination between the squads, but as anyone knows, even only four well coordinated 
 and motivated players can be successful. 
  
  The Role system is novel, but feels a little weak compared to the beefy level system of COD4. During 
 each battle you not only pick your load-out (assault, heavy machine-gunner, rocket guy) but also 
 a Role. The better you play as that role, the more access you gain to better toys. While its a 
 nice addition that adds a little depth to those who use the extra abilities, losing them every 
 time a match restarts kills the achievement. Luckily, its not too hard to get the best stuff the 
 roles have to offer. 
  
  So, over-all, the game plays well enough. All of the shooter elements feel right (shooting, movement, 
 driving, all work just fine) , and given the amount of options available to creative players, there's 
 a lot to like in multi-player. The dedicated servers seem to work pretty well. If someone is glitching, 
 you can tell it's their connection, not the server. There are some weird hitches during scripted 
 segments of the single player, which tend to remove you from the world a little. Its not broken, 
 it just feels like more polish was needed. The only mode available in Frontlines is the objective 
 capture type, which most people play this game for anyway. It would have been nice to offer some 
 tight deathmatch maps, or try an assault level or two. 
  
  Speaking of single player, its broken into mission segments that use maps and tile-sets from multi-player, 
 all thrown together with a goofy narrative that is ok at best, laughable at it's worst. Essentially 
 it is a long bot match. While the world of an oil-less near future sure has it's touch-stones for 
 today's news savy, the in game story provides little more than your typical big-necked action flick. 
 Its just nothing but typical, which these days is a shame. Single player provides a nice little 
 ride of shooting and blowing up stuff and shooting hundreds of idiot AI's. It wasn't bad enough 
 to make me stop, but not good enough to ignore multi-player for more than a couple of hours. What 
 would have made this work is including two to four player co-op. That would have taken this ho-hum 
 single player campaign and given you a reason to play through. You'd have thought that would be 
 a no-brainer by now.
  
  Presentation wise, the game is a mixed bag. The Unreal Engine is used to a competent level. The 
 game runs well enough given a matches propensity to have so many players doing so much stuff on 
 huge maps. Some textures are bad and muddy. Sometimes you can swear they just recycled low-res 
 texture sets from their last game. The art direction is the worst part. Nothing really stands out. 
 Some stuff is cool, but most of the guns look pretty generic for near future fare. Also, the vehicles 
 are little more than boxes with wheels or treads. The effects are nice, and explosions are plentiful 
 and impressive. Taking a buddy and planting a tank shell right in a group of baddies online always 
 elicits a chuckle, and the game gives this kind of action a good name. There is some environment 
 destruction for good measure, so while it won't wow you, the graphics work on most levels. Sounds 
 are just what you expect, neither impressing nor offending. Gun sounds are distinct even if they 
 sometimes lack punch. Vehicle noises are a little subdued, but at least everything is given some 
 level of attention to detail in the aural department. Once again, fine. 
  
  So, the decision is yours. If you played hours and hours of BFMC and had fun, and don't mind playing 
 something very similar but different enough, this is your game. Its almost like fan service to 
 those who liked Koas' previous work. For those of you looking for an impressive story-driven military 
 simulator, look elsewhere. There's plenty of legs via the multi-player experience here to warrant 
 a purchase for those of you that this kind of shooter appeals to, especially if you have three 
 or four friends looking for a nice, dumbed down diversion from your hours of Call of Duty. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This is a funny game to peg. It is definitely a better multiplayer game. Do not buy this only for 
 the single player campaign which is ok at best. The multiplayer game works well and with real battle 
 thunder when you have a full house. I did notice a few odd glitches in the multiplayer mode which 
 I am sure the developer will fix. It is especially cool with all the factors involved... armored 
 vehicles, tanks and helicopters. Flying the chopper is very fun too. Choppers in this game really 
 pack a wallop!!! Graphics are decent too. This is a game for the real FPS multiplayer war shooter 
 fan. It has both big and open battle fields and tighter more close in cityscapes. With a full game 
 it is rather engaging and gives you a definite feeling similar to the old Battlefield frahchise 
 on the PC. One unique and interesting twist are the automated battle drones that you can pilot. 
 It is not COD 4 and I would not even compare the two. COD4 has many more game modes and does not 
 utilize armored vehicles at all. I played BattleField from from day one and I always enjoyed blowing 
 up armor and choppers with my RPG. This is perhaps the most engaging part of this game. Laying 
 in wait for a tank or choppier and then blowing it to kingdom come. What really makes it stand 
 apart making the game fun is the huge (in terms of online FPS) battles with hulking Armor and angrily 
 patroling choppers. Normally with a 360 online FPS the size of the teams must be reduced so as 
 not to produce lag. This game can really field huge teams without slowing the game down. obviously 
 the player models and graphics are not going to be as crisp as... say COD4..... and, I might add, 
 it has no where the depth of COD4 as a multiplayer or single player game. On balance it is a good 
 game that is a welcome change from usual multiplayer online war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlenoble
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  7/10  If you like tactical shooting
  8/10  If you like large team based run and gun battles
  
  Obviously the biggest draw that 
 Frontlines will have to offer gamers is its massive online team/capture based battles. Following 
 a battlefield type blueprint the main objective in the game play revolves around capturing points 
 in the map that advance the frontline further into enemy territory cornering the enemy players 
 until defeated. So those who crave a more open environment than shooters such as "Call of Duty 
 4," or a little more team play should enjoy playing this title. 
  
  I should mention the team play in a bit more detail here since it's clear from the onset that the 
 developers really wanted to emphasize team play, compared to what's offered in other titles. With 
 the push of a button your character can link up with a squad. Having a diverse squad really pays 
 off, especially having many different roles. Roles in the game determine the special abilities 
 of the players, ranging from being able to launch and control different drones, supporting the 
 squad with turrets, calling in air strikes, or disrupting enemy radar and vehicles. This is where 
 players can tweak their characters the most, and having a well rounded diverse squad can really 
 make for exhilarating battles. One teammate provides drones to spot target which show up on radar 
 while other squads use this to call in air strikes, while yet another deploys turrets to protect 
 your position and take down enemy attacking vehicles. Having a diversified and coordinated team 
 really makes the battles intense, and if you can get a few friends in different classes and work 
 together, the team play is really enjoyable. If you prefer to go it alone, you can, but you're 
 at somewhat of a disadvantage, though it's still fun to go lone wolf and snipe on an enemy flank. 
 
  
  Conversely though, there is a limit on how much tweaking you can do to your character, which I 
 found was a bit of a let down. While you can select different roles and weapon loads, there isn't 
 the customization you can find in the newest battlefield entries or Call of Duty 4. Weapons are 
 somewhat limited here too. I really enjoyed the tweaking of the weapons in Call of Duty 4, in fact 
 I wished there were more skins, attachments etc. In frontlines you're somewhat limited to a very 
 standard machine gun, rifle etc. I really enjoyed the process of trying each weapon in COD4; seeing 
 which weapon to be more accurate, which was more powerful, seeing which could be sprayed more accurately 
 whiling running, and ultimately deciding on the weapon that suited my style of gaming. In frontlines 
 weapons are pretty much the same and there's really no joy to be found in trying out every weapon, 
 find the nuisances of each rifle to find which you enjoy more etc. A rifle is a rifle, regardless 
 of which faction. The vehicles do exhibit a touch more differentiation the coalition leaning towards 
 a tech/stealth type of play, while the red faction favors toughness, and strait forward power and 
 durability. I should mention the vehicles can be a bit tough to drive. While some seemed to control 
 fairly intuitively, flying the jets were somewhat awkward, and there seemed to be a bit of lag 
 from when you want to turn and the vehicle started to turn. Not a huge deal, but stands out somewhat 
 from the responsive controls of controlling a ground troop. Still it's definitely fun to be piloting 
 a vehicle, with a few friends riding shotgun, lay waste to an enemy controlled area unload and 
 take the position. This can be exhilarating and satisfying, making you really feel like you're 
 part of a military commando unit. 
  
  I should also mention that while tactical, the shooting is somewhat "arcade" feeling. In COD4 for 
 example, of you have a sub-machine you can run and gun somewhat, but with a rifle or machinegun 
 you can pull off more accurate shooting standing still and crouched or even prone. The shooting 
 in Frontlines feels more old school FPS; with running and gunning being much more of a viable option 
 than crouching and holding steady, taking time to line up shots. 
  
  While the focus is on the multiplayer aspect, the single player is OK. It's like 1 part multiplayer 
 tutorial, 1 part single player campaign. Not really doing a fantastic job in either category, but 
 it should get you accustomed to what the multiplayer will be like and providing some decent thrills 
 along the way.
  
  From a purely technical standpoint, Frontlines is a mixed bag. Sometimes the graphics were great. 
 An explosion from and overhead bomber would really look impressive. But at other times issues with 
 pop up and odd layering issues make the game feel a touch unpolished; like the sales department 
 set a deadline a month earlier than the developers wanted. Sound wise: Don't expect the voice acting 
 to win any awards, the weapons and explosion sound OK, but the weapons don't sound unique and powerful 
 such as the armory or weapons in COD4. 
  
  I've mentioned COD4 here several times because with that game out there being played by so many 
 people right now (including myself) you just can't help by make comparisons. I would say overall 
 COD4 does about everything better by 1 to 2 points (on a scale of ten) , except in the area of more 
 in depth team play and enormous arenas. In short, I like this game, don't love it, if you liked 
 the Battlefield series, or want to play something different than COD4, this can be worth a look. 
 But you want a more realistic shooting experience you'd probably like COD4 more than this title. 
 
  
  CLOSING ARGUMENTS:
  Good not great
  A touch worse than COD4
  Much better than Battlefield 2
  Fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Frontlines Fuel Of War is one of the best multiplayer games i have ever played. Though it does 
 lack some in its single player the multiplayer over shadows it by a lot. The single player is kind 
 of dull and pointless but a good attempt at a storyline. The online multiplayer though is fantastic 
 I have had so much fun playing in the last 5 hours. The graphics are very good for a open ended 
 level world type. The sound is very good and you can see a distance across the map far well. There 
 are some framerate issues but they are not bad at all. This is a great game overall and the single 
 player is worth it for achivements also this game will have some great mods for the PC version 
 since the makers of this game made awesome mods like desert combat for battlefield. There are no 
 more lag problems in this game like the demo also =) . They are releasing a patch as well to expand 
 the voice communtication if you have a PC or a Xbox 360 this is a recommened buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
