-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Full Auto
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fullauto/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of events.
 Good-looking explosions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is seriously shallow.
 Doesn't stay fun for very long.
 Audio bug prevents you from using custom soundtracks.
 Frame rate can't keep up with the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 2,211 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Pseudo Interactive
Genre: Car Combat
Date: Feb 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Full Auto is a neat idea, but unfortunately it's just one neat idea, stretched across the entire 
 game. And that wears thin pretty quickly. 

  While we've seen plenty of racing games on the Xbox 360 and plenty of combative games as well, 
 we've yet to see a combination of the two. The system gets its first car-combat game in Full Auto, 
 a racing-while-shooting extravaganza from Sega and Pseudo Interactive. Full Auto has its heart 
 in the right place, but without enough variants on the core theme, you'll run out of gas long before 
 it runs out of objectives.  

          Unwrecking can fix some of your mistakes, but really, after a while, you probably won't 
 be making so many to begin with.     

  In Full Auto, you're put behind the wheel of a car with two weapons mounted on it. Most often, 
 that means you'll have one front-firing weapon and one rear weapon that's dropped behind you. As 
 you play through the career mode, you unlock more cars and more weapon configurations. So you'll 
 start with a machine gun up front and mines behind, but you'll eventually get rocket launchers, 
 smoke screens, rear-firing grenades, a shotgun, and so on. You don't individually pick weapons; 
 instead, you pick them in sets of two, and this is how the developers attempt to keep things balanced -- though, 
 naturally, the weapon sets you get later in the career mode are more powerful than what you start 
 with.  

  Your goal in each race is slightly different, but for the most part, you're just going to always 
 want to finish each race in first place. Aside from your own personal driving skill and your weapons, 
 you've got some other tools at your disposal. Sliding out around corners fills a boost meter. When 
 it's full, you can bust out a turbo boost. And you also have an "unwreck" meter that you can use 
 to rewind the action for a few seconds, and then pick up the action a second or two  before  you 
 made some horrific mistake and correct it. In theory, applying the time-control mechanics found 
 in Blinx, Prince of Persia, or a TiVo to a racing game is a neat idea. But the racing physics are 
 loose enough that you only really make huge mistakes when you're first learning a track. So that 
 limits unwreck's usefulness a bit, because you'll eventually get to a point where you don't really 
 need it.  

  There are multiple race types and car classes in Full Auto. Different races include the standard 
 lap-based races, point-to-point races, knockout races where the last-place racer on each lap is 
 eliminated, rampage races that fill the track with target cars for you to take out, and down-and-back, 
 where you race to a point, turn around, and race back the other way. In the career mode, you'll 
 take on these events to earn medals and unlock new cars, paint jobs, and new events. The career 
 mode is fairly lengthy, but it's roughly the same action from start to finish. For the most part, 
 you're just racing and shooting the whole time, which isn't nearly as exciting as that might initially 
 sound. More variety, either by giving up more tracks to race on or by concocting more interesting 
 events, would have really helped. You'll unlock just over 20 cars, each with their own ratings 
 in durability, which governs how long your armor lasts when you're getting hit, as well as handling 
 and speed. Naturally, the faster cars also tend to not be able to take as much damage.  

  In addition to the career mode, there's an arcade mode that lets you race on anything you've unlocked. 
 There's also a two-player mode, which doesn't do the frame rate any favors, but it's still playable. 
 The game also has online play via Xbox Live for up to eight players. The online works just fine 
 and gives you most of the same options you get in the offline game, though the time-shifting unwreck 
 ability isn't available online. The multiplayer is functional, and it offers leaderboards and all 
 the standard Xbox Live stuff you'd expect. It just isn't terribly exciting, though, and doesn't 
 add much to the overall package.  

  Graphically, Full Auto looks sharp when it's not moving. The car models look nice, they're shiny, 
 and they get banged up quite well as they take damage. Unfortunately, the game just doesn't maintain 
 a smooth frame rate. It's often choppy, especially when the game zooms up close to an exploding 
 enemy for a quick look at what your destructive antics have caused. That also makes the game feel 
 sluggish. It really doesn't deliver a very good sense of speed. The explosions, however, usually 
 look pretty nice.  

          Full Auto's cars look nice, but the frame rate gets really stuttery in spots.     

 
  Soundwise, the game has the average set of sound effects you'd expect from a game that includes 
 both cars and weapons. The soundtrack is comprised of electronic music that defaults to a very 
 low volume during races, so you'll hardly notice it's there at all. There's also a very annoying 
 bug that prevents you from using custom soundtracks. Any time you hit a loading screen, your music 
 source automatically reverts to the game's default soundtrack.  

  Overall, Full Auto doesn't have enough variety to remain entertaining for very long. You might 
 want to rent it and mess around with it for a few days, but the career mode gets repetitive well 
 before it ends and the online doesn't bring much to the overall package. The game just has a one-dimensional 
 feel that it never seems to shake, regardless of how many times you try to rewind time and fix 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (222 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Even before i got a 360 i saw this game and thought it would be great. so when i did get an xbox 
 i immidiatly picked up a copy. the first immpresion wasnt great as it seemed like it would become 
 very repetitive and boring. but after a few hours i was totally addicted with every car having 
 all diffrent types of weapons from assult to rockets. you could change alot there was also quite 
 a few cars which was good. i cant comment online as i have hardly played it online due to lack 
 of players online which is a shame. even after owning this game a year i still go back to it as 
 its got a good 2 player and it also gives an achievment at the end of each series which makes you 
 want top play it.
  
  THANKS FOR READING HOPE IT HELPED
  MESSAGE ME FOR ANY MORE INFO
  CHEERS!!
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a racing game. But not like need for speed most wanted. The cars have weapons. There are 
 rockets, machine guns, mines.... etc. You race around and get points for blowing stuff up. You can 
 destroy cities, which are the tracks. You can destroy inside of buildings, other cars, semis.... so 
 on, so on. when you destroy things you get a certain amount of points. So to win you have medals 
 gold, silver, and bronze. In the normal order. You have to for example, win first, and get 60,000 
 points. When you win you unlock new weapons and different cars and different colors for the cars. You 
 start out with no weapons and go to turrets, mines, rockets.... This game has a Very easy tutorial 
 that is easy to learn from.. I give this game 8.4 out of 10, where 0 being BAD and 10 being AWSOME. This 
 game is good for easy gamers, or if you just like racing games. I like this game and i am glad 
 i got it...
  Tyler W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake-lutze
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would liek to say that there is nothing wrong with this game, except a few glitches 
 here and there. This game is by all means designed okay, but thats just it. Its okay. Not amazing, 
 but okay. Its just kind of... there.
  
  Gameplay 7: Burnout with guns. With worse control, and its a lot easier to die. 100% average. Oh, 
 and you can 'unwreck' your car. PoP sands style, but less fun.
  
  Sound 5: Ugh... I dont even know if there was music, its so forgettable. The sounds are fine, but 
 the music (if there is any, I Seriously don't remember XD) is so bland, it kills the sound.
  
  Multiplayer 7: And the scourge of the average-ocity continues in full stampede! Where will 
 the originality run!? The coolest part of this game, the unwreck meter, is actually taken out of 
 the multiplayer. Seriously.
  
  Replay value 5: Look, I didnt even finish it, I only bought it so I could race with friends. And 
 shoot them. At the same time. SO I unlocked some cars, and thats it. I got kinda far, and it gets 
 pretty frustrating. Not hard, frustrating. You will find out.
  
  In conclusion, I got this for ten bucks from the local game shop, and I wasnt disappointed, since 
 I knew it wasnt very good, but man. Its not even bad. Its just AVERAGE! Thats it! No bad marks, 
 save for sound, and its completely average! NO originality, and not that much fun, but I cant say 
 anything bad about it since its so bland! Its like Burnout meets Twisted Metal meets the originality 
 thief.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is basicly racing, with guns. There are several guns to unlock in this game, but the tracks 
 are limited. The cars are pretty awesome, and the single player campaign is pretty cool, too. In single 
 player, you hit RB to rewind time if you have enough boost on ya. This will send you back a couple 
 of seconds, or until you let go of RB. Now, that's the hard way to get everything. The easy way (basicly 
 the way everyone takes) is make a profile named Magicman. Use "Magicman" whenever playing Full Auto 
 to unlock every car, guns, and tracks. This game is pretty fun, but a problem is that if you play it 
 too much, then it gets old. The destruction level in this game is a HIGH, because everything can be 
 destroyed, even just regular cars going there own way. I recommend it for the most part. 
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  It would be a lie to say that this game is a deep one, but 'Full Auto' still manages to entertain 
 with a solid game-style that is basically the incorporation of guns into Burnout. With that said, 
 it doesn't have any game modes besides standard races (that include lap knock-out and a variety 
 of different map layouts) and so doesn't quite have the depth that Burnout does.
  Full Auto's learning curve is pretty good, gradually introducing the player to new weapon-sets 
 and vehicle types (ranging from speedy to heavy, differing on armour, handling and speed) . Although 
 at first the game's seemingly shallow nature may make playing the 'career' seem like a daunting 
 chore the game actually becomes more fun as you have access to more weapon sets and the ability 
 to 'tune' them (which means basically choosing whether the primary or secondary weapon is better 
 or whether they are equal) .
  Once you've beaten the 'career' mode, which involves racing in different categories that try to 
 stick to a particular theme, the only real incentive to go back and do it again is if you haven't 
 got 'Full Auto' (which is the equivalent of 'Gold' in most racing games) medals for all the races. 
 Although the races generally require you to come first to move onto the next race, the medal you 
 receive more often than not depends on the amount of points you rack up during the race. You gain 
 points from destroying things - anything from the environment to the other cars (which naturally 
 respawn not long after) .
  Destruction also adds to your 'unwreck' meter which, when used, allows you to reverse time so that 
 you can attempt another corner, jump, kill or similar that you may have messed up. This, alongside 
 the boost (which is added to by drifting and being in the air) are the two things that keep Full 
 Auto interesting besides the weapons and destructable environments. Obviously the unwreck is cut 
 out of multiplayer, but the multiplayer still stays strong due to 'Full Auto''s competitive nature. 
 
  Split-screen multiplayer is sometimes hard to come by, as are bots within multiplayer these days, 
 but 'Full Auto' has a decent customisation system for choosing the track, vehicles, enemy AI and 
 such like which means that you can play the best parts of the game whenever you like.
  The soundtrack isn't anything special, but the music and sounds are sufficient to give the impression 
 of speed, aggression and destruction. Even if you aren't a fan of racing games, 'Full Auto' is 
 definitely worth checking out thanks to it's strong, competitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astupidname
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  It's sad really. Full auto had the potential to be such a great game. But a few HUGE problems ruin 
 the fun. First of all, the turning is SOOOO airy. You might think, oh it can't be that bad, but 
 it is! It's really, really a game breaker. I can't stress enough how horrible it is! Second, there's 
 no battle mode. Why is this?! You make a game with cars and guns and don't put in Battle! Common 
 Pseudo! Third, and it's not huge, but a problem for me, is the customization. All there is is only 
 a few pre-made skins that you usually have to unlock. Now I'm not saying Full Auto is completely 
 bad as it has it's good points. There's the guns, the creative maps, er... the guns... There's 
 also the ability to destroy the environment, but to do any real damage you need the rocket launcher, 
 which has to be unlocked. When you finally unlock the thing the enjoyment lasts about 5 seconds, 
 then you start to see the recycled buildings and pathetic explosions. With all kinds of problems, 
 and very little good, please don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Destruction and cars. its a neat idea, one that twisted metal has made into a masterpiece. after 
 seeing twisted metal's success making a game with Xbox 360 graphics and having Everything including 
 civilian cars would seem fails safe. but this idea was stretched too thin for full auto to be a 
 exceptional game. the good parts are that the explosions are cool and theres nothing more satisfying 
 than being a tow truck with a tank cannon blowing up a roadster. but heres the bad, the races were 
 repentetive, the speed and explosion wears thin after a few hours, the unique feature of unwreck 
 ( which i will explain in a minute) quickly becomes useless, a game like this couldv'e had a great 
 story but there isn't a single bit a dialogue or even one cutscene, the music also sucks, and the 
 graphics aren't very amazing.
  this is basically the game, theres 4 classes of cars., each class either is best at armor, speed 
 or handeling, and one that has only one car in its class and that cars is best at everything. after 
 you pick your car you choose a weapon preset, this was put in to have a sort of balance. you can 
 outgun or outrun other cars. there is two thing your car can do to gain an advantage, boost (self 
 explanatory) and unwreck which is something that lets you rewind time a few seconds if you make 
 a mistake like smashing into a wall. you can do career mode to unlock more presets and cars by 
 doing different things in each race, like kill a certain car or simply win the race. like i said, 
 all these things may sound great, but after a coulple hours the action will wear thin and unless 
 you REALLY want to unlock all the paint colors, skins, presets, and cars, you will run out of gas 
 before Full Auto does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is an interesting new type of game for the 360, The idea of destroying anything that 
 you see is great and going back in time if you screw up a jump or bend is easy to use. Full auto 
 has been well done with the effects of the scenary when you make contact with it or blow it to 
 pieces, The problem with Full Auto is that it can get a little boring doin the same thing over 
 and over again. Also, there is no news of any new downloads for the game and it seems a little 
 too easy to unlock new cars and levels. The amazing races and explosion effects can block out some 
 of these downsides but once you have finished all of carear mode, You feel like there is nothing 
 more to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher70
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  this game isn't really worth the time or the $25:00 -$15.00. There are so many other games out 
 there i can't see spending the time to get into this fair and repetitive game. Especially when 
 there are games like Burnout and Need for Speed, to name a few. the starting cars are big and clunky 
 which is fine to start with i guess. The tracks get old fast and it feels like its the same race 
 over, and over ,and over again. Although there are some cool aspects of the game like the ability 
 to rewind time if you mess up. If you and your buddies are really drunk then u might find this 
 game amusing for a few hours , until someone passes out from boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I was very very skeptical about buying this game considering the reviews its gotten, but for $15.00, 
 I was glad I bought it. I like this game because it's a good violent car game that will take you 
 a pretty long time to get through. Its separated into series, which arent too long, but some races 
 can take up to 8 minutes which I think personally is a little too long. But even though theres 
 not many races in each series, theres a nice amount of series to go through, and as you beat 1, 
 you unlock another, so it's really fun and lasts a while. I do wish there were more weapons in 
 the game, but the ones they do have are pretty fun. The cars are pretty cool too and different 
 looking, and there is a nice amount of them. So I would probably recommend this game to fans of 
 the genre. It didn't disappoint me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Full auto can be described as a Twizted Metal rip off turned into racing with a hint of environment 
 mayham. As you can tell from my dock I didn't find any love for this game what so ever but it does 
 have some nice points to it through.
  
  Point #1 The game has a wide varity of weaponary that can be used infront of your car or even secondary 
 weapons that are placed on the rear of your car to cause other players or ai from passing you on 
 the track. The weapons were pretty decent in the game but some of the weapons that you got an option 
 to beable to aim manually while driving made things become very tough to steer the car while trying 
 to aim a rocket or shotgun at a foe. Thankfully you got a chance to manually choose which weapons 
 you want farther into the single play scenerios.
  
  Point #2 Many different single player scenerios that you could choose from to pass the time. Sadly 
 through you have to unlock many of the funnier scenerios which could take you an hour or two to 
 do. Point #3 The surroundings all around you can be destroyed at your pleasure and itchy trigger 
 finger. This feature was pretty fun for awhile but like many of the level designs it just felt 
 watered down and became less entertainning with time.
  
  Point #4 last but not least you got the option like many other racing games to change the color 
 of your car and choose from a wide variety of cars for certain races. Even through the car models 
 were pretty unattractive it was still a nice feature to beable to change the looks of your car. 
 Conclusion: I found the graphic detail and the music in the game to be very undesirable. Even through 
 there were alot of features in the game to make the player smile when he unlocked something... the 
 features weren't that great to make you sit infront of your tv for hours end to unlock everything. 
 My advice stay clear of this one guys..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's see, Full Auto.... a obvious rip off of the Burnout series...
  
  Alright. In my opinion, this game looks good for a rip off of another game. First of all, the game 
 is very long, I still haven't beat it and I had the game since I first had my 360. The explosion 
 detail on this game makes the crashes more necessary than ever. The online play is alright. Sometimes 
 there is a connection bug, but I think it's just me. What sucks about this game is the lack of 
 Custom Soundtracks. That put a deep dent on my game play.
  
  But the one thing that gives everyone who is obsessed with there gamer score a reason to buy this 
 game is the easy achievements. I got like 500 Gamer points the first ten minutes of the Game. I 
 am dead serious.
  
  If you are a fan of the burnout series, Or you want a easy 1000 points, you should pick this up.
 
  
  This has been A Kamikaze Entertainment Game Review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I know what you think he gives gh 6.5 but this game a 8.5. Well ye this game rocks graphicks are 
 nice you can slow down go back in time kill normal pepole ok thats not fun but if you dont like 
 this game and you like racing games and shoters then somethink rong whit you. Comon who does not 
 like racing and shoting games. This game mixes that and give you less but it stiil rockS. Sometimes 
 it gets confusing and that why some pepole dont like it and games spot score and if you want to 
 know yes my frends dont like it. I like this game if you want to get this game go to my acount 
 and see my reviews and see if you like and dislike games that I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game was alright i guess. I love the explosions very nice... the abilty to replay a certain 
 part of the race is cool with the rewind button or whatever.
  
  I didnt think the game was very indepth as a racing game should be. It should get more involved 
 with the different characters that are in the game. i had no idea who i was racing any of the times... 
 I had a really hard time trying to get into this game thats for sure.
  
  i give this game a 6.5/10. The game does look really nice... explosions are great... car damage 
 is nicely done i hate playing racing games where the cars never have any damage to them. I love 
 being able to put weapons on my car as well. Downside is i got really bored of this game quickly 
 as i do with most racing games. doesnt really stand out much from any other racing game with weapons... Racing 
 games now a days i think should have different story lines to give the game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tybaudru
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  alright game the two problems are that the handeling isnt very good and then there is the shooting 
 witch is good but when you aim it is hard and then you get used to it but the worst part is that 
 when you are doing the tutorial it seeems like the game is really fun but when you start playing 
 the actual game it isnt that good so i would not recomend this game unlees you are really board 
 but if you are looking for really good game to play you can rent the transformers or the all time 
 good gears of war and sit and enjoy your 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is one of the worst games I've ever played on the 360. The gameplay is bad, the handling 
 is bad and its just a all around bad game. I would never rent or buy it. This game is worst then 
 Burnout. Although battle racing games rock this one doesn't. I mean this game stinks my friend 
 owns it and he tod me to rent it cause its so good but then he started laughing and that was the 
 clue that this game is horrible. So I rented it anyways and I almost broke the game it was so bad, 
 I was pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is a brilliant game with a one minor problems. the first problem like gamespot said is 
 that the games frame rate can not keep up with the action when there is to much motion on srceen 
 the game tends to slow down. the are many game modes to choose from like career mode, arcade mode, 
 xbox live and versus, the career mode is pretty long. the campaign mode starts off slow with tutorials 
 teaching you the bascis of the game like how to race, how to survive, how to use both of your weapons 
 and how to earn the best metals which is pointless. the career mode has different challenges to 
 play as well as how to beat it with the best medal or what you have to do earn the best medal. 
 after you finish the career there is xbox live which lets you destroy your opponents on any track 
 using any car and shooting any weapon combinations. after all full auto doesnt really have much 
 to offer its just its gameplay that makes it interesting. oh and did i mention the graphics for 
 the cars and environment are awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnkil11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Games are supposed to be fun and this game definately is. In this game, everything you want to 
 happen in wreckless destructive driving happens. Everything is breakable and everything blows up. 
 The best thing about this game is that in the race you simply do not know who is going to win. 
 Because everyone can blow up, and you have nos and weapons, anything is possible!!!! if you want 
 a mindless game that you can play with mates and enjoy, then this must be a definate purchase. 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  When I bought my 360 I picked up a copy of this second hand and have to say it wasn't too bad. 
 The gameplay was a bit of a basic idea but the fun you have on two player was great. The explosions 
 were huge and everything in the environment could be destroyed. The graphics were not the greatest 
 and the cars were a bit boring but the ability to turn back time in the middle of a race helped 
 a lot. This is a decent game if you are looking for a bit of a distraction but not the best racer 
 on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaPuhLease
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10 From the minute you pick it up until you have beaten career mode it never gets 
 old. It has a lot of different cars to choose from and a lot of different weapon sets to. Controls 
 are easy to pick up and aiming your guns isnt as challenging as I thought. The layout of everything 
 is great to. Also the gametypes are fun to. There are many race types and tracks. And it is very 
 fun to go on one of the races when you race to a point then turn around and go back... oh the chaos 
 of it all. This game never gets old because you can even race without weapons. It combines the 
 feel of burnout with going fast and taking out opponents and adding the trick of having weapons 
 attached to your vehicle obliterating anyone in your path. Also it incorporates a fun and innovative 
 Unwreck ability. By blowing stuff up it builds it up and if you crash, get killed, turn wrong or 
 do something stupid you can go back in time.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  A lot of people said that this games graphics weren't that good. But I honestly loved them... the 
 cars look very detailed and reflect very well. I guess some things in the environment were kind 
 of not as detailed but they werent horrible.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Sounds are great. From the engines to the guns everything sounds great. And the soundtrack is not 
 that bad... but hey thats what the music player on 360 is for.
  
  Good: Fun multiplayer on LIVE (if you find someone... they are usually on though) and even split 
 screen. Cool and awesome vehicles with a lot of weapons to choose from. Fun Career that will make 
 you want to keep playing.
  
  Bad: Sometimes not many people are on LIVE. And sometimes you get blown up and you lose a race... luckily 
 there is the unwreck thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARS1234
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Lets just say this is a great game to play i have a lot of fun playing with people online ever 
 now i am still playing it. But there is a few things that let the game down keeping it really great. 
 first is the frame rate in the career mode it didn't really bother me but sometimes it did get 
 annoying. next is the glitches like i was in a rank matches and i went right through the barrier 
 to the other side. but it is a great game to play and for &pound;20 pounds it is worth your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiNwOrM
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto tries hard to be original, and succeeds, AND manages to be fun. In this day and age, 
 that's impressive.
  
  Graphics : 9.5 / 10
  While the actual graphics of the game might not be the best in still frames, it's the game in action 
 that makes it so impressive. Your car can drive through glass and it looks real, whatever you hit 
 will move forward in the direction it should. In short, the amount of destruction and how good, 
 and real, the destruction looks is what makes the graphics so great.
  
  Gameplay : 8 / 10
  The game is fun as hell, but in the end, it is just the same thing over and 
 over again. While there is tons of maps, cars, and weapon load outs to choose from and shake things 
 up, it basically is just racing with guns. After a while, it might get repetitive.. but like I 
 said, you are left with tons of maps, cars, colors, and weapons to choose from.
  
  Sound : 8 / 10
  The music is fitting, though nothing spectacular, but the sounds of the guns 
 are all perfect.
  
  The Good: Great gameplay. amazingly destructible world (you can even blow through buildings and 
 drive through them!) . very fun.
  
  The Bad: Although there are quite a few weapon load outs, some more customizability would have 
 been nice. Can get repetitious. Although the game is REALLY fun online, it's extremely hard to 
 find a game, and when you do, it's usually only one or two people in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galahede
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 11, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  If you're the serious racing sim type this game is not for you. If you want some fast action, good 
 fun, arcade style racing with various weaponry to destroy your competitors and environmet then 
 this game is for you.
  
  In career mode, you unlock various cars, tracks, and weapons as you advance through your career. 
 Some missions will be very easy and some will test your patience. Depending on what place you finished 
 in the race, you can also unlock various paint schemes for your cars.
  
  The tracks vary from mission to mission and you have cityscapes, docks, waterfront, and desert 
 tracks to add some variety but there aren't as many as I hoped. You also have your choice of dificulty 
 levels but setting it on the highest didn't make that much of a difference.
  
  Online multiplayer mode would be fun but unfortunately it was rare to find more that 2 or 3 people 
 at certain times.
  
  The game is meant to be fast and fun. Take down your enemies, destroy buildings, jump ramps and 
 if it all goes wrong, you can go back a little and rewind time and start again which is one of 
 the best features in this game.
  
  Once again, if you're serious about your racing games, Full Auto is not for you but if you want 
 an arcade racer that's just plain fun, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersrule56
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  If you like Burnout, you'll love Full Auto. The only things that are different is that in Full 
 Auto, you have weapons, less courses and cars, and a much different career. The graphics are average 
 and the sound isn't that good but don't let that get in the way of the gameplay. It's very fun 
 to play this game because of all the different racing options you have. You can race without weapons 
 or with them, time trials, lap knockout, and many others. And if you're a gamerscore freak, you 
 should definitely get this game. By doing career, I got 600- some gamerscore. The game is very 
 easy to play too. For me, Master AI difficulty is easy for me. But one thing you'll love about 
 this game is X-BOX Live. Iv'e had lots of fun just playing on X-BOX Live with my friends. Don't 
 listen to all the reviews it got. Just tryout the demo and see if you like it if my review doesn't 
 help you. I tried it and I got the game. Maybe you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game really had a good idea, make a hybrid of a shooter and a racing game, but they just couldn't 
 pull it off... For one, the game is fun for a while, but it starts to get old, because it is very 
 repetitive. You will find yourself saying, Haven't I done this already!? . At some point, you get 
 bored of it and put it down. The one thing that made me keep the game is, every once in a while, 
 for what ever reason, I feel like playing it again, because it does have it's shining moments. 
 For those of you considering buying this game, you may be better off renting it first, it will 
 save you lots of money, I spent $59.99 because I got it when it first came out. Big mistake on 
 my part......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutGundamX
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game might not have all the elements of a great game like it has kinda shallow gameplay and 
 kinda bad framerate in the big action and not all the coolest cars, and the graphics arent the 
 best but it came out when the xbox360 got released so i dont really care. But heck.
  Who doesnt like a game where you drive (really fast) and blow the chunks out of everything in your 
 path! With rockets, and machine guns and mines its a blast to play. But it probably wont get you 
 addicted but if you can pick it up for cheap you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  How can you not like a game that let's you compete driving and you get to shoot someone at the 
 same time? Crawl behind the wheel of your classic Camaro with twin 50 calibers on the front of 
 it and let's not for get the mine launcher attached to the rear of the vehicle. The graphics are 
 superb on this game. I love the fact that you have scattered shortcuts all over this game. The 
 audio is nice and crisp with the slow motion destructive crashes. The game has been out since launch 
 I believe. You can still jump online and jump in a game almost immediatley. Full Auto has got to 
 be one of the best race games out there. Don't know why Full Auto II went to the PS3? Maybe it 
 will be released later for the 360..... (fingers crossed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  People shouldn't insult this game for the fact that the cars are loaded with more weaponry than 
 tanks. The cars in this game are like battleships on wheels! It's an actually fun game when you 
 play it for the first time... it gets boring fast. So many glitches, boneheaded physics, and a 
 stupid AI. The gameplay is very limited and robotic. The graphics are comparable to PS2. The sound 
 is more like noise than actual sound. No value for the price of the game, I wouldn't even buy it 
 if it was free! You guys have better stuff to do with your time than playing this pointless game. 
 Series like Forza and Burnout are much more exciting than this Grand Theft Auto meets Grand Turismo 
 game. Avoid this game at all costs. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto mixes the thrill of first-person-shooter with the excitement of racing all in one package. 
 The graphics are amazing and also the ability to replay your wrecks and explosions adds a unique 
 quality in the game. The explosions are so great that you could probably take 30 minutess to 1 
 hour just trying to make the best wreck/explosions you've ever seen. The guns in the game are very 
 powerful and are fun to use to blow everything up in your path. You can also have up to 8 players 
 in a race online which is also a great addition. I personally thought this game was underrated 
 but if you have an x360 then this is a solid buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Full Auto for the Xbox 360, i had very high hopes for the game. It was one of 
 the first things that inspired me to pick up an Xbox 360, besides Halo 3 of course. However, once 
 i actually played the game, i was very, very sadly disappointed.
  Full Auto was a game that could have worked but lousy, lousy controls and an easy difficulty hurt 
 it too much. Full Auto, while it has some pretty sharp visuals at times, for the most part, the 
 graphics are dissapointing. The crashes look about as good as Burnout Revenge for the Xbox did. 
 While this slightly hurts the game, what really hurts it is the controls. Nothing about the controls 
 is confortable. There is absolutely no way to aim and drive and shoot all at the same time. While 
 the driving controls are fine, whats supposed to set it apart from other racing games, the guns 
 and weapons, just don't work. I spent most of my time playing this game just racing using the weapons 
 only every now and then.
  The game does feature a cool ability to rewind what you just did and save yourself from a possible 
 wreck. This works pretty well, but you can only go so far back so most of the time you'll notice 
 it really does no difference.
  The game also several races with the main story line consisting of the class A, B, and C races. 
 These races i was able to beat in a day. I tell everyone that thoses were the easiest achievement 
 points i ever made. There is also nothing too special about the sound of the game. Its just avarage. 
 Explosion and everything sound ok but nothing spectacular. Also, another let down about this game 
 is just how much of it really is destructible. While this was one of the big features of the game 
 that you would destroy your own shortcuts, it doesnt really work at all. Most of the time you even 
 try it youll find yourself wreaking.
  It features and online mode which plays much like the regular game only that the people dont have 
 as good accuracy as the AI in the actual game do. Overall, this game is maybe worth a rent or a 
 borrow. If you havent played it, your not missing out on much. Play it only if you are a junkie 
 for achievement points and want a way to get some easy ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellfire9988
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic car models, and environment look good and are destructable. Good sense of speed, 
 tunable weapons are fun and add a more casual feel for this racer, also the achievements are fun 
 and easy. The Bad: Annoying as heck in some places, online about 50-100 people on XBL at one time.
 
  
  
  Full auto is a fun racer, more casual than hardcore, and can be learned pretty easily in 10 or 
 less minutes, it features the unwreck feature which makes you able to rewind what you've done, 
 it is one good idea, and Sega does a good job of spreading this throughout the whole single player 
 game. The Graphics look pretty good, the cars are nice and shiny, and if you crash you see nearly 
 very realistic damge done to your car if you've hit something, or someone just shot your tires 
 with their 50. Cal. The cars sound powerful, but the weapons especially the missles sound a little 
 to weak to actually be missles. But the sound effect are generally very good.
  
  
  Not many people play online, but if you can find a few people to play with which is by no means 
 hard, it is atually very very enjoyable. With having live support, it sports split screen action, 
 and also a very very long campaign, being 12-20 hours long. I liked this game because it was a 
 little more casual, and I like to see pretty graphics, I recommend you to buy this game because 
 the achievements are fun, the campaign is good, and its only $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  well i say full auto is pretty good not as good as i wont it to be but its great you drive and 
 blow stuff up its pretty good explosions and the envirment is like glass you can blow up buildings 
 even if there not on the course well the cars them selfs are great they cn get blow up in like 
 millions of ways. the rewind in the game is not to bad but yeah you get killed you can come back 
 and keep going or get back the guy who did it to you well i say if you wont to have a great car 
 combat gam here it is but wonting somthing that is long not here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainoctopus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Underrated !
  (I bought this game last weekend, the 15th of Feb)
  This game is great fun and is worthy of the high score i gave it. Its a mix between the Burnout 
 series, GTA, and Project Gotham. The action is intense, the graphics gorgeous, I just don't see 
 why its given such a bad score. Theres a load of cars to choose from (obviously not licensed who'd 
 want their cars getting smashed in) including the standard car Limos, Trucks etc (no bikes though) 
 and a fair amount of weapons-shotguns, Machine Guns, Grenades, missile Launchers etc, as well as 
 plenty of well thought of maps ranging from packed city streets, to mountain passes to ship yards.
 
  Theres a career mode plus the obvious arcade, xbox live etc. A great game i would recommend, just 
 don't listen to the bad reviews it gets!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druggyjoe3000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  full auto on xbox live is fun. i go on alot and it is just plain fun. so who cares if the graphics 
 look crappy and the sound is not any good it is fun and that is what counts that that is why i 
 play it. even if the graphics are not the best they still look good and the sound effects of cars 
 exploding and machine gun bullets flying every where and missles exploding every wehre are really 
 good so i say it is an awsome game and is very underated and this could be a aaa game if you put 
 in the right design and uptone the graphics and change the storyline it could be perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When I got a 360 for Christmas, I decided I needed a multiplayer game for my upcoming party. So 
 I got this. My friends and I loved it. The graphics and sound are truly amazing, and it is satisfying 
 to unlock cars. The explosions and 100mph racing never gets old. Therefore, if you loved Mario 
 Kart as a kid and need some more, get this game.
  
  But instead of shells and bananas, you have rocket launchers, smokescreens, machine guns, grenades, 
 shotguns, and mines. And with 21 cars to unlock with about 7 different weapon combonations, you 
 won't be dissapointed.
  
  If you make great air or do good turns, your Boost Meter fills up. When it is full, you can press 
 a button to blast past other cars. If you blow up a bunch of stuff, you fill up your Unwreck Meter 
 . When it is full, you can press a button to rewind in time to correct a wipeout, bad turn, or 
 blow up a car all over again. The game is divided into 4 modes: Head to head, arcade, career, and 
 xbox live. Head to head lets you play against a friend locally in the same room. Arcade is a single 
 player mode for a quick race. Career is a set of missions that let you unlock cars, skins, tracks, 
 and weapon combos. And finally, Xbox Live lets you play against seven other players around the 
 world. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOCATL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game in graphics actually looks really good, and has a really well balanced combination, nice 
 rides, big machineguns, and lots of explosions, as the title said this game is to unleash our anger 
 for the daily traffic stress, dont you dream to shoot the car that block your way and you just 
 repress your anger, well if you got this game you can make your dream come true and blast all the 
 traffic an everything that you shoots reach, and ist easy to play, dont use complicated controls, 
 and if you crash and blow up, you can return in time to correct your mistake, wich is very helpfull, 
 in general is a really good game to play and enjoy with lots of explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  positives: Creative game. Fun to shoot and blow up cars. Pretty lengthy single player mode with 
 plenty of tracks. Great variety of cars from trucks to limos
  
  ngatives: unwreck doesn't seem to unwreck you too much. Limited weapon choice leaves you bored. 
 Last stage in Full AUto seems impossible to beat. Very hard to drive when your shooting a gun at 
 the same time. LAck of variety in car details. Not many colors to choose from
  
  Full Auto is a neat idea, combining shooting with racing but the lack of race types and variety 
 makes this game become repetitive fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stray18
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Welcome.
  
  Now I have never had a bone to pick with Game spot over one of there reviews, but this just sorta 
 pissed me off alittle, when they said frame rate can't keep up with the action .
  
  Now let us think about this, the games that have come out for the 360 this year, are basicly a 
 taste of things to come, they are trying to see what the 360 can do, like Dead Rising - Massive 
 amounts of AI on screen at once, Kameo - First adventuer game for the 360 (GFX are intence at no 
 loss of FPS ect.
  
  But then some one comes along and says frame rate can't keep up with the action . Ok I dont even 
 know if this reviewer even played this game! I am doing a 3D Animation bachelors, so I sorta know 
 what I am talking about when it comes down to GFX and 3D.
  
  I dont know any game, that has this much partical effect! when you are going 210kph down a road 
 with 4 cars crashing into each other, sparks flying, dammage controle, Sh1t flying every where, 
 stuff blowing up, glass shattering of buildings ect. all with high Rez maps, and cars, with mass 
 (I mean mass) Partical Effect, you tell me its not gona lag! ...... so lets re-cap, frame rate cant 
 keep up? I wonder! Even so, the frame rate only get's sloppy some times and only for a fue sec.
 
  
  + the fact you can play 2 player with AI, same screen without losing any detail. I give this game 
 9 for gfx, because sega had the balls to put it out there and give it all. The soundtack is vary 
 good for he fast paced play of the game, MP kicks ass so much when you have a friend over, and 
 if you love burnout......... after playing this you will be like what is burnout? . if you play 
 MP the game has alot more replay value, dose seem to run short on it. Game play is about as good 
 as a arcade style racer can be.
  
  this is like burnout x100 with guns, if you love over the top fast action games, where sh1t just 
 explodes for no reason, cars flying over each other in a rush race, this game is for you, I got 
 it on sale for 50$AU. And it was so worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  OK when I watched the channel on cable channel 104 i think i was like YO that game should be hot 
 but guess what NO, When i got it I was Like D'oh, I think the cars are pretty cool and the explosions 
 to but dude gamepaly nah its weak it dies about in an hour which sucks and the time traveling back 
 is cool but gets boring and come on all the races are pretty much all look alikes which blows i 
 liked the serious explosions for a while but this game has serious issues which BLOWS in yo face. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  awsome game but not worth the full price. i had fun playing till now becuse the game is getting 
 old expecially when you ONLY HAVE ONCE RACE TO GO AND YOU BEAT THE GAME. the final race is almost 
 imposible to just survive but to get a semi auto or full auto metal? HOLY CRAP how the hell are 
 you suposed to get that. well besides that youll have a great time playing throgh all the misstions 
 till you get to the last level. then you may brake a contoler or two lol. so defenatly get the 
 game used like i did at gamestop for 20$ becuse this is a classic you do not want to miss! also 
 is anyone still online because when ever i go to do a ranked mach there is no servers up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was great but it lacked what would have made it great, an demolition derby arena and 
 all out destruction in a car.
  
  They made a action filled racing game and took it to the next level by adding guns to it. Not only 
 are you racing for first place but your racing to survive.
  
  The game reminded me of twisted metal and a couple of others but they never thought through it 
 enough to add another mode besides racings... what a drag.
  
  Anyways the game is great but it has no story... it really doesn't have any reason as to why you 
 should have guns attached to your car... I don't even know why they have the bat mobile in the 
 game (Warlord) ... but yeah it was a complete let down. This is why we need more gamers as developers 
 not just people getting a job to be a developer for the money but because they have no lives like 
 we who play games so much we know what should be done.
  
  If they had a good reason I bet they would tell us why we can't just have a big ass arena with 
 guns?
  
  I liked the way that you can barely upgrade your guns (If you call that upgrading) or how you can 
 drive through macy's because the building is destructable infact you can take a whole city down 
 just racing its brutal. It's hard to last 30 seconds right off the beginning without getting your 
 rear torn apart by a guy with a tank turret on his hood or machine guns with armor piercing rounds.
 
  
  The game however on the bright side looks magnificent, doesn't lag, no glitches or problems, they 
 did everything else right.
  
  So yeah not much to be said other than this was a great idea but just used in all the wrongs ways. 
 So rent the game just don't buy it like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Overall the cars, environments, and explosions all look great. There are often frame-rate hits 
 when there is a lot of action on-screen, but nothing serious. The cars looks a bit too shiny for 
 me, but this is an arcade game. Everything in the environment is destructible, and it is fun to 
 just go around and destroy everything in sight. It looks great doing this. The amount of destruction 
 is plentiful, and it is very amusing when you destroy a rival car with a missile and their body 
 flys through the windshield. The courses are highly detailed, but they are way too similar to each 
 other. There are basically only three types of courses. A city track, a canyon track filled with 
 rocks, and a pier track. Not much diversity when it comes to race courses. Cars are fully destructible, 
 and often morph with vehicle damage.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The physics in this game need some serious work, but seeing as it is an arcade game I won't be 
 overly critical on the physics engine. The Unreck feature is something never really before seen 
 in a racing game, and is a welcome addition. A big reason why I liked it so much is because you 
 can often get stuck under parked cars and stuck in houses. That way you can rewind time and avoid 
 the numerous problems like these. In addition it is also needed because of the lame physics. You 
 often find your car flipping over on its back because you hit a curb. Unlike the Burnout games, 
 Full Auto has little sense of speed and this is a bit disappointing. There are plenty of cars to 
 choose from, and the weapon selection is balanced and done well. The AI in this game is pretty 
 smart. The single player consists of three main events, and lots of separate game variants (Team 
 Battle, One Life, No Unreck, etc.) . XBL is very fun, but no server lists. Sound
  
  Cars, weapons, and explosions sound good. There is a soundtrack, but you probably won't even notice 
 it.
  
  Value
  
  About eight hours of single player, an Arcade mode, and a very fun XBL multiplayer. I only paid 
 $20, so it is worth that or a rent.
  
  Verdict
  
  Full Auto is the most fun I've had with a Xbox 360 racing game. It is definitely for the casual 
 racing fan. It is not for those who are expecting a real racing experience, because it is very 
 arcade. In addition, don't expect to play Full Auto for long periods at a time. I found myself 
 only playing it for 30 minutes-1 hour stints and then losing interest. To me Full Auto was an example 
 of not listening to the ratings, but instead playing the demo and taking opinions of friends. It 
 turned out to be a worthwhile experience. Full Auto gets a 8.4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fast and action packed. The main thing about this game that doesn't do it justice 
 is the replay value is very limited and get begins to feel repetative quickly. The unwreck feature 
 is a good addition and makes the game interesting, but for a few minutes extra. My opinion is that 
 if you are going to buy a game when the price drops.... get this one. It will be a good value if 
 you like total destruction. The game is not poor at all.... I wish they would have pushed this one 
 back a half year and put a little more into the NEXT-GEN looks and play. This feels like Burnout 
 meets Twisted Metal 2.... which isn't a terrible thing... just an idea that has been there before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Addicting....... super fast fun....... I must say I was hesitant to buy this game. I was like, how 
 can a race car with a gun be that fun? Boy was I wrong. Racing games are one of my favorite genres 
 and FPS are one of my favorite genres so put them together and you have Full Auto. I got hooked 
 on the career mode because of the many diverse challenges. It really does a good job of fullly 
 covering every aspect of the game. Every weapon combination...... (yeah you have front and back 
 weapons) has it's own advantages and disadvantages. You can lay mines, shoot grenades, fire cannons, 
 machineguns and more. Full Auto is the epitome of Arcade Greatness. The game is pure fun. Also 
 if you wreck or get blown up, rewind the action (if your rewind meter has anything left) if you 
 can. It's kill or be killed go fast or get last. Highly recommended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFXFan22604
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, Full Auto. This game has been out for almost 1-full year and I just now got it. Of course 
 i did do some researching before i bought it and I seen many harsh reviews. So, of course, I was 
 very hesitant to buy this game. But I am a huge racing fan, esp. of racing games were you can tear 
 stuff up (The Burnout Series) . I bought it and I enjoyed every bit of it.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice. The enviorments look beautiful, even wehn they are blowing apart 
 in hundreds of peices. The cars look great, and even greater when they are geating destroyed. The 
 story mode consists of 80+ events, which are grouped up into many series. There is also an arcade 
 mode which is just like an exibition mode, where you can choose from racing, rampage (sort of a 
 better version of Burnout's Traffic Attack mode) , point to point, down and back, and a survival 
 mode. The online plays very very well.. althought you wont find many people online.
  
  Now this game does have its bads. Its soundtrack is horrible. You will deffinatly have to turn 
 on your custom soundtrack. The cars have weird physics, somtimes flipping end over end because 
 of a little rock and landing on there roof and sitting there for awhile. There arnt that many tracks. 
 There are only a couple different tracks with only a few variations to each. And the same goes 
 with the cars. There are just over 20 cars. That is way to few. The gamplay can somtimes be down 
 right frustrating.
  
  If you are looking for a good arcade racing game just to play around with when your bored, Full 
 Auto is the game for you. If your looking for a real solid racing game that will keep you playting 
 for hours upon hours, you may want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is fun for the first hour or so. I had no idea it was racing though. I was expecting 
 a next gen Twisted Metal. When it's more of a mature kind of Mario Kart. I guess it's not so bad, 
 but again, just not what I was expecting. There are a ton of races and things to do in general. 
 The online modes are also plentiful and pretty fun.
  
  Graphics: The game looks great, but there is a lot of slowdown in the framerate department. Cars 
 look good, and the tracks are few, but they are all finely detailed.
  
  Sound: The music tracks are mostly rock-metal, but they fit the game well. Sound effects are good 
 as well.
  
  Extras: Not much here, although the game should last the average player a good 20 hours or so to 
 get all 'Gold' medals.
  
  If your a fan of car combat/racing games, then you'll probably enjoy this. But I don't feel it's 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adblade_172XxX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  hi im dale and today i am here to review full auto. i will now go through theses catogories  
 enjoyment.
  
  Gameplay: this game has good gameplay for the most part it is easy to shoot the guns, multyplayer 
 is set up good, racing has a good sense of speed, the boost is nice and same with the amazing idea 
 to unwreck, yet the game does not have many features ( not includiong multyplayer) witch makes it 
 a little undercooked, (especially sense theres only like seven weapon sets you can choose from and 
 like 12 weapons) . i think a thing that would greatly increase this game is if it had a shop and 
 you bout and put on new weapons for your car.
  
  graphics: plain out the graphics are not horriblethe car models look good, and also some of the 
 rocky mountin tracks, but for the most part it can pretty ugly well you are driving ( think beetween 
 gamecube graphics and xbox 360 graphics and the frame rate can also get horrible at times.
  
  Sound: first of all i dont care what gamespot says the dsound tracks are not horrible,.... but 
 still certainly not great, and for sound effects bullet sound are nice, crashes are sweet and explosions 
 even sound better.
  
  controls: all i can say is good...! :)
  
  Enjoyment last but certainly not least is enjoyment, trust me when i say this, THIS GAME IS FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 really it is. its one of those games even though the flaws you cant take your hands off even though 
 it can get a little old quick. imagine your driving a viper bullets and rockets flyinng in all 
 derections bam! are car explodes in front of you and swirves into a nerby building but at that 
 exact same time you going off a thrtty foot ramp as all your rivals plumage to the deeps of the 
 earth beaneth you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is just awesome! I love Burnout, and this is burnout with guns!! I at first wanted 
 this game because it was being published by SEGA when I played I loved the game. Ahhh, the frea\king 
 explsions were AWESOME! But however this game has some downsides. The Graphics- Well they look 
 of course awesome but framerate problems occur and the framerate sometimes can't keep up with the 
 action. The explosions are cool. Those are the visuals so the visuals look really good. The game 
 is shiny (I one time even said video games with sexy graphics screw me up! LOL) But the framerate... 
 is gonna need some work. But the graphics are still great (framerate problems appear alot but not 
 alot most of the game STAYS sexy) . Graphics- 8/10. Now the gameplay: The multiplayer rocks. Blowing 
 up stuff is what's it's all about. You can rewind time from saving yourself you sometimes go too 
 fast to control. Before you crash and you go really fast you have control over your car but when 
 you carsh but rewind time you'll have the same speed you had before you crashed and you won't have 
 control over your car. It's takes time to get alot of speed (not for Sonic the Hedgehog though) . 
 But it's good to see a ton of speed. Story mode is hard. It's hard to avoid attacks. It'll take 
 take some time to get used to the game but the game still rocks. Sound: Nice sound effects, nice 
 music. But that's all what I can say about the sound! Overall- This game is a must buy. This damn 
 straight isn't your ordinart\y racing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  When I first took a look at this game I thought wow this could be great, imagine Burnout with weapons. 
 The weapons part was correct, but as far as the racing aspect being as good as Burnout, almost. 
 At first it was pretty cool racing and blowing up buildings, cars, and other racers, but it didn't 
 take long for it to just lose momentum and begin to pretty much just bore you. Not really a whole 
 lot to say, the graphics are fairly good but not Next Gen, and the game play options are there 
 but just aren't that good. Now if the guys whom created Burnout Revenge for the Xbox 360 took this 
 idea and placed within one of their games it could very well become a big hit through out the gaming 
 community, but I doubt that will ever happen, because Burnout as it is now is awesome. Full Auto 
 can be a somewhat exciting game, just for a short period of time. A good rental and definitely 
 not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcryan71
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I really hate this game. It's frustrating to no end. Here are the bad points: -- Lousy driving 
 physics... your car has the weight of an empty aluminum can. You hit a small bump and you go flying. 
 A step. A rock. A curb. Anything... you flip in the air like you're filled with helium. -- Any racing 
 game that PENALIZES you for going off jumps and getting air should just pack it up and go home. 
 Sure, you get a little boost, but you're actually SLOWER than the guys on the ground. A very weak 
 incentive for jumping. You actually spend a lot of the race AVOIDING jumps because your competition 
 will pass you by. -- Drifting is horrible in this game. Around turns, while you're using your hand 
 brake, the game will "assist" you further and you wind up doing donuts and spinning the wrong direction. 
 It's not smooth and intuitive like in Burnout... in Full Auto, it depends on what kind of turn your 
 coming into that determines how much drifting you can do on your own. -- You drive around the same 
 five maps over and over and over. The canyon is the worst. I curse it every time it comes on screen. 
 Play it and you'll know why. -- Who ever heard of a racing clock that COUNTS DOWN? And not just 
 counting down... but to LAST place. So, if you want to know if you're going to beat the limit, better 
 do the math in your head because the clock counts down for the lowest metal. Super lame.
  
  Okay, now the good points: The graphics are nice... but I have experienced some heavy frame drop 
 when the action gets crowded. The weapons are okay, but I found myself just using the same powerful 
 one throughout the entire game, avoiding variety because they overhead so frequently.
  
  Maybe I lied, there aren't really any good points worth noting here. The game was created because 
 the developer designed an insanely awesome crash physics engine. That is cool... but a lot about 
 the game is SOOOO not. Rent it if you must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  It seems to me that SEGA sat down & said "Hmmm whats cool?  
 & chucked them together to make a game. The result of this intense brainstorming session was Full 
 Auto. This game has cars with guns on, it doesn't explain why the cars have guns because there 
 isn't even a hint of a storyline not a whiff ok so at the start of some of the missions there may 
 be a vague scenario but that still leaves a lot to be desired. Ok now into the action. It's a fun 
 game because lets face it SEGA were right, both racing & explosions are cool. The missions are 
 as varied as much as can be with just cars with guns on & the unlockables & achievements up for 
 grabs do leave you with a sense of success. The 'unwreck' feature is quite a good idea, in fact 
 this whole game is quite a good idea that was carried out poorly. now the technical stuff. Graphics: 
 Nice, quite nice indeed but not to my high standards but maybe I expect more from something that 
 would have cost me 50 created for a machine that cost me nearly 300. Gameplay: Easy, simple & 
 has both a good racing feel to it & a shooter feel to it. sound: Boom, Crash etc, all you would 
 expect from explosions.
  
  At the end of the day I'm glad I borrowed this because It's a fun game to play whilst I can't afford 
 to buy one for myself but when I start buying some of the bigger games coming out later I will 
 return this to my mate safe in the knowledge I have milked it for its gamer score points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayham3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  This Game Is One Of The Fastest On The Next-Gen Console. This Should Be Up There With The Best 
 Racing Games Such As NFS And Burnout, But Is Being Kept Down By Everybody Saying That Its Not Good. 
 The Game Itself Is A Ride Through Destruction. Its Got Weapons, Its Got Cars And Its Got A Hell 
 Of A Lot Of Destruction. Building Crumble Cars Get Destroyed And Blew To Smitherenes. You Can Choose 
 Your Own Weapons To Put On What Car You Want And Choose Skins To Put On What Cars You Want. Theres 
 Definitely Enough Cars In This. This Game Is Brilliant And Should Be A Legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keiblerfan69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is a car combat game that isn't like the average car combat game. It isn't a death match 
 style game like Twisted Metal and it isn't the insanely fast combat from the Burnout series. But 
 its the best of both world. Fast paced racing with guns!
  
  Full Auto starts out with a tutorial section that pretty much explains the whole game to you. From 
 how to finish races to how to earn Full Auto Medals. If you don't get the game after all this then 
 you must have an IQ lower then the controller.
  
  You start out with standard sedans and pick-ups trucks. But once you get out of the first class 
 of cars (Class C) everything starts to pick up. The game really becomes more enjoyable once it doesn't 
 take 2 minutes to complete a lap on a small track. There are somewhere around 75+ events in the 
 Career mode. Most of the are just standard races where you still need to kill others to earn points. 
 The points go towards the medals. Make sure that you at least always try for Semi-Auto medals as 
 you get achievements for this. Shoot for Full Auto's to get the most points. It won't take you 
 long to finish that game. I would say I finished it in around 7 hours. But I did have to go back 
 and redo races to earn the achievements.
  
  The sound in the game is one of the weak points of Full Auto. I recommend just playing near a computer 
 with iTunes running. I even made my own iMix just for Full Auto. The explosions are good but everything 
 else other then car sounds are terrible.
  
  Now for more problems, the framerate. It is all over the place, but since there are so many explosions 
 it is understandable. But I think the real problem is the fact that every time you destroy a car 
 in front of you it zooms in on it and slows the game down. Not just in framerate but an actual 
 slow-mo effect. This is completely un-needed.
  
  Full Auto is a game that should of been given atleast 2 more months of development. But Sega just 
 had to rush them and be part of the second set of games out on the 360. Here is hoping that the 
 sequel better.
  
  Now that its been out so long it is only 30 dollars at most locations so it is worth a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If theres one genre you dont want to come into unprepared for on the Xbox 360, its racing games. 
 With excellent offerings like Project Gotham and Need for Speed already gracing the system, and 
 highly anticipated titles like Burnout Revenge on the way, theres little to no room for sloppy 
 designs. Unfortunately, the much-hyped Full Auto turns out to be one of those games. Although it 
 makes a good enough first impression with its highly destructive gameplay model, the mechanics 
 the game brings to the table quickly dissolve, and what youre left with is a decent-looking, flawed 
 racer that sits at the bottom of the systems racing offerings.
  
  If youre not familiar with Full Auto already, the basic idea is this; combine fast, arcade racing 
 with some weapon-based combat. Mix thoroughly. In some respects, the game does succeed in this 
 synthesis  attacking other racers while driving is kept nice and simple. A reticle extends out 
 from your cars front end; when another car swoops into your view, you can let loose with your 
 vehicles two weapons by hitting A or B. Some weapons allow you to use the right stick for 
 precision aiming, too. 
  
  And wait, theres more. The game uses a pretty obligatory but still cool rewind function called 
 Unwreck that you can utilize should an enemy blow you up or you make some other kind of mistake. 
 Theres also a boost meter that, once filled by doing crazy jumps and power slides, can give you 
 a quick edge in a race. Throw in a decent selection of cars into this mix, and youve got a pretty 
 cool game, right?
  
  Rightwell, on paper, anyway. But once you start to actually play Full Auto, things sort of fall 
 apart, thanks mostly to the completely absurd physics (if it can so be called) model employed 
 in the game. As you slide around corners, it feels like you weigh about as much as a paper cup. 
 Keeping with that trend, taking a jump feels like your car is floating through the air, rather 
 than careening toward an inevitable impact down below. Drifting around corners feels hopelessly 
 out of control, as your car can slide virtually horizontally at the lightest touch or do nothing 
 at all when you actually give it a push. Needless to say, this lack of domination over your ride 
 is disheartening, and at first, this may lead to some frustrating moments.
  Youll likely find the Unwreck function rather valuable in the early game to get a second chance 
 every now and then. However, after you adapt to the games particular way of doing things, it gets 
 quite easy, and youll likely find yourself discarding the Unwreck function altogether. After that 
 point, though, youre stuck with the games boring course designs, which provide no interesting 
 or challenging turns or combinations thereof.
  
  If you decide to progress through the games short-lived Career Mode  which is essentially a series 
 of regular races that require you to place favorably as well as cause a certain level of destruction 
  theres not much else to do but explore the online options, which offers nothing you havent 
 seen before; unless youve never heard a bunch of nine year olds talk smack to each other.
  
  In the end, theres no real reason why Full Auto deserves your attention. Underneath the appealing 
 concept of destructive behavior lies the ugly truth; a boring, flavorless, unsatisfying racer that 
 provides little to do but watch things explode. The game has a clean look to it  especially in 
 high definition  but they don't stand out as next generation. In fact, nothing about this game 
 does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtGizmo92
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  While guns and cars in a video game should be awesome, Full Auto is almost the opposite. The gameplay 
 starts fun enough, but after a while the shooting and driving gameplay starts to wear thin. Unfortunately 
 all the action is mostly just racing, and the destruction doesn't really come into the gameplay 
 that much. There isn't really any innovative gameplay mode like Burnout's crash mode included either. 
 The online doesn't help because it is really just a cookie cutter online experience. All the weapon 
 sounds sound good, but the soundtrack is dull and easily forgettable. The graphics also look pretty 
 good, but unfortunately an erratic frame rate slows down the action. Overall, Full Auto could have 
 been great if there had been more variety in the action or better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistersnake20
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was like WOW!!! The graphics were great and everything but now 
 that I've beat it. it's not what I thought it was. Now I'm a true gamer. I will beat any game no 
 matter how stupid it is. But when it's to the point were its no fun at all, then I might stop playing 
 it when I get about half way done with it. I now think I should of bought Pac-Man for the DS. (LOL) :) 
 But now, this game will just have to burn in the "I don't like pile" in my room. The graphics are 
 cool, there needs to be a better selection of guns. The only one that I thought was okay was the 
 melee. (Shotgun and rear gernades) This is it for my reveiew. Sinistersnake out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2156me
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to what people say i believe this is a very very fun and unique game. I enjoy many genres 
 of gaming and to me this just felt unique and fun. It reminded me of a classic game with next-gen 
 graphics. Rent it first, and more likely than not, you will enjoy it. When i first rented it, i 
 was a bit sceptical, because-quite frankly-when i think of sega i think "sonic the hedgehog" and 
 i was not sure they were capable of releasing a good racing game especially for the next-gen consoles. 
 But fortunately, i was wrong and this makes for a fun action-packed classic that is also fun to 
 play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  I didn't buy this game cos my neighbor had it and it wasnt that good. so I played it and it was 
 alright, after 30 races it the same over and over!! I just continued playing just to get the acheivment! 
 I hv got 41/50 acheivment easly!!! the 9 acheivemnt that i havent got are: rank 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10 
 on xbox live!! 885 GS out of 1000!!! this game is a easy game to beat!!! but I dont recomended 
 that you buy it!!! rent it first!!! this sound better when it wasn't evern out yet on game website!!! 
 so ya this game will get you bored and waste your monay for nothing... there is different type 
 of game like gang war, or other but same old stuff!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjizzile11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  now im not just rating this bad because gamespot did. it really is horrible. the only thing i like 
 in this game is the explosion. you run out of boost to fast. going back in time is practicly useless 
 in some situations. aceivements too easy. i like mine to be challenging. so im just gunna say all 
 that i said in 3 words. this game sucks. now i dont know what to say because of the 100 word thing 
 so poo poo ca ca pee pee wee wee head. dangit. im just gunna copie a past the whole thing. now 
 im not just rating this bad because gamespot did. it really is horrible. the only thing i like 
 in this game is the explosion. you run out of boost to fast. going back in time is practicly useless 
 in some situations. aceivements too easy. i like mine to be challenging. so im just gunna say all 
 that i said in 3 words. this game sucks. now i dont know what to say because of the 100 word thing 
 so poo poo ca ca pee pee wee wee head. dangit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all the gameplay is simply put, fun. You drive around in cars with guns on them and kill 
 each other while still trying to win the race. Think of it as Burnout with guns, which is basically 
 what everyone has been saying.
  The graphics are very much next gen. The explosions are huge with tons a particle effects along 
 with the nice little shockwave aftertouch, and when you fire a couple missles at the buildings 
 individual section will explode and crumple to the ground which can sometimes be used to your advantage. 
 Plus, i didnt see any slowdowns in single player admist all the chaos.
  The sound is also exceptionally well. The machine guns go off with a satisfying ratt-a-tatt-tatt. 
 Which is really an under statement. When you smash into the side of a building going 100 mph it 
 sounds like it should. I think. Ive never actually smashed into a wall myself, or at least not 
 in a car.
  There are plenty of other racing games out there that are much better than this, so if youve saved 
 up 60$ go buy something else.
  Overall this game is fun in small doses or when your playing with others but it gets pretty old 
 and boring real fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Full Auto huh? More like... Full Of ****. When I first played this game I was like, "Okay, cars+guns=fun, 
 right? Well, in this game it makes it cars+guns=****. I sucked, but, you can't judge a game by 
 its begining. So I beat the begining and thought it was pretty cool. So when I beat it, I thought 
 it was an okay game. Bu you should really rent it or play it before you buy it cuase belive me 
 when I say this, I really want a better game then this!! To end this the last thing that i have 
 to say is Full Auto+360=no match! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, Full Auto is pretty much a remake of a lot of older games in which you race around shooting 
 things. Solid idea, given, but it's been done. And done. Overdone really. But Full Auto employs 
 one very fun tidbit that makes the game worth playing. Well, in Single Player anyway.
  
  Full Auto has the "Unwreck" button (X) that lets you reverse time to undo any mistakes you may 
 have made, or help you dodge some bullets (or rockets) , essentially making the race unfair to everyone 
 else, since none of the AIs have Unwreck. This of course is brilliantly fun, and hilarious from 
 time to time. A lot of good laughs can be had by undoing some crazy stunt, then partially redoing 
 it but changing the outcome so you can survive the "triple backflip onto the [gas] tanker". 
  
  But, due to lack of creativity or technology, you completely lose Unwreck in Multiplayer. Sure, 
 it would be difficult to engineer this possibility, and annoying for people to lose positions because 
 one of the eight racers hit Unwreck, but it would have made the game that much more solid. It loses 
 most replay value here, and has no more Multiplayer goodness than any other racing game, less even 
 since the cars aren't realistic in the least.
  
  In short, it's a good game to pick up used (or in the "bargain bin") , but paying $60 is a huge 
 mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  A pretty entertaining game, Full Auto delivers what you'd expect in a typical car combat game. 
 It's nowhere near as deep as PGR3 or similar games but it's a pretty fun diversion. I guess the 
 best way to describe this game is Burnout Revenge meets Twisted Metal. This game blends blinding 
 speeds and deadly weaponry. You start the game with a few vehicles, and win and unlock new vehicles 
 and weapons by completing challenges and races. The weapons range from machine guns and landmines 
 to heatseeking missiles, deployable grenade-clusters, and more. You also upgrade your weaponry 
 to more deadlier versions throughout the game. Vehicles range from small cars, to limos, tow-trucks, 
 pickup trucks with plows, and SUVs. Like the weapons, you get better and faster rides by winning 
 races.
  This isn't a simple racing game with guns and explosions however. Like with the Burnout series, 
 you are encouraged to cause as much destruction and chaos all the while keeping in first place. 
 Causing property damage gives you points, and fills the "Unwreck Meter". This isn't a big deal 
 but it IS an important part of the gameplay. When the meter is full, you can activate a feature 
 that "rewinds" time, which, if used strategically, can be a big help. For example, you can be speeding 
 along, take a turn too sharply, and crash and explode, falling behind in the race. Using your Unwreck 
 feature, you can rewind a few seconds and try again. However, if you abuse this power, you'll run 
 out of Unwreck, and have to build it back up by blowing stuff up, or taking out an enemy racer. 
 
  Like with the "Unwreck Meter", you also have a booster feature. But instead of causing destruction, 
 you fill it up by doing stunts, like powersliding or taking big jumps off ramps and such. When 
 the meter is full, you can activate your booster, which gives you a huge burst of speed. Using 
 it at the right point is key. You can also use it to get alot of air off some jumps, which in turn 
 fills the meter even more.
  Aside from the actual racing, the game shows off some pretty nice visuals. Lots of cool explosions, 
 particle effects, and smoke effects are loaded into this game. The cars look very high-res and 
 shiny, and the lighting is pretty nice too. The only thing that is a tad irritating is that I've 
 noticed some serious slowdown at some points, particularly when there are alot of explosions happening, 
 or there are alot of cars onscreen. Some people really hate it but I find it to be not so bad that 
 the game is unplayable.
  The tracks aren't bad but get a bit repetitive. Many of them are city streets, big interstates, 
 and even a few rural tracks, with canyons and cliffs and stuff.
  The online play is here as well, and it's pretty entertaining for a while. Multiplayer doesn't 
 allow the "Unwreck" feature however, which is only fair. 
  The game is nothing revolutionary or new, and it gets a little repetitive after a while, but it's 
 a fun distraction for a while. It's alot of fun if you have people over and want a nice, simple 
 party game. I'd recommend renting it first. But if you are an Xbox360 owner, you owe it to yourself 
 to at least give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Full Auto demo had everyone talking, it's a racing game but the cars have weapons on them. 
 How could this game be bad? Well unfortuntaly the talk was just that... talk.
  
  Although some would argue that a racing game doesn't need to have that much content, Full Auto 
 is an exception, with a lack of cars and not that many weapons I felt myself cheated of 50 dollars. 
 
  
  The lack of cars is the main problem I have with this game. When I look into a racing game there 
 are two things I look for, a good amount of cars and a fair amount of tracks with good quality. 
 There are less then 20 cars and the tracks are of an ok quality but simply don't hold your intrest 
 for more then 10 hours.
  
  On-line game play is also lacking. Don't even think of attempting to play online unless you have 
 unlocked the best car and the best weapon as well. With everyone picking the same car and the same 
 weapon the quality of the online play is dissapoitining. 
  
  In the end Full Auto was a total letdown, your better off just playing the free demo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ortan13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely alot like the past Twisted Metal games but in this you can race. The game-play 
 was rather good but got boring with the lack of guns. The same shotgun, M-16 or mines tend to get 
 really boring really fast. The graphics are really good but could of been better for the xbox 360. 
 This game relies around a series of race tracks like any other racing game. Some of the levels 
 don't make sense like the one your going 110 mph, then before you know it your driving through 
 a mall in the same level. One good effect of this game is the rewind mode and turbo mode. The rewind 
 mode usually runs out and dosen't come back but, the turbo will charge back up. This is why you 
 should rent it or download it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have heard bad things about this game but after renting it I decided it was ok. Without achievements 
 I dont think the incentive is there to play what seems to be the same modes over and over again.
 
  
  The score would have been a lot lower if I had bought the game as it s not the sort of game I would 
 like to spend 39.99 on. 
  
  This game is easy enough for people who want to enlarge their gamerscore as in just a few days 
 I earned 750 points and thats without using the xbox live option. The ranks go from 1 to 10 and 
 I am told that it can take as little as a few hours to rank up to the maximum level so if that 
 is true the replay value on live will also wear thin after a while.
  
  An option to customise the cars would be excellent even if it wasnt up to the standard of Forza 
 motorsport as it would make the online experience a load better showing off your cars etc...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  When a new console is launched, what little software that is available will likely be snapped up 
 quickly, and it's a good opportunity for a game developer to make a bundle. Full Auto has cars 
 and guns, and it's this idea that is used to spark some initial interest in the purchaser. Looking 
 at the back of the box, it's guilty of showing visuals that are better than anything in the game 
 (I'm getting sick of this happening!) , and leaves you with the thought that this could be Burnout 
 with a lot more under the hood.
  
  To be fair, the game does do an excellent job of combining racing and shooting. With just a small 
 amount of practice you'll be powersliding into corners and lining up your opponents with a nice 
 straight missile shot with ease. I expected this to be where the game would fall down, that concentrating 
 on driving and shooting simultaneously would be too difficult, but it really isn't. In fact, a 
 sharper learning curve may even be what Full Auto needs, because after a few races, you've pretty 
 much been given everything your going to get, and the rest is basic repetition. It's not better 
 than Burnout, because Burnout does a much better job of compelling the player to keep playing, 
 probably due to it's superior level design.
  
  The graphics hardly touch what the 360 is capable of, it's almost ridiculous. My X1 could handle 
 these visuals, I'm certain, with only the amount of flying shrapnel ever pushing things. The sound 
 is nothing to get excited about either, the engine sounds, while suitably grunty, drown out any 
 music immediately on the default setting with sheer volume. Why? Is it because the music is so 
 bad?
  
  And don't try playing your own music instead of the rubbish they expect you to enjoy driving along 
 to, either. Infuriatingly, this game insists on turning off your music player at the end of each 
 race. When will developers learn that all those loser bands they get to offer up music for these 
 types of games are crap? Support the 360's music player, dammit! I want to use my own driving playlist!
 
  
  Full Auto is okay, but it's definitely nothing special. At best, it will be the fall back game 
 of your collection. You know, the one that you have a "quick go" of in between your real games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  "Full Auto" was one of the first games to ever show off the Xbox 360 capablilities, as well as 
 one of the most hyped games for the system. What looked as a mix between "Burnout" and "Twisted 
 Metal", showed to be a interesting and exciting package. As well as deliver explosive thrills on 
 its own. However, after long await, the explostion filled game has made its way to store shelves. 
 And the question is did "Sega" and "Pseudo Interactive" deliver the high testosterone destruction 
 powered game in full glory. Well, to be quite frank, not really. "Full Auto" definitely delivers 
 some fun. However, the overall package that its wrapped up in feels both repeditive and unfinished. 
 Making a game thats good for a weekend rental, but nothing beyond that.
  
  "Full Auto" plays like a mix between "Burnout" and "Twisted Metal", but with more focus on the 
 racing. Each race you compete in gives you the chance to win great prizes. As you play threw a 
 race and finish in any of the top 3 place holders you will win different sets of prizes. That includes 
 different cars, as well as different colors for those cars. So that by the time you have finished 
 every one of these tournament modes, you have already unlocked many different cars for you arsenal. 
 These different cars all differ in style, however, the real problem is that they dont feel any 
 different beyond a small tweek here and there. Giving you no real sense that you are driving a 
 high powered car. And sense that all feel rughly the same, you wont be as inclined to find the 
 one that suite you personally.
  
  The "twisted Metal" aspect of the game is done slightly better, yet, the game leaves little perpose 
 for it. Each car as two different weapons, a chaingun on the front of the hood and a mortor near 
 the same location on the car. That deel pretty much the same damage, it just comes down to if you 
 want to deal rappade fire or a one shot burst. Which really takes away from the strategy that every 
 race could have given. There is also a bomb mekenizm on the back that you can use to drop bombs 
 for other cars can ram into. Blowing up the other cars does dliver some fun, however, in the end, 
 there isnt any really perpose for it. Since the game only rewards the player that wins ever race. 
 making the whole feature feel kind of tact on in the end.
  
  The is also as small ode to "Prince of Persia", called "Unwreak". In which you can use to rewind 
 time and fix mistakes that you have made and give you an edge up on your opponents. The whole feature, 
 like others, dont feel that needed in the end. Since the game only has a small number of tracks, 
 once you learn them, you wont be making any real mistakes. There is also a "Burnout" type aspect 
 where you can boost after you have filled a meter and lze past enemies. Which does work kind of 
 well.
  
  The overall game of "Full Auto" is going from one challenge to the other, and there are many different 
 challenges and campagns of races. There is a lot to do in "Full Auto". However, since many of the 
 different race types all are roughly the same beyond as small tweek. You feel in the end that you 
 have seen all there is to see by the end of the first few races.
  
  There is a multiplayer mode, threw system link, split-screen, or online. The multipler mode players 
 out as expected. You and other players go threw the levels and race to the finish, and you can 
 use your guns to take out existing opponents. The only difference is the fact that the "Unweak" 
 feature is striped out in multipler to help balance the gameplay. The online modes are the enxact 
 same, and they play the pretty well and have no real sinse of lag.
  
  The presentation is pretty good, the levels ( of what they are ) look good and the cars have a 
 good look of shine on them. Things break up pretty well while the gunplay is taking place, however 
 it leaves a blocky look the the different buildings. However, you will be too focused on the racing 
 to probably notice. However, the real problem that takes away greatly from the look of "Full Auto" 
 is the massive frame-rate issues. It will drop drastically when there is a lot of action going 
 on in the game. Which is acually very often. And when you destroy a car, it will take a close up 
 view of the car ( much like Burnout ) and the frame-rate will take major damage. Its really is 
 very appauling and takes away greatly from the game. The sound on the other hand is good. The sounds 
 of the different explosions and the effects from racing in the game all sound spot on and very 
 good. The soundtrack on the other hand isnt very good. It has those techno tracks that really feel 
 well with the game, as well as copmplement ever level. But there very forgetable. There is also 
 a bug that prevents you from lisening to the custon sound track in the game.
  
  In the end, what you have from "Full Auto" is a competent, but below average racer. And the games 
 different quirks dont pan out very well in the end. The game just feels very rushed and isnt a 
 particularly compelling package. There is some fun to be had here, and it would make for a decent 
 weekend rental. However, there just isnt anything here that would warent for a game that would 
 last you for the long haul. "Full Auto" is competent, but the overall package is uncompelling and 
 just feels rushed in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  The gameplay is a neat idea i mean guns on cars doens't that sound cool? But once you get the game 
 and play it for a while you become more and more bored. All you do in this game is mindless shooting 
 its so boring and the weapon sets are limited so you find yourself using the same guns over and 
 over again and did i mention to small selection of tracks? The only thing this car has a lot of 
 is colours and skins for your cars. THe reason i didn't give this a 4 is because the unwreak feature 
 is a good idea and can save you from glitches or the games wierd physics. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The explosions look nice nuff' said
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  The soundtrack 
 is very forgetable but the thing that annoys me the most about the sound in this game is that everytime 
 you go into a loading screen your audio settings or your custom sound track will be shut off and 
 you have to set them again...
  
  Value: 6/10
  
  There are a lot of career missons but after that you've basicly have finished everything. There 
 is an online mode but no one is online on it...
  
  Tilt: 5/10
  
  I wouldn't recomend this game to anyone don't play this unless you are an achievement addict...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto makes a mockery of destruction racing, games like DD (Destruction Derby) and Burnout 
 embrace the genre for all its funspots, but this game doesn'y even scrape into the genres ranks.
 
  Basically, all Full Auto is is a game where you race around the streets and blow up other cars 
 with a mount gun, who makes a game about that!?
  Shallow story (if you can call it a story) also there are very few levels, atrocious frame rate 
 (and I didn't even flinch at Quake 4's frame rate) , cripping fault in the audio makes it very messy 
 to play a custom soundtrack.
  Most destruction racing games (i. e. Burnout) have fantastic graphics and still involve top notch 
 detruction and racing, others (i. e. DD) have not so good graphics, but the destruction is so chaotic 
 you tend not to notice!
  Full Auto is not destruction racing! Full Auto is not worth 50quid! Full Auto isn't even FULL Auto! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto by SEGA doesn't have a coherent story, nor does it really need or rely on one.
  
  The gameplay is pretty basic. You drive around in a car shooting your weapons which can be anything 
 from hood mounted machine & shotguns to rocket launchers and mines at really anything, including 
 other cars that are equipped for war, to get to the finish line first. I suppose its a nice twist 
 on racing games. Adding to the joy is a thing called the "Unwreck Meter". When this meter is filled 
 by blowing up either the scenery or other cars, you can literally rewind time. So for instance, 
 lets say you took a turn too wide and smashed into a wall and went flipping over turtle style, 
 just hit the "Unwreck" button and attempt the turn again. You can also go on X-Box Live or play 
 locally against other people. Also, there are many game modes for single player like time trial, 
 "rampage" (where you destroy as much as possible in a short time) and many more.
  
  There are a few things to unlock which go from cars & colors for those cars (Jeeps, trucks, limo 
 looking things) , to weapon sets, race tracks, and those X360 "Achievement" things.. I guess there 
 really isn't much you should expect from a racing game... but it kind of drags down the replay 
 value. Also, do you really feel rewarded after unlocking a shade of red for a car after you just 
 went through hell to get it? No.
  
  However, Full Auto grows wicked boring fast. The idea of driving around and blowing up stuff is 
 appealing for about an hour or two, but it grows tiresome and kind of lame. The Unwreck feature 
 was useful to people who don't play racing games (I'm one of these people) but eventually it feels 
 like a cheat. Finally, in career mode, you are unable to actually pick what car you want to battle-race... 
 thats right, you are forced to a set car with set weapons for that certain track... to me, that 
 is boring and forces the overall value of the career way down.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, but thats a shoo-in with X360 games. The cars look fantastic, the 
 explosions look beautiful, the enviroments both before and after you destroy them look great.. 
 so thats good.
  
  The music is pretty bad for the most part, techno and heavy metal for some reason dont fit in this 
 game, but the SFX are excellent. The guns firing, tires screeching, cars smashing into each other 
 and blowing up - it all sounds great. The engine roaring in the cars also sounds pretty sweet.
 
  
  To finish it up, Sega had a real good idea on their hand but there is only so much racing, blowing 
 stuff up, and rewinding it to do it again that one person can handle. Though I do suggest you play 
 it, I don't suggest buying it - rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  This game was a cool idea, when I first put it into my xbox 360 I was like: This is awsome! As 
 the hours went on I soon realized, while the visuals were nice, the gameplay had absolutley no 
 replay value. It seemed like every race was the same thing over and over and over again. This game 
 has no story line and absolutley no depth at all.
  
  The sound quality was good, the controls were easy, the visuals nice but the gameplay doesnt cut 
 it. If your looking for a mediocre party game that may fun while playing intoxicated with friends, 
 just for the crashes and pieces flying every were, this might be a game you would want to try. 
 Otherwise its not even worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is a combat racing game that was released on Valentines Day, 2006. Published by Sega 
 and developed by Pseudo Interactive, this Xbox 360 exclusive does offer gameplay that cannot be 
 found elsewhere on the 360 console, but due to some average graphics, frame-rate issues and a generally 
 lack of variety in Full Autos gameplay, youd be much better off waiting for a better combat racing 
 game.
  
  Full Auto's game modes feature head-to-head, arcade play, online play and a career mode. Arcade 
 play is self-explanatory, as it is your standard pick up and play mode where you can play a couple 
 of different game types, the best being Rampage where you just and shoot every car in sight. The 
 online play is online play: functional racing experience with little to no lag, which is always 
 a plus.
  
  The career mode in the game progresses you through different classes of cars and then different 
 game types. Sadly though, the cars in the game are pretty forgettable and for all the different 
 names they give these sixteen different series, they all play pretty much the same. Hold down the 
 gas and the A button and get to the end before the other cars do. Rinse and then repeat.
  
  One of the main features of the gameplay is the ability to rewind time, called "Unwreck." This 
 is particularly handy when you turn a corner poorly and would like a second chance, or you didn't 
 see that mine coming from your opponent. You press the left and right bumper buttons, and you have 
 that second chance. This is probably one of the best feautres that the game has going for it, and 
 it really works well.
  
  Full Auto does feature some satisfying gameplay, at times. It was great to shoot a missile at a 
 foe from a distance and hit the other car in stride. (And then, naturally, see the drivers body 
 go flying in the air.) All of the weapons feel powerful and can cause some damage. However, the 
 games total lack of variety just rides the whole combat part too hard, making the game extremely 
 repetitive after a while. Another thing that is apparent from the get go is the utter lack of tracks. 
 There seems to be about five or six tracks in the whole game, yet they send you on 60 to 70 different 
 races, sending you forwards and backwards through the same old tracks over and over again. Sure, 
 the player will know the shortcuts faster and whatnot, but even within the small number of tracks 
 there are striking similarities.
  
  Besides the overall repetitiveness of the game, it also does have some pretty cheap A. I. that 
 you see in a lot of racing games. Full Autos A. I. is a lot like an earlier Xbox 360 game, Need 
 for Speed: Most Wanted in that youll have a huge lead on every car and then all of a sudden they'll 
 just pop back somehow, inexplicably. This will lead to some frustrating moments, but on the whole, 
 the car is basically only going to pass you either for a short while or just give you a slight 
 scare when youre going for that Semi-Auto or Full-Auto Medal.
  
  Visually, Full Auto isnt too stunning, but it looks sharp. The background environments look crisp; 
 the explosions on the cars and the environment can look very neat. However, when you get into some 
 big pile-ups, the frame rate can drop to the point where you think youre watching a picture show. 
 Generally, Full Auto looks nice, but you could find much better graphics in most of the Xbox 360 
 titles. Full Auto is not going to impress your friends with its looks.
  
  Full Autos sound is rock solid. The cars sound fine, weapons firing and hitting other cars sound 
 powerful and give you a feeling that youre doing some business on these other drivers. The soundtrack 
 in the game, though, was not especially spectacular and the music seemed to just loop to add another 
 repetitive thing about the game.
  
  Full Auto also doesnt feature much in the way of value, unless you really get into the online 
 portion of the game. The career will only keep you busy for six to eight hours, depending on your 
 skill level, but I would assume most people would fall in at the lower end of the scale. After 
 the career is done, all you have left is the online, and after you get through the career, you 
 really have seen all that Full Auto has to offer.
  
  The points also do not leave much in the way for added value, as they are doable and most of them 
 are attained during the career mode, with the exception of the Xbox Live Ranking achievements.
 
  
  At the end of the day, Full Auto is a good game that was not necessarily as expanded as it should 
 have been. The developers really should have worked on varying the gameplay a bit and making about 
 ten more different tracks so they could justify sending people through so many different races 
 on the same tracks over and over again. There are too many problems with the game to recommend 
 to most anyone to buy this game at its $49.99 price point. However, 360 owners who have had enough 
 with Project Gotham, Need for Speed or Ridge Racer might find something worthwhile in Full Auto 
 over a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is a single or multiplayer racing game for the XBoX360, and is playable over XBoX Live. 
 The game itself harbors beautiful graphics, and some of the most realistic explosions in any game 
 out yet. The sound of all the weapons in diverse and complex, and the feel of the missile as it 
 leaves the launcher on its way to your rival racer, is oh so sweet.
  
  Full Auto holds its own in the graphics department. The cars are gifted with the ability to reflect 
 nearly any light, making them shine and glisten, which adds to the look of the game. The buildings 
 crumble and shatter in real time, and look realistic and modern. Although the player may think 
 that buildings will not brake apart like puzzle pieces.
  
  The sound is good. Weapons sound effects, the car engines, the explosions, all top notch. But the 
 game holds a considerable bug in the music department. The games custom BitStream Dream soundtrack, 
 only plays a few songs. And when the player syncs up his own music, the game is prone to crashing. 
 However, if the player is happy with the custom soundtrack, and it is very fitting of the game, 
 then no problem.
  
  The playability of Full Auto is cut short. Dispite the great underline princible of the game, It 
 seems more like a shell of what it could be, rather then a smash hit. The tracks offered are unique 
 and diverse, and all explode, shatter, collapse, implode, demolish, or destruct in thier own way. 
 The races offered are fun, enjoyable, and stylish. But through personal experiance, It has been 
 discovered that all players focus on the killing more then the racing on XBoX Live. Which is fun. 
 Driving a tow truck 50 miles per hour that is (Quoted from the Manual) ... "As Industructable As 
 A Hunk Of Iron, And Almost As Fast..."
  
  In the end, Full Auto does not live up to the hype it was given. The Unwreck feature, Boost, The 
 many weapons, although beautifully disigned, cannot compete with some of the other racing games 
 for the XBoX 360. Full Auto itself is a great game. That is not the problem, The problem is that 
 it simply cannot compete.
  But it always is fun, at the end of the day. To Grab your Keys, Get into your TeC350, and Level 
 the rest of your street block. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogersband
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game starts out extremely addictive and fun, but after 10 games you realize just how many 
 hours it will take to finish every single set. I love the aspect and idea for this game and the 
 whole idea of being able to shoot different weapons and blowing up other cars. The go back in time 
 button is really useful, and can be very helpful. On the other hand, you'll end up going back in 
 time in the same spot 3 times in a row and have to just blow up. It can be real frustrating. This 
 game starts out fun and great, and the idea has potential, i just think this wasn't the best game. 
 There are other better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5387
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I was surprised on the graphics of the game. There is no limit on what 
 you cant blow up. Also when you do blow up say buildings or gas trucks they stay there when you 
 come back around for another lap. The cars are pretty cool too. but I think when you win medals 
 you should at least get something good. Instead you get more color paint jobs for the veichles 
 in the game. The weaponary is a wide range from missiles to land mines that will drop behind you 
 to ward off your rivals. This game is made for people who just want to have fun blowing stuff up 
 and racking in the points for doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: United_We_Fall
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Even though Full Auto is not one of those games that you would be talking about for weeks, i find 
 it really fun... especially when ur around friends... 
  The graphics look ee... ok i guess... they aint something impressive but they are satisfaying if 
 u think that there are so many things that u can interact with in a city. The sounds i find, great. 
 The gameplay... well what difference can u find in any racing game's gameplay if u just tried one 
 of them. 
  Personally i find Full Auto an amazing game not because of the graphics or anything else that has 
 to do with the looks of it but because of the fun that gives you. I mean ther have been times when 
 i was playing with my friends online that i was laughing for more than 10 minutes due to the outcome 
 of a race. Also, the beauty of this game is the weaponry. You never know who's gonna come last 
 or first because u might explode at any time while driving. 
  On a scale out of ten, i'd give this game an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is the latest driving game ripping off Burnout. But enough with that, this is sort of 
 like innovative but gets boring and tiring in an hour and in the end you felt like you've been 
 ripped off. All the features are good and there is online but... nobody even plays online. The 
 single-player is not that well organized, its basically events going on. There aren't any new weapons 
 for your car and most of time the "rewind" feature feels like the game is really easy. The action 
 isn't that jaw-dropping or exiting and once the camera foccuses on the car you blew up, the frame 
 rate gets very slow and makes your car feel like it just stopped going for 2 seconds. It's not 
 that challenging and feels tiresome like PDZ, but at least PDZ has great gameplay, sound, value, 
 tilt and graphics. This is just a horrible 360 game so far and it makes me wonder how they had 
 to delay it to put more stuff on it. Don't waste your money on this, spend it on PGR3 or Burnout 
 Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics aren't everything in a game. Full Auto has that element down fairly well. The destructable 
 enviroments are pretty impressive also, but the repetetive nature of this game causes boredom and 
 fustration. I found myself not wanting to waste my time with it. There are many achievements but 
 unless you really enjoy the game (not likely) , you will not earn even half of them. This game may 
 be fun for gamers that enjoy arcade style games, but there is no depth in this title. The sound 
 could be better, but that is the least of the problems. The controls are simple and the "Unwreck" 
 tool can be very handy at critical points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDGRUNTY11
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  (+) =good part of game (-) =bad part of game
  
  Gameplay- Pretty simple controls (+) , sometimes when you turn you spinout or stop (-) , guns and explosions (+) , 
 Practically everything is destructible (+) .
  
  Graphics-everything is very detailed and looks good (+) , there is alot of slowdown when something 
 explodes or crashes and especially when you do the instant replay (-)
  
  Sounds- The explosions sound good and so does the car's engines (+) i personaly don't like the music 
 and there aren't many songs (-)
  
  Value- this game gets real bad real fast i wouldn't even recommend renting it i would say con your 
 friend into buying it and then go to their house and play it for free cause its not worth the money 
 to rent it (-) .
  
  Tilt- it's true what they say, they could have written the idea and storyline of this game on a 
 napkin in 4 seconds. Everyone has always wanted a game where you just go around killing and blowing 
 things up but if you want that in a car game form than you'll have to keep looking. I would suggest 
 cell damage. All in all its still a good game but not worth 60 or even 50 dollars. if you want 
 this game then check your local Kmart's clearance bins now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I think Sega has found a gem. This game is unbeliveable. Yes, the physics are in need of a 
 serious fixer upper, but this has given me faith in the future-gen. racing games. The weapon tuning 
 option is most definately something that is an added bonus. I even liked personalizing my cars 
 with those differnt skins. For some reason, it just adds filling to the pie when you slaughter 
 somebody else and look cool at the same time. I especially like the american flag design on the 
 Vulcan. There were a couple lag issues with the graphics though, that sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I mean I really went into this game thinking: Oh man, guns on cars, exploding environments, next-gen 
 graph. Well in theory thats true but when it comes down to it the game is really mediocre at best. 
 I mean from what i saw, there was some frame rate issues and just for the record it was not my 
 Tv im reviewing these games ona HDTV 42 inch. Panasonic plasma tV.
  And my big problem with this game is the custom music Glitch! Whenever I put a music from my hard 
 drive on it wont play! So that was a big one for me. And after a while the game just gets boring 
 i guess, but one thing i actually like about this game is the multiplayer thats one thing i do 
 like bout this game. So at the end of the day this is just a game that could have been amazing 
 but falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousFragnito
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  - Excellent gameplay
  - Cool cars
  - Awesome multiplayer
  - Unique
  
  Cons
  - Light driving cars
  - No battle mode
  - Music glitch
  - Easy to beat
  
  Overall, I 
 think Full Auto is worth a look, but Sega could have done a lot more. The gameplay is awesome, 
 besides a lighter driving feel (sometimes you will hit small objects and go flying) . Very short 
 single player, but we can chalk that up as an arcadish single player. Great multiplayer, with addicting 
 achievements that have you coming back for more. All in all, Full Auto is a well made game with 
 few errors and smart gameplay. 
  
  
  
  Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full 
 Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto 
 Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full 
 Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto 
 Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full 
 Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto 
 Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full 
 Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto 
 Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full Auto Full 
 Auto Full Auto Full Auto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Full Auto left many amazed at E3 last year, it looked sleek, sweet and wonderful. The graphics 
 of this game leave a skid mark on other racers, but the gameplay just dies after you've played 
 1 or 2 series of races, multiplayer may try to increase the fun, but all in all it doesnt. I prefer 
 to rent it, because this game can be completed in a week or 2, depending on how fast you are. The 
 sound and music is as any other racing game, bland and similar. The entire game looked so great 
 but Sega killed the genre by making the game's feel so awkard and confusing. Each car has weapons 
 provided for it, but you have to unlock it all. Even if you play with a friend, it'll leave you 
 bored in its simplicity.
  I suggest getting Burnout: Revenge, Ridge Racer 6, or any other racing game. I'm disappointed that 
 Sega released the game to be a mediocre ride with a creative idea that could have been made into 
 something great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is nothing like a racing game ive seen before thats for sure it can do many, many things 
 to you like keep you addicted to it and like most people wanting to trade it in (whic I dont quite 
 understand why) , it cold also make this game be your favorite but thats only if you play for a long 
 time and play no other game except and no other gae except it. It also gives you one feeling that 
 feeling is wanting more now I think that sucks that Sega is saving Full Auto 2 for the PS3 why? Because 
 if the first title was a hit imagine the 2nd one on the 360 the game gives you lots of cars to 
 choose from, many weapons and weapons and even some levels you can get used to quick but the best 
 part about single player is a really cool feature called "Unwreck" it gives the advantage to take 
 back time so lets say you blew up because you hit a building unwreck and that never happened! The 
 game is great and thats the bottom line so buy it if your into druve by shooting games or if you 
 like car combat games.
  
  Dont get this game if your into FPS then dont buy this game!!! Overall I give Full Auto 7.5 car 
 crashes out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 24, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  guns and cars have always had a problematic relationship but some can pull it off, this can't. 
 full auto foolishly sets the pair up on another date and we have to watch as the whole thing goes 
 up in flames. its cool and all but it doesn't have that x factor that makes it got to the charts. 
 its cool for those who are into the thrill of a car with loads of ammo shootin from the hood. impressive 
 amount of destruction but it ain't no burnout. it doesn't have the flava that makes you wanna play 
 it over and over. its all the same in the races and the later types of races are plain boring. 
 i can describe the sounds in two words: dissappointing and horrible. c'mon, even the explosion 
 is lame. low sfx. the potential is there and all but the combination of guns and cars isn't as 
 explosive as many prefer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 21, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  A pretty entertaining game, Full Auto delivers what you'd expect in a typical car combat game. 
 It's nowhere near as deep as PGR3 or similar games but it's a pretty fun diversion. I guess the 
 best way to describe this game is Burnout Revenge meets Twisted Metal. This game blends blinding 
 speeds and deadly weaponry. You start the game with a few vehicles, and win and unlock new vehicles 
 and weapons by completing challenges and races. The weapons range from machine guns and landmines 
 to heatseeking missiles, deployable grenade-clusters, and more. You also upgrade your weaponry 
 to more deadlier versions throughout the game. Vehicles range from small cars, to limos, tow-trucks, 
 pickup trucks with plows, and SUVs. Like the weapons, you get better and faster rides by winning 
 races.
  This isn't a simple racing game with guns and explosions however. Like with the Burnout series, 
 you are encouraged to cause as much destruction and chaos all the while keeping in first place. 
 Causing property damage gives you points, and fills the "Unwreck Meter". This isn't a big deal 
 but it IS an important part of the gameplay. When the meter is full, you can activate a feature 
 that "rewinds" time, which, if used strategically, can be a big help. For example, you can be speeding 
 along, take a turn too sharply, and crash and explode, falling behind in the race. Using your Unwreck 
 feature, you can rewind a few seconds and try again. However, if you abuse this power, you'll run 
 out of Unwreck, and have to build it back up by blowing stuff up, or taking out an enemy racer. 
 
  Like with the "Unwreck Meter", you also have a booster feature. But instead of causing destruction, 
 you fill it up by doing stunts, like powersliding or taking big jumps off ramps and such. When 
 the meter is full, you can activate your booster, which gives you a huge burst of speed. Using 
 it at the right point is key. You can also use it to get alot of air off some jumps, which in turn 
 fills the meter even more.
  Aside from the actual racing, the game shows off some pretty nice visuals. Lots of cool explosions, 
 particle effects, and smoke effects are loaded into this game. The cars look very high-res and 
 shiny, and the lighting is pretty nice too. The only thing that is a tad irritating is that I've 
 noticed some serious slowdown at some points, particularly when there are alot of explosions happening, 
 or there are alot of cars onscreen. Some people really hate it but I find it to be not so bad that 
 the game is unplayable.
  The tracks aren't bad but get a bit repetitive. Many of them are city streets, big interstates, 
 and even a few rural tracks, with canyons and cliffs and stuff.
  The online play is here as well, and it's pretty entertaining for a while. Multiplayer doesn't 
 allow the "Unwreck" feature however, which is only fair. 
  The game is nothing revolutionary or new, and it gets a little repetitive after a while, but it's 
 a fun distraction for a while. It's alot of fun if you have people over and want a nice, simple 
 party game. I'd recommend renting it first. But if you are an Xbox360 owner, you owe it to yourself 
 to at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  First off, I don't see why this game gets dogged so bad! I rented it and had a blast with it! I 
 know people say it can get repetitive but what games don't at some point?!?! That being said, here 
 is the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Crisp graphics with great effects! I love the explosions and pieces of debri going everywhere!
 
  
  Gameplay: Solid. Cars handle nicely and the action is furious! Not quite as fast as Burnout but 
 it would be too hard if it was.
  
  Sound: Vehicles and weapons sound spot on.
  
  Overall I thought it was a very fun game that I may rent again! Blowing stuff up just doesn't get 
 old! Not to me anyway!
  Edit: Okay, so I bought the game for $15 and, although I do enjoy it, yeah... It's a 7.5 and that's 
 me being nice! Oh well, for $15 it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  This was a fun game. It reminded me of twisted metal and another game i cant even think of that 
 was fun... A lot of people said this was one of the worse 360 games. But i think something like 
 the outfit was worse. The gameplay was a lot of fun. There wasnt really a story like a twisted 
 metal but it was tight. The graphics werent bad for a game of this genre. The physics for blowing 
 stuff up were pretty impressive. I like the replay thing to go back in time that was a great feature. 
 The bat mobile was without a doubt the best car in this game. Great idea for P. I. and it was unfortunate 
 that not that many people liked this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykodude4523
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Online wasnt that great but offline was awesome. Good Difficulty and AI. Only thing missing is custmizable 
 weapon sets. Okay thats all . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . . ..  . 
 . . . . . .. .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is overrated. I had high expectations for this game but they sadly were not fullfilled. 
 
  
  The problem is that the developers have put too much emphasis n the destruction and not enough 
 on tha driving. And thats essentially what this game is. A driving game. The developers have tried 
 to develop the destruction more than the driving. Big mistake. 
  
  The cars handle like a cross between ridge racer and true crime streets of l. a. Yes i know. 
 
  
  But perhaps i am being too harsh on this.... game. It has some decent cars and weapons. Ahh the weapons. Combat 
 is the one thing this game does well. There is nothing more satisfying than blowing up that rival 
 that just overtook you. 
  
  Sadly the combat is not enough to make up for the attrocious driving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crs2c
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is a fun and fast paced game that allows you to get in play and get out. If you enjoy FPS 
 and Racing, Full Auto combines the two and give you a nice fun time. The came reminds me of the 
 Twisted Metal series. The object of the came is the wreck stuff, blow up you opponents, and win 
 the race, basically what NASCAR which it was. The tutorials are helpful enough to give you the 
 object of the games and get you familar with some the tracks, cars, and weapons. The ahievements 
 maybe a litte to easy to get, but that is the same on most of the 360 games. This game does not 
 require a lot time investment to enjoy it, so that means if you got sometime to kill before leaving 
 the house and you want to get a quick game in this would be the one. Could it have more substance 
 yes, does that hurt the game no. Overall this is an enjoyable game and I recommend it all those 
 who just want to have some fun and don't take their gaming to seriously.
  
  Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theace18
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game looks so familliar... Oh yeah, its like Burnout 3, but with guns. While it seems appealing, 
 its not everything it is cracked up to be. 
  
  The graphics were decent on the game, but I really expected more from a next generation gaming 
 console. There are so many graphically impressive titles out there, and frankly this isn't one 
 of them. The graphics aren't horrible, but could be A LOT better.
  
  Gameplay was entertaining. I wasn't bored. But the career/story mode was just lame. So I have to 
 go through and try to get a certain amount of points to get to the next level. Nothing really kept 
 my interest. Eh, I know this is suppose to be an arcade type game, but come on, give me a little 
 more substance. 
  
  Musically and sound effect wise, this game was lame. The music, heck, you might as well turn it 
 off and turn on your iPod and listen to something else. Can anyone say "cheesy"? Sounds effects 
 were ok, but still didn't really drag me into the game.
  
  Again this game isn't horrible, it is entertaining. However the game lacks a lot of depth. I know 
 this is suppose to be an arcade-style game, but I just expect a l ot more from a next gen console 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Full auto is definitely not a bad game. it just can't keep its steam. there's a lot of content, 
 and the graphics are good for the most part. however, it can be very unrealistic and repetetive. 
 you will hit a wall and your car will flip in the air and land all wierd and all the races are 
 basically the same. if you have lots of spare time rent it, but it's not worth 60 bucks. i can 
 see why people gave it low reviews, i would be pissed if i bought it. i think most people could 
 enjoy it for a few hours though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First I need to say something: Games need to stop saying that the environments are completely destructable 
 because all that it does it highly how the environments aren't completely destructable.
  
  This game is fun. The races are extremely arcade-style. It's kind of like Mario Kart juiced up 
 with explosions. You can power-slide through every single turn while keeping the accelorator at 
 full throttle the entire time. You get to blow up competitors and buildings which is great fun 
 for while.
  
  The problems with this game are many:
  - Its simplicity gets boring really fast because the races aren't all that difficult.
  - The 
 environments are faily destructable, but they all look the same. There is very little variety in 
 the environments and so you actually quit noticing them at all.
  - The online navigation of the menu's is horrible. You can't set up a party with your friends and 
 play with them in each game. If you can then it is way to difficult to do because nobody i've talked 
 to has been able to figure it out.
  - They actually have a few races that you have to do where you don't have any weapons. Who thought 
 this was a good idea. Take a game where the whole point is blowing stuff up and shooting things, 
 that doesn't have a great "real" driving system and remove the weapons and what do you get? A really 
 crappy racing game.
  - This games goes from being fun to not being fun at all very suddenly. I rented this game and 
 played it lots and it was pretty fun (mindless, but fun) . Then all of a sudden I didn't want to 
 touch the game ever again. I've talked to a number have people who have experienced this same thing.
 
  
  This is in no way an exaustive list of things that make this game bad. The graphics in this game 
 are very nice and the gameplay is pretty good. It is a good rental, but the novelty wears of quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadside51
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is a game that mixes high-speed thrills with explosive carnage. The game looks good and 
 sounds great, but the gameplay isn't really up to par. Seeing the cityscape around you crumble 
 and shatter is a sight to behold, but the entertainment value of this spectacle wears off as soon 
 as you realize that each track is just a remixed version of another. The cars each handle distinctly, 
 but none of them seem to really be able to grip the road which often cause you to slam into the 
 side of a building and utilize the Unwreck feature. Using weapons in the game requires more luck 
 and a sense of timing than skill. The game features a few worth-while online modes, but beyond 
 that, there isn't much there. The concept of this title will immediately make you think of classics 
 like Twisted Metal and Vigilante 8, but it won't keep you entertained as long as either one of 
 those titles. The game is very ambitious in what it's trying to do here, and with a little tweaking 
 maybe the sequel will have a bit more substance and play value. As it is though, Full Auto is just 
 a Pinto that thinks it's a Corvette. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Busta_Capp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  While Full Auto might not be the best racing or best shooting game on the 360, it does manage to 
 bring the two ideas together fairly well. The easiest way to describe Full Auto would be to call 
 it a "grown-up Mario Kart". The only problem is, Mario Kart is known for its fantastic track design 
 and memorable characters. Full Auto, on the other hand, uses the same tracks as a basis for the 
 game. There are different routes through the tracks, and the constant "reverse" mode, but overall, 
 the reliance on the same cities to provide a different feel hurts the game, in that by the end 
 of the single player mode, you feel like you've been seeing the same parts of the city over and 
 over.
  
  However, the city itself is half the fun. Everything is destructible in this game - everything. 
 Want to catch up to the leader? Fire a rocket over him to nail that idling gas tanker and watch 
 him drop to last place in a fiery hellstorm of destruction (that will more than likely drop a building 
 front down on anyone else in front of you) . Driving recklessly ends up rewarding you by revealing 
 shortcuts and hidden routes a la Burnout Revenge, this shaving precious seconds off your final 
 lap times.
  
  Overall, the game is decent enough to try out, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys Mario Kart, 
 Twisted Metal, or Burnout. It might not be the cream of the crop, but it defiinitely earns a spot 
 on the list for bringing something a little different to the table, and not being another cookie 
 cutter racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourmom116
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  this game has an amzing concept thats not just your average shoot em up game. The graphics are 
 very good although the un wreck feature in this game sometimes does not help at all it still can 
 be very use full at times so that reely makes me wonder (no offense to perfect dark zero) why they 
 rated perfect dark zero so much higher than full auto. So you guys should definately pick this 
 game up if not that at least rent it. O yah if your skeptical about the game just rent it first. 
 Just hope your disk will actually work lol :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has some great potential. All they need to do is fix the frame rate issues, and add less 
 repetitiveness, and all will be good.
  
  Here is an overview
  
  Graphics --- Not the best for the 360 but they will do. 8/10
  
  Gameplay --- Great gameplay 
 and all, just repetitive a lot. 9/10
  
  Sound --- There isnt really much to pay attention to sound here.. considering its just cars. 10/10
 
  
  My favorite part about this whole game is the destruction. That is what makes this game great! 
 It would be a whole lot better if the frame rate didnt stink, but other than that, all is good 
 in racing and war! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewierules91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This amazing game takes the cake for the best, most destructive racing game ever. The game reminds 
 me slightly of destruction derby, but it is so much more intense and beautiful. the controls are 
 extremely easy to learn, the game is highly addictive, and it just kicks ass. Almost everything 
 is fully destructable, meaning you can bring down buildings, blow up oil tankers, and knock down 
 billboards, and the challenges are great. speed through cities and on highways and in back-alleyswhere 
 everything blows up. shoot missiles and drop mines and run random strangers off the road. run over 
 people and blow up oil tankers. oh, and did I mention you can blow up oil tankers? oh well. kill 
 kill kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I could get this over and done with and just say it's Burnout with guns..
  And that wouldn't be all that far from the truth. 
  But hell. Guns, people. 
  
  The game 
 is pretty, explosions look and sound neat.
  Although it is at times useful, the whole re-winding thing comes across more as a gimick.
  
 
  Singleplayers dull, even with a bit of variety in the races to be had. 
  Of course theres just the usual where you do three laps or five laps or whatever they make you 
 do. Theres one when you reach one end of the course and have to drive back to the start. And you 
 get to blow things up along the way.
  
  In the end, it's better to play if you have friends otherwise you mightn't get too much outta this 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercuryFlash
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of arcade style games (racers especially) , I'm having alot of fun with Full Auto. The 
 driving isn't as enjoyable as Burnout, but the shooting and destruction makes up for alot of that. 
 If the developer had spent more time stabilizing the framerate and adding to the fairly barren 
 presentation, I think this game would have rated much higher.
  
  I haven't played much of driving/shooting games in the past. My most recent experience would be 
 Twisted Metal on the PSP, which I rented and played for about 15 minutes. The arena style matches 
 just bored me very quickly. I know many people have complained about not having an arena mode in 
 this game. I would agree that an arena mode would have expanded the multiplayer and made a positive 
 addition, but I really enjoy the shooting aspect within the context of a race. I just think the 
 game is just more fast paced and visceral when you are chasing someone down or someone is chasing 
 you.
  
  As for the music, I listened to all the techno tracks from the website and enjoy them all. I like 
 this style of techno music and it fits the gameplay quite well, but your opinion will largely be 
 based on personal music preferences. With the default audio settings, it can be difficult to hear 
 the music while playing, but adjustments can be made inside or outside of a race. Sometimes I turn 
 the sound effects all the way down to enjoy the music while driving. The sound of the cars are 
 fairly realistic and differ from car to car. The weapons sounds great as well, though the actual 
 explosions made by those weapons just aren't lound enough.
  
  Speaking of driving, it's very arcadey and easy to pick up though it doesn't compare with the driving 
 and handling in Burnout. My only real complaint is the dependency on the hand brake to negotiate 
 most turns. I end up fishtailing and slamming side ways into a wall on some of the most drastic 
 turns... unless I slow down a bit. Overall, the driving controls could have been tighter, but for 
 the most part they're still accessible and fun. 
  
  I think the graphics are well done. The cars look sharp, offering some good detail, and the environments 
 look good as well.. especially when blowing up. I enjoy the overall visual style of the game. I 
 only wish the framerate was more stable. At last year's E3, Cord Smith from Pseudo Interactive 
 promised 60 FPS locked... but that just isn't the case. You'll see plenty of fluctuation during 
 moments of heavy destruction... and in certain areas of certain tracks.... which is disappointing 
 for a game that was held back 3 months from lauch.
  
  The weapons are alot of fun to use and satisfying... and there are enough weapon sets to offer some 
 variety and strategy. You can select from machine guns, shotguns, mines, grenades, missiles, rockets, 
 and cannons in preset configurations. I wish you could create your own weapon combinations, but 
 I suppose that could create balance issues. Each weapon has 3 levels of power, which you can adjust 
 after completing about half of the career mode.
  
  I have to say I like the variety of cars, from sports cars to tuners to heavy trucks. The cars 
 are broken up into 4 classes: A (faster, less durable) , B (middle of the road) , C (slower, more durable) , 
 and S (just the warlord, the uber-vehicle) . The cars are all rated on durability, speed, and handling. 
 There is difference in these ratings between cars even within a single car class, allowing for 
 some variety in the driving.
  
  There is an average number of tracks in the game, about twelve. Some tracks are only available 
 for certain race types, such as Circuit or Point-To-Point. The tracks fall into four main themes: 
 city, loading docks, canyons, and freeway. For the most part, the tracks are fun to drive and offer 
 a good number of shortcuts, jumps, and alternate paths which adds some replay value and variety. 
 As mentioned earlier, some of the tracks do have areas where the framerate consistantly drops, 
 causing a general slowing of the game and pop ups in certain parts of the environment .
  
  Some of the unique features of this game work well for the most part. The one touch replay allows 
 you to pause in the middle of a race and see the last few moments. The interface is easy to use. 
 The camera stays focused on your car, but you can zoom the camera in and out, and move the camera 
 to different points around the car. You can watch the replay in slow, fast, or normal speeds. Unfortunately, 
 there is no way to save your replays for later viewing. Overall the unwreck feature is simple to 
 use and effective in races. There were a few times when I tapped the unwreck button and the game 
 kept rewinding after i let go, which caused frustration a few times.
  
  The single player career mode is structured much like PGR 3, with races separated into small groups 
 of 3 to 6 matches, each with a different theme such as Rampages, Time Trials, Gang Wars, or Pink 
 Slips. The variety in missions is decent, but there are no cutscenes or anything to explain why 
 you are racing. The presentation is rather barren. It's a little disappointing, but since this 
 is a racing game, presentation isn't one of the most important aspects to me. 
  
  For single player, you also have the option of Arcade mode where you can select a race type, a 
 track, a car, and a weapon set along with a few options such as number of opponents, AI difficulty, 
 and number of laps. I found the Lap Knockout races to be very enjoyable because they can last as 
 long as seven laps, extending the fun of battling with the AI which puts up a pretty good fight 
 even on the lowest difficulty.
  
  The online multiplayer is very enjoyable with up to 7 other people to battle. The track, car, and 
 weapon options are similar to those found in the arcade mode. The framerate drops exist online 
 as they do offline, but there are no significant problems with lag. 
  
  Overall, this is a very fun arcade driving/shooting game. The only glaring flaw is the inconsistant 
 framerate, which is becoming all too common place in games these days (this is not a good thing) . 
 Despite that problem, this is a game that most racing or shooting fans should at give a chance. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_feds_are
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game blew. now you know. everything about the game felt garbagey, if that were a word. insane 
 load times were not worth the wait. it would seem a few underage morons got together to produce 
 a game with no value or substance what-so-ever. this game has sega written allll over it. I want 
 those few hours that i spent on this game back. I rented it from blockbuster so i would be able 
 to play through the game without late fews, however i think this is the first game that i have 
 ever taken back before it was due. TERRIBLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  When people see Full Auto, they see Burnout. When people play Full Auto, they play Full Auto. These 
 are two very different games. Burnout has you using your car as a weapon, while Full Auto has you 
 using real guns.
  
  The graphics in Full Auto are very well done. When things explode, it always looks hi-def. The 
 damege modeling is very well done and some of the best i have ever seen.
  
  The soud is top notch and fits in perfectly. To the engine that sounds like a car with bazookas 
 taped on should sound like, to the explosion of a close-by gas station. Everything makes a noise 
 and they all fit in perfectly, never off Q.
  
  The multiplayer is really something. With the Unwreck feature taken out, the driving becomes more 
 and more tense. And with little to no lag online, feel free to blow up as many building as you 
 see fit.
  
  While the single player portion may seem long. It really isn't. You can make it through in about 
 the time it would normaly take to complete a game. But sometimes you don't wanna go wait for the 
 host to start the match online, so just play arcade mode, which lets you customize the race however 
 you see fit.
  
  If your wondering weather or not to buy this game, try renting it first to see if you like it. 
 Some people will, while others would not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Full Auto brought to you from Sega is a car action shooter. This game will give you plenty of cars 
 to have mabye not a lot of gun choices but enough and you can tune them to make them different 
 everytime.
  
  Full Auto you will notice it has pretty much no story. All you do is to different missions just 
 to unlock things thats about it. Don't get me wrong it is still very fun to do Rampages (blow up 
 civilian cars) and the races are very nice. Then too if this game had a story everyone would say 
 it sucks so i say good job at making a fun career without a story. I mean the career took me about 
 5-6 hours to get all FA (Full Auto) in each race. 
  
  The online will also add some greatness to it (if you don't lag then it is ridiculus) , but just 
 don't get frustrated with earning the online level achievements because the do take a while to 
 get.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Before you start the race it shows one huge thing (either distrucable 
 to just cool looking i really don't know) but it looks almost like a movie (Final Fantasy Spirits 
 Within style) . The enviroments look amazing and with almost full destrucble (building won't fully 
 crumble) , but with nice lighting to a backround that doesn't look like a pasted backboard (there 
 is also a desret race with a rock face comeing from the side of the wall and it looks amazing) . 
 Now the cars could be contriversial about how great they look. They don't look real like NFSMW 
 but they can blow up which it why and they aren't supposed to look like a mustang.
  
  The action in the game is fast and with much intesity. The none stop action can acually become 
 repetitive but i've played it for 7 hours and i thinks it still fun but that could have been that 
 i just wanted to beat the achievements so bad. The weapons in the game will go from machine guns 
 to shotguns and rockets and missiles, how yes don't forget front grenades and a cannon. The 2nd 
 gun you can have go from back shotgun, back grenades to smokescreen and mines.
  
  The sound and the innovative features are nice even though have been used before. The explosions 
 sound great and so does the music in the menu screens. When you are shooting someone with a machine 
 gun after awhile it will start making a differtent noise and then you know they are close to blowing 
 up. The unwreck and speed boost are also nice features. The speed boost you get from either flying 
 through the air or drifting a turn (which i think counts when it wants to really) . The unwreck 
 feature is nice and it comes from getting wreck points (shooting stuff) , but you will find out 
 sometimes it doesnt help like when you use it but you still wreck and you do that untill your out 
 of unwreck.
  
  Overall this game stacks up decently, others are better but go rent it first and i bet you will 
 like it for awhile. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TEHNEWB
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto delivers hours of fun, but the fun is limited. After awhile, the game will sort of get 
 old.
  
  The game features a lot of different game modes and features an Xbox Live feature so you can play 
 with other users or your friends. 
  
  Some drawl backs are the fact that on the final lap of leading a race, the other opponents will 
 instantly gain the ability of moving at 400 mph (scarcasm) . It gets tiring losing a 6 lap race 
 in the final inches of the lap, and it happens far too often.
  
  The graphics are alright, you can tell they are next-gen, but barely.
  
  Overall, don't buy 
 this game, rent it a few times and that should be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Arbiter4444
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Concept
  Take some multi-genre cars, (and trucks) strap some highly explosive weapondry on them, add a unique 
 feature that can rewind time and voila.
  
  The Gameplay
  Can be extremely fun and exhilarating, the unique "Unreck" feature allows you to rewind time if 
 you make a mistake, no more restarting the race. The fully destructible worlds are awesome, the sheer 
 fun of the explosions when you blow up a fellow racer, a gas station, or even a gas tank, are well 
 done, what's more fun than destroying a gas station, thereby killing another opponent and then watching 
 him soar in a firery blaze into the stratosphere? Sadly, after you play it for too long at one time... it 
 will get repetitive, and the framerate slowdown is just unacceptable for the 360 system.
  
  The Graphics
  Are nothing special, but are acceptable as next-gen. But the mesmerizing reflections 
 on the cars are very well done.
  
  The Sound
  This game has some nice SFX, but they just drown out the music... even if you turn the SFX volume 
 down to 4. The soundtrack is mostly just mediocre electronica and metal, but there are 4 pretty good 
 songs ("Messj Lost","Fully Automatic","Scavenger" and "Supercrazy")
  
  Overall, this is still a pretty good game... but it had the potential to be an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdiD
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  My expectations for this game where so high! I was EXTREMLY dissapointed. A good idea in theory 
 but in practise fails miserably. Oh where to start, ok first the phisics are crazy when youturn 
 you slide like your driveing on ice! The guns work preety well and make this game differnt but 
 all the flaws destroy this game. The tutorial os very boring probably the worst ive ever been bord 
 buring tutorial. There are diffrent types of rases but there all basically the same thing! Finish 
 first with a certin amount of wreak points to get gold. This was fun at first but after 5 hours 
 but it will REALLY start to get on your nerves. All in all this game is awful dont pick it up (siriously) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffy88
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game should of never been put on to the xbox 360 platform
  It might of done much batter on the ps2 or maybe the psp
  but by far should of not been an 360 
 game, with it's really bad graphis and poor sound and bad value for money i would not recamend 
 this game to any one.
  
  We kind of have case here where when perdtor concrete jungle first came out on the xbox a lot of 
 people said that it would of done much batter on a next gen platform wich i think it would of but 
 dont get me worrng it still was an ok game to play with your mates. But even if this game had good 
 gameplay to make up for the really bad next gen graphis and i wish i could find a word for that 
 blue thing on top of the city what they tryed to call a sky
  so if your lookin for something to spend your hard earned money on i would not recamend you buy 
 this game
  or if your one of those unluckly people who alrady got the game there is a way to make your self 
 feel much batter the next time you get money buy a hammer and take it to the terrible game and 
 smash the hell out of it you'll feel much batter trust me the doctor orders.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  Happy gameing.
  
  Colm Duffy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk2599
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  i rented this game because of the mediocre reviews and just wanted to see if it was for me. the 
 first thing i did was the career mode... wow... i got bored so quickly, your main objective, drive 
 and shoot... ya thats next gen alright. the only thing that is nice about the graphics are the 
 totally destructible objects (well almost tottaly destrictubale) but other than that it looks like 
 an amped up Xbox game and has a huge slowdown problem. the sound is nothing special but i could 
 stand it. multiplayer on xbox live was my favorite part. although nothing special about, just the 
 fact that u were playing w/ other people made me happy, up until the point were i would contiuosly 
 get stuck in a destructible object and gave up. I got to lvl 5 out of 10 on xbl then i never played 
 it again until i had to return. this game might be worth a rent, but i dont reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  I had written a whole review but it got erased. Here's the quick facts as a I see them:
  
  1. Very fun for the first few hours, then it gets boring. Really boring!
  2. Graphics are decent, 
 but the framerate sucks and is unstable.
  3. Presentation is terrible. Career mode feels nothing like a career mode. There's no sense of 
 progression and no motivation to finish the game.
  4. Multiplayer is pretty fun though. Playing it over LIVE or LAN would be good fun. Single player? 
 Not so much after the first few hours.
  
  Overall, it's worth renting, but not buying. Let's hope a sequel fixes some of these issues. 
 
  
  There are better racing games out there. Comparing this game to other racers, I'd say it's better 
 than NFS: Most Wanted (although they have many differences) , but no where near the quality of Burnout 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDemolisher
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is a game you love or hate, so let me keep this snappy so that you can make your decision. 
 I love it! Full Auto is a very simple arcade style racer with combat. If you like this kind of 
 pick up and play arcade racers, check your bargain bins for Full Auto. However, if you appreciate 
 more deph to your racing games, stick to the likes of Project Gotham Racing. Now, more about the 
 game. There is a very wide selection of cars and they all look good. There isnt really that much 
 variety to the weapons, but they do their job and sound great at the same time. Buildings and cars 
 blow up really well- sometimes drivers fly out of their cars! Just pure fun, I tell you. Before 
 I start sounding like a sales man who is trying to sell you this game, remember that this is just 
 my opinion. For some advice if you are on the fence of buying this game, check the post in the 
 forum "Most of You Are Just Bandwagon Riders". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto for the Xbox 360 reminded me of twisted metal A LOT it was so fun online wow it was alright 
 on single player but yeah its a twisted metal burnout rip off but i still love it to bad there 
 is not much extra features or anything like that but online play make up for it anywho it was a 
 solid rent for me and if i was rich and not saving up for GRAW i would prolly buy it thats my opinion 
 the graphics are pretty good i mean for a racing game a downside of this game tho is there is no 
 story behind the single player mode so there is really no point to the story
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larocabottom1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  When I seen this game through e3 I was very excited about it but the short trailer sums it all 
 up. when I first popped it in I was a bit lost, the career mode just puts you in front of the screeen 
 and lets you figure things out yourself. When I found out what to do the game started to get a little 
 interesting and fun, but after about 30 minutes I found myself not wanting to play anymore. The graphics 
 look like they came out of crazy taxi for dreamcast and the driving requires no skill. The career 
 mode doesn't make any sense, all you do is race against other guys and blow things up. Maybe if they 
 would of made real model cars like a mercedes benz with guns it would of been better but instead 
 you drive around with no name cars with little style. I feel like I'm leaving something out ............. OH 
 YEAH xbox live, the reason I left it out is because I didn't even waste my time going on line with 
 a game like this. To everybody who doesn't have this game rent it for 30 minutes and don't speak 
 about again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruski3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Yeah! this game is GREAT, the single player bits are fun for a while but soon get boring. Xbox 
 live or having friends over is A LOT BETTER with xbox live its a lot funnier blowing people up 
 and their responses. but the thing that really makes it better in my opinion is that camera mode, 
 when you can replay and stop and zoom in and stuff, do that its great! also there is a load of 
 detail even on the smallest bits!
  
  if your alone and hardly have anyone around, dont get this
  
  if you not alone or friends come 
 round loads, get this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto was given a lot of hype and looked great and fun before it was released. I got my hands 
 on a copy and was blown away by how horrible this game was. I mean its a fantastic idea and could 
 be a lot of fun. But it just isn't. The gameplay is way to slow and its extremely hard to destroy 
 some one behind and even in front of you. Anyone considering buying this game shouldn't!!!! Stick 
 with any of the Burnout games. Those are the best car combat games out there. If you want to play 
 it, rent it. Don't throw away 50 or 60 bucks on this waste of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game as a rental and am about 40% done in 2 hours. I woud sugest that you rent 
 it. You can use it as a great way to get a beter gamerscore. I just raised mine about 300 points 
 more. There is no story at all. All that this game is, is driving and blowing up other cars. It 
 is fun but it wares off after about 2 hours. It is also prity easy but some parts are a little 
 hard, may take 2 or 3 tries on some races. The traks are pritty good but they start to look the 
 same. The cars are good but they kind of look the same. The bgm is ok but you dont realy hear it 
 that much. All and all it is ok but you should just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game had some cool ideas destructable backgrounds, the whole uncrash gimick weapons. The only 
 problem is that everything is just so well average. I can't say it's awful I just wouldn't buy 
 it nor would I justify a good review like EGM's. The graphics are good I like how everything is 
 destuctable but it's like beating a dead horse we get the point destruction mayhem bluh bluh bluh 
 I get the point. The sound it nothing special. the gameplayis were the game just falls flat been 
 there done that it sucks. there is no redeeming value to to this game and at $60 buck a pop sega 
 should be ashamed for even marketing such filth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto brought to you from Sega is a car action shooter. This game will give you plenty of cars 
 to have mabye not a lot of gun choices but enough and you can tune them to make them different 
 everytime.
  
  Full Auto you will notice it has pretty much no story. All you do is to different missions just 
 to unlock things thats about it. Don't get me wrong it is still very fun to do Rampages (blow up 
 civilian cars) and the races are very nice. Then too if this game had a story everyone would say 
 it sucks so i say good job at making a fun career without a story. I mean the career took me about 
 5-6 hours to get all FA (Full Auto) in each race. The online will also add some greatness to it 
 (if you do lag then it is ridiculus) , but just don't get frustrated with earning the online level 
 achievements because the do take a while to get.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Before you start the race it shows one huge thing (either distrucable 
 to just cool looking i really don't know) but it looks almost like a movie (Final Fantasy Spirits 
 Within style) . The enviroments look amazing and with almost full destrucble (building won't fully 
 crumble) , but with nice lighting to a backround that doesn't look like a pasted backboard (there 
 is also a desret race with a rock face comeing from the side of the wall and it looks amazing) . 
 Now the cars could be contriversial about how great they look. They don't look real like NFSMW 
 but they can blow up which it why and they aren't supposed to look like a mustang.
  
  The action in the game is fast and with much intesity. The none stop action can acually become 
 repetitive but i've played it for 7 hours and i thinks it still fun but that could have been that 
 i just wanted to beat the achievements so bad. The weapons in the game will go from machine guns 
 to shotguns and rockets and missiles, how yes don't forget front grenades and a cannon. The 2nd 
 gun you can have go from back shotgun, back grenades to smokescreen and mines.
  
  The sound and the innovative features are nice even though have been used before. The explosions 
 sound great and so does the music in the menu screens. When you are shooting someone with a machine 
 gun after awhile it will start making a differtent noise and then you know they are close to blowing 
 up. The unwreck and speed boost are also nice features. The speed boost you get from either flying 
 through the air or drifting a turn (which i think counts when it wants to really) . The unwreck 
 feature is nice and it comes from getting wreck points (shooting stuff) , but you will find out 
 sometimes it doesnt help like when you use it but you still wreck and you do that untill your out 
 of unwreck.
  
  Overall this game stacks up decently, others are better but go rent it first and i bet you will 
 like it for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  As published on cgno. com...
  
  Full Auto had a lot of potential. Gun-wielding cars blasting down city streets and flying around 
 corners in the midst of a hail of gunfire is not a tough sell to the average arcade racing fan. 
 But its disappointing that the developers didnt make more of an effort to make the game a full 
 package. Theres plenty of the advertised combat racing but not enough variety that will hold a 
 players long-term interest.
  
  But shortness fits with the theme of the game since thats exactly the kind of time frame both 
 you and your rival racers will be dealing with on the track. In the world of Full Auto racing is 
 secondary to blowing just about everything up. Your cars can be equipped with pre-set weapon combinations 
 that are selected before the start of each race. These combos come in a variety of flavors and 
 feature short, medium, and long range versions depending on your preference. Most of the sets involve 
 front and rear mounted weapons for offense and defense but a few forgo the security aspects of 
 a rear weapon and mount both on the front ensuring maximum destruction. 
  
  Shotguns, missiles, rockets, cannons, mines and other assorted destructive goodies all make an 
 appearance in the game and each perform distinctly enough to warrant them in certain situations 
 and races. That said, its disappointing that the game doesnt feature any dynamic weapon and armor 
 load out that can be changed before each race. Choosing a car and two weapons seems shallow and 
 a lot of depth couldve been added by giving players the ability to sacrifice armor for more guns 
 and vise-versa. Since the majority of the career mode races designate which car the player uses 
 theres really no choice but to steer smart and avoid fire as best he/she can.
  
  And avoiding the incoming artillery is exactly what Full Auto is all about. While you have devastating 
 weapons on your vehicle, so does everybody else. This causes mayhem as rockets fly overhead and 
 lines of machine gun tracer fire connect with your bumper as debris and burned-out hulks of cars 
 litter the street. Its not so much racing as it is zooming through streets filled with booby traps 
 while avoiding the odd flaming tire as it courses through the gun power-laced air. The fast pace 
 destruction makes for an addictive experience that can be hard to put down at first but eventually 
 wears thin. The combat does get repetitive and after the 3rd hour youve already seen most of what 
 the game has to offer. New weapon configurations fail to mask the fact the destruction in the beginning 
 of the game is the same as the late-game experience but with new guns.
  
  Full Auto attempts to mix things up with a variation in the race modes. Youll battle it out in 
 circuit races, point-to-point matches, down and back battles, and lap knockouts where the last-place 
 racer in each lap is eliminated. Try as the developer may, its still just a new packaging on the 
 core concept of vehicular combat. The circuit, point-to-point and there and back races all play 
 the same and lap knockout merely serves as a lesson in frustration as youre sometimes picked off 
 right before the finish line, giving everyone else a chance to finish ahead of you. The creators 
 arent without their mercy though and a nifty Unwreck feature allows you to rewind the clock a 
 bit to try a turn, shot, or jump a second time to get a more favorable result. Alternatively, sliding 
 around corners will fill a boost meter which you can activate for a quick turbo to escape the pack.
 
  
  Racing, actual racing, only takes up a miniscule portion of the 7-hour career mode and youll be 
 in and out of it before the dust settles from the last battle. But in both combat and racing youll 
 have a bevy of objectives to fulfill for top honors. These vary and present the player with bronze, 
 silver, and gold options similar to those of Project Gotham Racing 3. You can unlock new modes 
 and get to the next race by simply earning a bronze, which usually entails placing first. Silver 
 and gold unlock new race modes, cars and paint jobs. Achieving them requires not only a first place 
 finish but also completing a track in a set time or accumulating the necessary amount of Wreck 
 Points, awarded whenever the player causes damage to or destroys another car or environmental object.
 
  
  Just about everything on the track is destructible thanks to the graphic engines ability to destroy 
 even the most trifling of objects. Fire hydrants, cars, walls, bridge supports, office buildings 
 and everything else you can imagine can be plowed through or blown to pieces. Tired of that nasty 
 right-turn towards the end of the track? Just shoot a few paths through the car showroom on the 
 corner to solve the problem. To put it simply, Full Auto is to arcade racing as Black is to shooters.
 
  
  All of this comes at a heavy price though and the downside of it all is a major frame rate hit 
 when the action gets intense, especially when you destroy more than a single car in a barrage. 
 The choppiness is enhanced by the numerous camera angles that pop up whenever you take a jump, 
 crash, or eliminate someone. They can be turned off and to prevent a lot of stuttering they probably 
 should. Aside from that it must be said that Full Auto doesnt look that much better than most 
 Xbox titles but that is most-likely due to the fully-destructible environments.
  
  In the audio department Full Auto is a mixed bag. The sound effects are some of the best with each 
 crunch, crash, clang and explosion being clearly audible. Anyone with a decent surround sound system 
 with enough bass can start shaking the furniture when the battles get intense. Sadly, the games 
 soundtrack falls short of spectacular. Its a type of game that screams heavy metal but players 
 are relegated to listening to the various techno beats laid down repetitiously at the debut of 
 each menu and start of every race.
  
  When youre done exploring the career mode there is an option to do single races in an arcade mode 
 or try a head-to-head battle with one of your friends in a split-screen race. Other multiplayer 
 involves Xbox Live where you can get a run for your money from the meanest 12-year-old trash-talkers 
 on the planet. But youll probably skip all of these after the career mode shows you everything 
 the game has to offer several times over.
  
  When players first experience Full Auto they will quickly become enthralled with the fast-paced 
 action and glorious sound effects. That initial shock and awe will soon sway to tediousness as 
 they realize that each new step in career mode is just a rehashing of everything that came before 
 it. Arcade racing fans will definitely love the game but the casual consumer may want to rent first.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I opened this game with high hopes. This is the game to end the 360 dry spell. It was to be my 
 saviour...... until Oblivion drops. Ok my first turn off with this game was, the lack of story. 
 I went into the career mode and I felt lost..... like WTF am I supposed to be doing this for. 40 
 races and no reward, CG movie, story event, or even new cars. For god's sake what am I to do with 
 new colors for already mediocre cars? Oh and to make things worse all the cars feel as if your 
 on ice................ Ice dude, Ice. How can I make this hair pin turn and my tires are like hot 
 butter? I can almost see the inspiration under all the mess, with the fun battles that ensue in 
 the career mode and online. All be it that the cars have the same three weapon choices. All in 
 all this game is the worst. I want all my hour of playing this back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game can be pretty fun at time. The graphics are OK, the frame rate can drop tremdeously especially 
 when the kill cam comes up. One of the main problems is the physics especially in this one level 
 were you are in a canyon and if you hit one of the rocks you just start flying in the air. The 
 game is pretty easy at first. I beat 22% of the game in about a hour. There is xbox live play but 
 it never worked for me. It just showed a loading and I had to keep restarting my xbox 360. This 
 is a game you shuold rent first due to how easy it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Once a game I had been wanting really bad and planned to get it on launch. Then the game was delayed 
 and I still wanted it. As time went on I decided I wasn't really into to it as much. I still ended 
 up getting the game.
  The story for the game is pretty good but is kind of weak at times. The graphics are decent but 
 good be a little bit better. I also find some of the stuff in this game limited. The whole nitrous 
 thing seems kinda of week and never does much for me. The fact that you can rewind time is very 
 cool and can be key for you to win a race. 
  
  The gameplay for this game is pretty good. The races are smooth and I never see much of a frame 
 rate problem. One of the BEST features of Full Auto is that the whole enviroment is destructible. 
 So when ever you run into to something, it usually breaks off and is destroyed.
  
  The graphics for the game is not what you would call amazing, but are still good. The car models 
 look very nice, and as the race goes on and your car takes a beating, you'll deffinatley notice, 
 since when your car is about to blow-up your car looks totally thrashed.
  
  The sound of the game is pretty good. The sound of explosions and cars bumping each other is very 
 realistic, but when you destroy parts of the enviroment, the sounds seem so limited. zi just wish 
 they had some more sounds for everything.
  
  The value of the game is very fun online. I wish there were more modes, but there's nothing more 
 fun than destroying people's car and finding a way to win, even though I am usually the one who 
 finishes mid to last place.
  
  If you are into this whole destroying, bash-up, car racing thing, then I say get this game. It 
 would not be considered a must-but, but more of a rental or a fun party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  i knew it. it happened. its the burnout killer. iloved burnout, but burnout has nothing on this 
 game. anything you see is destructible, and its just a joy to play. the online is great because 
 there is so much destruction that there is so much going on and there is a smooth framerate. it 
 is fun to experiment with destruction. i can block people or crush people with stuff u destroy. 
 its awsome how there are chain reactions. this game has a graeat preasentation. basically its burnout 
 with guns. there are alot of cars, and excpect downloadable content like new cars and weapons and 
 even maps. thsi game is the burnout killer because it has everything that burnout has with more. 
 and i love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  it satisfies my random urges to smash things (seeing as the environment is sorta totally destroyable) 
 and some racing urges but not the best in category... a good rent or barrow game .... might not be 
 totally worth the money, but I haven't unlocked everything yet. The races are good, but once you 
 really start shooting stuff up its easy to loose track of the race (though you sadly cant leave 
 the set track) but I frequently find myself sitting there blowing threw a building with some rockets. 
 Or lining up a missile with a gas station. The one thing I can say I had no problems with was defiantly 
 the sound, explosions of missiles, the ricochet of bullets and the thundering roar of the engines 
 (turn your bass up for this one) . And some music that all seamlessly fuse to make one good sounding 
 game. The graphics are really good (by my standards) but they kinda make you lose your apparition 
 for it by giving you a better looking intro then dropping into in-game graphics... its like ooohhh 
 nice and shiny... then hey where did the reflections go... the guns so far come in pre-set groups 
 so there is not a whole butt load of customization past the color. The range of cars and guns leave 
 some to be desired but there are a surprising amount of game-play types, seeing as im in a class 
 now i cant look and list the actual game types but theres vs., point to point, there and back, 
 some sorta rampage and some other good ones and lots of good levels... over all if you just love 
 to smash stuff get your self this game and save on anger management however if your looking for 
 more of a racing with a slight touch of destruction... I don't know go have a hamburger... but one 
 last thing if you get this dont get it excpecting to get a Twisted Metal game rip off its not to 
 similar to TM except the cars and guns.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I have to say I expected a lot more from this game. The idea of a vehicular combat game was a very 
 intriguing. It seemed like there was so much promise, I really had my hopes up. But, in the end, 
 I was pretty disappointed. There are some good things about it. But, I agree with the GameSpot 
 review about its lack of variety and the fact that I think there was a lot of functionality that 
 could have been included and wasnt.
  
  First off, visually, the game is very good (with a notable exception Ill get to shortly) . The 
 renderings are very nice. Streets are very well done, building details are fine, and lighting and 
 reflections are handled very well too. I was also rather impressed with smoke, flame and explosion 
 visuals. Those were all well detailed and true to life. They definitely take advantage of the next-gen 
 technology. I was a little disappointed in the vehicles, though. Some cars look ok, but in general, 
 they feel more cartoon-like than real. But, theyre not bad. The one main problem I had was with 
 the frame-rate. They really didnt manage that well at all. There are some notable problems when 
 things get chaotic. It doesnt kill the game, but it certainly hurts it considerably.
  
  Audio for the game is average, I would say. The music is there, but doesnt exactly add to the 
 game. It doesnt take away from it, either, so its pretty much a non-factor. The surround sound 
 is kind of weak, too. The game does utilize the surround technology, but not well. For example, 
 you can hear your own engine noise out of the rear speakers, but your opponents engines arent 
 noticeable. Unlike PGR3 or others where you can hear them coming up behind you, Full Auto doesnt 
 do that. The weapon sounds arent bad, but, nothing impressive either.
  
  The gameplay in Full Auto is also average to below average. Its pretty easy to learn. There isnt 
 much to struggle with at first. Im sure it gets tougher (I havent put that much time into it 
 yet) , but it was simple to get started. But, the driving mechanics are very, very lose. I understand 
 its not a sim, its definitely more arcade style. But, Id still expect a little more resistance 
 when you make a hard turn, and that doesnt really happen. Its as if theres an axis in the middle 
 of the car that it can turn on a dime. That makes it easier to drive, but no too fun. The other 
 complaint is the boost function. It seems to not only speed up your car, but everyone else as well. 
 Its like fast forward, more than a boost. Thats pretty annoying. Overall, the game is pretty 
 much the same over and over again. Different tracks, but not all that different. So, theres not 
 a lot of variety or change to the challenges.
  
  I will say that the unwreck feature is very cool. I hope we see that on other games. Although, 
 I guess from a competitive standpoint, its kind of like cheating. But, its nice to have and can 
 limit your frustrations if you struggle to get the hang of it.
  
  All in all, Full Auto is a pretty average game that could have been so much more. I mean, why not 
 a straight demolition derby style game mode? Either a wide open place or somewhere with places 
 to hide and run. I really enjoyed games like Cell Damage and Star Wars Demolition. I hope somebody 
 takes those ideas and updates them for the next-gen consoles. Full Auto is fun for a little while, 
 but not too exciting and certainly a lot less than I had hoped for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgmccoy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Granted... this game has a few issues. I have found myself in infinite flips until the game resets 
 me on the track. That is a physics problem that should have been better addressed... not just put 
 you back on the track. A car shouldn't be able to flip 50 times in mid air. That just doesn't happen 
 in real life. However, I've only experienced this a couple times and it really doesn't detract 
 much from the game or the experience.
  
  In third person view the car feels sluggish... much like driving a boat. I've found that the effect 
 is lessoned by switching to first person view. You can switch views by pressing up on the bottom 
 left direction pad. You'll enjoy it much more in first person and you'll feel you have better control. 
 The only problem is that the game doesn't remember the view you select, so you'll have to hit up 
 on the d-pad at the beginning of every race. That's a little frustrating, but you get used to doing 
 it and hardly notice after a while.
  
  There is one problem I noticed while hard steering and applying the brakes. Again it's another 
 physics type problem. As you slam on the brakes and spin the car around the steering will invert 
 as if you are backing up the car. So, even though you are moving forward with the brake applied 
 you will begin steering in the opposite direction as if you are in reverse. It only happens just 
 a bit before you stop. It makes it a bit frustration on courses that require complete 180 degree 
 turns because you'll have to slow way down to make the turn or be thrown off by this nasty little 
 steering glitch and slam into a wall. This is a much more noticeable problem for the game and does 
 detract from its enjoyment. Fortunately, you're not required to make too many of these tight turns 
 and with some practice you can teach yourself to avoid the problem. 
  
  Many people complain about the cut scene crashes. They're cool in the beginning, but do begin to 
 frustrate you and detract from the experience after a while. But guess what? You can turn them 
 off. Press start and go into the options. Turn off the cut scenes you don't want to see any more 
 and those pesky cut scenes will be gone. I find it much more enjoyable and immersive with the cut-scenes 
 gone.
  
  The graphics are nice. Sometimes you get the feeling that buildings are like onions and have layers. 
 If you crash or shoot a building it seems kind of odd the way they come apart sometimes. But overall 
 they did a pretty nice job. I saw no options in my version of the game that allows one to play 
 a custom sound-track. So, I wonder if Gamespot got a pre-release with that option not functioning. 
 I don't see where one could select to play a custom sound track, so I don't think there's a way 
 to do it. I could be missing something though. It would have been nice to have that option however. 
 The built in techno track isn't bad. Once the bullets start flying you'll hardly notice it's there. 
 You can turn up the soundtrack, turn down the SFX, and turn up your TV sound and hear the music 
 more clearly if you like. That's more of a personal preference.
  
  If Gamespot thoroughly played this game, they would have found many more reasons to use unwreck 
 than just when smacking a wall. Once you are past the tutoring stages you will be competing against 
 opponents that will shoot you and mine the road. The unwreck feature helps you when an enemy has 
 just blown you up as well. In fact, if you make even small steering errors, you can redo it and 
 try again. As you move into higher levels in the career mode, you'll find unwreck a much more valuable 
 feature. I don't think Gamespot put enough time into playing the game to give it a fair rating.
 
  
  I do wish there were more weapon options that would allow you to mix and match front and rear mounted 
 weapons. But, that might have created some game balance issues, if you are able to pick the best 
 of both worlds. I'm not sure what the effect would have been, but it would have been nice to have 
 more weapons and more versatility in their selection. I usually stick to the machine gun/mine combo. 
 It's effect, easy to aim, and gratifying. 
  
  Bottom line is there are a few small issues with the game. I don't think a lot of people realize 
 that things they dislike about Full Auto are settings that can be changed. I think they would enjoy 
 the game much more if they tweeked the settings to their liking. As far as a background story and 
 depth... how many other racing games that you know of have a good background stroy and depth? It's 
 kind of unfair to require such a thing of a genre that rarely, if ever, implements depth and background. 
 PGR3 doesn't have it and it's still a great game. Full Auto is just fun. It's great to just pick 
 up and play Full Auto for a few minutes to a couple hours. You will probably get tired of it after 
 a couple hours as it is not as immersive as an adventure or RPG, but that is how most racing games 
 are. It's more of an arcade experience, rather than becoming immersed in a character and plot. 
 However, you'll not get tired of picking it up again and again for a few minutes of destructive 
 pleasure or an evening of toasting your friends on the track. I think Full Auto has a lot of fun 
 factor and if you tweak it to you're liking you'll get hours of enjoyment from it... aside from 
 a couple small issue that really don't detract much from the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Now I have to be honest here with this game, when I first heard about it and started seeing previews 
 i was quite excited and certain that it would be great.
  
  As time went on though it appeared that although it was an undoubtebly good game it did not have 
 much lasting appeal and soon became tiresome.
  
  So I held back on buying it and managed to rent a copy in the end. Now, when I first started playing 
 this game I have to say that I was rather impressed. Initially the graphics were crisp, smooth 
 and looked fantastic, the action flew by and you can destroy most things on screen.
  
  There are plenty of game types and choices to go for and a lot of unlockables and upgrades that 
 can be won as you play. This game really is not short of extras.
  
  But then, after about 2 or 3 hours play, I started to get a feeling that maybe this game had not 
 been put together as well as it first looked. I started noticing that the graphics were slowing 
 down and sticking when the action on screen became very hectic. There were pauses and lag and I 
 was only playing single player.
  
  And I get to the final point I would like to make and that is there really is only so much entertainment 
 that you can get from cars and guns going round a set route that does not change while you are 
 on that level. It is fun but I found that the most fun was had playing online.
  
  Online matches are fast and furious and great fun. This is where the game really does seem to shine. 
 There are plenty of different game types and options that you can go for but at the end of the 
 day it is always much more fun to race against your friends than your computer.
  
  So in closing I would say that this is a good game, it is not quite 'next gen' but it does offer 
 some new experiences and if you have a Live subscription, a great online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Twisted Metal. Arcade Racing. Mix with some tequia. = FUN! This game is fun, rent it first though. 
 Or buy it if your into a fun game every weekend. I dont know what else to say so... blah blah blah 
  
 and i guess i have to fill this with one hundered words... i dont want to but i have to.... its only 
 going to up my rank... oh well i think im there now... nope... damn how many words is one hundered? 
 ive been typing for a whole minute... I DONT GET THIS REVIEW SYSTEM! Guess what... i farted and im 
 doing english homework, im falling asleep and i dont want to eat dinner... cuz its chicken noodle 
 soup.... EEEEWWWW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is ridiculously hard to explain. It is so simple and plain. Yet it has this pull that 
 attracts you. I will say I was impressed with the visuals. The number of things that were destructable 
 was amazing. The problem with Full Auto is that there are numerous glitches and problems. First 
 of all, some times the car mechanics will get really out of control. Most of the time its pretty 
 stable though. Another problem is that there is only a small number of levels. They just use a 
 different variation of the level each time. Overall, Full Auto is fun, but your not going to get 
 the same joy as you would playing PGR3 or Need For Speed: Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Even because of the dissapointment that there was no arena mode like the old twisted metals or 
 vigalante 8. This game was still pretty awesome. I really just loved it. The different types of 
 weapons you could choose from along with all the different cars too.. The best thing about the 
 game is that you can just about destroy every little thing on each race. And there are different 
 kinds of races too but your pretty much just racing and killing everyone else. This was the perfect 
 game for someone like me who just loves games with cars and guns. It could have been better... 
 but almost every game could. This is definitley a keeper for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKRut
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this one for awhile but, my excitement quickly turned to boredom. The graphics 
 are good but, nothing like need for speed. The gameplay is fun but, only for a short time. The 
 is no story and not much depth to the gameplay. It just repeats over and over again, with slight 
 variations in length of race and weapon loadouts. Few tracks, few cars, few weapons, few fun. The 
 weapons are very limited. No real customizing of weapon or cars. The game feels incomplete. Overall 
 if you played the demo then you played the game. Bottom-line, rent it, don't buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megarath1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto, all the hype that has been given about this game emplied that Full auto was a fairly 
 descent game well worth the cash the players would pay. But after playing it i thought to start 
 with, well the graphics could be better and the races are intense to the max... until you play 
 them over and over again! A new feature they have added into this game is a kida "rewind crash 
 ability" it is handy to have especially when you just turned the corner and smashed into a wall. With 
 all the destruction and chaos this game delivers you'd think it would perform alot better on a 
 continous basis, but it doeesn't and that is one of the many faults that accompany this game which 
 brings me to a conclusion that Full auto is not worth the money it asks for, if you insist on playing, 
 rent it first!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why so many negative reviews. This game is a total blast to play. The controls 
 are perfect, the graphics are top notch, and the weapons balance nicely. Yea, there is some slowdown, 
 but it rarely happens and doesn't detract at all (if anything it helps you ge through the tough 
 parts of a race) . The difficulty is also spot on, hard enough that you have to get good, but not 
 so hard that you can't progress anymore. Go get this game, you'll have fun getting through all 
 the missions (and the tons of different kinds of missions) and XBOX Live is great and is a whole 
 new game in and of itself. 
  
  Sometimes I think folks who review games forget why we play games... TO HAVE FUN... and this game 
 is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KREEPYKRAWLLY
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's Video Review says it all. :- (, don't buy it, rent it.
  A few issues i have with the game-
  1. Gameplay is seriously dam shallow and the fun-factor doesn't 
 last.
  2. It just looks too good to be true. i. e gud graphics, a lot of things happening , apart from 
 some objects clouding up my screen. And also, too MUCH spark effects ( games that look this good 
 should also be very fun too play but this sure isn't ) .
  3. Isn't this the so-called next generation of gaming, what the hell is wrong with the frame-rate. 
 Shouldn't minor things like this be fixed :- (.
  4. Why is it that a game like this is so EXPENSIVE?. A waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mer-k
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is a game were you can enjoy de 5.1 digital sound and the destruction massive attacks are 
 fine. The thing is that you dont have to much choices od driven highways. Full Auto on xbox live 
 doesnt have either what the career mode and destruction levels that are all about. Even though 
 its a good choice to rent it first, afterwards its up to you. If you want to have quite a good 
 time than go for it. But thinking about a sega game, somethings missing... I suggest you try first 
 and download the demo. I know you would like it. Its better then the whole game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkmasta100
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is an alright game. Its fun for the fist 20 minutes but its gets very repeteive quickly. 
 The Graphics are pretty shiney and nice. The Gameplay, like I said gets repetive, but it kid of 
 get fun at times when your shooting and blowing sh*t up. The sound is quite nice, the gun shots 
 and missles sound pretty decent. Overall this game is only worth putting down $6 or $7 down at 
 your local rental store to rent and get the Gamer Points for Your Gamerscore, but if you could 
 go like and blow $60 on a game that your gonna eventually trade in for like $20 when you could 
 be using that money to get Elder Scrolls IV: Oblilvion! 
  
  Score: 6.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is worth playing. Its creates a cool ambient combining Twisted Metal+ Burnout+ Prince 
 of Persia. Gamespot rated this game really low. But everyone have its one opinion.
  
  GRAPHICS- this game really looks nice and detailed. Everything is destructible is this game. After 
 you kill someone with your guns, you cant stop killing. Shows the power of the 360. And its shiny 
 =) 9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY- well, is a racing game combined with Twisted Metal + Burnout + Prince of Persia. You 
 have neat guns to your disposal. And one cool features included in this games is the unwreck button. 
 If you made a bad move or get killed, you can use this button to rewind your move. 8/10
  
  SOUND- cool. Every gunshot sound incredible. The game uses techno and trans music. I really enjoyed 
 the music. 9/10
  
  SINGLE PLAYER- One of the best thing in the single player is the tutorial. Is really well done 
 and detailed. You might finish this game in less than a week, but is worth palying. 8.5/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER- really fun!. Up to 8 players online. And not too laggy. 8.5/10
  
  OVERALL- 
 this is game is really fun. And shows the power of the 360. At least play and see for yourself. 
 Be open minded cuz this game is something new created and its never been done in any console. 8.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxkf
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  You could say that this game gets a bit repetative, but overall its great fun. If you are looking 
 for a game like burnout then look elsewhere.
  
  There is a load of different levels to play, you work through to unlock different cars, pain jobs 
 and weapons. Some of these levels are more difficult than others but the handy unwreck feature 
 does help a lot with finishing some courses.
  
  Weapons should be chosen carefully for each level as I have found that some are more effective 
 than others in killing off those rival cars.
  
  Single player is good to play through but for the most enjoyment outta this game you need to get 
 your mates round, play some multi player and blow the s**t outta eachother, what else do you want! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatman991
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  After 10min outs this game is boring there ant much to do gets boring really fast theres not much 
 more to say about it besides that. I rented this games for 5 bucks and I feel riped off. The games 
 Frame Rate will slow down during game play. The best thing about this game is playing online with 
 ppl that bought the game and are pissed off about it. So if u must Rent this game plez do not buy 
 this game with out renting it first it is not a fun game at all. Wait for a game like Burnout Revenge 
 to comeout again or pick up a PS2 and buy Twizted Metal. Full Auto is the biggest disapointment 
 of the xbox 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFluffo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  To start off the game isnt all that bad. I dont recommend it if you dont have any friends though. 
 This is one of those games that you play when you have some friends over. Single player lacks story, 
 but it is mildly entertaining. The bad part is they make you play single player to unlock Weapons, 
 Cars, Tracks, and gameplay modes.
  If you can get over the lag issue its a decent game. As i mentioned above this is one of those 
 party games. Sitting alone is tolerable, but when you have a friend over and u laugh about all 
 the stuff that happens its not bad. 
  Graphics are decent, especially the explosions. Sounds is pretty good. The rewind feature gets 
 old. One part that made me frustrated about the game is the cheating AI. In lap-knockout mode when 
 you get down to the last 2-3 guys they seem to be able to boost crazy fast all the time. Not to 
 mention once you kill them and there is a good amount of time between you and the finish line these 
 guys will come flying out of nowhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game offers the player to race cars mounted with machine guns, and later in the game, with 
 missiles and other bombs. The player races through many different city tracks and can complete 
 a long set of campaign races and trials. The game uses the A button to shoot the machine gun and 
 the right trigger to accelerate. The controls work suprisingly well. The game is a lot of fun for 
 the first 10-15 races, but after that, the game just begins to be boring.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are not exactly what one would think an Xbox 360 game would look like. 
 The graphics of the cars look about Xbox quality and the environment looks slightly better. The 
 problem is the terrible framerate. The game allows almost everything in the envrionment to be destructable, 
 but when there are explosions the game's framerate slows down to almost the freezing point. This 
 is really a fetter on the overall gaming experience.
  
  Sound:
  The music in the game is pretty standard, it has some forgetable bands with forgetable songs within 
 the game. The game doesn't really show sound effects of the different objects blowing up well and 
 it makes the game look even more unrealistic. 
  
  Value:
  The game has Xbox Live support and local multiplayer which can, like the single player, last only 
 a couple of rounds. The game should have good value because of the multiplayer, but it doesn't.
 
  
  Pros:
  A fun, action packed racing game
  Xbox Live Support
  
  Cons:
  Terrible framerate
  Bad Sound
  Gets old quickly
  
  I wouldn't buy this game because it 
 is a regularly priced game. This game could definitely be rented for some time when you have friends 
 over, but is not a game that your Xbox 360 library needs to have. RENT IT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto wont win any awards. Its not the best racing game ever, its not the best gun game ever. 
 Its not even the best gun/racing game ever. Full Auto is just plain fun.
  
  It will take you about 3 hours to play through every one of the games different racing modes which 
 are elimination (last man out) , race, down and back, circuit and point to point. These are in and 
 of themselves all racing modes. The trick is when you throw some guns and heavy metal into the 
 mix and things get hot.
  
  Full Auto is fun. You race, you shoot, things explode and we all go home happy. This game is built 
 just to entertain, and play to men's 2 passions: Cars and guns. If nothing else, Full Auto nails 
 the balance, and its a competent racer that seamlessly incorporates destructive elements without 
 losing the arcade racing touch.
  
  From a basic standpoint, full auto to straight forward. You race and you shoot to stay ahead of 
 the competition. You have a rival who is usually a parallel to you in the race, and your goal is 
 usually to take him out. You get 3 scores: Rival kills, time of completion and above all, wreck 
 damage. For every event you get a score, gold, silver or bronze. From the first to the last race, 
 you will see that despite the fact that gold is harder then silver and silver is harder then bronze, 
 the races are all very easy. In my first 25 races, I had 18 gold medals and 7 silver. Piece of 
 cake. The game is a breeze from start to finish and although there are over 60 events, there are 
 only about 13 different circuits (about 5 events each) , each of which can be completed in 30 minutes. 
 Full Auto is short and wont last you forever.
  
  Racing is fairly easy. Most of the AIs unless on master difficulty are very basic. They can gain 
 speed on straightaways but crash into turns and dont always use the shortcuts that are found in 
 the tracks. You shooter them with a variety of weapons from grenades to shotguns to missiles to 
 smoke screens. You get 2 weapons on a car, generally one for frontal assault and one for rear assault, 
 both working together to maintain a safe lead.
  
  The game has one feature that sets it apart from the rest: Unwreck! Instead of restarting when 
 you die or just make mistakes, you can unwreck by pressing the right bumper. This is a great addition 
 that makes the game much less tedious in the longhaul.
  
  Full Auto has about 15 different weapon types and around 30 cars each with several colors that 
 can be unlocked through completing the career mode. There are only 8 tracks total. Full Auto also 
 has a split screen and online mode which is exactly the same as offline but without the convience 
 of unwreck which takes away much of its flair. It offers 50 achievements, that span across wreck 
 points, career completion and xbox live totally 1000 points. Overall, Full Auto has some lasting 
 potential.
  
  In the end, Full Auto isnt the best game ever, but its not trying to be. It wants to be a fun racing/shooting 
 game that can fill up some empty hours with satisfying explosions and big guns, and it executes 
 flawlessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xupex
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  You can destroy everything 
  Beautiful explosions
  Much larger selection of cars than I was expecting
  So much fun just blowing things up
  The 
 career has a lot of different types of racing events (pursuit, gang races)
  The driver flys out the front of the car when It explodes (Completely copies fall out but is 
 still funny)
  Little things like tuning weapons and custom skins helps to make the game better
  
  The Bad
 
  Expecting better graphics (But thats not 2 important)
  If you could choose which weapons you want on your car instead of having fixed weapons combinations 
 
  Multiplayer is nothing different from playing offline except u have to endure all the annoying 
 people
  Career is to short 
  Gets boring after awhile
  Stupid soundtrack
  
  People seem to either love this game or hate it I think it fun its so much different from the other 
 racing games out at the moment. True you cant play it fro hours straight but it something u can 
 come back a play every few days. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltshaker911
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  When I first tried out this game I was really impressed. But then I began to notice the choppy 
 frame rate at some points and the fact that there wasn't much variance in the gameplay modes. The 
 rewards for getting the Full Auto medals did not seem to be worth working for. The graphics were 
 pretty decent and there was a lot of detail put into them. I think that it was a good game to rent, 
 because it provided some cheap thrills and I got a couple hundred gamerpoints in the first two 
 days of gameplay. All in all, the first two days with this game were great, and it definitely boosted 
 my gamerscore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grash40
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Just good old fashioned blowin stuff up, don't you just love it :) 
  Good game on line 
  Lots of destruction going on!
  and cool cars with weapons strapped on what more could you ask 
 for pure arcade fun! 
  Took me back to the old days of Twisted Metal way back when mmmmmmm! So if you want mindless destruction 
 and you cannot wait for Burnout Revenge to surface this game will truly fill the void. Go get it. 
 There are far too many serious games out there (which I do enjoy) this is an oasis of chaos, fun 
 and downright gratuitous vandalism, oh yeah! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmichael1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game had everyone talkin before it was released that it would be a top title but now weve 
 all scene the real thing and its just the opposite. Theres those who hate it and those who love 
 it. I think this game definately did not live up to the hype it was givin. This game could have 
 been fun with more features but the truth is that theres not much there. The demo given on live 
 is half the game and to tell you the truth its all youll do in the game-Race and shoot at people 
 whild doing more racing. This game was definately a disapointment in my book and it certainly does 
 not justify you spending $60 on it. Save the money and buy a qaulity game worth your $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochampian
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  A lot may agree and a lot may disagree. Full Auto is one of the 360 games that is pure fun. Graphics 
 aren't the best, sound isn't but game play is pure fun.
  
  I bought this game, thinking a little on the edge. I didn't know if I was going to Love or Hate 
 it. After putting the game, I saw the beauty of destruction. If you like destruction, you will 
 love this game.
  
  The game has many events in which you blow the living crap out of things to gain Crash Points, 
 but also having to finish in First. The events are fast and fun. Each giving you some sort of Prize.
 
  
  There are many different cars ranging from C class to S, each handling different. Then there are 
 the weapons. While there are only a few, they are fun and cause a lot of damage.
  
  Then there is the online. While only playing about 5 matches, I have found to like it. Crazy crap 
 is going all over the place. Head On Head is crazy (4 cars going one way, while others go opposite) . 
 Lag was minimal and was just overall fun. The only down point is that there is no civilian cars 
 online, but still is a lot going on.
  
  The only major flaw is frame rate. There is so much going on that the game cant keep up. But its 
 not so bad that you cant drive.
  
  One thing that is really cool is the Unwreck feature that is similar to Prince of Persia. Helps 
 a lot and is a nice touch.
  
  While some of you may disagree, I think some will agree. I liked this game and I hope you do to.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  While I somewhat enjoyed the campaign mode for about 10 minutes, it was hard to find this game 
 appealing. They were making this game out to be some amazing Burnout/Twisted Metal cross, but they 
 really dropped the ball on this one. The destructable environments are a nice touch, but laggy 
 moments and slow framerates earn this game a 5 out of 10 from this gamer. Though I cannot totally 
 dismiss this game's inner-light. Somewhere in this pile of steaming.... well, you know, lies a promising 
 game just waiting to burst out. Hopefully they'll take more time with the sequel (if there is one) 
 and listen to the people that actually bought the game (damn, why didn't I just get Need For Speed: 
 Most Wanted?) . That being said, save your money and buy Burnout Revenge 360 which comes out this 
 March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieA3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Since launch this game by Sega has been a target for many owners of the xbox 360. It promised a 
 game with completely destructive environments, and in that department it sure delivered. The online 
 play can be very addictive and keeps you wanting to restart races over and over, with hopes of 
 finally being the first to cross the finish line, in your respective race. The online portion of 
 the game gives you access to the entire roster of vehicles in the game. On the other hand, when 
 playing multiplayer offline, you are restricted to only 2 vehicles and only one track to begin, 
 that is until you start playing the game in career mode, and begin unlocking many of the games 
 unlockables. 
  
  On the downside there isn't much more to the game besides the given, which can become old depending 
 on what your doing in the game. The online play is what makes this title a buyable game, the fact 
 that you'll be online for hours attempting to rack up wreck points and kills, which you eventually 
 unlock achievements with, as well as attempt to cross the finish line before everyone else your 
 currently playing with, that is a task of its own for the average gamer when playing against people 
 on xbox live. I refered to this title as buyable and I stand by that, but at the retail price of 
 $59.99? The answer to that would be No. Trying to find this title well under that price tag, is 
 doable, and if anyone is able to find this title, under $49.99 like I did, then it makes it a more 
 tempting purchase, and I say take a stab at it, or else its definetly a worthy rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I pre ordered the gae and the second i got home i poped it into my 360. ive played for about 20 
 hours and i have loved every minute of it. I think it is an arcade game to play online. i knew 
 right away that this was a game i must have. i think alot of people dont think it is as good as 
 they thought because trhey were expecting a huge game with a great storyline and an amazing carrer. 
 i personally love the carrer mode its long enough for you to enjoy and not get bored although i 
 do have to say that at times the system will lag but not as bad as the media makes it seem i personally 
 think thsi is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirelrunner
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The idea behind FullAuto is great but the execution leaves alot to be desired. First off ,FullAuto 
 is THE most destructive racer out there. UnforuatEly thats about all this title has. In the game 
 you are armed with two weapond on your car most of the the time ones on the front, and ones on 
 the back, its great but there's not to many different weapons in the game, and they lack difference 
 and creativity. They all consist of machineguns, mines, rockets, grenades, and there's a cannon, no 
 specials or anything. FullAuto also has NO story and it's funny because back in May05 Cord Smith 
 which is a developer for FullAuto was being interviewed by G4TV's Kevin Pereira and said that in 
 the game you are a street racer dropped in this underground racing tournament, and the only way 
 to get out is to win, hmmmmm, sounds like a story but I sure didn't see one. A good thing is the 
 unwreck, which allows you yo rewind time to correct mistakes, like taking a bad turn or dying, 
 and it's done perfectly. The online is pretty well done as is the framerate and runs smooth. You 
 can play along with up to eight players, of course unwreck couldn't be put online, Sega claimed 
 they tried dozens of ways but nothing turned out to work, but god knows we can't trust sega to 
 much now. The achievments are easily obtained I got 3 in my first race and got over 700points in 
 one weekend. Overall FullAuto is an allright game but it just lacks depth, and creativity, and gets 
 old FAST but I definately recommed it as a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  To write a fair review of any game it is necessary to play it for a good long time , which is what 
 I have been doing since the day it has come out.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER - The first 60 minutes spent with this game you will be getting use to the overactive 
 physics and all the suttle differences between makes and classes of the cars. Once you get the 
 hang of it the game does get more difficult as you go but it never gets (Ninga Giadenesqe) . The 
 Single player is fun ,if a little short ,and that is one of the few things I dislike about the 
 game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER - This is where the game shines. The mutiplayer is a blast to play, learning all the 
 shortcuts, strategizing which weapons suit which course best, and blowing away your friends can 
 be very engaging. I have heard alot about framerate problems but the are really a dead issue because 
 it does not seem to effect the gameplay. 
  
  The online element also runs very well. I have played in over 250 online races so far and out of 
 those maybe 12 had enough lag to cause problems. Although the online runs well I would have liked 
 to seen some more types of events. There should be a wreck points events where everybodys car is 
 invincible and you race trying to take out as much scenery as possible. I would also like to see 
 a kind of demolition derby style track. I could go on forever with new events and hopefully with 
 downloadable content some of my dreams will come true.
  
  SO overall I have to say that FULL AUTO is a really good game. It's not perfect but I can definetly 
 say it is worth a buy .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatfu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Like my title states, this game upset me when I first started playing. Not that I have put more 
 hours into it an got use to the Twisted Metal physics. i like this game a lot more. I came into 
 this game expecting a racing game with real racing physics combined with Twisted Metal. Well its 
 more of just a Twisted Metal game. The point of my review, is a lot of people are trashing the 
 game and you can tell they only played it for a little while. The truth is after the first 30 min. 
 of playing, I was very upset. I felt like I wasted 60$ on this crap. I was thinking right away 
 about how much I could get for it on Ebay. Now , I will probably keep this game as one of my classics. 
 It is bottom-line, a fun game! There definitely is room for a lot of improvement. I hope to see 
 that in the future! Give it a shot if you like Twisted Metal and Burnout! Don't make the mistake 
 of expecting Burnout. If you do you will be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khraiven
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  First off I must express my opinion of the reviewer, which is suppose to be a professional; The 
 marks given are absolutely ludicrous, if I were the game makers that put this much detail into 
 their game I'd be furious that such a big gaming site gave such a nieve review.
  
  Now, on to my short review.
  
  Gameplay (10) - This is the easiest element for me to score 
 on, the combination of slick arcade-style driving and the EMMENSE amount of physics (destruction) 
 going on around you is absolutely stunning. Virtually anything that looks like you can destroy, 
 you can. It is FAST AND FURIOUS, destruction at its finest.
  
  Graphics (8) - I could of given it a 9 easily, but some of the textures are sub-par so I'll give 
 it an 8. That doesn't change the fact that there is an emmense amount of beauty in this game, and 
 a GREAT usage the various shaders to bring things alive. I think the graphics are exactly what 
 they *needed* to be for this game, great, but not the best, as there is simply too much destruction 
 going on to make it shine too much.
  
  Sound (8) - What sound does exist is good, but I cannot give higher (or lower) then 8 due to the 
 lack of surround sound elements (aside from the vehicles of course) . Having a great surround sound 
 system enables me to really know what the game has to offer sound-wise, and here it left me wanting. 
 The destruction/guns/cars sound great, but adding more atmosphere elements (people walking/talking, 
 helicopters/planes flying around, birds, etc) would of really brought the sound to life.
  
  Value (8) - There's good reason for getting an 8 here, as this game is not really for the hard-core. 
 In that respect, I mean to say that if you're looking for *one game* that you can play non-stop 
 for months til you can buy another, then this game is not for you. However, if you're looking to 
 add another casual FUN game to your arsinel, then this title is certainlly worth the buy. I'd give 
 it a 10 if it weren't for the fact that the replay value isn't *as* good as it could be.
  
  Tilt (9) - Fantastic experience, great fun, could not give this game anything less then a tilt 
 of 9. Also keep in mind I've been playing the demo since it came out, even before playing the release 
 for days. I've played the other two xbox races a considerable ammount, and they hold NOTHING on 
 this game.
  
  Bottom line, if you're looking for some serious destructive fun, and you accept that this is a 
 more casual game that you likely wont play non-stop (too crazy to play too much at a time) , you 
 cant miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Full Auto is a victim of the system. It was hyped up for months and months by web sites, magazines, 
 almost any media outlet there is. So it had lofty expectations, but it fell short. Its not that 
 it is a bad game, but when you release a good game that people expect to be great it can sometimes 
 be viewed as a bad game. Thats what happened to Full Auto.
  The first thing that you notice is how good it looks. The cars look sweet, and I mean all of the 
 cars even the ones you arent driving. The environments are nice, and everything is destructible. 
 But thats when there are problems. When the screen gets cluttered with debris, the game suffers 
 from slowdown, and there is a lot of debris. Another gameplay issue is the speed, or lack there 
 of. You will look down at the speedometer and see 122 mph but it feels and looks more like 122 
 mile per day. The point of racing games, especially arcade type racing games is to go really fast, 
 almost outta control fast, and this game does not capture it.
  Also it gets kind of stale if you play for a long time. I think that it would have been better 
 as an arena car combat game like Twisted Metal, but as it is it s pretty good, but not as good 
 as I had hoped. Some will like it more than others, so rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Tell the reviewers to give up I mean who cares. This game is incredible on so many levels ya know, 
 It's sp much funa and it's great with a unwreck feature. It's like if you explode and didn; t wanna 
 dye, then just rewind time, or if you a ramp straight and wanted to barrel roll off of it then 
 just rewind. It's absolutely great and reviwe5rs need to lay off most say there's no story, ok 
 fine let's go with this aspect. If Full Auto is so terrible for having no story, then where's PGR's 
 story, or FORZA's, or GT's for that matter. There's really no need for a story here, if you can't 
 get a thrill out of racing around at 100mph and level buildings, and explode cars right in front 
 of you, you need to put the conroller down and go for a walk. Sure the physics aren't perfect, 
 but hey do you really expect cars to handle like FORZA when you're leveling downtown and flying 
 over bridges and shotting missles at stuff. C'mon you gotta go rent this game and toy around with 
 it for a while, trust me you won't be disappointed. It's absoluetly great and will provide hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is the new Action/Racing game from SEGA and Pseudo Interactive. Players will be given 
 a variety of cars and weapons to choose from before diving directly into some of the most destructive 
 car combat ever devised. The game presentation comes with a no-frills set-up to the world other 
 than to give you a description of the interface, cars and weapons. Pseudo delivers on their premise 
 of a fun and destructive experience, but unfortunately also deliver a few problems along with it.
 
  
  The graphics in Full Auto look really great when run on a properly set-up HD TV. The environments 
 are highly detailed and can be almost completely destroyed with the arsenal of weapons at the players' 
 disposal. The developers spent a lot of time crafting environments that not only look good to destroy, 
 but also offer strategic advantages to destroying them. In environments like the docks it is possible 
 to bring down large cargo containers suspended by chains on top of the cars behind you, or even 
 completely drop an entire crane down onto unsuspecting players. Apart from that there are also 
 very destructive, and dangerous, short cut routes scattered about many of the tracks as well. Skillfully 
 navigating these highly cramped routes will almost certainly guarantee you a healthy advantage, 
 but be warned that it is incredibly easy to bring your run to a crashing halt. The destructive 
 mayhem is certainly pleasing to look at, though this does come at a price. The frame rate in Full 
 Auto isn't able to sustain itself throughout all of the pyrotechnic glory. There will be instances 
 that crop up where the frame rate will taken a sudden nose dive for a few seconds before bringing 
 itself back up to a reasonable level again. These instances don't happen all too often, but it 
 does have the possibility of happening at the worst moments in a race. The frame rate also takes 
 a hit when the kill camera is left on and the view zooms over for a closer look at a successful 
 kill. What the games' graphics lack in terms of realistically conveying a sense of speed, the chaotic 
 maelstrom of bullets and rockets certainly does an excellent job of keeping things hectic. As the 
 challenge level of the single player game beefs up, players will be constantly on guard trying 
 to evade a never ending tirade of attacks from the AI opponents in the game. One complaint many 
 people might have about the AI is its tendency to rely on rubber banding in order to keep the game 
 challenging. This game is at its best when embroiled in the middle of a hectic fire fight while 
 doing power slides around hairpin corners. In order to maintain that level of excitement its obvious 
 that the developers chose to use the technique of rubber banding AI opponents forward and backward 
 to keep them in close proximity to you. This is not altogether a bad thing in this case however. 
 Unlike most games that use this technique, such as the Need for Speed series, the player is given 
 the ability to do stop the AI cars with bullets and rockets. (an advantage I wish I had in the 
 original Need for Speed Underground game.)
  
  With all of the chaos going on all of the time in this game, the developers saw fit to provide 
 the players with a few tools to help them reach the finish line in something resembling one piece. 
 By performing stunt maneuvers, such as jumps or slides, a boost meter will start to fill up. When 
 it reaches its maximum it becomes possible to engage a boost to help get away from a pesky truck 
 with a shotgun, or to help catch up to the lead car. Once the car reaches its top speed, it can 
 also be somewhat difficult to keep it from careening into a building or a fully loaded gas tanker, 
 which tends to turn that smile upside down. Fortunately you also have a rewind feature, or in this 
 case Unwreck , to turn back time a few seconds before that fatal mistake was made. The Unwreck 
 function works similar to the boost function. There is a separate meter that starts to fill up 
 while the player is destroying things. The more destruction wrought, the faster it fills up. It 
 is generally fairly easy to keep this meter filled up for when it's needed. There will be times 
 however when luck just runs out and you'll be stuck watching your car do an acrobatic flip through 
 the air. In instances like this, the race is not over, though a few seconds are lost as a penalty 
 for being destroyed... and hopefully some vengeance can be reaped upon the foolish car that decided 
 to send a rocket up your tail pipe.
  
  The weapons available run a fairly standard car combat fare. The weapons come in presets that can 
 be unlocked by playing through the career mode of the game. These presets differ for the three 
 classes of cars available in order to keep things interesting for a class that tends to have more 
 durability than others. Short range weapons such as the Shotgun are great for players that are 
 able to get in close to opponents, and even better for players that are good at aiming the weapon 
 while driving. Certain weapons allow the right stick to be used to aim the forward weapons, which 
 can then be fired by clicking the stick in. This is useful in situations where the car in front 
 of you has some fairly destructive rear weapons. Instead of coming up directly behind, it is possible 
 to move off to the side and fire at the opposing vehicle with a relative amount of safety. Other 
 weapons include mines, machine guns, rocket launchers, howitzers, grenades, and rocket pods. One 
 complaint about the weapon set, is that the Smoke Screen weapon is useless in the single player 
 game. It creates a thick cloud of smoke which makes it difficult for the cars behind you to see 
 where they are going, and possibly send them into a pillar or wall as a result. The AI totally 
 ignores this weapon... online players on the other hand...
  
  The race types included with Full Auto run your standard fare of circuits and point to point races. 
 In some cases there are some twists included such as the Down and Back race. In this type of track, 
 the course suddenly comes to an end and players are required to quickly spind around and run back 
 in the opposite direction they came. This creates a fun dynamic as halfway through the race all 
 the players are suddenly thrown into a situation where they have to dodge incoming traffic that 
 is likely unloading a full rocket pod in their direction. The career mode presents a few more twists 
 to the race style, but generally the game consists of racing and blowing up a lot of objects and 
 cars. Some people may be turned off by the supposed lack of variation or shallow game play, but 
 this is a matter of perspective. There's no less game play here than in other titles currently 
 available such as Dead or Alive 4. Much like a fighting game where all of the game play is focused 
 on two characters fighting in an arena, such is the case with Full Auto. The music in Full Auto 
 is generally forgettable, but the sounds are great. The game features a tremendous amount of explosions 
 going off in 5.1 stereo along with big beefy engine sounds. In terms of delivering on the kind 
 of sound scape you might find in this kind of environment, Pseudo has done a pretty good job. The 
 major problem with the music is the, by now, well known play list bug. Should you desire to playback 
 a customized music play list it will be required that the list be restarted after every race. It 
 is unknown at this time if a fix for this is in the works, but one would like to assume so. (Though 
 it shouldn't be necessary to patch a console game at ALL)
  
  The multiplayer of Full Auto is likely where the game is going to shine. Racing against human opponents 
 is even more fun and definitely more challenging than the AI opponents for the most part. There 
 are two aspects of the online environment that change the dynamic of the game however. The unwreck 
 feature is of course disabled in the online arena. Should you make a mistake and crash into a wall, 
 it's a situation that will just have to be ridden out to the end. The other difference is the lack 
 of rubber banding. Part of what makes the single player game so frenetic is the fact that the player 
 is almost constantly surrounded by AI cars... this isn't necessarily going to be the case on Xbox 
 Live. On some of the longer tracks when there are less than eight players things can start to seem 
 a little lonely. When the action is good however, it's great and runs well without too much noticeable 
 lag. It will be possible for the developers to release new tracks over the xbox live marketplace, 
 and it will be hoped that care in designing condensed tracks to help contain the action will be 
 taken. Perhaps maybe the addition of an arena mode as well maybe.... (Wishing...)
  
  In the end it is difficult to score a game like Full Auto. It has its share of technical problems 
 that mar the presentation, though the game play is still as fast and furious as they come. The 
 presentation as a no-frills action game however might be a turn off to players wanting a bit more 
 variety with their game experience. If a game that delivers nothing but a great action/racing experience 
 sounds like something you would be like than you won't make a mistake by picking up this game. 
 If you're not sure... renting this title might be a better idea to see if its your speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  WOW were to start.... this game is not good at all. bad controls, bad gameplay, and almost as bad 
 story line o wait there is no story. this is no better then twisted metal. the only thing going 
 for this game is that you can blow stuff up but that get old in like 5 minutes. online is boring 
 and unfair. the only reason i bought this game was because i needed to up my gamerscore and also 
 becuase i needed something to tide me over till all the good stuff comes out in march. dont buy 
 this game. please. you can wait till the awsome burnout revenge comes out. just wait i should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Fun for an hour then total throw away. Too repetitive, bad explosion frame rates, and somewhat 
 bad graphics for the 360. This game should have been worked on with a broader look. The developers 
 spent way to much time on the UNWRECK feature which is not used online. They thought that one cool 
 thing could save this game they were wrong. Full Auto sounds like a crapy movie title not some 
 original [new] name. Not worth the cash nor the time this game sucks. My review of this game is 
 from my perspective and if u dont agree then congradulations u r a retard this game needed some 
 serious rethinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinfulSpikey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo the other night and within an hour I was at Best Buy, shelling out the cash 
 to get this game. 
  
  Full Auto is a racing sim. Just what we need, right? Yet another racing game. It's not just a racing 
 game, though. It has a twist. What's that, you ask? You have all sorts of guns, rockets, etc. mounted 
 to the hood and rear of your car.
  
  As you've probably guessed, the game is very destruction oriented. In fact, destruction is the 
 soul of the game. Once you choose your car, you get to pick from a number of different weapon presets 
 for use during the game. Unfortunately, you can't mix and match presets. Although, there is a large 
 variety of presets available.
  
  Once you have your car and weapons, it's off to the track! Full Auto is an extremely fast paced 
 racer as it is, and with the added bonus of weapons it just makes things harder to monitor. The 
 developers seemed to have realized this, and have added in a rather interesting feature: the unwreck 
 system. Didn't land that jump correctly, resulting in a flip, spin and crash into a bomb, killing 
 you? Rewind! You simply rewind the game to before your mistake and try it again. Sounds like it'd 
 kill the game, right? Wrong. It actually makes it a hell of a lot more fun
  
  Of course, with all this activity going on, the game does slow down a bit. Personally, the only 
 time I've ever noticed it was when I would kill another car. The game would slow down slightly 
 as the camera repositioned itself over the car to get a slow view of the car getting destroyed. 
 Other than that, there appears to be a pretty stable frame rate.
  
  The music in the game is very forgettable, unfortunately. Don't get me wrong, it isn't bad, it's 
 just forgettable. In fact, the music is quite good, if you like techno. Unfortunately, and audio 
 bug stops all custom playlists when the game hits a loading screen.
  
  All in all, the game is a pretty fun game. It's definitely worth it to try the demo or rent it. 
 I wouldn't recommend it to all, but I would definitely play it until my controller died. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: EXPLOSIONS!, just about anyone can pick this game up and become a pro, environments destroy 
 nicely
  
  The Bad: Can get boring if you play it for too long at once
  
  Full Auto is basically like Twisted Metal, except the visuals are teh awesome. The environments 
 aren't fully destructible as everyone says, because you cant blast holes in the roads that you 
 drive on. but, the buildings can be destroyed, and very nicely at that. bricks fall off layer by 
 layer, windows shatter, and missles leave gaping holes in even the mightiest of skyscrapers.
  
  You may have heard some people say that this game is like burnout with guns. That is not true. 
 Can you destroy buildings in Burnout? No. Sure you can destroy your opponents, but Full Auto offers 
 more detail on that. You may see your driver fly out of the side window, wheels detach from their 
 axels, or rear bumpers may hang by a thread from the back of your car.
  
  The unwreck button is a very handy feature which lets you rewind what just occurred in a race, 
 giving you a second chance. It comes in handy when you may have driven off a boardwalk, or crashed 
 (for some reason) . However, this button may soon become unneeded as you grow used to the tracks 
 you race on.
  
  I would recommend playing this game in short bursts, that way it keeps you going back for more, 
 and it makes it worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosh3000
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried out this game I was really impressed. But then I began to notice the choppy 
 frame rate at some points and the fact that there wasn't much variance in the gameplay modes. The 
 rewards for getting the Full Auto medals did not seem to be worth working for. The graphics were 
 pretty decent and there was a lot of detail put into them. I think that it was a good game to rent, 
 because it provided some cheap thrills and I got a couple hundred gamerpoints in the first two 
 days of gameplay. All in all, the first two days with this game were great, and it definitely boosted 
 my gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The gameplay of Full Auto is sort of like Burnout mixed with Ridge Racer mixed with Prince Of Persia 
 mixed with Halo. The Burnout is there because you can destroy cars by hitting them like Burnout, 
 the Ridge Racer is there because you can drift around corners to collect boost, the Prince Of Persia 
 is there because you can rewind time when you get into a bit of trouble and the Halo is there because 
 the game has a hell of alot of artillery. The grapics are decent but the crash system in the game 
 is awesome, buildings will brake coordinately and the vehicles will also damage in real time. The 
 sound in the game is frantic you will hear every bullet and every bang, the music fits in with 
 the theme of the game but half of the time you can't even here the music because of the bullets, 
 bangs and engine sounds. The value of the game is decent with many races in the career mode and 
 XBOX LIVE compatibility. I personally think the game is awesome and enjoy it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbroady
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Any type of racing game that involves wrecking things is going to be compared to Burnout 3, especially 
 games that try to mimick that game's style. Unfortunately, Full Auto doesn't come through this 
 comparison very favorably. Graphically, it's not on par with Burnout 3 on the PS2. The boost meter 
 is simply a rip off from that game. The developers, in a "let's throw in the kitchen sink" moment, 
 tacked on a "time rewind" feature that has very little use in the game. This game just seems like 
 a lot of pieces thrown together... but it just doesn't work. Let's hope there are some better games 
 coming down the pike soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is definitely a game that people have had high expectations for. For the most part, Full 
 Auto is exactly what I expected it to be - a semi-Burnout with guns, explosions and destructible 
 environments. I think that this game is all together one of the best and most complete racing games 
 I have ever played. Each race you win feels like an accomplishment because the AI is fairly challenging 
 and some of the goals (i. e. get 200,000 Wreck Points in 4 laps, etc.) are difficult.
  The game has interesting features. The most useful is Unwreck -- the ability to rewind time. This 
 is critical to most races, because your rivals can easily sneak up behind you and hit you with 
 a rocket or tank blast, crippling your car or even killing you and putting you at the end of the 
 pack. Other features include One Touch Replay and the standard Boost. OTR is a neat feature that 
 allows you to instantly watch your best jumps and kills with just the push of a button. Just blew 
 up your best friend when you shot out the water tower and crushed his car? Just push the OTR button 
 and watch it again and again, then stop and resume the race. The boost works like the boost in 
 Burnout. You gain boost by drifting, jumping, and doing stunts like barrel-rolls off jumps. You 
 can't control the stunts but if you hit a jump slightly off, you will go spinning and rack up the 
 boost. The only challenging aspect is that you cannot boost unless your bar is full...
  The game has roughly 25 cars, varying from the Hookzilla, a crappy tow-truck, to the Warlord, the 
 God of racing. Each car has unlockable colors and skins, which are basically different models for 
 each car. One car has a skin that patterns it with the American flag, etc. Each car is gorgeous -- the 
 game sports some of the best graphics I've seen on the 360.
  There are five different racing modes: Circuit, your basic drive around a course for X amount of 
 laps; Down-and-Back, race to the end of the course, turn around and race back; Point-to-Point, 
 start at point A, race to point B; Lap Knockout, a circuit race, but the last place car is eliminated 
 at the end of each lap; and finally, Rampage, a personal favorite that is all about blowing up 
 innocent pedestrian cars.
  The game has a fairly deep career mode. The career mode is comprised of 80+ races that are essentially 
 derived from the five basic modes with different twists. Some modes have random assailants appear 
 and try to kill you while another puts you in a race where you have one life and no Unwreck...
 
  All things considered, Full Auto is an amazing game experience that shouldn't be missed by any 
 360 owner. Everyone I know and have played with love this game and I've found that everyone who 
 adamantly hates Full Auto hasn't ever played it... just to put things into perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  the worst new gen game there. this game WAS fun at start, but after the same thing over and over 
 again i turned off my 360. the main mode has like no story to it, you just blow thing up. sure 
 blowning things up is fun, FOR A WHILE. after a few time there is nothing new to blow up. graphics 
 are pretty bad considerd this is a next gen game. sound sounds o. k but is not in the same race 
 compare to other racing games like PGR3. there is very little value to this game this is not a 
 game you want to buy. for 60$ it's just not worth it. i got it on the first day and sold it the 
 next on e-bay. this game is boring!!! if you must have this game you should rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first starting playing the game I thought it was very cool and lots of fun. But after playing 
 it for awhile it kinda got boring. You do the same thing over and over again and it really gets 
 repeditive. The idea of this game is really cool though, its like Twisted metal + Burnout + Prince 
 of persia = Full Auto. 3 really cool games and you think if you put them all together it would 
 be the best racing game out but not in this case. This is a cool game online so if your looking 
 for a fun game that you and some friends can play or you want to go on live you might find some 
 fun in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I wanna say WOW what an awesome Next Gen game, But sorry folks this one is a stinker as well. What 
 really is disappointing so far is I have lots of peeps calling me and asking to come to My House 
 and Play all these XBOX 360 games and their so excited and when they finally get to play the games 
 they ask me why I bought 2 XBOX 360's if the games suck so bad. I reply "something good soon is 
 about to release I'm sure of it", then I get laughed at for looking stupid.
  
  I don't blame Sega its not their fault, but if they wanna succeed in America they should be picky 
 on who they publish.
  
  On with My Opinion, this game stinks, sucks, blows, and is only fun ripping of the plastic wrapping 
 and opening the case and putting it in your 360. 
  
  Then after you select any of the game features let the Bugs fly. I recently said that Amped 3 was 
 the Buggiest game, but this one takes the cake.
  
  You might be able to have fun with it playing online but that can really only last for so long.
 
  
  Maybe I went into this game thinking all the wrong things, When I first saw it I immediately thought 
 SWEET a new kinda Twisted Metal. Well it almost catches that persona but its more Racing than Blowing 
 up everyone.
  
  Read around the Forums for this game, there are a lot of disappointed peeps out there.
  
  Looking 
 for a new 360 game and just gotta try it, DO NOT BUT this game you will be wasting your $60 bucks 
 on a box of poo.
  Instead join GameFly. com or RENT it at your Local Rental Place.
  
  Thanks for Reading My Opinion, Please check out My other reviews.
  I'm Rated in the TOP 500 in 
 Reviews.
  Love You All
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcanwait
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Theres no point in buying full auto.
  Full auto is broken, cod2 had single player issues but this....
  In full auto you use your progress 
 in single player to get new cars, weapon tuning etc. for online play, but after awhile online a 
 massage pops up "save data corrupted" and your single player save is gone for good.
  This happened twice for me, first time i spend the time going through the single player again, 
 second time was the last time ive played full auto.
  I dont pay good money for broken games.
  Avoid this pile of poo at all cost.
  The reason why 
 im given fa 1 in all attributes is simple, its unplayable.... broken not worth your time or money.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  This is a game that you must really sit down and play it for what it is and expect nothing more 
 from it. 
  
  The good first. The graphics are amazing. The colors were great and the enviroments were nice as 
 well. There were a good selection of cars. There was everything from a roadster all the way to 
 a tow truck. That is always a plus. There were an ok selection of weapons but not too many to jump 
 up and say that rocks. I really like the old school arcade driving style. It made it a challenge 
 but not too realistic to put a damper on things. The AI was also nice as well. They put up a good 
 challenge but not one that was so hard that it made you put the game down and not play it for three 
 days. I also really liked the rewind feature as well. For all those times you were almost there 
 and got killed in the end this feature was a life saver.
  
  The bad. Well, this had no story what so ever. I like a little bit of story to go along with my 
 dailly dose of killing. The frame rate could get a little bit laggy but not too bad. I wanted more 
 weapons. The armor thing was nice but was a pain most of the time.
  
  Over all I liked the game and would suggest it to people who are just looking for a good online 
 or just killing game. But, if you are looking for a little bit of story just go ahead and pass 
 on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleasquire
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Many people, including myself, have been waiting for this game since about the time of E3 2005. 
 From the early screenshots, the graphics looked as though they would be a showcase of the 360. 
 From videos, it looked as though it would have the speed of burnout and the destruction or Mercenaries. 
 This looked to be a great combination. We were then introduced to an unwreck feature which made 
 the game sound even better. Finally, the game is here, and its good. But , the game did not live 
 up to it's potential. But first lets talk about the good things in the game. The best part of this 
 game, is by far the destrucion. The destruction in this game is amazing. You can blow up gas stations 
 and knock trains off the tracks. Also, you get a feeling of accomplishment, when you see the word 
 RAMPAGE across the screen, which tells you that you've destroyed 8 opponents simultaneously. The 
 crashes look great and they help you really get into the game. The next thing about Full Auto are 
 the graphics. The graphics in the early screen shots, make the game look rediculously amazing. 
 Now, the games graphics look good but not as good. The games graphics are showcased by the lighting, 
 the cars look real. But the environments look only a little better than Burnout Revenge on the 
 xbox. So, while the cars look good, the environments could have used some more polish. Now, there 
 are a few problems in this game, but they are very noticeable. The biggest problem is the game, 
 is the framerate. The framereate just simply cannot keep up the the game. The games graphics, speed, 
 and destruction are going by too fast, and the framerate cant take it. Also, the destruction is 
 not what was promised. I was told that you could level a building and it would fall on the cars 
 behind you. Now, dont get me wrond, you can shoot building, and debris will fall, but there is 
 no leveling (except for the gas stations of course) . Also, the graphics are not what we saw back 
 at E3 2005, but as said before, they still look great.
  
  Now, as for reccomending this game for purchase, its kind of hard right now. This game is'nt really 
 worth $60. I played the demo and thought it was ok so, I rented this game and I think its good 
 but I think I'll wait till its cheaper before i buy it. I suggest you try it before you buy it, 
 If you hated the demo, rent it or try your friends copy, but if you loved the demo, and play it 
 twice a day, then you probably will find that it is worth a purchase, even at $60. This game had 
 a lot of potential and I hope that sega will try again and make a sequel. I just hope that they 
 will give it more polish and put more concentration on gameplay and graphics, rather than trying 
 to emphasize their ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Okay, around E3 last year, I started getting really excited about the Xbox 360. Also, everyday 
 I checked for an update on Full Auto. Then in November, it didn't come out, and I was back to checking. 
 Then came waiting for the demo, and now the game.
  
  And I love it. It's up there with my favorite Xbox 360 games. Actually, my favorite 360 games are 
 Full Auto, PDZ, and Condemned.
  
  Back to the actual game. The game feels and looks a lot better than the demo. There are a few game 
 modes, and all are decent. Career can be very addicting (get that gold medal) , Arcade is fun to 
 just play, head to head is fun with a friend, and Xbox Live is very good.
  
  The twist FA has on normal racers is guns. Big guns. That can destroy EVERYTHING (almost, at least) . 
 And Unwreck. Unwreck is a nifty feature where you can rewind time and try again. This is especially 
 cool sice there is a lot of you blowing up and cool shortcuts to rewind and try to get to again.
 
  
  There are some standard modes of racing. Regular circuit racing (think laps) , there's down and 
 back (think go, turn around, go back) , point to point, (think start here, go there) , and others.
 
  
  There are some neat (non-liscened) cars, and non-customizable weapon packages as well as a bunch 
 of tracks, even if some tracks are oddly like another.
  
  This all controls well, except that the real fast cars get really floaty, and there are some rather 
 odd car physics, like when you hit a rock and fly straight up. It's nothing too bad, but worth 
 mentioning.
  
  Graphics are excellent. I've had people come up to me and say "those graphics are real nice". They're 
 an obvious upgrade from the demo. Nice and shiny, with some awesome smoke and explosion effects.
 
  
  Between Techno beats, engine roars, weapon clatter, and explosion and breaking noises, the sound 
 is excellent. Turn it up real loud for and adrenaline rush like no other game I own.
  
  All in all, Full Auto is one of my favorite 360 games. I think anyone should try it, even if just 
 to rent it, but I think this deserves every penny of the $59.99 (w/o tax) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  First off let me tell you, full auto is the funnest game out there for the 360, not the best, but 
 the funnest. The grapics are good but not amazing, i'd say alittle worse then pgr3. The gameplay 
 is just fun! Blowing up cars has never been so fun, the story mode is alittle flimsy, youll run 
 out of fresh races at about 15 percent in. But the live on this game makes up for it, its hilariously 
 fun to hear the aww **** after wasting a car infront of you. If you want great fun for live and 
 some good times in story mode buy this game, its not revolutionary its not a classic but its a 
 solid fun good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zVirus
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is super fun. You could jump into it and have a blast, but it may get repetative to some 
 after a while. This game is best played in short bursts. The Graphics are decent, but the lagging 
 is terrible for a "next-gen" game. Also, for the lack of content, 60 bucks is waaaay too much. 
 This game could've been on an Xbox and been 20 bucks and be liked a lot more, I can assure. Xbox 
 Live and multiplayer save the gameplay rating, as well as fun that can last a while. I think this 
 game was underrated and I admit I found myself having a blast, but I can't give it more than the 
 score I did. The music was totally mediocre, the graphics weren't great, and there wasn't much 
 value in it, ya just jump in and play an assload of missions (most of which you race and have to 
 obtain a certain amount of "wreck points") and can get repetative quick for many, so I recommend 
 a rental. However, I'm the kind of guy that could go at this game for a good half an hour or more 
 (or less even) and then come back later and still find it fun. I haven't played it too too much 
 yet, and I fear it may begin to bore me. Like I said, rent this one, I paid 60 bucks for it and 
 did really enjoy it, but found that I wasn't too amazed for a full-priced 360 game. Some games 
 for the 360 are even 50 bucks like normal, but not this one... it's full 60 bucks. The only way 
 you should purchase this game is if it were 20 or 30 bucks even. I AM keeping it, and I DO like 
 it, don't get me wrong, but the lack of ambition, content, and value may leave a lot to desire. 
 If ya got some friends and like the online play as well, then rent it and play then, but if you 
 feel that you don't care about the short-comings of this game and can jump in to race and blow 
 stuff up for a few minutes and have something to work on for a while, you MAY wanna buy it. However, 
 from all the negative feedback I've seen, I don't think anyone wanted to buy this for full price... This 
 really should be a game you could get for an original Xbox for 20 or 30 bucks, but having bought 
 it, and liking it for what it is, i can recommend at least a rental for this game. 
  
  Gameplay - 8: Even though the appeal may not last long, whenever you do play its ferocious and 
 fun. Multiplayer and online help, too, and there is an arcade mode in which you pick an event and 
 play it.... but the career mode in itself is one big arcade game already...
  
  Graphics - 7: They're decent. For the 360... eh, not too impressive. I gave this game a gift on 
 the graphics with a 7, and maybe could see it as a 6... but it still does look nice (when its not 
 lagging!!!)
  
  Sound - 5: The music is very, very mediocre in this game. I was like "what in the hell??" 
  
 
  Value - 6: Though the appeal does not last too long, and there is grand repitition, this game 
 does throw an assload of missions to go through and multiplayer functions. Playing with others 
 can prove to be fun. 
  
  Tilt - 7: Cause I felt and 8 would be too high for tilt, even though I did enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto is a fun enough concept: Take the weapons from Twisted Metal and put in the mayhem-styled 
 racing of Burnout. Sounds pretty sweet, right? I thought so.... And it still is a good idea, but 
 Full Auto just doesn't do anything as well as those games. Everything is mediocre, and the game 
 gets less and less fun with each race.
  
  Starting off is loads of fun. You get to blow crap up... and lots of it. Oddly enough, I had 10 
 achievements within an hour and most of them were because of destruction value... Seems like they 
 should have boosted those values to offer some further incentive. Also, the time rewind function 
 is neat enough, but it almost seems like it's there because the car physics is absolute garbage. 
 I can't even count the times when I would slide off for no reason or hit a small bump and went 
 flying.
  
  Combat is pretty neat, but like everything else, even it gets tired. One thing that I hope they 
 improve is the weapon selection. You are forced to take predetermined weapon sets, and while they 
 usually are fine, I could have done some levels much better with my own selection. Also, upgrading 
 weapons with money or something would have been an awesome touch.
  
  Basically, this is how the game goes: The first hour is awesome. The 2nd hour is slightly less 
 fun... and so on. By the end you just want to get it over with, it's not even all that enjoyable. 
 And the learning curve gets incredibly steep near the end. Almost to the point of trial and error.
 
  
  Online is fun, but doesn't save the game from being a poor attempt at everything. I didn't really 
 notice as many graphical hangups as mentioned in the GS review, but that isn't the worst part of 
 the game. It's not a terrible game by any means, it just isn't next-gen in anything but being able 
 to blow everything up around you... which is admittedly fun all the time.
  
  Bottom line: Give this one a rental and play with some friends. It's fun, but only for a handful 
 of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  i am a pretty big fan of the twisted metal series. i love cars with weapons and meaningless explosions. 
 it is a good way to waste some time inbettween epic games.
  this is a good way to waste a couple of hours of time before you realize it just is to shallow 
 to be fun...
  i dont think this game is worth a rental.
  dont get me wrong it is fun. just not fun for long. about two hours into it i found myself kind 
 of zoning out as i starred at the screen. and i found myself thinking... not even the next generation 
 of games has figured out that FRAMERATE is probably the second most important part of a game after 
 game play.
  it has some neat ideas like the rewind which is pretty impressive. i find i like causing myself 
 mroe damage and rewinding than actually playing the game. but even that wore thin quickly.
  if you want a car racing game to show off your 360 stick with progect gothom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this game isn't all that great, I'd played through the first couple races in career 
 mode, and didn't think much of it. However, once you get past the first couple training races Full 
 Auto turns out to be a pretty addictive racer. I have to admit at first I couldn't help but think 
 this was Sega's wannabe version of EA's Burnout only with guns, but after playing for a while the 
 game takes on a personality of it's own. Going through trying to get golds on every race is quite 
 challenging, and as far as replay value, I think me and my wife will be playing the head to head 
 for quite some time even after the career mode is finished. I've been absolutely glued to this 
 game all weekend long, there aren't to many games that can suck me in like that. The main thing 
 that's really bugged me so far is trying to play my own music off the my hard drive during play. 
 You go to select an album (or playlist) from your harddrive, and it will only play from it for that 
 one track, it then automatically goes back to the generic bland music from the game. The other 
 problem I've had is the game has totally frozen up on me twice, I could be mid-race and have had 
 to totally reboot the system. Anyway, those 2 issues aside, as a whole this game is great, and 
 in my opinion will make a nice addition to any gaming fans racer collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipperputtfark
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This game is no good folks. It stinks! It stinks on ice! I was really hoping this thing would be 
 the 360 game I've been waiting for. Racing? Blowing S$%T up? What's not to love? Well, in point 
 of fact, all of it. Terrible controls and snoozefest gameplay make this one for the incinerator. 
 I hate it, my friends hate it, my wife hates it, all the reviewers I've read hate it. But maybe 
 you'll like it. It's hard to write 100 words, it really is. So here's several things I'd rather 
 do than plan this game. 1. Eat an entire jar of that peanut butter/jelly combo stuff. 2. practice 
 my spelling. 3. count the number of green hats I see on people over the course of an 8 hour day. 
 4. Raise goldfish and sell them to my neighbors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDiesel9x
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Racing + combat= FUN (lots of it!!!) It is the best of both worlds! Sega is totally commited to 
 providing great games for the 360! Condemned was fabulous and now, Full Auto is a great game! Very 
 innovative, fun and challenging with lots of content and a great multiplayer experience!! I believe 
 it is a must have title for the XBox 360!!! I personally feel thet the rating of 6.5 by Gamespot's 
 reviewer is not right and way too low for a great game like this!! We all have our opinions and 
 each is entitled to it but I totally DISAGREE with that rating! It has a fully destructible environment, 
 great rivals that are challenging and extremely fun to destroy with great automobile choices, great 
 weapons, and cool colors!!!! Nice replays, cool explosions, maximum damage and awesome jumps!!! 
 Its everything a racing game should be and more!! The only problem is the poor frame rate that 
 occasionally becomes a minor problem! Nothings perfect! 
  
  My Score: 8.8 great
  
  My Opinion: Must have title- money well spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rossdaboss777
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  wow i did not like the demo but the final game is great. you can destroy everythingand brind down 
 bridges and signs on the compitition. i think the reviews this game got are horrible. it is addictive 
 has tons of replay value with single player, live, leader boards, split screen and arcade mode. also 
 you can get upgrades for all the car in the game.
  
  speaking of live it is so much fun. no lag+8 players+huge cars and guns=huge fun!. mp is great 
 beacase you can host and find a game and invite friends very fast unlike call of duty 2. you can 
 also customize everthing on live
  
  this is the best game to get rid of your post lonch boredom!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpydonut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  This game is badly underrated. It is a very fun game once you get used to the driving. It has some 
 physics problems but if you get used to the driving then its really fun. I don't see why so many 
 people give this game a bad score. I wouldn't recommend that you just go and buy it right now cause 
 its a fun game and all but it might not be your slice of cake. Ever one is entitled to their own 
 opinions but I think its fun. It has great graphics and everything is literally destructive. It has 
 a fairly wide variety of weapons and cars so you can find which one you like best. the unwreck feature 
 is seamlessly integrated into game play and it works very well. Even though you might have to use 
 it a couple of times before you get out of that wreck it still is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thespiritoflife
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Well my overall impressions of this game is very mixed, while it has so much destruction that can 
 be addictive. The soundtrack bug is a huge problem cause it makes the feel get boring. The game 
 would be so much more exciting if u can play custom tracks. But thats not why this is a bad game, 
 its overall it will get boring after a while, when u destroy most of the stuff over and over and 
 get used to what your doing it can get a little repetitive. While people say online is hot. i played 
 it and it is pretty exciting,
  but unfortuatly it does get boring after a few times of playing it. 
  
  All this to say i would 
 definitly say this game is not worth the 60 bucks purchase, but if ur looking 4 a game to hold 
 u over till say burnout revenge 4 360, this might be the game 4 u. It does take mario kart kinda 
 style of play and implement it with a prince of persia burnout feel. It falls short is a alot of 
 area's. Please do yourself a favor and RENT it first before making any purchase ull be glad u did. 
 but pointing out those negatives their is positives. the game has incredible explosions and EVERYTHING 
 smashes and breaks and curropts and u get a feel like this is a future war battle racing game with 
 hot cars eating each other up in a frantice race of destruction. That s huge plus overall feel 
 of the game but after a while it will get tiring, this game was good while it last but the fact 
 of the matter is... it will die out fast. Sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genocide1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply: Full Auto is everyhting a video game should be.
  
  In the beginning of video games, there was no story-lines, or intense plots for the player to be 
 involved in. It was all for the sole purpose of entertainment. Full Auto has fast-paced, gut-busting 
 action that isn't found in every video game these days.
  
  Single Player 
  
  The two things the single player modes have on the multiplayer is the UnWreck and the intense slow-mo 
 zoom-ins on your recent victims/ one-touch replay. Unwreck is one of the best features in a video 
 game. This one touch-system prevent 90% of frustration in the game. So many racing games have I 
 played where I'm on teh home strech after a 10 minute race, only to slam into a barricade and come 
 to a complete stop. With Unwreck, no worries. Its a replay button like no other in the video game 
 world, and it works perfectly.
  
  For the most part, single player is much like the multiplayer of the game, but with objectives. 
 In the beginning, its hardly a challenge to achieve the Full Auto Gold medals, but as you continue, 
 it gives you some good objectives to work towards. The game constantly lowers the completion time 
 and raises the wreckage needed to win that Gold medal. This adds for replay value if you could 
 only manage the silver the first run-through.
  
  Lastly, the slow-mo close up of the carnage. This is great. For 2-3 seconds, the game zooms in 
 on the destruction and explosions you caused while destroying a competitor. And thats not even 
 the beginning. The one-touch replay option lets you got back and review the last half minute of 
 your race from any angle you want. You won't miss any of the action with this mode.
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  This is where you'll spend most of your time. Tehre is nothign like barreling 
 down the tracks, launching rockets, and seeing other players blow up, fly into the air, and slam 
 into a brick wall. This game is like no other with "Fun-Factor." I haven't played many games that 
 make me laugh with joy when I get a kill. I'm not saying its jut that rare and hard, it's just 
 that it is so awesome and mindblowing each time that it makes you come back for more. 
  
  The amount of objects strewn around the courses is breathtaking. Around every corner there is a 
 gas-station or highly explosive object ready to cause havoc to you, the city, and the other racers. 
 On top of that, each level will give you opportunites to get some high-ground on the action with 
 ramps and raised parts of road, letting you pounce or overtake your opponents from the air. 
  
  The variety in vehicles and weapon sets is perfect and will supply you with hours and hours 
 of great video gaming. Jump online, invite a friend, and have a great time. You'd have to be insane 
 to not at least try this game.
  
  Never before has a game been so satisfying. You feel the power when the fiery wreckage of your 
 opponent takes out a water tower. There are endless possibilities with this game. Try it, buy it, 
 and enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the review, it's not as bad as gamespot says it is, though it is NOT a masterpiece, 
 it has some good multiplayer functionality. 
  
  The game play: Its okay thats it. Okay how ever it does have a sort of guilty pleasure as to being 
 that you can destroy virtually anything on the screen. It supports multi player (Up to 8 players 
 on line) It is done pretty well, although there is always room for improvment it's a start. (If 
 this game does well I can see a sequel for this game) the game is pretty much average but it can 
 be fun if you think about how you want to rase havoc. It grows on you the more you play it, even 
 though it pretty straight forward, just drive and shoot.
  
  The graphics: Really good it mantains a steady (But not perfect) frame rate. But for the most part 
 it's 60 fps. Althought it does dip when a lot is happening on screen at once. (I can see this game 
 in the arcades in there hayday) A lot of realistic particle effects and exsplosions. This game 
 deffinately has a next gen coat of paint.
  
  The sound : though it nothing to write home about, it's not a complete wash either. Its average
 
  
  Value: Although it has some flaws the flaws don't out weight the fun this game could be. It does 
 have some replay value. And this is why.
  1 it worth checking out because it's now and fresh start to next- gen racing combat. This is the 
 type of game you have to play for yourself to decide if this game is a classic or another land 
 fill heap (Auh him ET!)
  2 Its a straight forward game thats all. no story, no fluff, just straight griddy destruction at 
 its finest. (this is not Burnout with guns!) It's its own game. This can be a streass releiver to 
 tie you over until Burnout revenge (360) releases. And even after it comes out you can battle online, 
 This in short is an online game more than anything else.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  love it or hate it, its hard to put down full auto. it really isnt even that fun! i spent 60$ and 
 120 mins. of my life buting this game but i down think it was worth it. Thus game still has its 
 features though. Low speed car chases seem alot faster when everything around you is exploding. 
 The AI isnt the greatest either. The graphics are O. K. but the fps drops down somtimes. The xbox 
 live is pretty fun, but some people dont even want to play and all they do is go backwards on the 
 tracks. overall this game diserves a rental. go get CoD2 if u dont have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best car combat games EVER!. Its better than any burnout game ever released. 
 I thunk Gamespot is wrong to give it a 6.9. it deserves a 9.5 or 9.0. Its one of the best game 
 to come out on the XBOX 360. I think Gamespot is wrong just like in some of the other games they 
 review. Its great online. Its just flat-out a good game. if you have a 360 you should be dumb if 
 you dont buy this game its great. Many of the review I have read are wrong they just are not smart 
 in rating their games. Because this game is one of the best games out on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwk80
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  You are better off buying absolutely any other game than this... by far the worst game to come 
 out for the 360 so far..... gameplay sucks... graphics sucks.... and framerate problems make it 
 uplayable at times.... in fact there is absolutely nothing good about this game in any way for 
 or shape.... dont get what sega or microsfot was thinking promoting this game as much as they have, 
 has no one at all play tested this game??
  Anyways long story short just wait for Burnout to come out for the xbox 360 which isnt far away, 
 just a couple of months.... or if you absolutely need a racer really really bad grab the old burnout 
 for xbox or ps2, or stick to the good old tried and tested and brilliant racers like PGR3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  *Update* After playing Burnout Revenge, this game is complete crap. I didn't realize right away 
 how the sense of speed, or lack there of, really hinder this game. The only thing this game does 
 right it the shooting
  
  Pros: It has guns, muscle cars, and is very destructable.... thats where the fun ends.
  
  Cons: 
 **UPDATE**: Forgot to mention, frame rate can be CRAP!!! First of all, THE FREE FACEPLATE WITH 
 PREORDER WAS A HOAX. "While supplies last"... the supplies to my local Gamestop was 3 faceplates!!!! 
 THANKS FOR NOTHING SEGA!!! Graphics can be down right nasty on very rare occasion. One instance 
 that comes to mind.... in one part of the game you drive through a burning house. The fire graphics, 
 and destruction effects (debry falling down) are very good. But the over all look of the inside 
 of the house, mixed with very poor shadow effects make it look HORRIBLE.... like your playing a 
 N64 game for 2 seconds on every lap of that course. Sometimes the burn marks on the car, especially 
 on windows, look very fake. That stuff, and a broken front menu... and thats about it for cons.
 
  
  Final Word: Alot of cons, not many pros. Buy Burnout instead!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aarong1174
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  It is a GOOD game, and can be very fun in spurts, especially online. The graphics are good, sound 
 is good, controls are easy to pickup and the gameplay can be AWESOME. And If you have an HDTV with 
 surround sound then your in for a real treat....... There are of course a few problems with the 
 game, the framerate chugs now an then, there is some popup, the sense of speed could be a little 
 faster and more variety of tracks and gametypes online would have been nice as well........... 
 Unfortunately I think this game may have been overhyped too much which is why the press is giving 
 it such average reviews. I think this game is definitely worth $60 if you plan on playing online, 
 If not........ then try and wait till you can find it for about $40...... But all in all this is 
 a pretty fun game, and the reason we play games to begin with. Most people will enjoy it to some 
 extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEEREAL187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  FULL AUTO DEMO SUCKED BIG TIME !! BUT FULL AUTO THE GAME IS ONE OF THE MOST FUN TIMES I HAD PLAYING 
 A GAME IN A VERY LONG TIME. TO ALL THE BAD REVIEWS I UNDERSTAND WERE THERE COMING FROM , BUT ONE 
 THING EVERYONE NEEDS TO DO IS STOP JUDGING AND START HAVING FUN WITH GAMES AGAIN. LETS FACE IT 
 25 TO LIFE AND 50 CENT BULLETPROOF WERE BAD BUT I LOT OF PEOPLE BOUGHT THESE GAMES . WHY ( BECAUSE 
 FOR SOME REASON OR ANOTHER THEY WERE FUN) THIS IS THE GAMING WORLD WERE LIKE IN HOLLYWOOD ,WE THE 
 PEOPLE MAKES THE HITS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  With PGR3 and NFSMW, Full Auto falls behind.
  
  I didn't buy Full Auto, but I got a chance to experience it right after its release. While this 
 game packs new car shooting power, the flashy substance does not hook the gamer. Like many racing 
 games, pick up the controller and your automatically as good as your buddy by just knowing the 
 buttons and jamming the throttle. Pros of this game are mostly in the fact you can blast your opponents... but 
 the fact it contains the same basic package as most racing game, there is not enough to make this 
 one stand out of the pack. Full Auto is more likely a good weekend rent, than worth 50 dollars. 
 Now maybe when the price drops, Full Auto might be a pick up, but not right now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumori3
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  i first played this game in a video games store in london. i had been watchin some other guy play 
 it for some time and i thought it looked very good. i first played a two player elimination and 
 as soon as i picked up the controller i realised it was not as good as it looked. the handling 
 of the cars was extremely annoying and unrealistic. the car looked like it was about to leave the 
 ground. when you were driving you have to press three buttons at once to shoot, drive and brake. 
 but on the other hand the destruction in the game is second to none. every single piece of the 
 environment can be totally destroyed. for example if you hit a building at speed, the walls will 
 cave in and the rubble will be strewn across the street. but the car damage is no where near as 
 good as burnout revenge; the door and wheels come off and the car gets dented, but the car dissappointingly 
 doesnt get crushed into a cube. full auto has elements that burnout doesnt. but, it doesnt have 
 the ones that count in a racing game.
  
  kumori3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkury622
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of arcade style games (racers especially) , I'm having alot of fun with Full Auto. The 
 driving isn't as enjoyable as Burnout, but the shooting and destruction makes up for alot of that. 
 If the developer had spent more time stabilizing the framerate and adding to the fairly barren 
 presentation, I think this game would have rated much higher.
  
  I haven't played much of driving/shooting games in the past. My most recent experience would be 
 Twisted Metal on the PSP, which I rented and played for about 15 minutes. The arena style matches 
 just bored me very quickly. I know many people have complained about not having an arena mode in 
 this game. I would agree that an arena mode would have expanded the multiplayer and made a positive 
 addition, but I really enjoy the shooting aspect within the context of a race. I just think the 
 game is just more fast paced and visceral when you are chasing someone down or someone is chasing 
 you.
  
  As for the music, I listened to all the techno tracks from the website and enjoy them all. I like 
 this style of techno music and it fits the gameplay quite well, but your opinion will largely be 
 based on personal music preferences. With the default audio settings, it can be difficult to hear 
 the music while playing, but adjustments can be made inside or outside of a race. Sometimes I turn 
 the sound effects all the way down to enjoy the music while driving. The sound of the cars are 
 fairly realistic and differ from car to car. The weapons sounds great as well, though the actual 
 explosions made by those weapons just aren't lound enough.
  
  Speaking of driving, it's very arcadey and easy to pick up though it doesn't compare with the driving 
 and handling in Burnout. My only real complaint is the dependency on the hand brake to negotiate 
 most turns. I end up fishtailing and slamming side ways into a wall on some of the most drastic 
 turns... unless I slow down a bit. Overall, the driving controls could have been tighter, but for 
 the most part they're still accessible and fun. 
  
  I think the graphics are well done. The cars look sharp, offering some good detail, and the environments 
 look good as well.. especially when blowing up. I enjoy the overall visual style of the game. I 
 only wish the framerate was more stable. At last year's E3, Cord Smith from Pseudo Interactive 
 promised 60 FPS locked... but that just isn't the case. You'll see plenty of fluctuation during 
 moments of heavy destruction... and in certain areas of certain tracks.... which is disappointing 
 for a game that was held back 3 months from lauch.
  
  The weapons are alot of fun to use and satisfying... and there are enough weapon sets to offer some 
 variety and strategy. You can select from machine guns, shotguns, mines, grenades, missiles, rockets, 
 and cannons in preset configurations. I wish you could create your own weapon combinations, but 
 I suppose that could create balance issues. Each weapon has 3 levels of power, which you can adjust 
 after completing about half of the career mode.
  
  I have to say I like the variety of cars, from sports cars to tuners to heavy trucks. The cars 
 are broken up into 4 classes: A (faster, less durable) , B (middle of the road) , C (slower, more durable) , 
 and S (just the warlord, the uber-vehicle) . The cars are all rated on durability, speed, and handling. 
 There is difference in these ratings between cars even within a single car class, allowing for 
 some variety in the driving.
  
  There is an average number of tracks in the game, about twelve. Some tracks are only available 
 for certain race types, such as Circuit or Point-To-Point. The tracks fall into four main themes: 
 city, loading docks, canyons, and freeway. For the most part, the tracks are fun to drive and offer 
 a good number of shortcuts, jumps, and alternate paths which adds some replay value and variety. 
 As mentioned earlier, some of the tracks do have areas where the framerate consistantly drops, 
 causing a general slowing of the game and pop ups in certain parts of the environment .
  
  Some of the unique features of this game work well for the most part. The one touch replay allows 
 you to pause in the middle of a race and see the last few moments. The interface is easy to use. 
 The camera stays focused on your car, but you can zoom the camera in and out, and move the camera 
 to different points around the car. You can watch the replay in slow, fast, or normal speeds. Unfortunately, 
 there is no way to save your replays for later viewing. Overall the unwreck feature is simple to 
 use and effective in races. There were a few times when I tapped the unwreck button and the game 
 kept rewinding after i let go, which caused frustration a few times.
  
  The single player career mode is structured much like PGR 3, with races separated into small groups 
 of 3 to 6 matches, each with a different theme such as Rampages, Time Trials, Gang Wars, or Pink 
 Slips. The variety in missions is decent, but there are no cutscenes or anything to explain why 
 you are racing. The presentation is rather barren. It's a little disappointing, but since this 
 is a racing game, presentation isn't one of the most important aspects to me. 
  
  For single player, you also have the option of Arcade mode where you can select a race type, a 
 track, a car, and a weapon set along with a few options such as number of opponents, AI difficulty, 
 and number of laps. I found the Lap Knockout races to be very enjoyable because they can last as 
 long as seven laps, extending the fun of battling with the AI which puts up a pretty good fight 
 even on the lowest difficulty.
  
  The online multiplayer is very enjoyable with up to 7 other people to battle. The track, car, and 
 weapon options are similar to those found in the arcade mode. The framerate drops exist online 
 as they do offline, but there are no significant problems with lag. 
  
  Overall, this is a very fun arcade driving/shooting game. The only glaring flaw is the inconsistant 
 framerate, which is becoming all too common place in games these days (this is not a good thing) . 
 Despite that problem, this is a game that most racing or shooting fans should at give a chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Brilliant game. I recommend any one who likes fast paced games to get this game. Graphics are wicked. 
 The frame rate can get a bit choppy at times but its not a major problem. This is one of the best 
 xbox 360 games out yet. Although this game is very expensive its still worth it. If your not sure 
 you going to like it then rent it first. This game is nearly as good as need for speed most wanted 
 but not quite. I hope there is a sequel. If you like the need for speed series then you will definetely 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richardtr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game rocks!!!! Don't judge it by the demo. The real deal is online! LOL-FUN!!! I've been ready 
 for this effort since E3. After mediocre reviews so far, I was not about to pick it up. But, then 
 I thought about it. PGR3 + Unreal Tournament = Full Auto. What more can you ask for?? I've been 
 needing something a little more Twisted Metalish for the longest time and Head On was the only 
 option. I am sooo glad I picked it up. 
  
  For an extreme rush you MUST set your view to first person with the guns showing. During a race 
 this feature is the single most unbelievable experience I've had in a loooong time. Words cannot 
 even begin to describe it. Hilarious fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacizzyizzle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is very immersive while you are playing. Raises you're blood pressure whil racing. When 
 the race is over with however, it feels as if there could be more to it then you had just experienced. 
 Like Adam Parrera said on Attack Of The Show "It feels like your vehicle is floating" that's the 
 only thing that brings this game down. The control of the car feels weird, as if you are hovering 
 it about. Other than that its fun, definately worth $60. It's a shoot em up' car combat game, with 
 reply value out of the roof. Who dosen't want that? 
  
  Graphics- Not so good, looks all weird Good enough for a racing game. You're shooting so much stuff 
 you really don't notice.
  
  Vehicle Control- HORRIBLE!!
  
  Replay value- High. Because you can't do the same thing twice in this game. The unwreck feature 
 is cool. Plus XBOX LIVE.
  
  Things it could have had- Licsensed vehicles. More versatility on the maps. More weapons. A sense 
 of speed.
  
  All in all fun game worth the money. Just not a groundbreaking combat game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrickedOutPc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto was so hyped and took so long and now its finaly here, but it sucks. First the graphics 
 there not 360 there ps2 at best. The framerate is bad and the sense of speed isen't there. I am 
 glad I diden't buy it I played it at a friends. nothing new here. save your money for the next 
 burnout for the 360. If this game was on sale for like 19.99 I might buy it. and if you preordered 
 like my friend the faceplate is pretty nice. I really thought they had somthing good here all hype 
 for a bad game. I really wanted it to do great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlawtorn32
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for a few months , however was disappointed in the demo 
 released last month. The frame rate was very choppy and I found it annoying and nearly unplayable... but 
 I am quite desperate for some fresh 360 action and took a chance and picked this up anyway hoping 
 the game would be smoothed out a bit. It was and Full Auto provides some fun arcady action but 
 will not blow you away by any means. Nearly everything is destructable and most of the time I felt 
 almost out of control with so much happening on the screen at once . Nearly , but not quite out 
 of control ,and I think thats why I have fun with this game and its on the edge action. Its not 
 very deep... unlockable tracks , cars , ect... but it is pretty much what I expected it to be and 
 I do not regret the purchase for fans of the genre (All thirty of us) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holybork
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  After seeing so many luke-warm reviews of this game, I have to ask myself this: Have we really 
 been playing the same game?
  
  Since the game was released a week earlier in Europe, I've been able to put some time into this 
 game now, and I feel very few of the complaints I see directed at this game really apply to me.
 
  
  The most ridiculous complaints so far are the ones that complain about the lack of backstory. I 
 mean, it's a car game. Would PGR3 be any better with a story? Gran Turismo? Nope. You race and 
 you blow **** up. Car games are supposed to be shallow.
  
  Others have complained about lack of game modes. And I'll give them some credit... but most suggested 
 additions would remove the race aspect and just create a bloody heap of mayhem in a small area, 
 something that never has a good impact of performance. Playing a lot of split screen, we have edited 
 the criteria to win ourselves to getting the most kills. Playing like this with a Warlord each 
 against a full set of class A vehicles is a really different experience from a normal race, almost 
 approaching the classic beauty that is Burnout's Road Rage. While it would be fun to have a timed 
 mode where you do the same against "civilian" cars, this games offers plenty enough for a first 
 game in a new franchise. I can't see any car game that really offers more variety in the area of 
 gameplay, it's a racer game, and just adding guns to it doesn't magically demand 40 types of gameplay 
 that a normal game like PGR3 and Gran Turismo doesn't have. The only game I can think of that offers 
 more is the Burnout games, but they're at the 4th iteration now... and doesn't really add that 
 much beyond the crash mode (still... you just gotta love it) .
  
  The one valid concern is the framerates, that at times can get rather obvious slowdowns, especially 
 in split screen when two Warlords equipped with missiles and rockets wreak havoc on the environment 
 and any cars that happens to get caught up in it. But these occasions aren't that common as many 
 reviews gives the impression of. Maybe I as an old time computer gamer have a higher toleration 
 level for this, but the framerate is mostly completely enjoyable and steady. Sure there's drop, 
 but they do very seldom be long or low enough to affect gameplay at all. The few times they do, 
 they usually makes the game easier... which might be of concern to some.
  
  This games offers plenty of fun in the form of great cars, great tracks, great guns and awesome 
 destruction. I'm not sure what game the reviewers have played, but the one I got in the mail was 
 the most addicting 360 title so far. Anybody that has experienced the adrenaline built up at the 
 end of a challenge when you have enough score for a Full Auto medal, no shields left, and a car 
 armed with missiles just on your tail, should agree that this game is fun as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrestlingdude
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  SInce yesterday the 14th, I've been playing FULL AUTO (non-stop) and I don't plan on stopping now. 
 I'll make this quick: Full Auto is not a bad game, the controls are great, the unwreck option is 
 mastered, and the destruction is inovative. 
  
  Depending on who you are, you will either like it or dislike (No in betweens) .
  
  Put simply:
 
  
  -If you don't like racers (Period) : "you will love this game." (I hate racers, but Burnout and 
 now Full Auto are the only two I will ever touch, unless another destructable racer comes down 
 the road later)
  
  -If you love Racers: You probably want to rent this game first, because I know some racer freeks 
 can be picky, so for you racer fans out there, I see a 50/50 chance of you liking it or disliking 
 it.
  
  So in short, the graphics I can't mark down as a negative, it looks absolutly superb in High-Def, 
 and the gameplay as far as the racing aspect goes (with full destruction and unwreck) I have to 
 say is not disapointing. The music is Okay, but the sound affects are great, and the Career mode 
 does get repetitive, but the only reason I would recommend going through career mode is so you 
 can unlock all the tracks, vehicles, and weapons, that way when you race with a friend, it will 
 be much more enjoyable. And you can watch his jaw drop when he destroys planks, cranes, gas trucks, 
 gas stations, mini-malls, casinos, decks, signs, trees, or big fat brick walls that collapse like 
 a falling elevator.
  
  For those who have only enjoyed Burnout, but hate standard racers... You SHOULD purchase this game 
 without a second guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay if you think that every xbox 369 game is going to be a great awesome game then you are wrong. 
 Yes this game looks good but looks arent everything. Hard to control and gets repetitive after 
 awhile. Maybe a rental, it has an okay online play but nothing to bring home to mom. If you read 
 my blogs you already know how i feal about the 360 and all of its hype. Just like Perfect Dark 
 Zero this game falls on its face. Now i will say that the 1st pdf was a great game, kinda funny 
 how instead of getting better it got worse. Sorry SEGA but you failed this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4X6X9
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto may have its downs.... but when it gets its ups they just keep on giving it. full auto 
 is the most destructible game ever. its a Twisted Metal. and a Burnout combine. making it into 
 Full Auto. there are so many things to do with your car. and there are lots of stuff to do in the 
 career mode. this game just got's so much and the graphics are 1 of the best today. the explosions 
 on HDTV is the best thing to come yet. no other game like this can beat it. Full Auto is my pick 
 and it should also be yours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  When you mix Twisted Metal, BurnOut and the looks of a Need For Speed game... you get this tasty 
 little formula... called FULL AUTO
  
  if you're tierd of those "bump em' around" racers or those "sim street" races and would like to 
 try something new? get the game Full Auto, i trully beleive alot of people writing reviews on this 
 game are just dissapointed in the fact it IS a bit difficult, and its a change of pace, which if 
 hat wasent the case, all the need for speeds wouldent get such high ratings 
  
  Graphicly, YES it is very nice to look at but there are some slow down problems but hey? its the 
 first few games the 360's getting so for the game to only have graphicly slow down here and there 
 is basicly a blessing, the audio track problem? never heard of it, i love blasting Offspring while 
 playing =D
  
  Slow down feature is something i rarely ever use, but its not something im going to lower the rating 
 of this game for... unlike Gamespot, which would of lowerd the rating if the game DID not come with 
 it so its a double edged sword.
  
  over all, IT IS A CHANGE OF PACE, and brings a whole new spin on Burnout and Twisted Metal games, 
 its a breath of fresh air and IS worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatzombie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is a rush. When your playing it everything comes at you so fast and it is just great. 
 All the destructible levels are VERY nice you can make your own shortcuts which is awesome. If 
 you are not a fan of racing games you will probably still like this game. Why go through the hastle 
 of having to rack when you can just blow your opponents away. This game is a love it or a hate 
 it. But it is defiantly worth renting. This game is one of the best games i have for my xbox 360 
 and i just love it i say go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple6e1999
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't agree more with Gamespot's score. This game isnt that good at all. The only time the 
 graphics look good is before and after the races. While your racing it looks like a xbox/ps2 game. 
 The time reverse feature has be the dumbest part of this game, you blow up way to fast but it really 
 doesnt matter if you blow up or people around you because your just goin to rewind so why even 
 blow up??.... Yeah. Burntout: Revenge on the 360 will destroy Full auto with out any Guns and Full 
 Auto will not be able to Rewind. Rent this first or play a demo before you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petegrrrr
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out well enough, but by the second hour of playtime you realize the frame rate 
 is never getting better, and your doing the exact same thing you were at the begining. It's twisted 
 metal with a better story mode and a terrible frame rate. It also doesn't really look like it belongs 
 on a next gen system. It just looks like a nice xbox title. I was dissapointed in the repetitive 
 action and just bizzarely slow feeling gameplay.
  
  It plays well on xbox live, but the frame rate gets even worse, so your basically just stuttering 
 around. You occasionally find yourself way off course after a particularly nasty jag of frame lapse 
 sends you ten feet ahead of where you should be. Its fun for a while, but ultimately its very very 
 frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnexus3372x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, period. The unwreck feature can be a constant lifesaver. It saves me in many 
 races, often between victory and 7th place. Full Auto is put together flawlessly. The modes and 
 features are not hard to control and the carnage is non-stop. If you are one of those people who 
 sit in 5:00 traffic wondering what it would be like to take every car in front of you down, then 
 this is the game from you. The mode that fits you is called rampage -- the traffic is fairly non-stop 
 and you have an unlimited supply of rockets and bullets. When developers say that the entire city 
 is wreckable -- it is. Every building can be wiped off the face of the earth -- and you get points 
 for doing that. The weapons are very balanced and you can easily adapt between them to suit the 
 race and your liking. They did not cut any turns in the game -- at all. They did not skip any aspect 
 or flaw. The fps does drop, at times, due to 6 explosions going on at once, in the 4 hrs I have 
 played it has dropped around 4 times -- if that. The drop is still not capable of affecting gameplay. 
 The AI is great -- though there is no difficulty setting, the game does not need it, the AI have 
 spurts of incredible feats and unimaginable manuevers, moments later they trip over a rock. This 
 game, like most, is what you make out of it. I have made it an experience like no other, constant 
 explosions and carnage -- just the way I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnjoiMangos218
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything that you need in a racing game. I see it as a burnout meets twisted metal 
 and throw in some rampage while your at it. The guns dont have to be used to kill but to destroy 
 the very buildings around you. 
  
  The multi player online is insane (if only call of duty had a lobby like this one) it is one of 
 the best set ups for a lobby easy to use and find tons of game but i have noticed that if the host 
 is losting the server will go down cause the host is a wimp and cant stand to lose in his own game 
 lol but all and all i love this game even if it gets mixed reviews i would say its worth the money 
 
  
  EnjoiMangos out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briandap
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It's fun, addicting and has better graphics and gameplay than the demo!
  
  I've unlocked a lot of achievement points already!
  
  Definitely recommended if you like 
 racing with a twist. I tend to think regular racing is boring but throw some guns in and it adds 
 a new element. I recommend! The graphics seemed to have a somewhat serious overhaul from the demo 
 released not too long ago. I've only played a game or 2 on Live so far and it was entertaining.
 
  
  The only problem is that it said my Network connection wasn't sufficient to host any games and 
 locks it out. Bummer, I think it's my router though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the trailer of this game i immediatly pre-ordered it.
  I love these games, because they are just aimed at fun, and not revolutionary things (which most 
 of the time fail by today's standards) .
  I've waited two months since that day, and finally got the game 2 days ago.
  
  First thing 
 i want to say is that the negativity of this game is just unheard of.
  I can't understand why 80% of the "gamers" flame the game because 
  they released an early ALPHA 
 build of this game.
  Ofcourse it has issues, but it's just to give us a taste of WHAT it is.
  People judged as if 
 it was the final build, "bad graphics, bad gameplay,
  bad game". If you don't like this "genre", get over it, and don't annoy us
  people who like it.
 
  
  This game is NOT bad, it has a small group of fans, that's all.
  
  As for the game, i've played it alot these few days, and i've laughed my
  as$ off most of the 
 time. It's not very big, but that's okay since most 
  short games have a good pick up and play thing, just like this one.
  The graphics are better 
 then people tell you, specially while running on an
  HD-TV, but even on an standard television it looks truly great.
  
  The music fits the game 
 well, with Drum and Bass and Metal, it reminds
  me of the soundtracks of Vigilante 8 and Twisted Metal.
  Soundtrack you can listen on the official 
 site if you're remotely interested.
  
  Thing i like most is the gameplay; that's because it's simple, and it
  does not require 14 different 
 buttons to make a nice trick.
  Just boost up a ramp, (with half your car) , and see the car flip in the air.
  Use boost in the 
 air, to make it fly, and you've got lmao material.
  You even have an instant replay feature! How cool is that?
  
  Nice touch of this game is the 
 "Unwreck" feature, which makes your faults
  instantly vanish by turning back time. It doesn't only come in handy, but 
  it looks damn cool 
 too. The game only consists out of races, so don't 
  expect an vigilante 8 "shoot everyone that moves" style.
  One thing this game is NOT is "Burnout 
 with guns".
  Burnout is overrated in my opinion. It's nice, but not 9-worthy.
  
  Full Auto is great for the fans of these games, but is "bad" (As they
  say) , for the people who 
 don't. If you liked Vigilante 8 and Twisted Metal,
  you really don't want to miss this out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  This game is brillient on single player but on xbox live it is truly something special. I love 
 this game, the graphics are fine, the detail is great and pysics are awsome. The weaponry on the 
 game is also good with a wide range of cannon's, missiles, machine guns and shotguns on offer it 
 will suit every fps owner. I think that the only problem is that it CAN be boring if you get a 
 rubbish room online, because it tottally ruins the whole expireance. I think overall its a must 
 have for any 360 owner. I think that this totally beats burnout in every way shape or form, its 
 a truly a classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ni1991ck
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  What was I thinking? I gave this game a 10 and I am sorry for doing so. Game looked good, but never 
 filled out. : ( I tohught I lvoed this game at first, but was fighting myself to play it. Oh well, 
 its going to sit in the collection bin now. Aka. garbage. Maybe one day this game will get popular, 
 as a frisbee. Not much else to do with it. I can't believe I gave it a 10..... ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha haha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha haha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha haha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  i gotta admit i like some driving games, outrun 2 for example, i kinda like Burnout, i kinda like 
 wrecked... trying to think what others.... i also like most of the Futuristic Racers out there.... except 
 wipeout fusion and pure, gimme Magforce Racing, XG3, Fzero GX or Ballistics over wipeout, but getting 
 back to full auto.... this game in my opinion blows the original Xbox title Wreckless 100,000 miles 
 out of the water and into a supernova into the sun..... this game is superfast, the action level 
 is manic......... controls are easy to pick up and play.... especially if you've played outrun 2 
 before.... i'd have given this game 10 out of 10, if only the live downloaded demo didn't crash 
 when you're in the heat of the action..... but this aside full auto isn't original but it's hella 
 fun to play... maybe when i play the full version of the game i'll give it a 10 for total fun to 
 play
  
  Just as an update for this game, yes... i stand by what i said, Full Auto is a Riot to play and 
 for all you action/adrenaline junkies looking for a speed rush/speed fix, oh and this game didn't 
 crash like the demo did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is overrated. I had high expectations for this game but they sadly were not fullfilled. 
 
  
  The problem is that the developers have put too much emphasis n the destruction and not enough 
 on tha driving. And thats essentially what this game is. A driving game. The developers have tried 
 to develop the destruction more than the driving. Big mistake. 
  
  The cars handle like a cross between ridge racer and true crime streets of l. a. Yes i know. 
 
  
  But perhaps i am being too harsh on this.... game. It has some decent cars and weapons. Ahh the weapons. Combat 
 is the one thing this game does well. There is nothing more satisfying than blowing up that rival 
 that just overtook you. 
  
  Sadly the combat is not enough to make up for the attrocious driving. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonColioni
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Only one way to describe this game: Micro Machines on Acid
  
  Yes you heard me right, Micro Machines on Acid. Those classic little cars with hammers and pincers. 
 Give those dinky lil' cars a bit of acid and they turn into huge gas guzzling machines with a variety 
 of destructive weapons from machine guns to cannons to replace those hammers and pincers.
  
  From the moment I started playing this game, I knew I was gonna be hooked. What could be more 
 fun ravaging other cars with your car thats armed to the clutch pedal. The game play is real good, 
 if not a little repetitive, but it does shake things up a bit by only letting you pick certain 
 cars and certain weapons. One thing I love about the game is the Unwreck feature, allowing you 
 to correct your last mistake, be it missing a ramp and hitting a wall, running over a mine or killing 
 a team mate in the Gang Wars mission. The graphics of the game are superb, with the near fully 
 destructible landscape and the effects of bullets / missiles / rockets on cars. Another thing I 
 noticed is the reflections on the cars bonnet, you can see the right reflections as you pass certain 
 landmarks.
  
  As much as this game is very addictive and so much fun to play, it does have its down-sides. The 
 first thing is the frame rate, this may just be the PAL version but the killcam really does slow 
 down the game and become very joggy. Secondly, it is very short. I've nearly completed the game 
 (only got one more race left) and I only been playing it around 6 hours. 
  
  All in all, this game is a good game. I suggest going out and buying it, I just don't believe it's 
 worth the whopping price tag of next-gen games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is the mediator to tie us over until the Massive March Maddness Release. It has an okay 
 singleplayer, but it does get repetetive after a while, but still is fun just to go back and do 
 something different after completing the singleplayer completely.
  
  The game has a great multiplayer because your enemies actually know how to fight aggressively and 
 know what to do in certain positions of the races. Yeah, some who played Need For Speed say "This 
 game requires no skill to manuever around the track." This game isnt meant to be a driving simulator 
 with guns, if you want that go pick up Need For Speed, which that game gets super repetetive after 
 about 5 hours of gameplay.
  
  The music is pretty bad and the best song is the song in the demo, but that is the enire purpose 
 why there are custom soundtracks on Xbox 360. Some complain that all you hear is your guns, well 
 thats because your songs arent loud enough, if you want a good song go for 'Ride', it has a good 
 racing beat to it and it is loud enough to overpower the sounds of your guns. 
  
  All in all, this game is underappreciated and deserves an 8.8. (Especially because they give you 
 a pretty cool looking faceplate for just buying the game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoylAsult
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best action packed games i have played in a while. it drives like crazy taxi, 
 with twisted medal weapons, and crash scenes like burnout. what else could you ask for? this game 
 is defiantly worth the money. The online for this game is the best one for the 360. every game 
 you play is fun. defiantly worth the money.... This game brings a whole new genre to the 360. This 
 is one of the best party games in a while. get a group of friends and play this in the same house 
 or on XBL, you will have so much fun. this game brings big laughs.
  
  so check it out you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerrilove4788
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This really is an amazing game. Speed, looks, firepower and a decent soundtrack. THeres something 
 really satisfying running around with a shotgun and a cannon, driving inround and blowing the hell 
 out of EVERYTTHING. For those who played the demo and didn't like it, the actual game is a lot 
 better.
  
  The unwreck feature brings a lot more depth to the racing as well, and the online is a lot better 
 than you might think it might be as well.
  
  Only problems is the fact that the game is failrly short to finish, but to get all full Auto medals 
 may take a little while. The only other thing missing is the ability to choose your own weapons, 
 as they come in preset combinations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auralxtc
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game is Ridge Racer with guns. The physics are terrible and its not even that fun. Its almost 
 wants to be Twisted Metal, but it just isnt. 
  
  The worst part of the game is the gameplay itself. there really isnt any skill to getting your 
 car around the track. 
  
  The graphics are okay, but they are definitely not what i would concider "Next Gen" I was pretty 
 excited when i initially read about this game, but now that i have played it, it is just terrible.
 
  
  The music is annoying and repetitive. all you really hear is your machine gun going off .... great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkangelsa
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  ok back round: im in the uk so we got full auto on the 10 feb and i decided i would get the game, 
 i hated the demo but i thought i would give this game a chance. im not giong to give you a full 
 review but the short version.
  
  ok this game is mindless fun. thats all there is no skill to this, at all the cars handle like 
 ridge racer, you can power side round most corners and hardly use the breck. most ppl on gamespot 
 were saying the game felt slow and had no speed the truth is they are right the class C and B cars 
 are slow as they come, but once you get to class a or s that all changes, 
  
  the wepons play a huge part of the game as there are about 6 set for everyones best way to blow 
 something up, all have weak points and helps to blance the game.
  
  its not the longest game it has about 10 hours of game play when you get all the gold medels, most 
 of the gs comes throw the career and theres a good mix for the online play as well.
  
  the online play is fun could have been alot better with the ideas the game has but still fun, the 
 grafics are good not great in anyway but for a game were you can blow anything up at anytime and 
 so much happing on screen it pulls that of well, the frame rate can hang sometimes but that might 
 be because my 360 was on all day.
  
  all in all this is just midless fun. is it worth the full asking price? NO
  
  its good to rent 
 or 2nd hand but it wont tie you down for long but for pick up and play its a ton of fun.
  
  in my books it gets a 7.4
  
  please mind my spelling and gramer, my english is not that good 
 ( im south african)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecroft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  Is it me or is this one of the most coolest games every made, i mean seriorsly its just brillant. 
 If you play it using the bonnet view it plays like a first person shooter racer. People will compare 
 it with Burnout but it isn't anything like Burnout, its not so much about speed but more about 
 tactics. I was suprised of how much tactics was involved in the game. You really have to plan attacks 
 and being first dosn't allways mean that you will come first. What I found about the game was the 
 way that its better to be behind another driver then it is to be infrount of them. If your infrount 
 you have an higher chance of being taken out whereas the car in frount can only drop bombs to slow 
 or destroy the car tailing them, this leads to many accounts of trying to stay slightly behind 
 the car infrount but at the time trying to beat him. The game plays very, very well online with 
 little or at most accounts no lag at all, this is amazing when you look at how much is going on 
 the screen at once. The graphics are superb (play it on a HD or VGA setup) and the sound is spot 
 on, if you have a decent surround sound with sub turn it up and listen to the sound of the guns 
 and engines of the cars in the game. I play the demo a liked it but when I played the full finshed 
 game I was shocked of how much better and how complete the game is. Sega are on to a very good 
 thing here and if they play there cards right they could turn Full Auto into a leading series of 
 games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
