-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fuzion Frenzy 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/fuzionfrenzy2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good selection of minigames.
 Online support.
 Tournaments rely more on skill than luck.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames can be too familiar at times.
 Erratic AI opponents.
 Terrible, terrible host.
 Card system doesn't always work intuitively.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 5.2, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 757 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Hudson Soft
Genre: Party
Date: Jan 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its minigame format is a well-worn one, but the inclusion of online play in Fuzion Frenzy 2 gives 
 the game an edge. 

  Aside from its own Bomberman franchise, Japanese developer Hudson is probably most well known in 
 recent years for developing the Mario Party games for Nintendo. Rather than try to emulate the 
 successful Mario Party franchise as it did with the original Fuzion Frenzy, Microsoft has gone 
 straight to the source for Fuzion Frenzy 2, having recruited Hudson itself to develop this Xbox 
 360 party-game sequel. Fuzion Frenzy 2 doesn't brim with recognizable mascot characters as the 
 Mario Party games do; instead, it opts for a clumsy gameshow theme that features one of the most 
 irritating in-game voice-overs in recent memory. The presentation can be generic and awkward at 
 times, but the 40-plus minigames included are pretty varied and fun. Perhaps more importantly, 
 Fuzion Frenzy 2 strips away a lot of the arbitrary reversals of fortune that have turned the Mario 
 Party franchise into a bit of a game of chance.  

          The only reason the title Fuzion Frenzy 2 makes any sense is that it's the sequel to Fuzion 
 Frenzy.     

  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is essentially a collection of minigames that, on their own, will have a pretty 
 familiar feel to anyone who's spent time with the original Fuzion Frenzy or any other similar party 
 games. The quality of games like this is usually dictated by the quality of their minigames, and 
 Fuzion Frenzy 2 has a good selection that doesn't vary too much in quality. There are callbacks 
 to the original Fuzion Frenzy as you roll around in giant  American Gladiator  balls trying to 
 bump each other off a shrinking platform; attempt to bludgeon each other with gigantic hammers; 
 or run circles around a giant rotating platter while ducking under and jumping over laser beams. 
 You'll also have to outrun giant waves of lava, ride around on a variety of crazy robots, dodge 
 giant pinballs, and more. There are definitely some repeats, but they still cover a good range 
 of game types, with the button mashers and the games that test raw reaction times being the most 
 enjoyable. The minigames are usually pretty intuitive and are preempted with a succinct explanation 
 before they start; though, if you're still not sure what's going on, you can opt for a practice 
 round before you commit.  

  The tournament mode, which has been halfheartedly made to seem like an intergalactic gameshow, 
 serves as the primary gameplay mode in Fuzion Frenzy 2. In the tournament mode, there are seven 
 different planets, each with an obvious theme and a unique set of minigames associated with it. 
 There's elemental stuff like the ice planet, the lava planet, and the water planet, as well as 
 the machine planet, the casino planet, a black-hole planet, and good ol' Earth. The tournament 
 mode is structured so that you'll go to a planet and play a number of minigames, earning points 
 based on how you perform, and the player with the highest score at the end of the round effectively 
 wins that planet. The competition then moves on to the planet of the winner's choosing, and it 
 goes on like this until one player reaches a predetermined number of planets won. You can choose 
 to set the win limit anywhere between two and five planets, though that doesn't really determine 
 the actual length of your game. Tournaments with a two-planet limit can get swept up by one player 
 in less than 10 minutes, and they can also turn into grueling tooth-and-nail fights that go on 
 for more than an hour. A tournament with a five-planet win limit could easily go on forever, like 
 a bad game of Risk.  

  All four players are given cards at the start of the game and can earn extra cards based on performance, 
 and occasionally on luck. These cards can be played before you go into a minigame, with the most 
 common effects being score-multiplier cards and cards that steal another player's score multiplier. 
 There are more exotic cards, such as a card that will turn any score-multiplier cards played that 
 round into score dividers, as well as cards that will let you choose the next minigame or the next 
 planet, even if you aren't the winner. Unless you're able to sneak a peek at what button your competitors 
 hit during the card-selection process, there's no way of knowing what card they've played or if 
 they've played anything at all. This adds just a hint of chance to the proceedings, though not 
 so much that you feel like your skill in the minigames has no bearing on who wins. The only real 
 gripe about the card system is that their play priorities seem counterintuitive. For example, if 
 two players use score multiplier cards, and two players use steal cards, you'd expect the steal 
 cards to each take one of the score multipliers, yeah? Instead, the steal cards cancel each other 
 out, and the players with the score multipliers remain unscathed.  

  The card system could have been better thought out, but what really hurts the tournament mode is 
 the host, who looks like a  Fifth Element  version of a  Dragon Ball Z  fighter who doesn't speak 
 English. The lip-synching is embarrassingly bad, and the voice coming out of his mouth is booming 
 and stilted. He sounds like he should be announcing for a mid-1990s arcade racing game in Japan. 
 Maybe it would be ironically enjoyable if it were delivered in tiny doses, but the guy just  won't 
 shut up , even during the minigames, despite the fact that he only has about a dozen different 
 lines to say. The game's sound design is otherwise unremarkable and probably wouldn't even warrant 
 mention without it, but that piece of voice work is still just phenomenally bad. You  can  turn 
 down his voice in the menu options, though you still get to watch him make gasping-fish faces and 
 gesticulate wildly between rounds in the tournament mode -- he just does it in silence. The game 
 looks a bit better, sporting a kind of edgy  Tron  aesthetic, which means you can expect a lot 
 of glowing neon trim and shiny metallic surfaces. It's an OK look, but it's also awfully derivative. 

          The addition of online play means you'll never be at a loss for minigame competition.  
    

  You can choose to play the minigames without the tournament structure (and thus, without that awful 
 announcer) in the "mini-game frenzy" mode, or you can build your own custom tournament that consists 
 of anywhere between 1 and 45 minigames of your choosing. The online component mirrors all of the 
 offline gameplay options, and it makes for a great addition to the package. Rustling up four players 
 and four Xbox 360 controllers can be a chore for some, and since the game insists on filling any 
 empty slots with an erratic computer-controller opponent, it's not nearly as much fun to play without 
 four human competitors.  

  If the promise of some good, pick-up-and-play minigame action for your Xbox 360 isn't enough to 
 entice you, perhaps you should consider the ridiculously easy achievement points in Fuzion Frenzy 
 2. There are only 14 discrete achievements, and most of them are easily obtained as you play the 
 game. The tougher ones come from playing and winning online matches, but with a little friendly 
 collusion, you can conceivably knock out the full 1,000 points in just a few hours.  

  The inclusion of online play is really the only new feature that Fuzion Frenzy 2 brings to the 
 genre of minigame-driven party games, but it's an important one. Combined with a healthy selection 
 of mostly good minigames, it helps Fuzion Frenzy 2 compensate for some of its minor design and 
 presentational missteps, even if the contents of the game are still all too familiar.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Fusion Frenzy II
  
  Review 172
  
  Released: January 30, 2007
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developer: Hudson Soft
  Game Genre: Party Game
  ESRB Rating: 
 E10+ for Everyone 10+
  ESRB Description: Fantasy Violence
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (7/10)
  Fusion Frenzy II is a party game. There 
 are seven planets, each with six minigames associated with them. The three game modes available 
 are Tournament, Mini-Game Frenzy and Custom. 
  
  The tournament is the only worthwhile mode to play, and only with at least two people. Playing 
 with computer players is worthless and a waste of time, but having only one computer player can 
 be dealt with. In the tournament, after a planet is selected to play on, three minigames are played 
 from that planet. The winner of a minigame gets a bonus for the battle stage as well as ten points. 
 Second place gets 6 points, third gets 4 and last place gets 2 points. Each player gets cards to 
 use as well. These cards are selected before a minigame is played and include score multipliers, 
 steal effects, minigame choosers and score divisors. At the end of the three minigames, another 
 is played that is a battle between the four players. After this, the player with the most points 
 wins that planet. The first to win a certain amount of planets wins the tournament.
  
  The only significant problem I have with the game is its lack of fun minigames. There are certainly 
 good ones, but some are so stupid they make Viva Piata look fun.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  
  Durability (5/10)
  The game is really only worth playing with three friends.
  
  Overall Score 
 (6.9/10)
  Rounded Score (7/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supereliguy
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Best game ever on the earth! I love it so much. If fuzion freny was a girl I'd marry her!!!!!!!! 
 i love it i love it i love it i love it i love it it is wonderful yes it is lovingisious good great 
 better than ever sick sweet yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes byes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes!!! LOve it great awsome yes great cool nice nininini ini ini 
 jjmhf dvb fdb fdb fd vdfv df f vsd v bs fbs bs fdbf sb dabd abad bdab bbd dsb sb zsdvcawe fv eawfv 
 wea fvea wc fawe fc ew cew cf ew fc ewr c ewfc qeq creqc few c e wc we c f aewfc ew fc qewcf ewf 
 cw ee wrc g 3gv rg wv gre gv rv e vwe g ve gv egv e gt e gv e gves gv egve r ser gv erg vrg vtr 
 vte g te gvbe gvtg e rgv er gvrg vr eg ve rg ve rgv er vgew gv wtg gvbt4 t r hvrt hb stbht vbr 
 ber vrre b rtd vtrh h rtv tr vh t hv h r yhvyrh h hv h h vh eh ethrtv h hve hv vhy vhhyv he hve 
 ey ev vhvh chv et vth htvh tvveh ttevh vte vthe ve vhvteh vhte vhtr thvr htvrv hyv htr v htv ehe 
 tvhe evt hvth vh veh vhe yvh ey vhe eh h hv hev vyher ve v ehy vhy vhey veh yvey hv ehy hvyv hyvhy 
 v evh hv veh vh hvhr yv htvg tr gt gtrv tre w d erwrw w r e4we rtr we t ryh g trety gre t twer 
 q ert yew ty grew ert y grwer rth gr5 h gtr e thrg ew t ygr we tg e t gtre gtf re gt er w r r rerwd 
 grt we frwer ewd dw d t d gtr ref c re re g gv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeshkat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Let me just make something clear: Fusion Frenzy 2 is a game that you can't play by yourself and 
 expect to get the most out of it!! This is a party game. Trying to play this game by yourself is 
 like trying to work a teeter-totter by yourself. I myself enjoy this game when friends come over 
 to play, and it is actually pretty fun. As you immerse your self in a space-like environment, you 
 play games that require skill, speed and competition. The games are not the greatest, and the graphics 
 are the worst I've seen yet. But don't let that make you doubt the playability of this fun, interactive 
 game. One main problem I experienced was the AI. It will beat you by acting stupid and simply annoying, 
 and even on the easiest difficulty level it knows every game well and plays them with ease. But 
 other than the negative aspects of the game I mentioned, the game is very fun for MULTIPLE people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yabeeza
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The first Fuzion Frenzy was a fun party game that never got old. This game doesn't even come close. 
 We arrive at Fuzion Frenzy 2's first problem: the developers spent way too much making the game 
 a space television game show rather than making the actual mini-games (FF1's focus) fun. Its main 
 problem is the presentation and character models. As many others have said, the announcer ticked 
 me off in the first hour saying, "I've never seen a battle this crazy before" every match. The 
 characters look idiotic. Every time Geena wins a tournament, she will attempt to act very excited 
 and surprised, with her always open big mouth. During the mini-games the characters make very weird 
 noises. The developers took all the characters models from the first game and tried to make them 
 over the top. They all look horrible. Every mini-game is simple button mashing, especially a game 
 where you run on a treadmill by rapidly pushing a button. The addition of cards in a tournament 
 is unecessary and makes the game more about luck than skill, since others can use big multipliers, 
 and you're left in 4th place after you did the best. I never got to playing online, considering 
 it was too painful for me to play that long.
  
  I could not find any good (or for that matter decent) parts of FF2, and this is probably the #1 
 worst sequel I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Okay to start please kill the DJ he is the most annoying voice in the entire game come on who says 
 'How you feeling player 2' 'How you feeling player 1' 'How you feeling player 3' 'How you feeling 
 player 4' it's so annoying you just want to strangle the bastard. 
  
  I wouldn't mind the game as much if the games were half decent and the AI were good... but there 
 not, you can actually win some games by standing still... they commit suicide for you. And back 
 to the 'games' they consist of running round in cirle, you only need to move to win them. There 
 is 40 mini-gmaes but they are all bad, apart from one or two.
  
  The card systems also ruin it as you can be losing and manage to beat everyone with a X6 multiplyer 
 card. The graphics are just acceptible well the backgrounds are not the actual characters.
  
  Overall it is a poor excuse for a video game and the AI and games let it down even more.
 
  
  Pro's
  
  -Online tournaments
  -40 mini-games...
  
  Con's
  
  -Most of which are rubbish
  -The DJ
  -Card System
  
  3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoe256
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Much like the original Fuzion Frenzy, this installment still uses a few of the same 'game types' 
 just in different scenarios, thankfully its a lot less noticable and there for a lot less irritating 
 than last time.
  
  This game is fun the first few times you play, but you want to play it less and less, its still 
 fairly enjoyable, but it can feel really unfair at times. The point multiplier cards seem to be 
 distributed to all the other players except you which for a fairly easy game can make it damn near 
 impossible to win! 
  
  Online play is a fun addition though. At the moment, I'll play this game maybe once a week, just 
 to try and get the achievements to be honest, its still fun when I play but it can be quite frustrating 
 at times when I am winning all the minigames but the rest of the computer players are getting at 
 least double my score!
  
  Graphics and audio are okay and what you'd expect for a 20 compendium of mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  This game is noway near as good as the original FF. It has bad minigames and yes, as the gamespot 
 reveiw suggests a terrible, truly terrrible host. Think of the worst fifa comentator you know (if 
 any) then x10 the annoyingnes. That is how bad he is. There is no reason FF2 should even have a 
 host. The graphics for this game are standered, as they 'try' to make the minigames and areans 
 look high tech and futeristic. You cant really rate the sound for this game. And of course, it 
 has no storyline as it is a party game.
  
  Since there arnt any other party games for the 360, you might consider getting it but it isnt as 
 good as the original. An average game, i would accually advise you buy the original for the 360. 
 To sum this game up, i would say its a let down to the small FF series.
  
  Oh, and if you dont have a ps2/3 then you should buy this game as it is the only party game for 
 the other consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this time they did make the onscreen characters large enough to see them without squinting. 
 That's pretty much the only plus in a game that otherwise just adds to the misery of the first. 
 Confusing, hard to play, garish -- for a game that depends almost entirely on its visual novelties, 
 did it have to make the colors so incredibly bright? You can see them from an airplane. 
  
  There's a game where you have to get boxes from a conveyor belt and put them in the corners of 
 the field. Only you can't get a grip on the boxes, and if you ever do, the system won't let you 
 put them down. I was off the conveyor belt by that time, so it had to be a glitch. Not a promising 
 sign.
  
  The final indignity is the announcer. Stop the yelling! People who work on aircraft carriers don't 
 have to be that loud! For a game that is supposed to be fun for groups, it should be easy to learn 
 and not annoying. This title fails on both counts. 
  
  Instead of wasting your time on this dumb nonsense, just take a walk outside. At least that's good 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidxaznxboi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a multiplayer game for parties and is a follow up to Fuzion Frenzy on the Original 
 Xbox. Fuzion Frenzy 2 offers many new games to compete with other people, as long as you have others 
 to play with. This game provides total multiplayer-party action and isn't well seen when played 
 alone. Fuzion Frenzy 2 has button mashing, strategy, action, and fast-paced games. However, Fuzion 
 Frenzy does have its downsides with the down-time between the mini-games, the weird announcer, 
 and the somewhat repetitiveness on the fighting-based games. 
  
  This game is greatly noticed for its multiplayer mode. It is a must have to have other players 
 to compete with when playing this game. Single player does not flourish, but it isn't dead-horrible 
 either. If the computers are put on hard, it may provide either fun or frustration to the player. 
 My personal favorites for the mini-games are the ones that are the most fast paced. For example, 
 the waterfall mini-game where you have to push certain buttons to keep yourself from falling off 
 the cliff is a really fun game. As the mini-game progresses, it gets to the point where you have 
 to push certain buttons every half a second and it gets really fun when you have others to try 
 to annoy and mess up as they're trying to do this. 
  
  Fuzion Frenzy 2's downsides include its down-time between the mini-games. There is a big pause, 
 for about a minute, between each mini-game where you have to pick the next mini-game and use cards. 
 This really slows down the game and takes some fun out of it. Another downside includes the announcer. 
 Fortunately for us, you can turn down his volume to all the way down. Thank goodness. It really 
 is annoying hearing him critique every second of the game, so before you start playing this game; 
 go to the options menu and turn off his sound. You'll thank me later. The last downside to Fuzion 
 Frenzy 2 is the amount of repetitive fighting games. I feel as if over half of the mini-games within 
 the game have to do with some kind of fist-fighting.. which provides lack of varity in minigames. 
 However, it doesn't bring it down too much. 
  
  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a great game for parties, but not so much for its single player. I would recommend 
 this to people who have 4 controllers and lots of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Why??? WHY??? I am a Party Game person. I love games like Mario Party, Fusion Frenzy... etc. They 
 are great games with 4 people over! So naturally I rented this game, heck I was going to buy it 
 but to be safe rented it last second. WHAT A GOOD DECISION!
  
  For those who don't know you basically take turns with up to 4 friends online, offline or AI guys 
 playing minigames to earn points and win the Fusion Frenzy. Thats the "basic" idea of it. Its really 
 fun, or at least it was.
  
  Well the minigames are great as always. But some you either just get totally lucky on or your..... yeah 
 you just get lucky on. Theres also the fact that if you look close enough some of the games are 
 almost the SAME exact game!
  
  Now they added these card things... THESE ARE HORRIBLE. It seems pointless. It seems random and 
 to never work anyways.
  
  But.... those are really minor complaints. I can get past minor things. The biggest problem? THE 
 HOST! No no.... not his voice. Alot of people hate his voice. I don't care. Its the fact that before 
 every game he has to yap some long annoying line that you CAN'T SKIP BEFORE the mini-game even 
 loads!. 
  
  So whats wrong with that? Well seeing as how the mini-games are about 30 seconds to 1 minute. You 
 leave the mini-game and have to wait another 30 second for the dumb host to shut up so you can 
 pay the next mini game! You can't skip it! Your stuck! After awhile the easy achievement points 
 just aren't worth it! This game will take days to beat! UGH forget it!
  
  Yes there are easy achievement points. Like 250 a pop. If you don't kill yourself first.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0ppi3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  This is a great multiplayer game for when u have few mates over but its an awful single player 
 game with crap graphics and bad voiced charcters and the card system is kinda rigged, though the 
 mini games are good the varity is good to chose from. its really more of a kids game but if u want 
 easy achivments this is the place to go all u have to do is play a couple of games and then WAM! 
 100 achivment points comin ur way if they fixed up the online play it may be descent game. The 
 bloody game host looks like goku with green hair and a pair of sunnys latched onto his face 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigGui
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  OK, I've just bought this trash, since it's cheap and the first was great... and maybe because 
 gamespot rated it above the previous. That was a mistake.
  
  The game is as bad as it can be, without being unsellable. The 6 contestants just went way backwards, 
 the gameplay vanished, the DJ is absurdly annoying and the sense of victory is nowhere to be found.
 
  
  First: visuals: the ONLY positive thing in visuals is the look of water. The rest is just bad.
 
  
  Second: sound: not only the DJ is the worst host ever made, the background music between games 
 is pretty awful too.
  
  Third: gameplay: there are a few games just copy-pasted from the original FF. They are, by far, 
 the best games available. There are some that look like previous games, but were destroyed. And 
 there are the new, that are awful. Not mediocre, not bad: awful. Besides that, it is impossible 
 to rate its difficulty, because the AI adversaries just gravitate between excruciatingly strong 
 and ridiculously bad.
  
  We must notice, also, that there is no reason at all to win the minigames. You may just use a 6x 
 card to get to 1st, or a steal/divide card to make the 1st suck.
  
  All in all, this game can't get a 5. This is the worst game I've ever bought for xbox, and I have 
 Whacked, Quantum Redshift, Sega GT and Jet Set Radio Future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  fusion frenzy 2 is rather dull to be honest its a bunch of party games in a full priced game like 
 gears of war but unlike gears this will not be played due to nothing interesting and nothing fun 
 to do rather than race about and be bored online the game really feels repetative and painfully 
 dull its not even worth a rental
  
  verdict it would be ok if it was on xbla but its a waste of time and will be only bought for its 
 1000 points
  
  my tips are to ignore games like this and stick to the good old xbla games due to them costing 
 between &pound;4-&pound;8 this game is a rip-off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTShadow
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, when I rented this title, I immediately thought that it was terrible. Getting to 
 understand the card system was a little confusing, and even with the computer set to easy, it didn't 
 really seem like the difficulty changed at all. After you play for a while though, and grasp how 
 everything works, its not too bad. The mini games are decent, though some are unbalanced and others 
 just plain hard to control, the achievements for this game just flow in like water, the only difficult 
 ones to get are the online ones, which can easily be obtained if you play with a friend. All in 
 all, I have to give this game 4 planets out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Fusion Frenzy was a bad enough game, but Fusion Frenzy 2 is much worse. The minigames suck. You 
 play one minigame that you think is so bad, but then the next minigame sucks even more. Xbox games 
 had better graphics than this. The sound effects suck, and the announcer is so annoying he makes 
 me want to commit suicide. The controls are either simple or totally bad, but most of the time 
 totally bad. So what if there are tons of minigames and Xbox Live? This game is so boring that 
 you won't play it for more than an hour or two. No joke. If you're looking for a fun game to play 
 with your friends, don't play this. This game is a sign from hell. Don't even bother trying this 
 game, it's a complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maudib25
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I tried to bring this game back the next day and they wouldnt take it back. It's THAT bad. Nothing 
 programming wise, the games works fine.. but I played through about 6 or 7 different 'planets' 
 worth of games.. and there was not ONE fun game i would play again. This just tells me they dont 
 know what an addicting and fun game is, becuase there are tons of crappy graphixed totally addicting 
 games for free on the net. This one costs $30 and should be free.
  Graphix are pleasant, not great but decent if lacking any personality. The worst part of the game 
 is the audio. The Game Show Host mechanic would be fun if the announcer didnt sound like they twisted 
 his arm to be in the game. He repeats the same thing over and over again and refers to each player 
 as PLAYER 1.. PLAYER 2... How do you feel? when they get hit or fall or something. It gets old 
 about... uh.. the second time you hear it. But you hear the same stuff over and over again. The 
 player voices are dull as well. For a party game, you'd think you'd emphasize fun and craziness 
 over graphix and a dull personality. AVOID AT ALL COSTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a9l8e7n
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay sucks. the minigames on it are so dumb. some of them r like the ones from fuzion frenzy 
 1 but it is worse. even though the graphics on the second is better the the first the, the game 
 is not fun. im not saying that the game is horrible but it is below average. fuzion frenzy 1 is 
 way better. it works on the 360 so you should get that one. i don't know why gamespot rated it 
 better than the first one. this game dissapoints me. if a third one every comes out i don't recommend 
 you to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy was first released on the original xbox. I could remember playing the demo of it 
 on the first Halo for hours with my friends. Now Fuzion Frenzy 2 was released on the Xbox 360 which 
 wasn't such a good idea. There is 40+ minigames which is alot, but they lack originality and some 
 feel the same to the older Fuzion Frenzy. The game still has all of the characters from the last 
 game. The annoying announcer makes me want to kill him and the new part of the game that involves 
 the cards with special things isn't as good as betting the orbs from the older game. I don't like 
 the characters they are really annoying, and always repeat the same phrase after they win a mini 
 game. Online play isn't fun because there is no one ever. Gameplay: Not that good, but some of 
 the mini games involving the robots are really bad and sometimes hard to control causing you to 
 lose. Most of the mini games have bad controls and it can really get frustrating. Graphics: Last 
 gen xbox, Not that good compared to other xbox 360 games. I have even seen better regular xbox 
 games with better graphics.
  
  Sound: Annoying, Characters always repeat the sam phrases and the announcer is the really bad part 
 of the game. Especially in a particular mini game on the planet blazer.
  
  Value: No value at all. If your an achievement freak this is the game for you thats about all.
 
  
  Tilt: Bad game and a sad follow-up to what looked like the Xbox Mario Party.
  
  Final Thoughts: Rent it if you are an achievement freak otherwise just skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagamedudeguy13
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  An ok game, but the arcade style gameplay doesn't fit with the graphics. and all the games are 
 the same. When you jump or punch or do anything it just doesn't seem right. I just got it, and 
 i already notice these things. If i had a choice between it and halo 3, i would chose halo 3 without 
 a second thought. I think that the old fusion frenzy was a little more original, and the graphics 
 fit the style of gameplay perfectly. I would recommend this game for new or pathetic gamers, but 
 for advanced gamers, it is just too easy and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I think Fuzion Frenzy gets a bad rep. Yeah the announcer needs to be shut down but other than that 
 it is a fun game that has a lot of mini games inside to play. The whole family can play and you 
 can be bad at one game but really good in another and pull right back into the lead. There are 
 sections in the game where you can gather cards. These cards will let you steal points from someone 
 else or magnify the points that you earn in a mini game and throw you up to the number one spot. 
 The graqhics are pretty good and the audio is really upbeat. If you are looking for just an easy 
 1000 point gamerscore this is the game you would want to get also. There are several people that 
 you can find in newsgroups that are just looking to play with you to get the points......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Throughout a consoles lifespan it sees its share of bad games, games that are bland, uninspired 
 or just plain boring. Well, Fuzion Frenzy 2 is an unfortunate combination of all three. One begins 
 to wonder who bought enough copies of the original (which is much better in comparison) to warrant 
 this sequel. Its a shame that this game didnt build upon the foundations its predecessor built 
 because it couldve perhaps competed with the legendary Mario Party series for the party game crown.
 
  
  The presentation itself isnt that great to begin with, featuring a bland and unattractive front 
 end menu. There are some green lasers dancing about in the background but besides that, the translucent 
 panels do nothing to spur you onward. Maybe this is a good thing, because things dont improve 
 much from there.
  
  The tournament mode, in which up to four players compete for the control of two to five planets 
 by winning minigames sports a highly counterintuitive interface compared to the rest of the game 
 which is rather streamlined and well executed. You start by choosing one of six generic, color-coded 
 characters. There is an option for up to three additional players to play alongside you throughout 
 the tournament, and this is highly favorable. If human players arent available, CPU players will 
 fill in what spots remain. After choosing the number of planets that have to be won before a winner 
 is declared. Anywhere from two to five planets can be chosen, but be warned, anything longer than 
 three can stretch on far longer than youd want them to.
  
  Once the tournament begins, one of the most annoying aspects of the game rears its ugly head in 
 the form of the announcer who gives the tournaments a game show style vibe but as you play the 
 game, you will likely grow to hate the obnoxious, repetitive and frequently annoying announcer. 
 Obnoxious because of his laughably bad and wildly overdone voiceovers. Repetitive because of his 
 habit of repeating the same lines of commentary over and over. For example Ive heard him say Ive 
 never seen a battle this crazy! five times. Keep in mind that this was just during one minigame. 
 Frequently annoying because of the inability to skip his long, drawn out, not to mention poorly 
 dubbed comments in between minigames during online tournaments. Thankfully, some salvation comes 
 in the ability to skip these scenes in local tournaments. Outside of the announcer, a few standard 
 assortment of techno/rock tunes play in the background. Visually, the game doesnt impress in a 
 technical or artistic way at any point. The backgrounds and character models are decent (save for 
 the fashion challenged announcer) but are generally uninspired and lack significant detail. While 
 unimpressive, they do their job decently enough. The lighting is one of the better aspects of the 
 game, but in some spots its a bit overdone.
  
  Before beginning your first minigame, the announcer instructs you to choose the first of seven 
 planets youd like to attempt to control. These planets all feature rather generic themes and uninspired 
 names (Amuseth, Icicle, Machina, Moisture, Blazer, Eternite and Earth) corresponding with the planets 
 theme. These different planets serve their purpose of expanding the games universe and providing 
 a backdrop for the minigames but dont have the spark of creativity this game desperately needs.
 
  
  One of the new features, billed as an improvement over its predecessor is the card system, which 
 is introduced here. These modifier cards dramatically change the scoring system to a point that 
 things like balance and fair play are thrown right out the window. Before each minigame, youll 
 be able to use a card from the cards in your hand, which are obtained through short card collecting 
 game thrown in between minigames games and the effects of the card youve chosen are applied after 
 the upcoming minigame is played. The most common type of card youll encounter is the multiplier 
 card. These cards come in 2X, 4X and 6X varieties, and multiply your score accordingly. Scores 
 are doled out after minigames based on placing awarding 10 points for first place, 6 for second, 
 4 for third, and 2 for a fourth place finish. The obvious problem with this is that players can 
 score a first place win without actually winning the game. If you place third and use a 4x multiplier 
 then boom, youve got a first place win. This is especially frustrating when you win a minigame 
 and someone uses a multiplier or, worse yet, steals the multiplier youve just used for themselves 
 and knocks you off the podium. Now we reach the focal point of the gamethe minigames. There are 
 more than 40 minigames to be found here and its a shame that, in a game centered on these games, 
 most of those forty are rather boring and repetitive. As accessible and easy to pick up and play 
 as they are, many minigames are un-fun exercises in button mashing. Hand cramps galore await you 
 in the Power Surge minigame. Others are nothing but slight variations on the same themes such 
 as the mindless beat em ups. A few of the better minigames from the original return, such as the 
 American Gladiator-esque Sumo Clash, which has you rolling around in a giant ball, attempting to 
 knock other players off the platform. There are a few standout games such as the snake-esque tail 
 blazer and the Tower of Judgment, which has you inputting button combinations as fast as you can 
 to beat the other players. There are a few other standout games, but they are few and far between, 
 making the whole package suffer.
  
  Outside of the tournament mode, there exist the minigame frenzy and custom modes, the latter allows 
 you to choose specifically which games youd like to play and play to a set number of wins. The 
 absence of the almost broken card system here makes this mode competitive and encourages skill. 
 The minigame frenzy mode allows you to play all of the games minigames in any order you like. 
 Both these modes, as well as the tournament mode, are playable online, which can be fun and competitive 
 if youre playing the right minigames.
  
  One of the (slightly) redeeming factors in Fuzion Frenzy 2 is in its achievement points. There 
 are only 14 of them, and comprise 1000 of the easiest achievement points youll ever get. Collaborate 
 with a friend for a few hours and youll have an extra 1000 points added to your gamerscore lickety-splitthough 
 you may not like yourself for it.
  
  The biggest reason Im so disappointed in this game is that it hails from Hudson, developer of 
 the famed Mario Party series. This series has long been known for its fun and original minigames 
 and has been considered the originator of the party game genre. Considering the developers pedigree, 
 there is no excuse for Fuzion Frenzy 2 to be as bad as it is. That is, unless they just werent 
 trying. In the end, Fuzion Frenzy 2 is just one of those games youll want to avoid. If youre 
 a rabid fan of achievements, rent it. Even then you should be wary. $50 is simply too much to pay 
 for a game like this. If you see it in a bargain bin sometime in the future, skip it. The few truly 
 entertaining minigames just cant balance the scales against its below average and at times, just 
 plain bad overtones. This is definitely the worst game Ive played on the Xbox 360. At the end 
 of the day, it just makes me wonder why they even bothered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machsi
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you throw in a pathectic attempt at a story line, tied together by an announcer 
 who gets really annoying really fast, then add sub-par mini games and graphics?
  
  A huge disappointment. I rented this game thinking it would be a great follow up to the original 
 version on the Xbox. Turns out I was wrong. The mini games they chose to keep were butchered to 
 a much worse form, Twisted Systems for example, and the ones they added were pathetic at best, 
 no where near the depth and addictive gameplay of the original. The graphics weren't what you would 
 expect from a next gen game and the sound effects were rather lame.
  
  All the achievements in this game, if you can call them that, are extremely easy to get.
  
 
  I would only recommend this game to someone desperate for a party game as there are hardly any 
 options in this genre on the Xbox 360 console. Even then, buyer beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SILKY-J
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot to say about this game, so to begin it's a lot like Mario Party. That's not saying 
 much because Mario Parties are not that great either. Like Mario Party the game play gets repetitive. 
 In this game there are three basic controls jump, attack, and block. Every game concerns you using 
 these three controls to attack the other players either to eliminate them our just to mess with 
 them. Although this sounds fun it gets old quick. Also, you get cards to use to multiply your score 
 or to stop the other players multipliers. This means you can win every mini game, but still not 
 win the round in the end. An example is, you win and get ten points, but second place uses a multiplier 
 for 6x his score which would give him thirty-six points more than first place. Cards are also given 
 out all the time, so do not think there hard to get. In the end this game has repetitive game play 
 and gets old quick. The games fun, but the game does not last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imperial_agent
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo on XBL and really liked it, so I went and bought it.
  
  First off, the game IS actually kinda fun, even the single player. The AI is challenging, but most 
 of the time you'll kick their butts (on Easy) , so if you're an achievement junkie like me it won't 
 be too hard. Infact, you could concievbly unlock all the single player achievements within a few 
 hours (about a good 800) . Not to mention, the is actually kinda fun.
  
  My only, and MAIN gripe about this game is that AI will rigg the scores if you happen to win. It's 
 infuriating because you'll totally kick some butt and win a battle, but then the AI DIVIDES your 
 score with this cheap, stupid card. It's so dumb, why do they even have that in there? It makes 
 it not even worth trying to win, because if you do it'll flip the scores so you're score becomes 
 the inverse of what you got (so instead of getting 20 points, you'll get only 2) and wind up last. 
 THEN what the AI does is choose a section of the game world YOU ALREADY BEAT and guess what? You 
 have to win all those AGAIN.
  
  Despite this, the game is pretty fun and not a bad purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 26, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Fuison frenzy 2 is basically an ok party game. I personally found it a little fun. but it wasnt 
 really that great. i just borrowed from a friend 4 the acheivments. gameplay is pretty raw and 
 bad. controls suck because ur using like 2 buttons a game. the graphics in this game arent good 
 enough in my opinion . But the sound in the mini games was ok. except for the fact that this game 
 gets boring and annoying. the most annoying part is the damn DJ. y wont he just shut up and let 
 u play. i wish the sound wasnt that good 4 him. So anyways if u like 2 play a bunch of random and 
 piontless minigames than go right ahead. maybe it wont seem so annoying if ur playin drunk with 
 ur friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of enjoyable mini-games, super easy achievements, online multiplayer, card system 
 adds some stratagy to the game, much improved graphics.
  
  The Bad: DJ is very annoying, some mini games aren't much fun, more variety in mini games would 
 have been nice.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Out of all the amazing launch titles the original Xbox had, including Halo: Combat Evolved, Microsoft 
 founder and billionaire Bill Gates' favorite was Fuzion Frenzy, a party game from Bitz Games, the 
 crew also behind the Burger King Games. After a few years, the Xbox 360 is graced with the next 
 instalment in the series, which is now developed by party game veterans Hudson Soft, who developed 
 the Mario Party series for Nintendo. There are a lot of similarities between Fuzion Frenzy 2 and 
 Mario Party, but they are pretty different games. In fact, fans of the original will find that 
 FF2 is a lot different from the first one.
  
  The generic announcer voice has been replaced with a DJ, with terrible voice acting and lip sync, 
 making him a very irritating addition. Now, the mini games are grouped into planets, each planet 
 typically having a single theme for all the mini games to encorperate. Fuzion Frenzy is now an 
 intergalactic game show, which actually tries to give the game some kind of story, which it does 
 to an extent. All of the original characters from the first game are back and grown up. The character 
 that has matured the most has got to be Zak. He's finally hit puberty... I kinda wish you could 
 create a custom character, but the original crew works just fine.
  
  There have been several major changes to the gameplay. One is that the winner of a mini-game gets 
 to pick the next one, and the winner of a planet gets to pick the next planet. This is a nice change 
 of pace from the first game, where everything is completely random. Another major change is the 
 inclusion of cards. Each card has an atribute, and gamers must use their cards wisely. Some cards 
 alter another player's card, such as reversing the effect, or stealing it, while others multiply 
 a player's final score for a mini game. The cards are also a welcome addition that gives the game 
 more stratagy than before, but it seems as though you don't earn any in the first planet you play 
 in and too many during the second and after. The mini-games themselves haven't changed much, but 
 they do look prettier and are somewhat different than before. I personally think several of the 
 new games aren't as good as some of the old ones, but that might be just me. There are three main 
 game modes to chose from: Tournament, which is the classic game show style mode, mini game frenzy, 
 where you can play for points with friends by picking and choosing what mini games to play. The 
 last is custom, where you can create your own tournament. All three modes work well, but Tournament 
 is obviously the most fun.
  
  The achievements in this game are super easy. Basically, play all mini games, beat the tournament 
 with every character, play a few online games and a little bit more and you can earn all 1000 gamerscore. 
 It took me about 4 hours when I had friends helping me out.
  
  Overall, Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a good party game online or off, that is a lot of fun, dispite it's 
 issues.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay tweaks made by new developer Hudson help for the most part, but the DJ is very 
 annoying.
  
  Graphics: Not hte game's strongest suit, but they're decent none the less.
  
  Sound: Bland music and annoying DJ voice. This is a perfect game for using custom soundtracks.
 
  
  Value: This game can be found new for $30, or free if you won it in the Old Spice Challenge like 
 I did.
  
  Final Thoughts: How're you feeling, player 1? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 14, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Yeah..., I'm on an average streak...
  Getting upset about the titles I've been placing inside the white wonder.
  The thing is, these 
 titles (check reviews above) aren't awfull, if they were I would change my purchase policy. But 
 they're not, they're just average.
  Okish..., let's take a look at this Fusion Frenzy 2:
  I haven't played the 1st delivery, I only knew this was a mini-games collection. I heard about 
 the DJ annoyance, but I didn't know mucg more.
  So the my first thought was wow, this is really lame, simple, basic to an extreme degree kinda 
 games . After a while, though, things got better, they stood basic (very basic) but improved, as 
 I got the style.
  Artistically the game follows the Japan/Anime approach, allthough with some western influences. 
 It's okish...
  The sound's really the worse par of the game. And I feel a bit sad. This type of environment could 
 be fed with some awsome technological tunes ala WipeOut. On the top of the lameness one gets, defacto 
 that awfull DJ.
  Gameplay-wise, however, the game's not bad. In fact it can be fun, to play the tournments and do 
 the Achievements with each of the characters (they seem to perform exactly the same way, however...) . 
 The games are very, very basic, but as they're usually last less than 3-4 minutes each, they never 
 seem to get boring.
  Online it performs almost as having someone sitting by one's side (and again, it doesn't seem to 
 have much complexity to share IP-wise) , and if more people played it, it could be somewaht fun 
 (you'll be lucky if you have to wait less than 20 minutes for someone to appear) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy came as an unexpected surprise that I was glad to try out with the only friends I 
 had handy, my faithful AI buddies.
  
  Six years after the first Fuzion Frenzy hit the Xbox, this sequel brings the party gender to the 
 Xbox 360 in a title set in a futuristic TV show. Fuzion Frenzy is actually the name of this show 
 that hosts a series of games in a four-player tournament.
  
  The tournaments take place all over the galaxy, on six differently themed planets aside from Earth. 
 The games vary according to each planet's conditions. For example, on Blazer, the magma planet, 
 you can race over a lava river, running away from a magma tsunami, while on Icicle players equip 
 themselves with flamethrowers to thaw out coins encased in ice. Each of the other planets is equally 
 original: there is Moisture, the water planet; Amuseth, a casino of planetary proportions; Eternite, 
 where gravity seems to have some issues; and Machina, an industrial planet.
  
  Fuzion Frenzy 2 can be played as a simple series of single mini-games or in a Tournament mode. 
 The other game modes are Main Battle (competitive offline mode) , Mini-game Frenzy (free pick of 
 any of the mini-games) and Custom (pick the games you want for a Tournament) .
  
  Tournaments take place across the different planets and allow the players to receive and use special 
 cards that have various effects, from stealing points from your opponents to multiply your final 
 score in a game. The goal of a Tournament is to dominate a number of planets (picked at the start) . 
 You can also compete online in ranked or non-ranked matches.
  
  What type of mini-games, might you ask? Well, there's over 40 in total, so I'll just go over a 
 few that I liked the most.
  
  Super Slam Dunk, on Eternite, is like basketball on a low gravity field. You try to steal the ball 
 and score a slam dunk while jumping and attacking your opponents. In Machina, I enjoyed Loader 
 Madness, where you hop into a loader robot picking up coins, dodging electric beams and smacking 
 your adversaries around. Also on Eternite, the Debris Field Derby has you floating in space dodging 
 incoming meteors and trying to push the opponents in front of them. And my personal favorite is 
 Judgement Tower, a Simon Says button-masher where you have to press the buttons in the right order 
 quicker than anyone else as to not get eliminated.
  
  The tasks are varied, and they usually include kicking the crap of the other players while collecting 
 something, survive the longest, or win a race. The controls are extremely easy, involving usually 
 just moving around, jumping, blocking and attacking. The characters move with the right thumbstick 
 while A, B, X and Y have specific actions for each game, all stated in the summary at the start 
 of each task. This makes Fuzion Frenzy 2 a game that everyone can pick up and play, non-gamers 
 included.
  
  I really liked the presentation of the game. The futuristic setting ties in well with a game show, 
 the character designs are really nice, and the graphics are sharp, with vibrant colors. The sound 
 effects and fast-paced music are fitting, but not overly impressive. The only downside was the 
 annoying host of this competition... Not only does he sound over-the-top excited, but also extremely 
 repetitive.
  
  Overall, Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a great party game/mini-games collection to have handy. It's user-friendly, 
 fun for the whole family, it lets you organize online Tournaments, has a bunch of easy-to-obtain 
 achievements, and if you play it while drunk with friends, it has a bonus hilarity factor. Review 
 text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=fuzionfrenzy2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  When the first Fuzion Frenzy debuted, it was met with mixed reactions. As a launch title, it wasnt 
 held to high standards, yet some people seemed to enjoy the crazy minigames it offered. While, 
 Fuzion Frenzy 2 follows relatively close to original, its presentation and overall lack of content 
 make it seem like a very cheap and sub par sequel. The game closely resembles the Mario Party games, 
 and since developer Hudson has made that party-game series one of the highest selling franchises 
 in Nintendos history, it really is a shame how mediocre the final product turned out to be.
  
  Fuzion Frenzy 2 takes place in the middle of the universe in which players are competing in 
 an intergalactic competition to win some undeclared magnificent prize. While the premise itself 
 sounds extremely lame, nothing compares to the horrible sounding announcer. To get a picture of 
 how annoying this announcer is, just imagine a game show host trying to do a commercial on vacuum 
 cleaners; someone who is overly-excited over the most boring things. To make matters worse, you 
 will hear his voice over and over againincluding his own unique brand of commentarywhich uses 
 the same recycled, monotonous catchphrases and sayings.
  
  Players are issued a set of cards with different numbers and symbols on them after the competition 
 begins. Depending on the cards you receive, you can change the outcome of every round by multiplying 
 your score, changing scores with other players, or being able to choose the next minigame. While 
 this seems like an interesting idea, its execution is far from perfect. The computer-controlled 
 characters will always use their multiply cards in the first two rounds (they did this 8 out of 
 10 times) , allowing you to scoop up the benefits if you happen to hold the right card. To make 
 things worse, the cards dont really affect the gameplay at all. If two multiplier cards are played 
 along with two point deduction cards you would expect the points to be reduced right? Wrong; the 
 game simply cancels out the point reducing cards while the other two players reap the benefits. 
 Winning each minigame is easy to achieve, but getting the points you rightfully deserve is solely 
 based on luck and hope that the computer does not play any card, which will hinder your chances 
 of earning points. Prepare to be constantly frustrated as you can win every game but than watch 
 as the computer uses a super rare card on the last round to edge past you for victory.
  
  You are taken out to a distant planet for battle once all the cards are issued out. While each 
 planet offers a distinct take on what types of minigames you will play there (for example the water 
 planet has water-based games and Earth has ground-based games) , all play out exactly the sameminus 
 a few background changes. To make the overall setting sound even cornier, each planet is named 
 after the type of terrain located in the planet. To catch a sampling of the genius writers at work 
 just take a look at the water planet, which is named Moisture, and the technology-enhanced planet 
 that is named Machina. That isnt creativity, people, its just pure laziness.
  
  If you can look past the lame host and intergalactic competition, then Fuzion Frenzy 2 will offer 
 you some form of fun in one way or the other. Youll only need to remember five or so minigames 
 out of the 40 offered, because all of them are more or less exactly the same. Most of the games 
 require you to either hit someone or something, usually with a hammer or large object of some sort. 
 While Hudson tries to fool players by putting them in robot machines or giant suits, the premise 
 is still the same with players whacking each other in the same old boring fashion. All of the minigames 
 follow this trend, which makes the game feel boring and repetitive after a mere couple of hours. 
 While some games feel fun, there is really nothing in Fuzion Frenzy 2 to hold your attention for 
 longer than five minutes. Plus, since all of the games are alike in some way, you should have no 
 trouble winning the overall competition if you can manage to simply memorize the controls. The 
 computer-controlled characters will never offer up any type of threat as they are some of the dumbest 
 players ever witnessed, usually flinging themselves off ledges or just standing around for easy 
 pickings.
  
  If you happen to have some friends at your house or Xbox Live, then Fuzion Frenzy is somewhat mildly 
 amusing. It is definitely a lot more intense when you have live opponents with an IQ higher than 
 a bricks, and games usually come down to the wire. Using the cards against friends works a lot 
 better than it does in single player but still offers tons of unfair advantages with players who 
 never win a game ending up winning the competition due to unfair card placements. One redeeming 
 quality of Fuzion Frenzy 2 is that all 1000 gamerpoints are obtainable within five hours. If you 
 are desperate enough to play through this lame and mediocre game for those points, then you might 
 actually enjoy the game a lot more.
  
  Hudson tried to prove that it could make Fuzion Frenzy 2 as popular a series as it did with Mario 
 Party, but ultimately nothing in the game is worth mentioning, or playing for that matter. The 
 games lack creativity, the presentation is terrible, and some of the features never work properly 
 which makes Fuzion Frenzy 2 hardly worth recommending to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drlove06472
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Fuzion frenzy 2 is a party game with 40 mini games but most of the games are the same. There are 
 a few fighting games, button matching and coin collecting. Most of the games are button mashers. 
 The games are easy and can master then quick. The graphs are ok but look last gen. There are some 
 problems with the camera; in some games it is hard to tell distances and height. The sound is the 
 worst; I thought the announcer from Crackdown was bad this one is the king. He repeats everything 
 again and again. Ask how all the players are doing during the game and in games you have to jump 
 he yells UP! UP!! UP!!!. The game is longer because of him talking. After 20 minutes Im yelling 
 SHUT UP!!!!! And turn on the mute on the TV. This game has online play but good luck finding a 
 game. I had to go in to the forum to set up a game because I searched and searched but couldn't 
 find a game. The only good reason to play this game is that it is an easy 1000 points take a day. 
 I played this for point for the old spice challenge, this game is a prize and I feel sorry who 
 won it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  For all others who bough this game you're probaly thinking WTF HOW DA HELL I BUY DIS CRAPPY GAME 
 and in the midst of it all you try to lie to yourself saying it's a decent game. This is the first 
 review in which I will immaturely rant.. for good reason. Why don't we begin?
  
  THIS GAME IS A PIECE OF CRAP, WORST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED! THE MINI GAMES ARE RIP OFFS OF THE 
 PATHETIC MARIO PARTY 6 GAME, WHICH IS SAD SINCE THIS GAME ISN'T EVEN 1/3's WHAT THAT GAME WAS! 
 WTF WERE YOU THINKING MICROSOFT! THE ORIGINAL GAME SUCKED BALLS SO AND THIS ONES EVEN WORSE! WTF 
 QUIJKNS?!?!?
  
  Phew.. I'm not done yet
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! IF YOU GET IT AS A PRESENT REFUND IT! THIS GAME SUCKS DONT EVEN THINK ABOUT 
 BUYING THIS CRAPPY GAME FULL OF CRAP FEST MINIGAMES IN WHICH CRAPPY CHARACTERS CHEESLIY MOVE AROUND 
 DOING CRAP! THIS GAME IS CRAP! LISTEN! IT'S CRAP!
  
  Hold up..
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS CRAP FEST
  
  Ok, you get the point. This game sucks balls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a party game that offers you the choice of several mini-games to try and successfully 
 complete. During your course you'll always be confronted by the host of the game show - an annoying 
 and repetitive character that you'll sure want to skip past once you've heard his voice. It's great 
 that you can skip him on single player but if you ever play any online modes you will not be able 
 to skip. At first he can prove helpful but after a while he'll start repeating himself like you 
 just don't understand him.
  
  You have a choice of several characters that each have their own quotes to say. It doesn't matter 
 which one you choose - they are all equal to each other. Now, thing is, you have to play through 
 a tournament with each of these characters to unlock the achievements. Having said achievements, 
 I would say there isn't much variety in them at all because for a good selection of those, you 
 are just playing through the game with a different character. So, once you get the hang of winning 
 tournaments you should breeze through many of the achievements.
  
  There are several different worlds themed around a particular environment. Some planets contain 
 some challenging mini-games whilst others like Earth are easy to do. The mini-games have at least 
 some variety - a few mini-games require you to press the right buttons at the right time and others 
 require you to mash those buttons like there is no tomorrow. Most of the mini-games let you move 
 your character around - usually with the left thumbstick. So, you can then run around whilst tapping 
 X to hopefully beat up your opponent like you are in a wrestling ring. They can be quite fun but 
 once you've mastered them on single player I think your only option left is to play with some friends 
 (since it's a party game after all) . There will be some that let you control balls, machines and 
 such - where some will just be so annoying and others will be somewhat fun. Many of the mini-games 
 available require you to be quick and accurate. If you're not good enough the opponents will easily 
 get straight past you. However, if you think you're really good at the mini-games then of course 
 the CPU difficulty can be set higher making it a more challenging (and often frustrating) experience. 
 Remember, Fuzion Frenzy 2 is simple to do since it usually only requires you to use only a small 
 selection of buttons. These are explained to you just before the mini-game begins. Each mini-game 
 also lets you practice it if you want to make sure you're good on the single-player mode.
  
  You'll have a selection of modes available. One lets you go into a tournament by yourself of 
 with some friends. Playing with different characters will earn you new mini-games to unlock. During 
 the course of a tournament you will have these playing cards that give your score a boost. There 
 may be a multiplier card that doubles or even quadruples your score. However, other cards may affect 
 your use of the current card. You'll get to choose how many planets you want to go on but I stuck 
 to the minimum of two planets. It can go on for many painful hours if more planets are selected. 
 I'd rather just play through two planets and get it done in around 20-30 minutes. If you just don't 
 feel like playing through a tournament then you can jump right in and choose only your favourite 
 mini-games. With the addition of online multiplayer you are never at a loss of playing against 
 someone real. It's pretty much similar to the single-player modes. Tournaments can be played and 
 you can choose a mode that lets you put in only the mini-games you choose. The online experience 
 proves good and there isn't lag; something you would not expect in this type of game. However, 
 if the other player has not proceeded through the menus you may occasionally see a loading screen 
 pop-up.
  
  Graphics-wise it proves to be okay for a party game. The environments around you look pretty and 
 lively. Characters are sharp but could of done with a bit of improvement. The host of the game 
 who you will regularly bump into looks like he could of done with a major improvement though. His 
 commentary never seems to match up with his lips. That's something I instantly noticed when I first 
 played through Fuzion Frenzy 2. As for sound, you are going to have to put up with the ever-so 
 slightly annoying voice of his. Characters will often recycle the same lines at the end of mini-games 
 and well, really there isn't too much variety in what these characters say.
  
  If you're looking for a game to blast right through then Fuzion Frenzy 2 is your friend. It's something 
 you may just want to try out with a few friends every now and then when you get bored or for the 
 rather quick and easy achievements. The only difficult achievements would be the online ones. However, 
 finding a friend can easily get these done and dusted for you. Fuzion Frenzy 2 lasts for a few 
 hours but it's not something that I would want to play on a regular basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is yet another mini-game, game show, party game that takes place in the future. 
 You can choose from 6 characters and play over 30 mini-games spanning 7 planets. The game runs 
 like this - you decide on a planet to play on and play a few mini-games on that planet. You get 
 points depending on how well you do in each game and what cards you use before the game. After 
 I think 3 games, you have one final rumble and the player with the most points wins the planet. 
 The player to win a set number of planets is the overall winner.
  
  It is fun the first few times you play it, and has some decent online play. But there isn't a variety 
 of games enough to keep you interested for long. If nothing else, it is an easy 1000 gamer points 
 and is kid friendly. My reccomendation: rent the game, have quick fun, get all achievements, and 
 send it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is a great game for wither achievement points, or a quick picker upper. Either 
 way not many players will not like game. Everybody HATES the host thought, makes you NOT want to 
 play the game any more at times.
  
  Gameplay  sub series of mini games, you play your way through different worlds having to win from 
 2-5 worlds for either a short game or a long game. Each world seems to have its own different environment 
 and elements. Ice, water, fire ect. Very easy control setup makes for a good games IMO. Before 
 the game starts they give you directions for every mini game.
  
  Online  a good piece of the success of the game is the online play. My experience was playing 
 only mini games but lag was minimal, and you should be able to find players at least for some while, 
 until everybody get there easy 1000 points
  
  Overall  its a good game to kill time and besides that stupid host theres nothing wrong with 
 the game. It was made as a mini game and you got that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I love party games, this one dose the trick to cure the itch. When I have people over it gets crazy. 
 The only drawback I can find is no system link and also no multiplayer games the include more then 
 4 people. Some things could have had more people. Besides that this is a keeper and a needed addition 
 to your collection. Could get realy crazy tho, at my house when we all get on frenzy we love the 
 waterfall level........ Im still not very good at the colors : ( Plenty of mini games to hold you 
 over for aa while. i really enjoy the lava race myself. The computer difficulty is crazy on some 
 stages but Its all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Remember the first Fuzion Frenzy? How fun it was? But it had nothing for you to unlock. Everything 
 was unlocked at the beginning. So people only find themselves playing the game with their friends. 
 Also, there wasn't any online play. Which was the biggest disappointment when the game was released. 
 So, what do Microsoft do to solve this? Why, their soulution is a Fuzion Frenzy 2! You actually 
 had to do something in the game. And also, the best part of the game is the fact it has online 
 play! Fans were excited with this sequel. Now, how did this sequel turn out?
  
  Hudson actually made a little story to Fuzion Frenzy 2 kind of. Four years ago, Fuzion Frenzy was 
 one of the most popular events ever. But due to its competitiveness, the leaders of Earth have 
 banned the show. Four years later, Earth has been have problems with over population. There were 
 beginning to be too many people on the planet. To solve this, the leaders have brought back the 
 show, Fuzion Frenzy. But, with a change. Battles would take place in different planets. The leaders 
 of Earth hope that this will make people migrate to other planets. The people of Earth were greatful 
 about the news. Best of all, the leaders of Earth have brought back the people that participated 
 in the first Fuzion Frenzy. They've returned with a brand new enthusiasm also.
  
  When you start the game, you have three modes to choose. Main Battle, Online Battle and Options. 
 Main Battle has three modes. Tournament, Mini Game Frenzy, and Custom. Tournament is the main mode. 
 You select the amount of planets you need to win in order to win the tournament. I suggest just 
 doing two. Mini Game Frenzy is just being able to select any mini game you want to play. Like in 
 the first one. Custom is a new addition where you can select some mini games and play them all 
 in a tournament. Which is a very nice addition. Online Battle has the same choices, only that you 
 are playing online with other people. Which is a very nice addition. Options of course just change 
 your options.
  
  There are seven planets. The Machina planet has, in my opinion, the funnest mini games. It's a 
 planet full of lots of machines obviously. The air is so polluted cause of all the gases from the 
 factories and machines. Moisture is a planet where 99% of its surface is covered in water. Earth, 
 well, I think you know what it is. XD Eternite has very harsh climate and is at the edge of a black 
 hole. Very interesting planet. Blazer, one of the coolest looking planets in the game is a game 
 full of fire. Amuseth is a very fun looking planet. It's a gigantic casino. So many lights but 
 the mini games in it are hard. Icicle is, you guessed it, a planet covered with snow and frozen 
 ice.
  
  So, enough of the info, time for the review!
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. Alot like the first one. Some of the games are very uncreative though. 
 Mini games are very fun to play. They've changed the orb collecting game into a fighting mini game. 
 In my opinion, the fighting mini games are much better then the orb collecting games. Some of the 
 mini games take lots of time to master. Also, they shouldn't have added games like Power Supply 
 that makes you need alot of strength to master. So people like me, can never master that. The controls 
 for the mini games are very simple. They usually contain only three buttons for you to press. If 
 there are more buttons to press, they probably are optional. Though, there are more controls in 
 these mini games then in the first one. But, most of the mini games don't have duplications of 
 them with different rules. The first one had alot of those. The new addition, the cards, just makes 
 me have to bring the gameplay score to a seven. The cards are pretty much used to even the score. 
 A swore loser can use a six times cards to get in first place. If you are in first place and use 
 a six times card, you pretty much win the planet. It's very unfair. Overall, the gameplay has its 
 fun moments but is overshadowed with things like more controls and stupid cards.
  
  Graphics have improved mildly from the first game. The characters look alot more detailed then 
 the first one. Though, they're not the most impressive graphics. But they get the job done. The 
 environments have improved from the first one. Blitz were horrible at graphics. Hudson on the other 
 hand have made great graphics. The environments are very colorful and are very detailed. But, like 
 the character models, they're not the most impressive graphics on the XBOX 360. There are other 
 games with better graphics like Sonic The Hedgehog and Viva Pinata. But of course, graphics usually 
 don't matter in games. There really isn't much to say about graphics since I am not a graphics 
 master. So overall, graphics are pretty good, but not the most impressive graphics. Ugh, sound. 
 I'm not saying that the soundtrack is bad, it's the voices that bring the score down. The background 
 music for the mini games are very good. Much better then the stupid hip hop music in the first 
 one. No annoying lyrics in the background. If there is a third sequel, the developers have better 
 keep the music like this. The voices are okay. The voices for the characters playable are okay. 
 But the ones in the first one were better in my opinion. The DJ's voice was one of the worst voices 
 I've ever heard. His voice is so annoying, makes me want to throw up sometimes. Even worst, you 
 can't skip the DJ in the little cutscenes during online play. But you can offline. Overall, great 
 soundtrack, horrible voices.
  
  So, what to say to sum up what I think? Overall, Fuzion Frenzy 2 fails to live up to the first 
 one. Microsoft should really get Blitz back. They're the ones that made the great first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Fuzion Frenzy 2 is the sequel to a Xbox Classic launch game. The original game consisted of a variety 
 of mini-games that could be played on their own or as part of a series. Criticisms of the original 
 game included a lack of on-line support (XBL did not exist at the time) , bleak running man visuals, 
 and a lack of structure to the mini-games. Development of FF2 was handed to Hudson, the creators 
 of the Mario Party series, so expectations where quit high. The Mario Party series has consistently 
 delivered a fun party game on the N64 and Gamecube platforms with a variety of good mini-games 
 fitting into a star-collecting board game (played with dice) : in the Mario Party series the mini-games 
 form only part of the overall experience. Unfortunately Hudson has produced a by-the-numbers sequel 
 that inherits most of the mistakes from the original, and in many ways made them much worse. Firstly, 
 without the board-game element, you are only left with the mini-games. This would be fine if they 
 where in sufficient numbers (only 40+) and quality. However, there are not enough mini-games to 
 carry a purely mini-game focused party game and, sadly, many of the mini-games just arent fun, 
 or are just slight variations on the same game. There are three game modes: tournament, frenzy, 
 and custom. Tournament has the four players competing in mini-game sets (4 games per set) , with 
 each set taking place on one planet. Players compete to win a predetermined number of sets and 
 can use cards to change the outcome of each game (see below) . Frenzy is just pure mini-games (no 
 cards) . Finally, custom allows players to compete for a prescribed number of mini-game wins.
  
  Hudson have added a new luck mechanic, inspired from the Mario Party series, by including 
 cards that can affect the outcome of each mini-game: for instance, the game points can be x2, x4, 
 x6; cards can be stolen, or effects reversed (multiplier becomes divider) . Unfortunately, the result 
 introduces too larger slice of luck into the game and youll find yourself winning a mini-game 
 only to have a player who game 2nd or 3rd taking all the points by using a card effect. There is 
 a fine balance between fun twists of fate and frustration and in this case Hudson got it wrong 
 as the cards often completely negate winning each mini-game.
  
  FF2 does support online play, but you are limited to four players and the game-play suffers the 
 same problems as the offline game  it just isnt much fun. I would concede that FF2 would be better 
 with a group of friends plied with alcohol, but Hudson have really missed a trick in not creating 
 a game that is inherently fun or can be enjoyed equally on or offline.
  
  Graphically, FF2 is a mess. The same future-tech game-show style has been implemented from the 
 original, with bleak looking environments and clumsy looking character animations. Hudson made 
 the same mistake with the recent Bomberman remake. Personally, party games need to have a fun and 
 funky style to emphasis the party atmosphere (see Mario Party, Warioware or Super Monkey Ball) 
  FF2 is like a visit to the dentist!
  
  The sound in the game is pretty bland, with weak musical scores and sound effects. The voice acting, 
 however, is something else! FF2 features one of the worse game characters ever invented. The game 
 show DJ is unbelievably annoying, repetitive, grotesque, irritating, and badly dubbed! You cant 
 even turn him off! He continually calls out inane things during each mini-game like how are you 
 feeling player 1! Arrrggggg!!
  
  FF2 retails well under the usual &pound;50 RRP, but given the limited number and mixed quality 
 of the mini-games, plus poor overall game design, FF2 does not represent good value for money. 
 You can complete the entire game in one weekend, so it makes a better rental.
  
  FF2 is a missed opportunity. The 360 lacks a decent party game, and XBL should be the ideal environment 
 for one. Unfortunately FF2 is too weak an offering and fails to deliver any improvements over the 
 original. If you want a party game, wait for Worms HD or play Marble Blast Ultra which are much 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Most of us played Fuzion Frenzy on the original xbox, or at least the demo on the Halo disk. It 
 was great. Twisted System, Sumo, just so fun. However, a lot of the games felt the same. Fuzion 
 Frenzy 2 isn't the same. You won't find yourself dinking around with orbs so much, you'll be doing 
 a lot more variety of minigames. However, like all minigame compilations, there are a few bad apples. 
 But it's a small price to pay for the good minigames included. The game is best played with 3 other 
 friends in a small room and lots of soda (or something) . However, the online is also pretty good. 
 However you choose to play, you're gonna enjoy it to some extent. Basically, if you don't know 
 what all the fuss is about, rent it first, but Fuzion Frenzy fans will surely be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - lots of fun mini-games (some crappy ones) , but you spend 3/4's of a tournament listening 
 to the announcer , im not exagerating . There also is a lot of chance/luck in the tournaments because 
 of the cards . The cards can steal your points or give you alot and most of the time it really 
 matters who used which card.
  
  Graphics - Nothing special , really last gen graphics
  
  Sound - anoying announcer , some cool sound effects
  
  Value - this is the true fun of 
 the game , if your playing with fun people online with mics then you can have tons of fun with 
 this game . However , if you play with people with no mics or are just jerks then it sucks the 
 fun out of the game. Good Tilt - only mini-game videogame on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  okay i usaly like party games, heck ill admit it , i like the mario party franchise.
  fuzion frenzy was kool for the first 15 min with friend, then it just got repetitive, the sound 
 track sucks and well the annoucer is just plain ugly ,stupid and annoying.
  Plus now they added bonus cards, with this, the crapiest player can kick ass when he knows when 
 to use em, so now the game isint only about skills, its about witch cards you use.
  The online is just worst..... all the people ive encountered wee only there for the achevments and 
 well...... a game isint fun when thats the reason people play (you gotta admit its true) and theres 
 only like about.... less than 50 games.... if not 40.
  
  On the good side there isint much loading time (well if there is it aint long at all)
  and well 
 the graphics are slightly flashier , but has nothing realy fancy or even improved.
  
  This could have been a great game if more mini-games, and new ones, better graphics AND CHARACTERS.
 
  
  this is the worst game ive played on the 360 so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmudbug
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to play with friends, the online part makes it just that much more fun. The 
 mini-game are fun to play for a quick 5 min game fix. There are a few problems with the game, the 
 game show theme gets old fast, the voice is really bad, and with the 360 i hoped there would be 
 more and diffrent games. Some of the games feel a little like repeats of others. Overall the game 
 is simple and fun. The price tag might be a little high right now but a good get at 29.99 or less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Whats the first thing you think of when you think of the Fuzion Frenzy series?
  For me, its PARTY GAME!
  People always harshly criticize this game. Gamesradar. com and the Official 
 Xbox Magazine are just a few.
  But then again, why would you buy a party game if you don't want to party?
  The DJ is the catalyst 
 of the harsh reviews. Yes, he is annoying, but just skip it when he talks if you don't want to 
 listen.
  People don't look at the bright side of the game, like online play and fun minigames.
  I believe 
 it brings fun to the table and will still be the frontrunner in 360 party games.
  It maintains the critical elements that made it a Platinum Hit on the original Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fawaz_roma
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  My first review article
  
  Actually in the arab world in video gaming , we need any game make us have fun , not focusing in 
 graphic , sound , value &gt;&gt; So i will say i had fun with my little brothers ( 3 ) and we are 
 playing it every day , a good game and it play back able &gt;&gt; :) guessing we still playing 
 the Fuzion Frenzy on XboX , and this is the meaning of ( play back able ) .
  
  and my review , its good game missing a lot but its hanging to the fun style and it deserve to 
 play it ( BUY IT ) and try the online gaming u will never get bored and u will get it back after 
 sometime to play it again .
  
  -----------------------------
  
  Gameplay , full time fun , on live and with friends good not very ,, but with the 40 mini games 
 u can feel the move like the old one
  
  Graphic , good , but still we need more graphic for the nes generation
  
  Sounds , disappointed
 
  
  Value , u deserve to have fun :)
  
  ------------------
  
  Buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WOUslimshady
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The announcer is the worst part of the game. Listening to that guy when playing online is rediculous. 
 Makes the game so much slower than it actually needs to be. Most of the games are fun, but I would 
 only recommend buying this game if you have friends to playing it with or a girlfriend that hates 
 when you play other games. Got to make her happy too by purchasing a game that will entertain her 
 for hours. I myself enjoy it, because it gives me a game to play when I drink. It is enjoyable. 
 especially when all of the achievments are easily unlocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_Blue
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The online announcer is easily the worst part of this game, in fact it has driven me mad. Between 
 each mini game online you have to sit and wait for the announcer guy talk for about 45sec to a 
 minute. I'm not sure why this is in the game but he is ridiculously annoying and you can't skip 
 what he's saying. I did what the others said and turned off his speech and i thought it would be 
 easy to ignore then. But then all you see is him moving his arms and looking stupid. Not only that 
 but the movements of his mouth are horribly off, they could've at least put some effort into it. 
 I just have to say if you play game for online play i highly reccomend you rent this one first 
 and see how annoying the announcer can get within the time you have it. I've only had it for a 
 couple of days and already i'm selling it. I WARNED YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  if u like to have partys this games kicks ass The best value in frenetic social entertainment with 
 40 different challenges on one disc.
  
  * Jump-in easy-to-play controls and fun filled game play reward all levels of gamer from the casual 
 to the advanced player.
  
  * Now on Xbox Live and packed with Xbox Live features such as head-to-head muliplayer, tournament 
 customization and much, much more!
  
  * Includes new variations of the favorite games from the original Fuzion Frenzy revamped and improved 
 for the Xbox 360.
  With huge prize money and a chance to save the planet on the line, its your turn to appear on the 
 worldwide hit TV sensation Fuzion Frenzy. Spanning seven planets across the galaxy, you compete 
 in 40 different mini-games - from sports challenges to thrilling battles - in your quest to become 
 the ultimate victor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was REALLY DISAPPOINTED in this game. The first Fuzion Frenzy was a lot of fun to play, 
 but had no online. The games were great, and there were so many!!
  
  A lot has changed this time around. There aren't as many mini-games, and the mini-games that they 
 do have are mostly boring. I also found it near impossible to find a game online...
  
  GAMEPLAY
  It's okay. It's one of those games that SO EASY, though. However, this game was probably 
 geared more towards younger players, but even an infant could play this game. The A. I. is a little 
 better this time around, and can make things much harder, but the mini-games are SO BORING!! It's 
 almost like they took all of the GOOD mini-games and replaced them with garbage. I think they may 
 have kept MAYBE 3 of the old games. I'm not really sure. I do know this - I would have been much 
 more happy if they'd just re-released the first Fuzion Frenzy with the online mode added.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Not too shabby. I mean, I've seen worse-looking games. The thing here is.... who 
 cares? It's just a bunch of mini-games. However, they did do a good job.
  
  SOUND
  I listened to CUSTOM SOUNDTRACKS during this game.
  
  VALUE
  For me, personally, it was a 
 COMPLETE WASTE of MONEY. I literally took it back about 18 hrs after I bought it. I wanted this 
 game for the online capabilities, but could never find a game. It may be different for others, 
 but I only found one game in all that time. HOWEVER --- If you're just looking for a game to play 
 at home with your friends, it may just about be worth it. -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtRock40
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  The reason this game lives up to the 50 dollar price tag is online play. Think about it you can 
 enjoy the fun of a party game at any time. Single player is alright but if you do not have live 
 i wouldn't buy this game till the price tag dropped.
  
  The announcer can be annoying but if you chatting online you have a blast making fun of him. And 
 in single player you can skip him so no harm there.
  
  In conclusion just cause theres a bad announcer you cannot rule out the fact that the mini games 
 are fun and its one of the best games to play via live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game to play and you will feel refreshed after playing a game this good. after 
 GOW this is the kinda game that you want to play. It is a very good game. It has tons of fun loaded 
 into it for a 50 doller game. Much better than BB and Sneak King. Tou will most likely buy the 
 game for GP but try to appricate it. Try this game out. It is a must have for 360. You will have 
 tons of fun. Trust me!!!!! Your hooked after the first tornament. Buy this game!!! Now try the 
 best party game ever!!!! Play this master piece of party good ness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Having played ever Mario Party to date, and owning a few along the way, I'm quite familar with 
 the 'mini game' subgenre that has spawned from Mario and friends shananagans. Fuzion Frenzy does 
 what it did when the first Xbox came out some five years ago, with the addition of Xbox Live support. 
 The mini games this time are heavily borrowed from previous, similiar games, with a few original, 
 truly fun ones. The graphics are dissipointing with little detail and even less polygons. The arenas 
 do a tad bit better then character models but look nothing like what the 360 can produce, especailly 
 looking at this game after playing Gears of War. The Dj announcer guy sounds fine but falls under 
 a heavy plague of repetition, one which you will surely notice after playing for more then ten 
 minutes. The playable characters lack any personality and seem to be only, truly differentiated 
 by their colour. The music, while pop/punk/disco ish fills the void of silence, it no longer stays 
 in memory then does yesterdays weather. Enough with the bad things though, as this game does offer 
 fun that shall be pointed out. The mini games are easy to learn and some (SUPER DUNK) are really 
 fun to play. Online is great because the sessions can be over in as little as minutes and provides 
 a great venue to trash talk. The achievements are really easy to acheive, which is good and bad. 
 Overall, I wouldnt reccomend buying this game, as its a perfect rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cws3e
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  The announcer is much more annoying than the review articles will lead you to believe. In an actual 
 minigame he says the same thing over and over but usually you don't notice him so much there. Between 
 minigames he is all up in your face with bad dialogue and crappy lip syncing. Fortunately you can 
 just hit A and skip him. The characters hardly ever talk except at the end of a minigame and the 
 announcer can't even be bothered to call the by name.
  
  The animation is very different from the original and is obviously Japanese in flavor. While the 
 animations look better in many respects from the original they are certainly less interesting.
 
  
  For the most part the minigames are completely new from the original, although versions of some 
 of the classics were kept, such as sumo, and trail blazer and twisted system (isn't that the jump 
 duck game) . Most of the minigames will feel familiar though, collect tokens, push buttons in a 
 sequence, push an item into a goal, drive some stupid hard to control vehicle. Fortunately most 
 of the minigames are better than the horrible ones included in the demo.
  
  Instead of winning orbs you just win points. 10, 6, 4 or 2 depending on how you place. Now there 
 is this card dynamic that might add more when playing against people but didn't add much when playing 
 against the AI. You may think you won the most points on a minigame only to find out somebody played 
 a 6x multiplayer on their score or divided your score by 6 so while you were in first you are now 
 in last for that minigame. If you win the minigame you get to chose the next minigame so that could 
 add a little strategy and if you win a planet you get to chose the next planet. Some of the minigames 
 are locked so I didn't get to see some of them. The one I did unlock (sumo paint) is kinda neat. 
 I don't yet know how to unlock minigames. So you play 3 minigames and then you play the 'battle 
 royale' The battle is like the old frenzy in that their are obstacles in the ring that you can 
 use to your advantage or disadvantage. It is unlike the frenzy in every other way. It really is 
 nothing more than another minigame. It is a last man standing affair and you are beating each other 
 up until only one person is left standing. There is no gambling of points and the winner only gets 
 10 points just like you won any ordinary minigame (unless cards were played) . The winner of the 
 planet is then decided and off to the next planet you go.
  
  Is this game as fun as the original... probably not because the frenzy added a feeling that even 
 if you were in last you could come back to win. It gave a never out anything can happen flavor. 
 This game lacks that. This really isn't Fuzion Frenzy 2, is more of a clone of a minigame based 
 game. All the things that really set fuzion frenzy apart have been stripped out. If you understand 
 that this game could still be fun if you are playing with some really people and with the aid of 
 some alcohol.
  
  My final take is that they have ruined a great game and I'd give this game a pass or a bargain 
 bin, but it ceratainly is not worth $50. Hudson must not have heard that if it ain't broke don't 
 fix it. 5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best multiplayer games out today. I loved the original, but it was lacking 
 something... maybe online play, and Fuzion Frenzy 2 has fulfilled my wishes. The minigames are fun, 
 but require actual skill to play which is more of a challenge (compared to some games where the 
 minigames are based on luck) . ALso, this game has nice cleaned up graphics compared to the first 
 one, with a small anime touch. With friends on the couch, or online, this game is a complete and 
 utter blast, and you should definitely buy it. The only real problem in the game is the cheassy 
 announcer guy, but you can lower the volume on him, and the problem is easily resolved. Also, who 
 doesn't want those easy achievements. This game rocks! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
