-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gears of War 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/gearsofwar2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All-new, great-looking environments.
 New weapons, grenades, and melee attacks.
 Excellent new multiplayer modes, especially Horde.
 Drop-in co-op support with independent difficulty.
 Same exciting Gears action you know and love.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fiddly controls in vehicular sections.
 Too many unresolved plot strands.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.3, 77 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 10,278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Nov 7, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gears of War 2's new environments, weapons, and multiplayer features round out an all-around superior 
 action package. 

  The original Gears of War became an action genre classic thanks to its incredible graphics, cinematic 
 presentation, and solid cover system. The sequel repeats this formula, and though it introduces 
 new weapons, enemies, and environments, it remains an incredible yet familiar experience. The 10-hour 
 campaign is rambunctiously entertaining, with clever set pieces and epic confrontations that punctuate 
 the exhilarating stop-and-pop gunplay. The multiplayer offers more significant upgrades, with four 
 new modes, 10 new maps, and support for up to 10 players instead of eight. These things make for 
 a package with significant longevity, and though Gears of War 2 ultimately refines more than it 
 innovates, it still deserves a place in any action fan's collection.  

           Marcus Fenix and Dom Santiago return in Gears of War 2, heading underground to bring the 
 fight to the Locust.      

  Gears of War 2 picks up the story six months after the end of the first game. The Locust are so 
 powerful that they can sink entire cities from below, whereas the humans are becoming even more 
 desperate thanks to the spread of a disease called rust lung. With fears that the last city of 
 Jacinto might fall, it's down to Marcus Fenix and Dominic Santiago to take the fight to the Locust 
 in a desperate last stand against their alien foes. Survival is at the centre of Gears 2, but there's 
 also personal drama, with themes such as family, death, and even love interwoven into the grand 
 plot. This sheds some light on the characters and the universe, and though it ultimately uncovers 
 more questions than it answers, the game has a much grander premise than its predecessor.  

  In terms of gameplay, Gears 2 is fundamentally the same as the original game, but fans of the 
 series should be able to spot some key refinements. The cover system has been honed so that you 
 cling more accurately to surfaces, and the weapons have received subtle alterations to make them 
 even more balanced than before. The revival system has also been tweaked considerably. Not only 
 can your AI teammates heal you if you're injured, but now you can also tap A to crawl toward them 
 more quickly when you're injured. This makes the game a lot fairer in terms of difficulty and allows 
 for some heart-pounding moments as you race to your teammates to avoid a fatal curb-stomping from 
 the opposition.  

           Gears of War 2 introduces more backstory to the characters and the universe, but it ultimately 
 throws up more questions than answers.      

  Although the assault rifle is still the go-to firearm for the duration of the campaign, there are 
 plenty of other weapons to play with. New to the Gears universe is the flamethrower, which doesn't 
 have a great range but is excellent for dealing with groups of enemies that get a little too close 
 for comfort. Then there are the heavy weapons, which stop you from being able to roadie run but 
 make up for this with their immense power. The mulcher is a high-calibre chain gun that can cut 
 through even the biggest enemies in a single burst, whereas the mortar rains down a shower of explosives 
 from afar. Grenades have also seen improvements; you can stick them to surfaces so they become 
 proximity mines, there's a new model that gives off noxious gas, and the smoke grenade delivers 
 a concussive blast that knocks surrounding players off of their feet. All of these new weapons 
 are great fun to use, and crucially, they're well balanced for use in multiplayer.  

  The first Gears of War was brutally over-the-top in its violence, and the sequel manages to take 
 this even further. You now have four ways of executing your enemies, all of which are mapped onto 
 the face buttons of the joypad. X performs the standard curb-stomp, B delivers a quicker blow to 
 the back of the head, and Y flips your foe over for repeated punches to the face. Finally, the 
 A button lets you grab the wounded enemy to use as a meat shield, affording you some protection 
 until you decide to finish it off with a neck-break. The signature chainsaw move has been adapted 
 so you cut upward from the crotch if you approach from the rear, and if two players ready their 
 saws, they enter a duel that's won by whoever taps the B button the fastest. These new additions 
 improve on the already gritty and satisfying melee combat of the original Gears of War and make 
 close-quarters combat even more gruesomely rewarding.     

  Gears of War 2 has a considerably different look from its predecessor. Whereas the first game was 
 characterised by derelict cities and crumbling monuments, a good portion of the sequel takes place 
 in huge outdoor spaces and underground caverns. You'll see fluorescent lights, snow-capped mountains, 
 and enemies so big you'll actually need to get inside them to destroy them. There are also more 
 vehicle sections, and though they can be a bit fiddly to use, these segments are thankfully short 
 and infrequent. The traditional stop-and-pop gunplay still makes up the majority of the campaign, 
 and it's a raucously enjoyable ride that you'll want to play again and again.  

           The new game modes add more variety and longevity to the Gears multiplayer.      

 
  Gears of War 2 is best when played with friends, and the entire campaign now features drop-in 
 support and independent difficulty levels for two players. The competitive multiplayer has also 
 been substantially improved and now offers more players, maps, and game modes to select. Warzone, 
 Execution, Assassination, and Annex modes all make a return, along with King of the Hill, which 
 was introduced in the PC version of the game. There are also three new standard multiplayer modes 
 called Submission, Guardian, and Wingman. Submission is a variation on Capture the Flag, but here 
 the flag is a civilian who you carry to the checkpoint using the meat-shield technique. The hostage 
 also carries a gun and is hostile to anyone who comes close, making for a really great twist on 
 the traditional CTF game mode. Guardian is a team-based game with a designated leader; keep the 
 leader alive and everyone else can respawn, but if the leader dies then that privilege is over. 
 Finally, Wingman splits players into teams of two, with the emphasis on working together to kill 
 and revive. You've probably seen these game modes before in other games, but they fit perfectly 
 into Gears of War 2 and add even more variety and longevity to online play. Thankfully, the benefits 
 of being the host online have also been lessened, making the online experience much fairer across 
 the board.  

  The final multiplayer mode is called Horde, and it's the most addictive and challenging take on 
 Gears yet. It could be described as a cross between single- and multiplayer, in which a team of 
 five COGs take on wave after wave of Locust enemies. As long as one player stays alive at the end 
 of each round, the entire team respawns and the game keeps going, with progressively bigger and 
 more difficult enemies. It's an incredibly tense and exciting game mode, and despite the steep 
 difficulty curve, it's highly rewarding to play with friends. Gears 2 is also accommodating to 
 new players and those without Internet connections, with five training missions and bot support 
 for every multiplayer mode except Horde. The bots are surprisingly good at replicating human players, 
 and they make great practice for people who have never played the game online.  

  Gears of War 2 includes a total of 10 new multiplayer maps, plus a code to download five remastered 
 maps from the original game. The new maps take inspiration from the locations in the campaign, 
 whereas new environmental effects change some of the maps as you're playing. For example, Hail 
 features razor-sharp rain that gradually kills anyone out in the open. Furthermore, Day One has 
 a huge emergence hole in which a beast can take swipes at any surrounding players. Finally, Avalanche 
 is completely transformed when a snowstorm hits, turning it from a multitiered level into one flat 
 plane. These environmental effects don't feature in every map and game mode, but they definitely 
 liven up standard deathmatch-style multiplayer game types such as Warzone.  

           The sequel introduces training missions and bots that you can play in nearly all of the 
 multiplayer game modes.      

  The original Gears of War was a spectacular-looking game, and the sequel maintains this high technical 
 and artistic quality. Instead of pushing for increased visual fidelity, the graphics engine adds 
 a couple of other dimensions to the presentation, with walls that crumble under gunfire and dozens 
 of enemies onscreen at once. These new features don't necessarily affect the gameplay, but they 
 look good and help add to the dramatic scale that the designers have chosen. The new organic capabilities 
 of the Unreal Engine make for one particularly memorable level in which you literally have to kill 
 a giant enemy from the inside. Gears of War 2 also has impeccable sound design, with terrific voice 
 acting, meatier weapon effects, and another beautiful cinematic score.  

  Gears of War 2 has a lot in common with its predecessor, but the new environments, darker storyline, 
 and epic scale certainly have a lot to offer fans. The new weapons, melee attacks, and co-op options 
 make for a campaign that you'll want to complete a number of times, and the new multiplayer modes 
 give the game variety and longevity. Simply put, Gears of War 2 is a superior shooter that no action 
 fan will want to miss out on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (827 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpeice.
  Gears of war a remarkable game it had amazing graphics and audio, including depth in the characters 
 and the storyline.
  Gears of war 2 raises the bar.
  the graphics are truely amazing, it has real time damage.
  Beacuse it uses the Real Engine 3, 
 it has couple texture loading delays, but they are for seconds and you dont really mind the delays 
 because the sheer quality and the amazing backgrounds and depth that the game creates.
  
  The story is alot better than in Gears of War but the actual lenght of the campaign is debatable, 
 some say Gears of War is longer, but i cant really notice a vast time difference.
  You will play the Campaign at least twice due to the Co-op which makes the game even more fun to 
 play, and if you want to complete it on insane, you have to first complete it on casual, Normal, 
 or hardcore.
  
  Im not going to ruin the storyline, but Epic said it was going to be bigger, better and larger 
 with Horde's or enemys, and trust me it is.
  
  Mutliplayer on the other hand, as amazing as it is, it does have some connection issues and sync 
 issuses.
  the Multiplayer is good but often lag creeps in and can ruin the match for you, especially if your 
 doing really well and then someone leaves and then is has to sync up and it cant.
  there are issues where you have unlimited ammo in mutliplayer matches but the bullets do no damage 
 and you cant plant or throw grenades and cant chainsaw enemys, but as soon as you die, you should 
 return with an operational lancer.
  
  So apart from the network problems often faced in Mulitplayer, this is a great game and recomend 
 it to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar4ever24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I will say is this game comes close to being the best i've ever played! 
  
  The Good: Outstanding Visuals, Easy but effective controls, Amazing multiplayer experience, Captivates 
 you
  
  The Bad: Occasional minor glitches
  
  Gears of War 2 will consume you in its world of stunning graphics and an amazing life-like experience. 
 Think of any aspect you could assess a game on.. Graphics, Audio, Multiplayer, Main Story, whatever 
 else think you can think of... well Gears of War 2 comes close to 10 on every single aspect! The 
 Chainsaw Bayonet is back with all new features like chainsaw duels, The locust are as visicious 
 as ever and the great thing about that is that you just want go out there and kill em' all! I think 
 one of the most exciting new features in the game is the execution feature. if you shoot an enemy 
 sometimes they dont die but instead fall to their knees and crawl along the ground. It is now that 
 many different options emerge as to how to finish them off. For example if you press Y you will 
 most likely flip them over on their back and punch them 3 or 4 times in the head for a so called 
 "extended kill" then again if you press X you will violently curb stomp your enemy so that their 
 head is a complete mess. Then you have the option of pressing B which will make you dish out a 
 melee attack on your opponent depending on what gun you hold at the time. While holding the Chainsaw 
 you will obviously hack your helpless enemy to bits but while holding the shotgun you will kinda 
 wack their head off with the end of the gun.
  
  Summary: One of the best things is that GOW 2 manages to incorporate many different aspects into 
 it that you would not normally get in a FPS. And just the minor things like the easy to use cover 
 system and the awesome weapons. Overall Gears 2 is just a once in a lifetime sequel and it will 
 be lucky if another game as good as this comes around again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jojohn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is an extremely satisfying shooter where if it were not for some glitches it would 
 have been perfect. 
  
  The storyline is simple. The first light Bomb did not work, so now you have to go back into the 
 center of the earth to try again. With a few different directives here and there, of course.
  
  There are several new weapons, all of which are fun to use. Though the old Longshot and Lancer 
 are my favorites. You can now use enemy shields as well, which will come in very handy. 
  
  There are new enemies which, for the most part, are not too difficult. However, the missions which 
 require you to use a vehicle or other, can be VERY frustrating on Hardcore or Insane settings. 
 Friendly AI on these two settings are also pretty useless. Get ready to watch them stand around 
 while you're being suppressed by gunfire. I also noticed some glitches where you might get stuck 
 in a corner while trying to dodge bullets. 
  
  Enemy AI is great. These guys will try to flank you, keep moving around to prevent patterns, one 
 will fire while the other re-loads. 
  
  The overall storyline does not flow very smoothly, nor is there a lot of depth to the characters; 
 but the awesome graphics, great firefights, worthy opponents, changing environments, and not-to-short 
 campaign makes Gears of War 2 a must have.
  
  Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  First, I must let it be known that this game is incredibly fun to play minus a few neurotic sequences 
 and should be in any Xbox360 owner's collection. The multi-player, be it Co-op Campaign or online, 
 is always a blast (though I don't do much of that) . Gears of War is a great series when it comes 
 to blowing heads off of things and grinding teeth against bone, but I honestly bought this game 
 hoping that it would be an improved version of the first and offer up some more story. I was a 
 bit disappointed.
  
  Gears of War 1 had absolutely no story at all. I really didn't understand what was going on most 
 of the time, and had I not read the story in the manual would never have known why the heck Marcus 
 was in jail in the first place (it really should have been explained in-game) . I just let it go 
 as I figured Gears was meant more for multiplayer shoot 'em ups and just offered the campaign as 
 a solo option. Otherwise, the story wouldn't have sucked so badly. Well, when I heard that Gears 
 2 was supposed to have a really great, in-depth story I got excited. I loved playing the first 
 game, and I really wanted a story to go with the bunch of badass (though dull and almost lifeless) 
 soldiers that fight along your side the whole game. Gears of War 2 does have more story. Yet, it 
 is still not enough. The whole thing is a series of questions. There are absolutely no answers 
 and no insight into what the hell is going on. There is a mission and you see it through, yes. 
 But all the drama that's brought up about the war in general, the queen, adam fenix, the sires... 
 WTF? Why bring this stuff up if you don't connect any dots. Obviously its to open things up for 
 a sequal, but seriously, couldn't they have given us SOMETHING??? 
  
  EDIT: Where they do try to throw in some story detail only to raise questions they leave a massive 
 stain of predictability. If they do make a sequel (all bets would bank on it) I could probably 
 tell you exactly what would happen. What's worse is its happened a hundred times in movies as well 
 as other games. There's a lot of similarities here to the Fallout series even. I won't go into 
 detail for fear of spoiling the game (though there's not much to spoil) , but its obvous. All too 
 obvious.
  
  Anyway, story leaves a lot to be desired... blah, blah, blah. The real mess here is the characters. 
 Don't get me wrong - they are all total badasses whom I would totally love to fight alongside again 
 and again. However, they have no souls. Period. Dom seems to have a little heart, but he really 
 can't show it due to very poor voice-acting. All the dialogue is like something you'd find in a 
 cheesey '80s comic book. They're like a bunch of macho frat boys at a wet t-shirt contest; they 
 just don't know how to act. Epic, fire they kids writing your scripts on colored paper with crayolas 
 and hire some real freakin' literary talent!!!!
  
  As far as game play goes, if you've played Gears of War 1 then you have played this. Nohting has 
 really changed and NOTHING has improved. Moving around can still get problematic in tight places 
 or when being swarmed. Taking cover is still a matter of luck at times. And the aiming controls 
 are still a bit sloppy. The graphics are also better in detail but worse in lighting. Everything 
 is SO brite. Even underground Marcus shines like a white knight. No matter what the atmosphere 
 or terrain Marcus and the boys shine. There's no character model shading? Hell, no landscape shading? 
 What gives? GOW1 looked all dark and menacing. This game looks like my TV is glowing the wrong 
 direction. 
  
  
  Oh, and its harder to die. Yeah, one of the few things they did change is that a nearby teammate 
 can revive you if you've been shot down. The thing is they have to do it before the screen goes 
 totally red, and you have to crawl to them if they are away. This doesn't always work, though. 
 More often than not I'd crawl to Dom's feet and the b@stard would step right over me. Oh well. 
 Also all the boss fights are little repetitive sequences where you have to do a certain thing at 
 a certain time to win. This takes little to no skill whatsoever. If, however, you miss a step you'll 
 find yourself loading the last checkpoint. For example, one of the epic boss battles is basically 
 a sequence of rapidly pressing B-button three times. Thats it. You win. 
  
  Due to the lack of story and gameplay upgrades this game seems more like a well put together expansion. 
 They really should have called it Gears of War 1.5. If it weren't for the amazingly fun cover-and-shoot 
 portions of this game I would have let Marcus Fenix fall into the hollow with the lightmass bomb 
 a whole game ago. But it is fun. Very very very fun. Just don't expect much of anything else. Just 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  First off. Tai is the biggest baller ever. And he'll never die. Ever.
  
  Ok, now to real things of review-age.
  
  Here we have another shooter where the world is melting 
 to bad guys, but luckily you are the most awesome guy with a gun in the universe, so everything's 
 cool. You once again take the role of Marcus Fenix against the swarms of Locust trying to take 
 over the planet. 
  
  It really works just as well the first Gears. In fact, it's completely identical. Now what I mean 
 by identical is that I literally used the exact same weapons in the first game as I did in the 
 second. Lancer, Sniper, Magnum thingy, and grenades. So while there wasn't a whole lot of exploration 
 into new game play elements, the good thing is that it still works really well. The duck and cover 
 system is very fluid, and I never had any trouble going to where I wanted to. 
  
  Then there's the most important thing to an FPS, the multiplayer. Multiplayer works well and the 
 maps are fun and everything seems well balanced and such. I did have a bit of trouble with matchmaking 
 (not just in Gears, LEMME TELL YA) and I found myself entering a queue then putting the controller 
 to make a sandwich or 17 before the match started. 
  
  Graphics are good, but I really wish they could've done something other than just brown EVERYWHERE. 
 The best part of Marcus is the fact that there are bright blue glowing things on his suit, which 
 at least give the game some color. Come on Epic, throw in some accent colors or something. Take 
 ONE art class, please. 
  
  Campaign is way too long, since the only reason I play is to get the unlockables for multiplayer. 
 It's certainly not for the story. Saving the planet from aliens, missing wife, and cryptic parents 
 are not interesting crises. Also, dialogue needs some serious work. Everything Dom said made me 
 want to punch his high school english teacher. Some of the corniest, most idiotic phrases ever 
 uttered came outta that pansy's mouth. If Cole's hilarious lines weren't there to balance out Dom's 
 crap, I would've put the game on mute.
  
  Overall, if you already like Halo or CoD you're unlikely to convert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  i loved Gears of War. it was a no brainer to buy this one on the night it came out. it's good. 
 i liked it. there were intense portions. then i forgot about it. you know when a movie stays in 
 your mind the next day? this didn't have that IT factor for me. still, all in all it does a ton 
 of things well. the original had a greater impact on me though. the novelty was largely missing 
 on 2. 
  
  The good:
  - graphics rock. as you'd expect, the scenery and architecture are great.
  - story seems more 
 cohesive than in GOW. a bit more depth and twist and turns.
  - difficulty level challenging but not to the point of frustration. ok, the worm/raft scene took 
 a few tries...
  - COG tags are still neat to find. 
  - the 24/7macho characters are starting to seem a bit ho hum at this point. know when someone has 
 a gamer tag like "SupaNinjaKillYou666"? you just don't pull for tough guys like that. you kind 
 of want them to die in humiliating ways. the characters in GOW 2 are kinda similar. so tough, it 
 gets clich.
  
  The bad:
  - not sure it's got a lot of replayability factor to it. completed it in, i don't know, 9-11 hours 
 and it was case closed. done and done.
  
  Summary:
  - worth playing, worth renting, but as a long term keeper? i dunno. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1995_1996_1997
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:28 am PT
Review:  why do you think that this game sold 4 million because it way too awesome. its like no other game 
 the graphics are totally epic. epic has outdone its self ones again. this game is better than the 
 prequel thye adventures are greater its not only pure shooting theres adventures on revears on 
 behamoth... theres every thing and the locust are simply a blood thirsty creatures thats the way 
 they should be. simply a pefect masterpiece. you should defenatly buy this game. the charachters are 
 still awesome and deadly and the character deaths are full in this game carmine, thai, dom wife. 
 simply i cant stop playing it . the variety of weapons got greater over 15 weapons and the graphics 
 are better than before with the upgraded unreal engine 3 simly a blast to play. but the best thing 
 i found about this game that the use of chainsaw just got better. and a variety of monsters increased 
 and the new boss is much better then the last one. gears of war is awesome!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The Campaign and the new mode Horde are my favorite. But the multiplayer is still disappointing. 
 If you didn't like the multiplayer from the first Gears of War you more than likely will not enjoy 
 Gears of war 2 's multiplayer. I feel that the shining star of this game is Defiantly Campaign 
 and Horde. I also wish that the campaign offer 4 player cooperative gameplay for the campaign.
 
  The Campaign offers great replay ability because it does a great job of following up and continuing 
 the plot from the first game. In the end this game is solid and lives up to the hype and pressure 
 placed upon it by its predecessor. I still hope that if there is a gears of war 3 that for the 
 multiplayer they put more emphasis on longer ranged combat than the current and constant close 
 quarters  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is simply Like Cliff Blesinski Dscribed it, Bigger and Better than the First in 
 pretty much every way, there are new weapons, New Vehicles, New Maps, Characters, the whole package, 
 everything you would expect from a sequel...
  
  
  
  STORY: The game takes place a few months after Gears of War 1, and the events involving the lightmass 
 bomb planted underground in an attempt to wipeout the dreaded locust horde, The COG army continues 
 to fight a losing battle, The COGS Plan to send troops underground using the grindlifts in order 
 to attack the home of the locust, the hollow.
  
  Marcus Fenix, Cole Train, Baird and Dom all make their return in Gears 2 as well as some new characters 
 and new villains. game also focuses on Doms background more, he is searching for his missing wife 
 who mysteriously dissapeared on Emergence Day (E-day)
  
  
  The campaign is bigger and better this time around, More enemies on screen and NEW, unseen enemies 
 too, new environments add into the mix as well as many other awesome new things...
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Gears 2 are pretty much exactly the same as the first one with a 
 very notable change, The Game looks more Like Unreal Tournament 3 now, and yes I Know that UT3 
 and Gears of War are both made by Epic Games alright? But UT3 has a unique look, UT3 is alot more 
 colourful than Gears 1 was...
  
  But the colours in Gears 2 seem kind of washed out comared to the first one, whereas the cut scenes 
 (and possibly some of the level) in UT3 looked Similar.
  
  That's not to say it's a bad thing at all, UT3 looks Amazing and Gears 2 is brighter and more colourful 
 than the first one, there are bigger environments and like I said the game is alot more colourful, 
 the physcis are brilliant, Character models look great and are flexible and the textures are also 
 very well detailed
  
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: There isn't too much to say about the gameplay except that epic have made some minor 
 changes to Gears, Namely the Changes to the weapons, The Lancer is slightly slower than in Gears 
 1 and the shotgun is slightly less effective.
  
  There is actually some more gameplay mechanics Epic have added to Gears 2 including the Chainsaw 
 on the lancer, you are now able to rip an enemy apart from behind, there are also a bunch of new 
 finishing moves including beating your opponent down by using your weapon as a club, crushing their 
 skulls with your boot, punching them to death and using them as meat sheilds!
  
  Other than the changes listed above, there isn't too much new gameplay wise, it's the same old, 
 awesome gameplay from Gears of War 1, and I applaud Epic for actually STICKING with the formula 
 and not fu****g with it too much.
  
  
  
  SOUND: There isn't much to say about the sound in the game really, there are some new tracks which 
 really do suit the war like Atmosphere in Gears 2, The voice acting is great and the sound effects 
 are equally as good.
  
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER: The games multiplayer is also similar to the first one, there are great changes however, 
 firstly, there is a new mode called "Horde" which is very similar to Unreal Tournament 2004's Invasion 
 game mode, You are pitted against oncoming waves of enemies, each stage will get harder and harder, 
 it's an extremely fun game type especially with friends.
  
  Other than that there isn't so much new, The Multiplayer is the same brutal, Bloody, Chaotic rollercoaster 
 that you remember from Gears 1, action packed and tonnes of fun
  
  although I do admit that The Lag in the game sucks, The game can get quite laggy which is annoying, 
 Epic need to sort this out with their games to be honest and I am a Huge Epic Fan.... 
  
  
  REPLAY VALUE: This game has replay value written all over it, Epic have now included Bots in 
 the game like Unreal Tournament, therefore if you do not have an internet connection, you can still 
 get a good online experience OFFLINE with the bots, The Campaign as I stated is Brilliant and massively 
 improved over the first one, There is alot of new content involving multiplayer maps and weapons 
 All this including the addition of Horde Mode really make Gears 2 Shine in the TPS Genre (Third 
 Person Shooter) :D
  
  
  CONCLUSION: I'd say that if you have a 360, this game is pretty much a must buy especially if you 
 are a fan of shooters and you liked the first Gears of War, have fun! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_1993
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a good game and the story mode was mind blowing. The difficulty levels 
 are good and it is very rewarding once completing on Insane, and Horde mode is very refreshing 
 and offers a good challenge and also a lot of fun to play with friends.
  
  However, the multiplayer was good fun to begin with, but it gets old incredibly fast, the reason 
 why Gears 1 was so good was because it was fresh and very different to anything seen before, but 
 with the new maps, weapons and executions taken out, it is the exact same game as before. Although 
 it is a fun multiplayer i got bored within a month of playing this game, and it sat on my shelf 
 from the beginning of December until mid March when i sold it. The golden lancer was a nice touch 
 and i surprisingly really liked it but this game gets incredibly old incredibly quickly. For me 
 it was another Halo 3, good at first, very good story mode but repetitive gameplay ruined it for 
 me, both resulting in a sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  With Gears of War 2 carrying the incredible weight of hype and expectation upon its impossibly 
 large shoulders, it was always going to face a huge amount of scrutiny. Gamers and critics will 
 pore over every inch of Epic Studios' well-oiled war machine, looking for the seams, seeing if 
 the boughs will break when given a hard enough prod. 
  
  How Gears 2 avoids this problem is as subtle as a sledgehammer. Here is a game that pulls no punches 
 - a brash, testosterone-fuelled, hyper-violent shooter that makes no apologies for what it is. 
 Gears 2 is a sequel that remains true to its origins.
  
  As such, there is little in the way of surprises when it comes to gameplay. For all the pressure 
 of being a standard-bearer for the third-person shooter genre and, indeed, the Xbox 360, Gears 
 remains one of the purest video game experiences out there. It's you, a whole load of guns and 
 waves of bad guys to shoot at. It's kill or be killed - load up, take aim and save the world. 
 
  
  But what makes Gears' combat such a success is its vicious, intimate intensity. Firefights are 
 so up close and personal you can almost smell the Locust horde as they bear down on your position. 
 
  
  The game's opening stage is something of a microcosm of the whole game. Beginning in your army's 
 makeshift hospital base, you must stave off the oncoming Locust as they storm the building. Fighting 
 your way through crumbling, claustrophobic corridors you must slip from cover to cover, overturning 
 medical gurneys, digging in while chipping away at the assaulting enemies. Move forward; take out 
 the snipers in the overlooking floor above with a well-placed grenade and dash up to high ground, 
 taking the advantage. It's a frenetic blur of blood and bullets, an intense lesson in tactical 
 nous. 
  
  Eventually, you clear the hospital and reach the front door. Kicking it open, you are greeted with 
 a city at war, buildings fall and helicopters buzz overhead while your comrades desperately fight 
 off Locust ground forces. It's a heart-stopping moment and the first of many to come. 
  
  Never has a studio's name been so apt. Epic's ability to create an astonishing spectacle is second 
 to none. The first Gears was a showcase for the new generation and still has very few peers in 
 terms of visual wizardry. The sequel takes it even further. While the "destroyed beauty" of the 
 original is still the foundation for the artwork, the locations are far more varied, splashed with 
 lush blues, greens and a little more life. At one point you are battling through a war-ravaged 
 town that you could imagine bustling with residents in a more peaceful time. It's exactly the kind 
 of character that, arguably, the original lacked. 
  
  The outstanding locations are a large part of what makes Gears 2's campaign so gripping, not just 
 in terms of visual splendour but in the way the gameplay is varied enough to hold you in thrall. 
 While you're never far from a gun battle, the game is a masterclass in pacing - mixing the intimate 
 with the epic in just the right dosage. One minute you'll be clashing chainsaws up close with Locust 
 grunts and the next you'll be manning the machine gun on a gigantic tank, rumbling through a forest 
 while mortar fire sends huge boulders plummeting from the cliffs beside you. Epic seems to know 
 exactly when to have you holding your breath and when to have your heart thudding through your 
 chest. One section in the pouring rain is the very essence of this, ramping up the tension to an 
 unbearable degree before smashing it down in a maelstrom of tooth and claw. The campaign does get 
 a little flabby around the three-quarter mark, with your mind starting to wander after you've spent 
 just a little too long underground. However, any malaise is swiftly shaken in the suitably explosive 
 denouement. 
  
  Needless to say, Gears 2 is relentlessly brutal. While the gore and swearing can be switched off, 
 the entire game is full of violent machismo. So much so that it does eventually begin to grate. 
 Your hero, Marcus Fenix, with his neck as wide as a tree-trunk, is a gruff-voiced killing machine 
 who quips things such as, "Ooh, that's gotta hurt", or "Look Ma, no face", as he takes the head 
 off a distant Locust with a well-placed sniper bullet. It's all in keeping with the game's tone, 
 but it you do eventually reach saturation point with the macho brouhaha and you can't help but 
 hope for some levity. 
  
  An attempt at this does come with the much-publicised search for Maria, the wife of your partner, 
 Dominic Santiago. Unfortunately, while the plotline itself holds some strong, almost poignant, 
 moments, the execution is too heavy-handed. Epic clearly wanted to answer the criticisms of the 
 first game's lack of a human touch, but the Maria plotline, while far from being weak, does come 
 across as a little forced. The story in general is a great improvement on the original, but tends 
 to be a series of interesting events strung together with a slightly weak thread. The mythology 
 of the Gears universe is a fascinating slice of science fiction, but melding it into a cogent story 
 is proving somewhat elusive. 
  
  Epic has no such problems in building its multiplayer. The campaign can be played in two-player 
 co-op, both online and off, with the option for each player to choose their own difficulty level. 
 The new online mode, Horde, allows up to five players to team up against ever-increasing waves 
 of Locust in what is effectively a score attack mode. Horde is merciless, in many ways the ultimate 
 test of your skills. The five human players must work together to somehow battle their way through 
 50 waves of Locust. As you'd expect it starts off light, but just a few waves in the amount of 
 enemies becomes suffocating and the short break between waves becomes a mad scramble for weapons 
 and ammo, which always seem to be just out of reach. 
  
  The original Gears multiplayer still has its hooks into million of players and, with Horde, Gears 
 2 is looking to reel back in those who have defected to Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4. Maps are tightly 
 designed, with plenty of cover and holdpoints. Teamwork is essential. Getting caught playing the 
 lone ranger is likely to get you killed and won't win many friends in your team. Favourite modes 
 such as Annex are even better in Gears 2, but the real star of the show for me was the new mode, 
 Submission. 
  
  Submission is essentially Capture the Flag, but with a twist: the flag is alive and fights back. 
 Represented by one of the Stranded from the storyline, the "meatflag" is armed with a shotgun and 
 you must take him down in a hail of bullets before you can grab him by the neck and drag him back 
 to the scoring zone. As one player is dragging the Stranded, his team-mates must protect him, otherwise 
 the "flag" can get loose and take out members of your team with a few well-placed shots. 
  
  Submission can lead to some fraught back-and-forth encounters that can last for some time as 
 each team refuses to concede the score. The intimate nature of the battles leads to ferocious competition 
 in all gametypes and, for me, Gears 2 is one of the finest examples of online multiplayer warfare 
 yet. It matches, if not beats, the frantic running-and-gunning of Halo and Call of Duty with tense, 
 tactical encounters. 
  
  Gears of War 2 doesn't claim to be any kind of paradigm shift for the medium, nor does it need 
 to. In its own, very loud way, Gears 2 is still an important figure on the video game landscape. 
 Sure it's uncouth at times, but it stands tall as an example of just how heart-poundingly exciting 
 games can be. It is a game of gargantuan spectacle that grabs you by the throat and throws you 
 headlong into a frantic, terrifying, exhilarating adventure, armed to the teeth with huge guns 
 and one hell of an attitude. 
  
  Bigger and better? You'd better believe it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the sequel to the critically acclaimed game, and follows on from the end of the 
 original plot, continuing the war against the locust. The game turns out to be very analogous to 
 the original, but with substantial changes and improvements to the game mechanics and graphics 
 engine. You'll also be battling your way through many more varied locales this time around, and 
 experience them with a handful of new weapons and enemies, making the game feel fresh and updated 
 enough to actually be considerably better than the original game.
  
  Instead of just the ordinary rhythm of ducking in and out of cover, Gears 2 mixes things up a bit 
 with some new mechanics to fire fights. You can now take your enemies and use them as a 'hostage' 
 or in this case a disposable shield, as the ruthless enemies shoot through their friends without 
 hesitation. You can also stomp on downed enemies to kill them, and engage in chainsaw duels where 
 you battle it out with enemies also wielding lancers.
  
  The level design is more vivid and diverse, which is more than I can say about the rather samey 
 and dull environments that were common before. While Unreal Engine 3 continues to show its lack 
 of capability with rendering brighter, colourful environments in most of the showcased games, Epic 
 have pushed the boundaries well to create an experience that is no longer overly dark and gritty 
 but still feels fitting in the Gears universe. A few levels which showcase the most vibrant settings 
 the game has to offer are; a snowy level across breaking ice, inside a giant worm, and fighting 
 hordes of enemies on top of a massive truck-like vehicle going across a canyon lit by the sunrise.
 
  
  Improved graphics brings the game back up to the standards of new releases, by presenting us with 
 much larger environments and the aforementioned colour palette. There are also a bunch of new effects, 
 better shadows and lighting, and damage to the environment. Along with the larger locations, there 
 are now hordes of enemies on screen at once for you to slaughter, resulting in some truly epic 
 battles and satisfying destruction.
  
  The story is your average plot for a game of this type, not much better than before, but the ending 
 wraps things up nicely and sets it up so the last level consists of some intense and epic battles. 
 But I thought the ending cutscene (s) could have been better and it just sort of trails off at the 
 end. 
  
  Gears of War 2 is worth picking up if you enjoyed the original. There have been no major changes 
 to the gameplay and it still plays the same as the older game, but that's good; it works well. 
 This will certainly not change the mind of anyone who didn't enjoy it before, but for people who 
 did; this is a game you simply must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paseko
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:01 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game on the surface, with stunning visuals, a bag full of multiplier 
 game modes and exciting new features. Before I start, the 'Just Right' I have chosen fore difficulty 
 is because you can select the difficulty modes, and they vary considerably from literally impossible 
 to sandbox.
  
  But the game somehow does not deliver what the first game did. With Call of Duty and other FPS 
 games rocketing with popularity, Gears of War is losing its edge in competition. The game just 
 feels as though you are still playing Gears of War 1; there are few new features which aren't compelling 
 enough to grab any Gears fan into the action. Since the first release, a sequel has been prolonged, 
 except this game has lost its flare.
  
  The action you see in Gears of War is good, but not great. I think the game should be more quick 
 and exciting, more new characters and be rid of the main character with his annoying black 'doo-rag' 
 wrapped around his head. Just like the first game, Gears 2 urges you to take on locust after locust 
 with no real challenge. By this, I mean that if you want to win the game, you just have to duck 
 behind cover all of the time and pop out to shoot for as long as you can, then advance. Gears 1 
 reached new ground with this type of strategy, but even more clear in Gears 2; it prohibits any 
 non-linear play.
  
  The multiplayer mode has seen the introduction of new maps which, sad to say, are not as good as 
 the maps in gears 1. The online mode also doesn't allow you to have a 'guest' on-board to take 
 down other players in a fun non-ranked death match. This was very popular with Gears 1 (as you 
 see people with names like 'gamertag [1] ' - meaning guest) and why they excluded to take this very 
 fun feature out is a total mystery. You can no longer play with a brother or a friend with two 
 controllers, you'll have to share turns, taking away the fun of playing together and reducing playtime 
 by half.
  
  The graphics are good, but also not an improvement from Gears 1. Often, in single player mode, 
 your character reaches the depths of underground. This sounds cool, but prepare for not being able 
 to get out of the cave for a very long time. Whilst you're in the dark caves, you can hardly make 
 out the outline of your character, and as you can imagine, the graphics are much less striking 
 than when you are out of the tunnels. Any play underground should be taken out of the game completely, 
 it just isn't fun when you can't see a sausage, you might as well play blind-folded.
  
  Overall, Gears of War 2 is a good game, but a poor sequel. 5.5/10 for a sequel, and 7.5/10 for 
 a game, hence the 6.5/10, aspiring to 'good' for this gamespot review. For those you mist out on 
 buying Gears 1, then this game is a must. But for hardcore fans hoping for a great sequel, this 
 isn't worth your money. You may even consider buying Gears 1, if you are new to the franchise! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese-Supreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 12:33 am PT
Review:  ... Gears of War 2
  
  After Gears of War I knew there would be a sequel. After looking it up and finding out about it, 
 I couldn't wait for it to be released. I watched previews on Youtube, gameplay videos and everything 
 I could possibly find about it! I couldn't wait!
  
  I pre-ordered the Limited Edition and stayed up playing through it with a friend on the night of 
 its release. 
  
  We played through it on Hardcore, not Insane because it wasn't unlocked, and we found it suprisingly 
 easy. It was honestly, very easy for Hardcore. We finished it in around 5 hours, amazed. 
  
  Like, the story was fairly good, the graphics I personally thought were not as good as the 
 original, but still very good, the new executions were awesome and there was more gore! There was 
 many new weapons and new things about the game that you find out as you go along. 
  
  Multiplayer is pretty much the same as the original, but you have Horde, and some new gametypes. 
 Horde is good, when you are playing with 4 other people, but as you get to the higher levels it 
 is necessary for all 4 players to be there with you. It can also be as frustrating as the original 
 and may make you want to throw your controller through the screen!
  
  All in all, Gears of War 2 doesn't live up to the original. In some ways, maybe, but overall it 
 doesn't have a chance.
  
  9.5/10 - That's being lenient 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Recently I finished up Gears of War 2 single player gameplay... and I must say that overall it 
 was a pretty fun game to play. There were some things about it that I was very impressed by and 
 then some things I think that they could have made better.
  
  First of all I must say it was a very well made game as far as the storyline went. So many games 
 either get caught up in the "how good does it look" over having a decent storyline to keep you 
 interested. I have played alot of games and this one probably had one of the best storylines of 
 most of them. Keeping me wondering just what was going to happen next with each episode unfolding 
 the story.
  
  I have to say that one of the other top qualities of this game were the graphics! Be it that they 
 were all pretty much in grayscale and alot of dark other colors... it was a very nice blending 
 that equally balanced the overall feel of the game. I really did enjoy the outdoor scenes alot. 
 Especially the mountain pass you had to go thru... that was so beautifully made that sometimes 
 after a fight I would just stop and look around to see just how nice it was. Some of the effects 
 could have been better... like some of the water scenes but still it was a very nice balance between 
 the both. I did like all of the effects when fights were happening. Smoke coming off the guns, 
 blood flying everywhere as you used your chainsaw, actual impact scaring on buildings and other 
 objects in the environment made it even more realistic.
  
  The sound efffects in this game were also nicely done. I loved how, if you played it thru a surround 
 sound system like I did, it made it all seem like you were right there in the battles as you played, 
 I loved how you could heard the different shots coming at you from multiple angles. I loved the 
 different sounds you hear from the vehicles and creatures you both drove and fought. Alot of effort 
 went into making this game seem real and this was just one more of the added finishing touches 
 to make it all worth playing.
  
  I really did like the defensive stratagy of being able to hide behind objects but still target 
 them, then peek and shoot them, then return to your hide mode. Most games don't offer that leaving 
 you having to dodge everything coming at you as you fight. This is a far more tactical game in 
 my opinion... and that to me was one of the things that I really liked about it. I also liked the 
 drop and swap gun method. Not only being limited to always having to use the same weapon... but 
 being able to change it after each enemy you killed made it alot of fun. I have to say that I didn't 
 use the chainsaw very much in this game... simply because I found my most favorite two ways of 
 taking out enemies was to either Sniper them with direct head shots... thus watching their headless 
 body fall to it's knees and then collapse, or even more fun to me was to injure them and then run 
 up to them and finish them off by stomping on them! Very fun!
  
  If I had to pick the only two things about this game that I didn't really care for... it would 
 be the following. Playing in single player mode was not always fun because sometimes I would get 
 seriously hurt and needed Dom (your friend in the game you play beside) to come and heal me. I 
 would say about 30% of the time he would show up... and then the other 70% of the time you were 
 left to die as he just stood there. That was frustrating. The other thing I noticed after about 
 the third level was that you could go into a battle... rush in with your squad at your side to 
 activate the battle, and then backtrack away from it and let them just clean house. Mind you I 
 didn't do that because I wanted to play the game to the fullest.... but it showed a weak side to 
 the programming in this game.
  
  Overall I gave this game a 8.5 because it was put together pretty well even with the few flaws 
 I feel it had. While it has online play for deathmatch type of fights, I am not really into that 
 so much. So I didn't really play with that at all. I feel this game is a great game to play at 
 least once in the single player mode... but as far as replay... I would say there is really not 
 much there. If you like games of this nature... and are into the online battle I feel you would 
 appriciate this game. Niow that it has come down in price a bit... I feel it would be a great game 
 for people to get... but not really worth the original $59.99 that they usually charge for a new 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleath_hunter33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  the first game was great yet it had very limited enemy count, gears 2 on the other hand brings 
 fresh meat to the table. with a better character cast and stronger enemies thats sure to blow your 
 mind. if you enjoyed the first game your gonna love this game. with improved graphics and higher 
 gore content than the first its a must have for all 360 owners. theres noting like the sound of 
 a drone being chainsawed in half in horde ;yet, the characters are way to bulky. its a great game 
 if you dont own this game go out and get it. its far more fun than gears 1. the story has some 
 new faces to it to like tai and dizzy and isnt as short as the first game. and avoid the grinders 
 if they down you in horde your screwed. have fun on it . ha ha cuz i still dont have all the achevments 
 on it lol :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotman
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  While the story had many exciting action events in numerous well detailed environments, I found 
 the gameplay to be repetitive and rather 'non-tactical'.
  
  Tactics in this game pretty much amounts to hiding behind something, shooting, hide some more, 
 rinse, wash, repeat.
  
  To me, it feels like Marcus and Dom are like walking pans of meatloaf- slow, sluggish, and covered 
 in ketchup (or squishy bits of enemies, as the case may be.) The game feels slow and plodding- 
 the plot is fairly simplistic.
  
  The biggest gripe is the complete non-sequitur Dom pulls about 3/4ths of the way through the campaign... 
 it really made no sense, was overly gratuitous.. and really... just sorta made me hate Dom as a 
 character... 
  Good job Epic games, way to fail at character development.
  
  Multiplayer-wise:
  The old tactic of dive and shotgun-to-the-face has actually been rendered 
 void by a recent patch (thankfully, in my opinion) but gameplay still lacks the panache of CoD4- 
 quick, clean kills in a high mobility environment.
  
  
  In closing- you really have to be a fan of the first game in order to enjoy this- because I really 
 didn't have much of a good time with it, Lord knows I tried to.
  
  -Scotman
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoami111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:52 pm PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was a great game; it had a lot of flaws but its still fun to play and it 
 has amazing graphics. However, the second game is a major letdown for me. Gears of war 2 felt inferior 
 to Gears of war 1 despite the longer campaign and more weapons. Remember the beautiful gory deaths 
 in Gears of War? You can blow the locust into little pieces and keep on shredding them apart even 
 after they are dead. But, you can't do that in Gears of War 2. Once they are dead, you can't touch 
 them; the bullets just go through the corpses, unlike the first game; the goriness also looks sh1ttier. 
 The campaign mode is longer and it is great, until you get to the end. Both the fight against Skorge 
 and the final boss is like counting from A to Z. They are too easy. "Skorge makes Raam look like 
 a pushover" my a$$. The multiplayer is crap; at first it seems like we finally got rid of the shotty 
 fest, but after while it comes back. Everyone is just frolicking around with their shotguns again; 
 and what's with the chainsaw? The chainsaw is rigged: It's even easier to use it now. However, 
 I did find Horde mode enjoyable, but only for a while. I ran out of space to talk about the horrible (and 
 I mean horrible) voice acting; which makes another thing inferior to the first one. Overall, this 
 game is not as good as it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flairlend_l337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is a game that I believe all 360 gamers must play! I wont go into details on the story 
 but it is an absolute roller coaster of action, love and despration and the struggle against the 
 locust horde. The campaign is just the perfect length and is a blast to play in co-op with a buddy. 
 The multiplayer is solid and can satisfy any blood thirst player ready to slice and dice their 
 opponents, although it may take a while to devolp alot of skills to fit in with the elite. Horde 
 mode is a great addition and has received most of my play time because it is a great way to rack 
 up a great kill count and playing with 4 of your friends is a great way to just chill and create 
 some carnage. Graphics and sound are top notch and I was very pleased with the way that it turned 
 out. Although after you finish alot the campaign and waste horde i have felt that the game kinda 
 loses its everlasting touch but it may be a game to always go back to and enjoy several months 
 after you polish every last acheivement. So I suggest you play a friends copy or perhaps rent it 
 but for the hardcore fans, you might wanna pick this one up and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishoturface
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The good: The first game had great graphics and this game tones em up a bit - Still the great gore 
 from the first game - awesome sound - great multiplayer - AI is a lot better - Horde mode - same 
 awesome co-op gameplay.
  
  
  The bad: Matchmaking takes forever to find a single match - campaign has very frustrating moments 
 - campaign doesnt have the replay value you would expect.
  
  
  
  Gears 1 defined gore.. And its a lot more brutal in gears 2.
  Gears 2 picks up a while after 
 gears 1 where marcus and dom had killed general RAAM and tried to stop the locust once and for 
 all but that failed. So they are back to try and crush the locust once more and find the locust 
 queen.
  
  You once again play as Marcus fenix son of the legendary Adam fenix and along with Dom it's your 
 job to send the locust back into their hole.. 
  Throughout most of the campaign you are underground trying to find the queen and sink the city 
 jancinto before the locust sink it..
  In the first game you were underground a little but not a whole lot and fighting on the locust 
 turf is a nice change of scenery. 
  There is sort of a sidequest that Dom is trying to find Maria (wife im guessing) who was captured 
 by the locust and since they are in locust territory Dom tries to find Maria.
  The last time around you never really felt for the characters and their story but this time you 
 will more than likely...
  
  In the first mission you are defending a hospital filled with injured people. The next few missions 
 have you trying to get to the area where you are going to drill down into the earth and fight the 
 locust underground. And you will notice how evil the locust and their cause to destroy the human 
 race is.. You will find mutilated bodies and people being kept as slaves by the locust to do their 
 dirty deeds..
  
  The rest of the time you are underground is mainly you trying to plant a bomb to sink the city 
 and along the way you will encounter some very interesting missions.. For instance in one missions 
 you are inside a giant worm that was swallowing cities whole and you actually have to cut the worms 
 three hearts out.. Which is pretty freaking awesome and bloody.
  When you down an enemy instead of just doing the curbstop you can do 10 other different types of 
 exacutions. Like having your shotgun out and pressing a certain button to then hit the enemies 
 head like the shotgun is a golf club.. Most of the new exacutions are lame but some are good. Or 
 instead of doing an exacution you can pick up the enemy and use him as a shield from bullet and 
 explosians alike.
  
  There are also some vehicle like missions one near the begining where you are riding on a derrick 
 which is a giant transport vehicle and you have to defend the derrick against attacking enemies. 
 A tank mission which is frustrating, and you also get to ride on a reaver (the flying enemies) , 
 and then perhaps the best part.. you get to ride on a brumak..
  There is a new level difficulty called normal and its in between casual and hardcore and normal 
 is very easy (maybe even easier then casual on the first game) but still a new level of difficulty 
 adds some replay value.
  The game may take you anywhere from 8 hours to 14 hours (8 on casual and 14 on insane) . The campaign 
 can be played by yourself through local co-op or drop-in drop-out co-op online.. Drop-in drop-out 
 meaning you can join a mission someone else is doing online.
  
  There are quite a few new types of enemies... Like the mauler which has a boomshield and a giant 
 mace, the butcher which has a giant knife for slicing you up, flame grenadier who sports a flamethrower, 
 tickers which are like little bomb and will explode when they get close to you, big guys who carry 
 mulcher (which is a mini gun) and wuite a few other types of enemies so your not just fighting 
 only drones and wretches any more like the first game.
  
  There are also some new weapons in addition to the old ones..
  The mortor which is a portable 
 mortar that you can choose distance and aim at your target then unleash a hail of explosives from 
 the sky.
  The mulcher which is a minigun like weapon that is capable of downing the largest enemies in a 
 short amount of time. The flamethrower which feels absolutly usless at times and only works good 
 on the smaller enemy types.
  The gorgon pistol which fires in 4 shot burst and can easily take down large enemies with only 
 one mag. 
  There is also a new type of grenade called the Ink grenade which is pretty much just a poison grenade 
 and only works if the enemies are staying still.
  There is also a shield which you can hold out in front of you while using your pistol but it provides 
 great cover and you can also plant it in the ground and take cover behind it.
  
  Ther hammerburst which is the locust weapon was pretty crappy in the first game and only fired 
 in bursts is now fully automatic and a lot more powerful.
  The lancer is also back (if it wasnt then that would totally suck) it fires a bit faster then last 
 time and yes it still has the chainsaw that i oh so loved to cut enemies in half..
  The shotgun is also back but doesnt seem as deadly as before though but still it works fine..
 
  You can now plant grenades on walls to create a trip mine so that if any enemies went past it 
 it will explode.
  
  Then there was horde mode.. Probably one of the best if not the best part of the game.
  Horde 
 mode is either you by yourself two people on local co-op or up to five people online co-op trying 
 to survive 50 waves of locust each wave getting harder and harder. 
  
  
  Now the multiplayer has its share of flaws and some good things about it as well...
  The multiplayer 
 can be played up to ten people now online two more then from the previous game.. You can still 
 play splitscreen but there is an addition of bots which makes the multiplayer even better since 
 i never really liked the online multiplayer.
  There are the same game modes from the original gears but now there are some new ones besides horde. 
 The new game modes are submission which is sorta like captue the flag except one team has to find 
 a person drag them using the meatshield and take them to a certain area. Guardian which is each 
 team has a leader and once the leader dies the other players can no longer respawn while they could 
 if there leader was alive.
  And wingman which is 5 teams of 2 and each team trying to survive the longest and which ever team 
 is left last they get they will get the most points.
  The old game modes are abck as well. LIke warzone which is probably the best game mode which is 
 two teams of 5 fighting against each other and whichever team is left last wins.
  Or annex which is sorta like battlefield series conquest mode but there is only one area on the 
 map and each team has to try and hold that area for as long as they can but every 60 seconds the 
 area moves.
  The there is also king of the hill which is kinda odd for this game if you ask me. 
  There are 
 some new maps along with a few redone maps from gears 1. Each map is great in its own way but you 
 wil probably fall in love with atleast one.
  You can now level up in the multiplayer after getting acertain amount of EXP you will then rank 
 up.
  
  The multiplayer is great but the online can be annoying since matchmaking takes longer then it 
 should and sometimes you will get matched with a higher level player then you.
  
  
  
  The visuals are great now dont get me wrong the first games graphics were awesome but the dark 
 colors didnt give it much varitity but finally they realized that and made the world have more 
 brightful colors.
  Something new i liked about the visuals is that you can see bullets flying this time around i dont 
 know why i just liked it..
  
  
  The sound is very good the weapons sound awesome acting is very solid and music is very good.
 
  
  
  
  So overall if you liked gears 1 you will like this game just as much if not more, despite the online 
 multiplayer being dissappointing this game is very worth paying $60 for it.
  
  
  Campaign: 9.3/10
  Co-op: 9.8/10
  Multiplayer: 9.0/10
  Graphics: 9.6/10
  Sound: 9.2/10
 
  Gamelplay: 9.5/10
  Overall score; 9.7/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killfor0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 Capitalizes on everything that made the original Gears of War game the highly successful 
 and bold new tactical third-person shooter game that it was. 
  
  Mounting a chainsaw on the end of the game's signature gun, an assault rifle known as the Lancer, 
 was all the original Gears of War game need to be a sure hit. Whilst retaining much of the same 
 gameplay from the first game Gears 2 drastically enhanced the personal experience one achieves 
 while immersed in cutting edge gameplay. As in the GOW 1 you once again take the role of Marcus 
 Fenix with the COG army continuing to lose large numbers to Locust raids you set out on a vendetta 
 against the much larger and smarter hordes of locust. The graphics have been very noticeably enhanced. 
 More realistically lit and shaded objects and character models as well as improvements to the environment 
 were made possible by the use of the Unreal Engine 3. As you traverse through a variety of locations 
 some familiar but most completely unheard of, sporting a few new additions to your arsenal to help 
 intensify the action the inclusion of the Unreal Engine 3 enables hordes of locust to be on screen 
 at once. By having more locust on screen during frantic spot battles adds to the illusion that 
 a real war is going on all around you which raises the level of immersion. Other enhancements included 
 improvements to the rendering of water in which physical interactions with were displayed more 
 realistically. Also the implementation of destructible environments demonstrated with the use of 
 explosive arrows fired from the "Torque Bow" causing damage to wooden planks, and also revealing 
 rebar present after destroying areas of a stone structure.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Gears of War 2 features an upgraded multiplayer mode that allows up to ten users to simultaneously 
 play in teams of five-on-five. Gears of War 2 includes most of the original multiplayer modes, 
 including "Execution", "Warzone", "Annex" and "King of the Hill", and adds in three new modes.
 
  "Guardian" is a modified version of "Assassination" from GOW1, but allows players to continue 
 fighting after the leader has been killed, with the loss of the ability to re-spawn. "Wingman" 
 another new mode splits all ten players into five teams of two, where both members of a team play 
 as the same character and fight, death-match style against the other teams. "Submission," formerly 
 known as "Meat Flag," is a version of capture the flag in which players attempt to "down" an enemy 
 controlled by the game's AI and move its body to their team's base to earn points, the flag is 
 played by a stranded and having weapons also is able to defend itself to some extent.
  
  A few additions have changed the gameplay completely. The game introduces the ability to engage 
 in "chainsaw duels" should the player attempt to chainsaw an opponent also using the Lancer; the 
 player is jumped into a quicktime event where they have to press a button rapidly in order to try 
 to win the duel. Grenades can be planted on walls or floors as proximity traps that go off when 
 an enemy nears, effectively to kill foes when they go off this causes players to think a little 
 more before running in guns a blaze. However only frag grenades are instant kills so a team can 
 still push past enemy defenses in order to flank round the back and cut off an exit.
  Players can also grab a downed foe and use them as a "meatshield", allowing their body to absorb 
 damage inflicted from head on but forcing the playing to use a one-handed pistol.
  
  All these new additions add up to create an addictive and immersive game with stunning visuals 
 and catchy one liners that will have you check the time only to check again a little later and 
 realize its 5 am and that you've been playing for 8 hours straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM-XP-L9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 was my first shooter on my Xbox 360 and I had great amusive time while pulling Head 
 shots.
  
  The story is pretty good you will visit a lot of places and territories shoot a wide variety of 
 enemies, I also like the "Pre-Puzzles" in this game such escaping the digestive system of the giant 
 worm, that keeps you entertained, few weapons were added you can notice mortar canons and flamethrowers 
 that adds more life to the game
  
  Graphics were the best, shadows, lightning, buildings, the way the player moves, takes cover and 
 shoots and everything else was realistic and keeps your eyes busy and amazed.
  
  Multi player mode can keeps you up every night you can play online via Xbox Live, System link, 
 or split screen which means you can have a lot of fun with friends.
  
  Soundtracks, sound effects went definitely good with the story and gameplay.
  
  This game is 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coco_pierrot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Easy to pick up.
  
  The story : The story has some good point, it has an action movie type of scenario but it is good 
 and there is always something that put you in more action in a bigger scale.
  
  In the first gears, each chapter are very defined, in this one, every chapter connect perfectly 
 with the other, so it doesn't feel like 5 scenarios put together to make a game.
  
  There is a lot of varieties in the environnement and a lot of open space and some place are very 
 epic with a lot of enemies and lot of gears.
  
  The music is also epic like in the first one.
  
  In the first gears, they didn't explore that 
 much each caracter past or story, in this one we see some stuff and some side effects of war.
 
  
  I didn't play on XBL but many people said that it is not the best. Well 4 on the same Xbox is very 
 fun too.
  
  So ... nice job Microsoft ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjamin191
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Comenzando por el primer Gears of war, que fue totalmente una revolucion por su sitema de cobertura 
 y compaerismo entre los personajes. Su capacidad grafica, fisica hasta la dublaje fue de primera 
 qualidad, con un rotero muy bien estructurado. Ahora imaginate eso 2 o 3 vezes mejor. GoW 2 supero 
 en todo al primero con una campaa emocionante en la que uno nunca se quedara parado o sin algo 
 que hacer, la accion es intensa pero no frustativa. Ademas de un multiplayer excelente, que uno 
 puedo jugar muchas vezes sin cansarse y sin lanzar el televisor por la ventana =P. Dificilmente 
 conosco a alguien que hable alguna cosa en contra de este juego. Es totalmente recomendado para 
 amantes de juegos de disparo y a los que le gusta muchos y muchos baldes de sangre. XD XD XD
  
  Un abrazo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thinkin2little
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best shooters out for the 360. It has a great story line and it also has 
 the whole thing build on friendship. It requires a lot of strategy online if you want to win consistently. 
 I really think that all the new updates that are coming out for this game and the ones that are 
 already out make the game better then any other shooter that is out at this time. The whole cover 
 system is fun and it allows for unique battles that you couldn't get in an other game. I really 
 hope that EPIC decides to come out with a third one so that we can finally finish the story and 
 see what happens with Marcus and Dom. The ending to the second one could have been better but the 
 lines after the credits make you wonder what is going to happen in the third one if the ever release 
 it. I can't wait for the new maps to come out (snow blind) and i really hope that they are amazing 
 just like all the other maps. I am really looking forward to playing on fuel depot again (This 
 time with snow) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the direct sequel to Gears of War. It follows the footsteps of the previous game 
 and innovates in aspects that really let you feeling that something has been brought to the table 
 and nothing good about the last game was left out. Of course the main focus of the game is the 
 same, start, pass through some chaotic locations, find some enemies, get cover and fight to proceed. 
 The formula is still fresh and still delivers the fun needed.
  
  The game still consists of 5 chapters and the whole experience is very brief, only lasting a maximum 
 of 10 hours or a little more, anyone familiar with the gameplay of the previous game could finish 
 the game in less than 10 hours easily. Maybe that's why sometimes you feel like this game is shorter 
 than the first one, in the first Gears of War the whole gameplay was still fresh and now we pretty 
 much have it nailed. The game is short, but while it lasts it never lets you down, and when I say 
 never I really mean it. This can arguably be one of the most action-packed games of all time, the 
 pace is always frantic and endless action will accompany you throughout the adventure from the 
 very beginning until the very end. Needless to say that after you finish it for the first time 
 you'll feel almost obliged to start all over again in a higher difficulty, the first game leaves 
 a similar impression too.
  
  The game is slightly less darker than the first one, but the locations turned out to be more exotic 
 too. The architecture is still very archaic and some pretty insane twists will be constantly happening. 
 This time the story gets a little more attention, and you'll find some interesting cutscenes all 
 over the game, some are really emotional, along with the usual funny lines and story key facts. 
 The voices used the the cutscenes and in-game are still top-notch, the voice actors are the same 
 and again they successfully capture the essence of each character and portrays to the screen with 
 perfection.
  
  The multiplayer continues strong, all the awesomeness of the first installment are present with 
 some more-than-welcome additions. You can, before entering in any online match, train your multiplayer 
 skill with bots and get to know the game modes, you choose the difficulty of the bots, the quantity, 
 and start the match. The game modes are the following: Warzone, Submission, Wingman, Execution, 
 Guardian, Annex and King of the Hill. Warzone is the usual deathmatch, two teams in one map, each 
 team with five players, you got the idea. Submission is a little strange at first, you need to 
 find, shoot and capture a stranded who will be around the map, get him and move with him over to 
 a specified location, the first team to do that wins the match, so whenever you are killed you'll 
 respawn instantly. Wingman is a mode that will separate the players in teams of two, up to five 
 teams in one match, you and your team mate will be the same character. The Horde is one of the 
 most interesting modes, you and your team will begin in one map and fight hordes of enemies, the 
 more hordes you beat, the harder it gets in the next round, pretty fun. In Execution you need to 
 finish your enemy off after you take him down otherwise he'll just stand up again, or perform a 
 one-shot kill or any instant kill move, like the chainsaw or a grenade. For Guardian each team 
 has a leader and as long as the leader is alive the whole team will keep respawning, if the leader 
 is killed then the next time you get killed you'll be gone too, basically you need to protect the 
 leader at all costs. In Annex teams have infinite respawns too, and to win you need to reach a 
 certain amount of points, the points are received by dominating and holding position of certain 
 locations. In the famous King of the Hill game mode you need to dominate only one location in one 
 round, whichever team that manages to dominate the location wins the game, you get infinite respawns, 
 except when defending a captured location. The game is shipped with ten different multiplayer maps.
 
  
  The level of difficulty can be compared with the one on the first game, you'll be forced to face 
 occasions with hordes of various enemies to kill, some put you with nowhere to run and things can 
 get ugly at a higher difficulty setting. The Boomers are somewhat less deadly and some others creatures 
 will debut to make your life living hell, like Bloodmounts, that are mounts with a drone mounted 
 on, if you try to melee with one of these beasts you'll find trouble, and they are no less deadly 
 at long range so keep an eye out for them. The only bad thing happens to be the absence of the 
 Berzerkers, they were so cool and played a major role in the first game, they should have brought 
 them back in the second installment.
  
  The new weapons include a new grenade, the ink grenade, that besides exploding it liberates a toxic 
 gas that will drain health of anyone inside the perimeter of the hit. The Mulcher that is a heavy 
 machine gun with rapid and destructive shooting. A flamethrower named The Scorcher, it does what 
 any flamethrower would do. The Gorgon Pistol that does wonderful damage at close range. The Boomshiled 
 which is a shield and you can exclusively use it with a pistol. And for last but not least, the 
 almighty Mortar Launcher, which is a somewhat cheap weapon of long range, it shoots an explosive 
 to the skies for it to in form of a rain of fire, it is immensely destructive and acts at a determined 
 perimeter, anyone inside that perimeter will certainly be reduced to bits, if you spot a wielder 
 of this weapon in a place with no shelter, you're pretty much screwed so the best bet is to kill 
 the enemy as fast as possible to get rid of the menace. The Mulcher, the Boomshield and the Mortar 
 Launcher are guns that doesn't occupy a place in your inventory, you basically get them and only 
 will be able to use them as long as you hold it and still have bullets or missiles, with the exception 
 of the Boomshield that allows you to hold a pistol as well. With the Berzerkers out, another gun 
 that doesn't get any attention in the main game is the Hammer of Dawn, it is available at one point 
 in the game, but it's completely avoidable.
  
  The gameplay still revolves around taking cover and shooting enemies that will, most of the time, 
 be at cover too. The system worked in the first one and it only gets better. The perspective is 
 still in third person and the controls are the same as the previous one. 
  
  Graphically it's hard to notice any technical improvement, maybe the experience acquired in the 
 last project allowed the team to better use the tools at hand, and resulting in a slightly better 
 looking game. Even though it's hard to tell and will certainly be a matter of opinion.
  
  Gears of War 2 takes a safe ride, and it should be this way indeed since the game still delivers. 
 The gameplay and game mechanics continue the same with some additions that won't pass unnoticed 
 and will help you to enjoy this game as much as the first one without feeling ripped-off by an 
 inconsistent sequel with no innovation or simply by not finding any fun in it. Gears of War 2 is 
 a great action game in an amazing series that will surely bring many good surprises in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaKoHBK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  The best game in XBox 360, i like it since the begining to the end (Even the Lambent Brumak) if 
 you haven't played it , You are INSANE. All the history keep you trapped in the Gears of War universe 
 by dont revealing all the history like What happened to Adam Fenix, or what happened to the Locust 
 Queen and why sinking Jacinto was a bad idea, that's the Campaign. In multiplayer is very fun because 
 you are not fighting the same silly computer but you are fighting very skilled players who will 
 kill you if you don't be careful. In brief the game is very adictive, you can pass the Campaign 
 several times without getting bored (a lot) and in XBox Life is a great experience. I can't wait 
 for Gears of War 3.
  Note:
  Forgive me if some words are wrong because im not very good at writing english. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfur33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  I like to play games that are fun, and Gears of War 2 is most certainly that. I love the game play, 
 the graphics, the sound, the level designs, the gore, the weapons, the artistic direction, etc. 
 I will break the game down in two sections - general design, then Campaign and Multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are awesome. They look like a very polished version of Gears 1. I love the art 
 style used in the game. The characters look great, the guns look great, the environments look great, 
 the snow, water, ice, buildings, enemies, explosions, multiplayer maps, all look awesome. 10/10
 
  
  The sound is great. The guns sound sweet, explosions rumble the house, the environment sounds really 
 cool, and the voice acting is great (although cheesy at times) . 10/10
  
  The game play is really good. I had a bit of problems with the A button which does about everything, 
 but then I changed my button layout so that X and A do everything and I love it. I never have problems 
 sticking to walls when I don't want to or diving when I don't want to etc. The cover system is 
 great. The movement is smooth. The only complaint is with the D-pad which is a piece of crap, but 
 that is Microsoft's fault not Epics. Switching weapons can be cumbersome. The new executions are 
 simply fabulous and make it a lot of fun to kill locusts. Headshots are always a pleasure and the 
 new meat shield really helps in multiplayer. The addition of crawling really makes the game better. 
 It really plays well. 9.5/10
  
  From here I want to talk about the campaign. It is a lot of fun. Locations vary, it is all beautiful 
 to look at and very fun to play through. They are always mixing it up keeping it fresh and fun. 
 The story is engaging and keeps you wanting to push through. Fans of Gears will like it as will 
 newcomers. There are a lot of questions left unanswered at the end, but hopefully we will get a 
 third Gears. It is a fun campaign solo or with a buddy.
  
  Multiplayer - Here is where most people complain. I would say that I have laggy matches 20 - 30% 
 of the time. Some nights are really good, some nights aren't so good. Overall, I enjoy playing 
 online and for the most part I have good matches. Matchmaking is pretty quick and usually balances 
 the teams well. The game modes are really great. I really like them all, but Guardian is probably 
 my favorite. Most of the maps are really fun to play in all modes. And the addition of Bots makes 
 it great when Xbox live isn't running very well. Horde mode is simply a blast. If it weren't for 
 the occasional lag during online matches I would give it a perfect 10 for multiplayer. 9/10
  
  Overall I give it a 9.5. I play video games to have fun and Gears of War 2 delivers. Don't 
 listen to all the cry babies about the "broken multiplayer," go pick it up and enjoy destroying 
 some Locust! My favorite execution is the Torque Bow Curb Stomp.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swass2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a franchise that I hope never ends for a long time and, extends beyond a time frame 
 such as Halo 1 through ODST. Gears 2 is all heart rock- i. e. = pun from rocky movie) in the terms 
 of cinematic beauty and, graphic as ever. The game is a blood lust for all to enjoy with rear entry 
 lancer chainsaw effect and frontal beat downs that put a player on instant death row. Yet now we 
 see another game in the works and isn't a question of how but when to be sure. Lastly this game 
 is surely ment for hours of random fun with so many new choices such as Horde and other elements 
 of multi-player. Love the hell out of this game- Swass II 
  I do not have much more to say about this game other than wow once again too EPIC games for such 
 a thrilling game with so many turns and twist that most gamers heads are still spinning in anticipation 
 for another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raspy33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 has already took away more of my precious time then its predecessor. Somehow Epic 
 is able to keep me coming back to the game. I don't know whether if it is because of the buckets 
 of blood spewing upon my screen or whether it's the maps that are familiar as well as new.
  
  The story still leaves something to be desired. Before the game came out the writer of the 
 story was convinced that it would be a game that could make you cry. I didn't see it. It still 
 is hard to feel for these meat heads. I think that people play to massacre the locust and that 
 is what the story should rely on. I felt forced to love Dom and his wife. But that put aside the 
 game is still bigger and on such a scale is tons of fun.
  
  The multiplayer did something that sequels never do. Right away we were able to download retro 
 maps. I know that it has had many fixes and like many others I sat around for awhile just searching 
 for a match. But now with the third title update and a ranking system that you can actually see, 
 the multiplayer now has me hooked. Oh did I mention 21 maps to vary the killing atmosphere?
  
  Needless to say that this game is a classic shooter that improves off the first game. Luckily 
 I have something to kill my time until the next installment of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  By no means am i saying this is a bad game... i liked the game... there were just a few things i 
 was kinda disappointed by. The story was really good, it does leave it open for another game though. 
 The coolest new feature is the horde mode were you get a few friends and play round after round 
 of horde killing fun. The only bad things about multi-player that i found was the length of time 
 it took me to get a match. The game play of this game is really addicting. You get fast paced action 
 and you have to use cover instead of being a one man army of invincibility and run through a thousand 
 bullets and come out just fine. Another cool edition to the game is the ability to use your opponents 
 as shields and do a few other things to them that feels more satisfying then just shooting them 
 till they die. All in all its a good game. It might take you like 4 days to beat at the most with 
 moderate amounts of play so give it a rent unless you really like x box live play then this is 
 a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toby1010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the first GoW was the best game in 360 but then again I was gravely mistaken. Playing 
 GoW 2 changed that, it was the same old fun the first game offered but it also added a lot of new 
 changes. Add-ons in gameplay, weapons, enemies and the best for me were adding bots and more match 
 types in multiplayer. But the execution match is still the best for me even in the first game. 
 Anyway, I think GoW 2 story picked up where it left off in the first game. While playing the game 
 I felt the monstrosity of the Locust and I just wanted to curb stomp them myself. It also have 
 some heartbreaking moments like when Tai shot himself with a shotgun and when Dom met Maria. Still 
 when I finished the game instead of being satisfied I felt discontented with just hearing the Locust 
 Queen's ending speech, I really want her dead and the game throws more questions than answers. 
 Still it's a true EPIC game for me!!!
  
  
  
  
  ps: sorry for the spoilers. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  After recently finishing the game, I definitely feel like another run through on insane difficulty 
 is in order. The end of the game was so unreal, I almost couldn't believe my eye's, let's just 
 say things got ugly. Shouldn't be long before GOW3 is out, and you can be rest assured that there 
 is going to be a trilogy of Gears. I can say that not only has the GOW series has been amazing, 
 but it has made every other 3rd person game just not as good as gears. I want them to be, but GOW 
 is so good, it's like nothing else comes close. I believe that Gears of War 1 & 2 are the BEST 
 campaign, co-op and multiplayer games on any system, any platform. GOW2 in particular, in comparison 
 to the first Gears, the first thing I noticed was how mush more detail there is in the environments 
 in Gears2 vs. Gears1. The new weapons an finnishing moves are just wicked, but what really stuck 
 out was how much bigger and badder the enemys and or bosses are. If your reading this review
 Gears of War 1 & 2 are the best sci-fi shooters on the 360, and definitive classics." So all in 
 all, 10 out of 10 and a huge GOW2 thumbs up ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  Visuals: Some of the best you will ever see on the 360 although not as striking as the first game 
 was.
  
  Audio: Fantastic orchestration, voice acting, and sound effects.
  
  Story: More than the first title and that is a good thing! Leaves you ready for the third installment.
 
  
  Gameplay: If you have played gears one then you will know what to expect. But the addition of new 
 weapons and some new abilities that you have at your disposal makes this title feel just as fresh 
 as the first game did when it first came out.
  
  Multiplayer: Die hard Gears 1 fans beware!!! This is nothing like it used to be! Personally i feel 
 like the new additions would have felt better on the old multi system from Gears 1 but now we have 
 a Halo like system that doesn't make much sense to begin with. Still doesn't stop the game from 
 being a good time but the addition of 10 players per map take the balanced feel that made the first 
 title so good and chucks it out the window. Now we have a typical chaotic run and gun down the 
 enemy before they gun you down instead of work as a team and approach the scenario with hectic 
 finesse. LIke i said: still doesn't stop the game from being fun online but it isn't what it used 
 to be and that is going to run some hardcore fans off.
  
  An amazing story with fun multiplayer and new additions to basically every aspect of the game make 
 Gears of War 2 a very recommendable game to any action fan. Oh! And horde is a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is so different compared to the first gears of war. They not only slowed down the COGs 
 but also lowered the default ammo count. I'm not going to get into numbers. But all i can say is, 
 load the Gears of War take note of the run speed and ammo count and next play Gears of War 2 and 
 you'll notice a significant difference. With all the Updates Epic has done is surely and slowly 
 destroying the games original functionality. All for the sole purpose of preventing the infamous 
 "Roll and Shotgun" manoueuver when it comes to the ever so old "multiplayer" aspect. I mean come 
 on... if that's the so called effective method then.. why change it? Regardless of all the tweaks 
 its still the same OLD "run" and "shotgun" game. Horde on the other hand is probably the only relative 
 improvement (er... improvement? right..) I mean "addition" to the game. Gameplay is as predictable 
 as the first one but sadly, as you lurch around and become truely dependent on the OLD roadie run 
 feature you slowly realize the faster moving Locusts gang up on you and by the time you draw your 
 weapon due to the slightly slowed down weapon choice commands on the D-Pad,.. you're already on 
 the ground.. crawling and before your buddies could even "revive" you. You're dead. Sad this all 
 has to come down to a negative review. But honestly, its just a voice from a humble consumer. Bigger 
 Badder and more Badass? hmmm.. yeah right. You mean Bigger, Slower, and more Fatass. Enough SAID. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thundermanz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  Story puts you in Marcus Fenix ,ex-prisoner and veteran of war. He is leader of delta squad. Again, you 
 must kick locust hordes, because lightmass bomb didn't work. Locusts now have last final target: Jacinto, stronghold 
 of humans. Now the last of human forces must gather and do the last thing they can: attack. 
  
  Graphic is still amazing, breathing taking! You can see every little thing on soldiers. Weapons 
 are very detailed too. Only bad thing is that on some places, there are invisible walls. Graphic is 
 very detailed.
  
  Gameplay is pulling you in like tornado. There are still chainsaw duels, which is very cool. There 
 is smudged background when you crouch and run, and CoG's sign when you die. If you are close to death, your 
 friends can revive you, but they are vunrebale when they are doing it. Bullets are realistic as ever, so 
 are the impacts. Cutting Locusts in half and blood splahing everywhere is one of my favorite parts 
 ;) . AI is very very intelligent, not quite as playing online, but it's amazing! There are 3 difficulty 
 levels, and 4th when you beat the game on any difficulty.
  
  Voice Acting is beautiful. There are rare games with this voice acting and sounds. Sounds have nice 
 timing, which pumps a adrenaline in you.
  
  Long In Short, this is one of the must have games for Xbox 360, and huge thumbs up for Xbox 360. Way 
 to go Microsoft!
  
  This Is My First Review Guys, Hope You Like It.
  Thundermanz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFbest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this is a really late review, but I don't care. Gears 2 is easily one of the best titles 
 from 08' and I am sad that I missed it the first go around. I recently rented the game and then 
 baught it; such a smart buy.
  
  Gears of War 2 is (as you can tell) the sequal to Gears of War. It takes what amazing works the 
 first game did and improves on almost everything. Obviously the graphics are beautiful, most say 
 that Gears 2 is the best the 360 has to offer. Water glistens, exploding things look . . . explosions, 
 blood and gore are approately awesome and really shines out in a lot of the more bleak areas.
 
  Gameplay has been amped, improving on the some-what lacking cover system in the first, adding 
 weapons, and adding new enemies to eversirate.
  The guns sound like weapons that inflict pain, the enemies do alert their presence a little too 
 much but you would find out if they were there within a few seconds anyways. Explosions sounds 
 rough and like something just got went boom boom.
  Bosses are approatly epic, though there is a great lacking of the feeling of satasfaction after 
 you take down a hulking monster. Enemies look generally the same as the first Gears beyond the 
 new enemies Epic has added.
  The story is well . . . you don't play Gears 2 for the story; did you expect anything less? It 
 is a nice side thought that will entertain many but will end up annoying the masses. 
  Overall, there is a lot of fanservice while making everyone yell at their T. V.'s out of frustration 
 from the acts that took place on schreen. Obviously if you even remotly enjoyed the first Gears, 
 you will devour this game. Gears 2 doesn't do too much newcomers but if you are even considering 
 getting or even renting this game, do it, it is completely worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retroman47
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In the first Gears of War, the one-button cover system is amazing. It made the game in instantly 
 popular. You can roll, wall-jump, move left and right, and fire your gun without looking.
  
  In the sequel, it takes the execution moves further. In Gears of War, you curb stomp your enemies 
 that are on the ground. In Gears of war 2, your enemies can crawl away from you. The good news 
 is that you can finish them off in alot of different ways. For starters, you can still curb stomp. 
 You can also get on top of them and beat them up, or you can wack them with your gun for a faster 
 executiion. Depending on what weapon your character has, you can perform all sorts of different 
 cool finishing moves.
  
  The blood graphics have changed in Gears of War 2. You will see that in the sequel, the blood is 
 more liquidy than the first.
  
  I recomend this game to anyone that owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  [The following was written as a part of my week of of my one-hour reviews, a series meant to challenge 
 and, hopefully, enhance my skills as a writer.]
  
  'Bigger, Better, More Badass' was Epic Game's mantra developing Gears of War 2, and if fans and 
 critics are to believed, they have succeeded in making it such. Now, I never played the first game. 
 But, if Gears 2 really is Bigger, Better, and More Badass than the original, it really couldn't 
 have been all that great.
  
  Gears 2 wastes little time with petty things like story, getting you into the action asap. Humanity 
 is at war with an alien race known as Locusts. Since the first game, the Locust Army has managed 
 to enlist a giant worm powerful enough to level cities. To stop the menace, Marcus Fenix, COG Army 
 (the good guys) Veteran, and his buddy Dom have been sent underground to take the fight to the 
 Locusts. If you played the first game, you might get some enjoyment out of the story, but as a 
 newcomer it rarely made sense. The game never explains the dozens of characters, enemies, or past 
 events it constantly references, leaving most of it to guesswork. The story is just line after 
 overly macho line, serving as a weak vessel for the game's action.
  
  But what action it is. Gears of War 2 is a shooter, plain and simple. However, it's probably a 
 bit different from the shooters you're used to playing. Running out guns blazing in Gears 2 is 
 a good way to get yourself killed. You're going to have to make use of the game's cover system. 
 Pretty much anything you can hide behind works as cover, and the game makes sure there are always 
 conveniently placed crumbled pillars or fallen rocks for you to use. As you'll need to attach to 
 cover to survive, battles suddenly require a little more thought than in the average shooter. 
 
  
  Battles suddenly become a bit more drawn-out, too. As enemies can use cover as well, you'll have 
 to wait for them to pop out before you can squeeze a few rounds in. Wouldn't be a problem normally, 
 but they all have unreasonably high levels of health. Battles that should only take forty seconds 
 or so end up taking upwards of three minutes. It may seem like I'm nitpicking here, but as you 
 get near the end of the campaign the pacing will really start to turn you off.
  
  Most levels follow a predictable pattern - move from point A to point B, fight a group of enemies, 
 repeat. That's OK, though, because despite the above complaints battles are usually really fun. 
 Sometimes, you'll be working parallel to your other squad members, making use of the game's 2-player 
 cooperative mode. These sections work well, and feel like a seamless addition to the level design.
 
  
  Occasionally, though, the level designers decide Gears should be something other than a shooter. 
 For the whole of one level, you'll be evading traps and hazards - shooting nothing. For another, 
 you'll be sneaking past elaborate security systems - again, shooting nothing. The controls really 
 aren't cut out for it; as a shooter, Gears 2 plays fine but as anything else it feels clunky and 
 unresponsive. Even still, the combat is the shining star of Gears 2, and I can't understand why 
 they would try to take it away.
  
  Gears 2's huge arsenal of weapons really deserves special mention. With everything from shotguns 
 to crossbows with exploding bolts to the infamous Lancer, there's really a lot of ways to cause 
 your enemies pain. They all feel satisfying, and they're a lot of fun to experiment with. All of 
 the games weapons are expertly balanced - there's not a single 'cheap' one to be seen. 
  
  That's a good thing because competitive multiplayer is a huge part of Gears of War 2. 
  Team 
 Deathmatch is where it's at; there's nothing better than a five-on-five, chatting and strategizing 
 with living, breathing teammates. It's a great fit for Gears' cover-based gameplay. But that's 
 just me. There are too many multiplayer modes to count, and with a little experimenting you'll 
 find what's right for you.
  
  However, actually finding a real match isn't as simple as it should be. Gears of War 2's matchmaking 
 system is broken. I've waited for more than fifteen minutes before abandoning my search - I have 
 friends who have waited upwards of forty-five. Epic has tried to patch the issue but has been unsuccessful 
 so far - though at the time of this writing a new patch is in the works. Keep your fingers crossed. 
 
  
  The original game was one of the best looking games ever - in 2006. It's two years later, and not 
 a lot has changed. Even still, Gears of War 2 is one of the prettiest games available. The colour 
 palette has been expanded, bringing in greens and reds to complement the requisite browns and greys. 
 Environments are wonderfully detailed, effects are amazing, and textures have been crafted with 
 care. It's a stunner. The sound effects pack a good amount of oomph and the music isn't bad, either, 
 but you'll have to deal with some cringe-worthy voice acting. Every character's voice is ridiculously 
 macho and manly, and Marcus' Clint Eastwood impression starts to grate within the first three lines.
 
  
  Gears of War 2 is a great shooter, brought down by some serious issues. If you were a fan of the 
 first game, and have the patience to deal with all of its setbacks, Gears 2 might be worth the 
 cash. Everyone else, rent it before you drop sixty dollars for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying that I actually enjoyed Gears 1 more than 2, most likely because it was 
 newer to me...
  
  What went right...
  
  -More weapons - Flamethrowers, rifles, pistols, grenades, shields...
  makes it feel more like 
 a two and not a 1.5
  
  -Horde Mode - One question - Why has it taken so long for a mode like this? It seems like this 
 is such a no-brainer, attacked by wave after wave of enemies to see how long you can last. (only 
 it seems that after the 10th "wave" the waves repeat only they have higher health and damage and 
 whatnot, which could have been better) , still, finally a great mode.
  
  -Independent difficulties - A nice touch, but I'm not quite sure how it worked (most likely just 
 more damage to the higher leveled player which seems like a cheap way to work it out)
  
  -Vehicle portions have been greatly improved from the last one, there's more of them with more 
 variety and they feel well done
  
  What could be improved
  
  -AI needs to be more aggressive, even on the hardcore difficulty, playing coop (first play through) 
 it was way to easy, and I blame mostly the cover system (which was well designed and works great) , 
 it's to easy to just hide behind cover and take your time. They need to create smarter AI that 
 are capable of flanking and whatnot, Now come to think of it, I can't even remember being flushed 
 out of cover by a well placed grenade.
  
  -More boss encounters - there was only two, one around the halfway mark (which was well done and 
 the final boss (pitiful)
  
  
  What was wrong....
  
  -The last boss fight was pitiful, (again my brother and I (co-op) were on hardcore and it seemed 
 that there was almost no way we could die or lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a game you have to play if you own an Xbox 360. The storyline kicks off 6 months 
 after the original Gears of War where the locust horde has figured out how to make tremors in the 
 ground, and it's up to Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad to stop them. Anyway the controls are precisely 
 the same as the original Gears of War, but somehow I was able to enjoy them better IDK why. The 
 graphics are incredibly gorgeous and a joy to look at :) . The sound is also one of the best parts 
 of the game, the voice acting is great (with the voice of Bender from Futurama voicing Marcus Fenix 
 :D) , the music is amazing and the sound effects are crystal clear. The game is well worth your 
 money and will keep you hooked for god knows how long. Gears 2 is one of the greatest games of 
 all time and I highly recommend you play it if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I never played gears of war 1 but I know that there was guest online. Why would you have guest 
 online in the first game but not the second? There is a guest online for private matches which 
 is somewhat better but not public. Of course online gets even worse with how slooooooow it is to 
 find a game. It could take maybe 2-5 minutes to start up a game! im not joking. and if someone 
 leaves you're dead because 4-5 really unevens the game up.
  
  At least the campaign and offline is good. The campaign is looooooooooooong and has an extremely 
 interesting storyline. The offline can consists of up to 10 bots which really adds to the replay 
 value. The bots are addicting, I've spent more time with the bots then campaign and onlnie together. 
 Finally there's horde. Horde is very fun, but only locally. Online is not very good because you 
 won't find yourself screaming with your friends and laughing unless you have system link with at 
 least 4 people. You can't add bots for horde and like I said before it's only 2 player split screen, 
 which isn't very fun either unless you have at least 4. 
  
  
  
  
  Overall gears is a fantastic game with a long campaign, bots, and horde. The online kind of kills 
 the game and 4 player split-screen wouldn't hurt. So unless you have 3 other siblings that play 
 video games alot, buy the game... you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihaik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  If you've played GoW 1 you will be familiar with the cover system: you press one button and you 
 get in or out of cover. This is the way to survive; if you don't stay in cover you will most certainly 
 get killed rather quick. The third person perspective gives the player the feeling he can easily 
 move arround the map and spot any enemies.
  
  The graphics are amazing; everything is so detailed; the way characters move looks very realistic, 
 almost like real humans ( so that's a big plus) . When you melee or cut an enemy with the Lancer their 
 blood will splatter all over the screen; this can be fun sometimes, but can be annoying aswel cause 
 you can't see very well in those cases.
  
  The story is awsome: it keeps you tied to the chair till the very end of the game. It manages to 
 do this but without spoiling the end; and it is full of unexpected twists.
  
  The veriety of weapons if preety large: you have plenty of weapons to learn to control and have 
 fun with. 
  
  The boss fights are unique: you dont have 2 bosses who can be beaten with the same tehnique, which 
 is a big plus aswel.
  
  I was sorry only when i finished the game; i thought it could have been a little longer...
  
 
  All in all GoW 2 is a wonderful game, a worthy sequel to GoW 1 and although is does have some 
 glithes/bugs it's a game that every gamer should own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattcarlo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Gears of War was an astounding game that left an impression throughout the gaming 
 industry. Not only that, but it left the sequel with monstrous expectations, and only two years 
 to live up to those expectations. At the end of Gears of War, Raam, the great locust general was 
 defeated and the Lightmass Bomb was deployed. It finally gave the Coalition of Ordered Governments 
 (COG) a much needed victory on their side. Six months after the events of Gears of War, the locust 
 are back, they are meaner than ever, and they are sinking entire cities. One by one, the cities 
 around Jacinto start to sink. With Jacinto as humanity's last sanctuary, all humanity can do is 
 take the fight to the locust, to their territory and have one final stand to save humanity as a 
 species.
  
  The campaign for Gears of War 2 is amazing. The destroyed beauty theme that Epic was trying to 
 present turned out wonderfully, but the campaign is more than beautiful visuals. It offers a terrific 
 story for both the struggle of humanity's survival, and the search for Dom's wife Maria. Epic does 
 a great job of keeping the player very much into the game, and they do this with something called 
 Watercooler Moments. Watercooler Moments, so what exactly are they? Well, every few minutes or 
 so something cool or unique will happen to keep the player into the game and will most likely keep 
 the player satisfied. Also, another aspect of the campaigns success is the sounds you hear throughout 
 the game. They voice acting is great, and the soundtrack is nearly perfect to say the least.
  
  Now, while it is obviously the sequel to Gears of War, it has a very different feel to it. 
 Even the speed in which you move has been slowed down. Also, for those who heavily favored the 
 shotgun in Gears of War, you may be left with the feeling of disappointment, because the shotgun 
 has been significantly changed. Just as walking, they have altered the speed and let's just say 
 it shoots more slowly. That right there is where a lot of Gears of War fans were turned off, but 
 why? Personally, I was a big shotgun person, but you cannot say Gears of War 2 is a terrible game 
 because of a few changes. That game offers so much more, there is a great variety of weapons, some 
 of which are new, and some have returned from the previous Gears. Active Reloads, remember them? 
 I am happy to say that their purpose was changed significantly, and all of the weapons have their 
 own unique feature if you are able to get a perfect active reload. The sniper rifle, or Longshot 
 if you will, no longer has the power to down players, and the Boltok can now shoot twice as fast, 
 that is if you get a perfect active reload of course. 
  
  The health system is no different than before, and the cover system has been improved. There are 
 a few noticeable flaws, and from time to time, you still find yourself getting stuck on cover you 
 never intended to be on. Also, the game offers a variety of new features such as portable cover, 
 new finishing moves, as well as new multiplayer modes. One of which, Horde, is a terrific mode 
 to say the least. First, let me start by saying that players who do not have Xbox LIVE, can play 
 any of the multiplayer modes and on any map with bots. Back to Horde. So, what is Horde? Horde 
 is where you have to kill locust, sounds simple enough right? Well, there are 50 levels, and each 
 level gets harder as you move on. The locust become really difficult to kill, and the action becomes 
 intense, even on the casual difficulty.
  
  For those of you that would like to play Gears of War 2 on a more competitive level, you are in 
 luck. There are several new modes such as Wingman, where it puts 2 vs 2 vs 2 vs 2 vs 2, which simply 
 leads to chaos. Another is Submission, it is basically capture the flag but with the Gears of War 
 twist, meaning that the flag is a stranded (stranded are people that appeared in Gears of War) 
 equipped with a shotgun. Now, while the online multiplayer is great, it does posses a few flaws. 
 Most of which have already been patched up, but some, have not yet been fixed. Epic Games has released 
 two patches thus far, and is going to do so again by March 24th. The third patch is supposedly 
 going to enhance the online multiplayer. When Gears of War 2 was released it had a complex ranking 
 system, but after many issues regarding the ranking system, Epic has decided to completely re-do 
 the whole thing. Instead of the team based rank which was previously used, they are going to make 
 it more in the lines of the Call of Duty 4/Halo 3 ranking system.
  
  Gears of War 2 promises to be a worthy addition to the series, and is completely worth a purchase. 
 I personally and even with all of the new additions featured in Gears of War 2, do not think the 
 franchise has reached its full potential. Gears of War 3 will most likely hit shelves late 2010. 
 Hopefully, Epic Games will take advantage of what the series has to offer and mishmash the best 
 of both Gears of War and Gears of War 2. If they somehow by chance do such a thing, then I think 
 it would be safe to say the Gears of War 3 would be the best game on the Xbox 360, and more notably, 
 one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:23 am PT
Review:  "Gears of War" was a decent game, nothing spectacular or revolutionary, and certainly not impervious 
 to criticism for its lack of originality, but as it stood then, it still stands today - an uncompromising 
 blockbuster game, more brawn than brain, well paced and with impressive production values. Cliffy 
 B., lead designer, summed up the sequel as "Bigger, better, more bad-ass". Or is it? A more accurate 
 account would be: "Apparently bigger, but the same, just with more testosterone."
  
  "Bigger!" No matter how much technical verbiage Epic throws at players, the fact is that "Gears 
 2 maintains the claustrophobic, highly constrained level design of its predecessor. It's 
 not a bad thing per se, as it remains a necessary evil for the maintaining of one of the game's 
 best features - pacing and tension control. The difference in the sequel is that the surrounding 
 environment, more so than in the first game, is built to give a jaw dropping sense of scale. Huge 
 caverns, numerous boss-sized enemies, hundreds of foot soldiers, all parade about in an inaccessible 
 background. However, because of the game's controlled environment, and the technical limitations 
 of the game-engine, that scale never materializes into the actual game, making it completely virtual, 
 with little to no interaction going on between the epic-sized background scenarios and the spatial 
 plane in which the player is set. Most times, it's just an impressive curtain that you can shoot 
 at, with enemies that don't even react to your gunfire. The sense of presence in an actual war 
 is slightly enhanced, but it's still far from the large, completely interactive set-pieces from 
 games like "Halo 3.
  
  "Better!" Unfortunately, "Gears 2 adds nothing substantial to its predecessor. Better art 
 design (especially in the second half of the game) and perfected controls are the best anyone can 
 come up in terms of actual improvements. That being said, it still abuses dry, washed out color 
 palettes, and game-play could still be further improved. Soundtrack maintains the same repetitive 
 humdrum of battle epics, effective enough as a background for the shooting and explosions, just 
 as long as you don't tune in to the soundtrack to actually listen. On a side note, the storyline 
 now actually goes somewhere, in an attempt at mitigating the hollowness of the first iteration. 
 Yet, apart from a particularly well directed, dramatic cut-scene (which involves plot spoilers, 
 so I won't digress on its nature) , it still doesn't makeup for a truly captivating storyline.
 
  
  "More Bad-ass!" Cliffy B. never hides the straight-up manliness of his game. Big buffed up space 
 marines, screaming in their coarse voices, hulking in their heavy gear, ridding mankind of pesky, 
 butt-ugly aliens, by shooting them with heavy guns. For the most time, the insanely ridiculous 
 male bravado can be seen as pleasant, in a dumb, B-movie kind of way. However, the effort put up 
 by designers to crank up blood, gore and the "Cole Train" all-American one-liners, while still 
 trying to make it look dark, gritty and serious (as opposed to light-hearted or campy) makes the 
 game feel excessive and gratuitous.
  
  All that aside, "Gears 2 is still the action game done right - a fair chunk of rock solid, 
 unapologetic entertainment. And there's nothing really wrong with that, as long as you don't keep 
 in mind the big picture and the big picture is that there are too many "Gears of War" out there. 
 Shooters have become such a banal place for big companies to go back to, replicating their models 
 year after year, in straight sequels that add nothing to the genre or the means. "Gears 2 
 may even be the best of its lot, but that's not much on my book. It's a safe sequel, for a safe 
 franchise, in a safe genre. If that's what designers call "bad-ass" nowadays, then something is 
 definitely wrong with the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the sequel to the highly entertaining 2006 entry, Gears of War. In my experience 
 playing they took 0 steps backward, and even improved on an already amazing game. There are still 
 things keeping it from perfection, however, this shouldn't stop you from playing.
  
  The game pics up after the events of the 1st game. I wont get into what happened before, but you 
 are now tasked with attacking the locust stronghold, and defeating them from the inside. This will 
 require lots of killing and action. Luckily the game pulls it off in entertaining fashion. You 
 control Marcus Fenix, and if you choose, co-op with Marcus, and Dominque ---err i forget his last 
 name. Anyways, you will control a variety of weapons ranging from assault rifles, to shotguns, 
 to flamethrowers... all work effectively.
  
  The gameplay follows a cover system, that works as well as the 1st game. You will have to take 
 cover, or risk getting shredded into little bloody bits. Popping from cover is almost completely 
 flawless. Shooting is from a third person perspective, that provides tight control, and satisfying 
 result. You can even use mobile cover, like a downed enemy, or shields from some defeated enemies. 
 The variety of weapons provides a specific style to however you play. Carefully align an attack 
 with the torque bow, or go running and gunning. The gameplay succeeds though, because you have 
 to be smart, and not just run up on every enemy. The game also includes vehicle sections, which 
 unfortunately aren't very fun. They aren't horrible, but they just don't play as well as the rest 
 of the game.
  
  The graphics are superb. Cities look like their at their final stress points, characters are animated 
 beautifully, environments look lush, and destroyed, enemies look angry, and scary, and the list 
 goes on. So far i haven't noticed any real significant graphical glitches.
  
  The music of the game is epic, frantic, and beautiful. The score is wonderfully done, with emotional, 
 and booming tracks for whatever level your on, providing a constant sense of urgency as your running 
 towards your enemies, or in an intense firefight. The voice acting is also solid, but the dialogue 
 just sounds like something from a run and gun flick. Its not bad, or excruciating, and some times 
 its even funny, but in terms of originality, it wont win any awards for that.
  
  The game gives plenty incentive to play again. Collecting journals, and playing on a harder difficulty 
 prove more fun than you would think. Also you can enjoy horde mode, alone or with friends, where 
 you pick a map, and battle wave after wave of enemies. You can chase after achievements too, which 
 the game very nicely keeps track of, (even showing your progress) . It also has online with a variety 
 of different modes.
  
  Overall Gears of War 2 provides a great experience. It is a perfect example of a sequel done right, 
 and though it didn't improve on everything, it sure did get close. It is definitely worth picking 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxpaynekid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war was a huge game for the 360 it showed what the system was capable of. Now Gears of 
 war 2 is here. Dose it deliver? The answer is... Yes Oh hell yes. Ok first thing that you notice 
 is the game is beautiful. Its gorgeous. This game make ( SPOILER ALERT) walking through a giant 
 worm a beautiful experience. Also the controls feel really nice the cover mechanics work a lot 
 better then in the first. Now lets talk about the campaign. The campaign is quite simply awesome 
 if the story dose not draw you in the action definitely will. once you have beaten the story mode 
 thers is the multiplayer which in one word awesome. I can`t go to deep into it but trust me its 
 cool.
  
  Pros - Gorgeous, Controls feel just right, Multiplayer is insane.
  
  Cons - Story Could have had a few touches, Takes long time to find a Multiplayer game. 
  
  
 So overall if you own a 360 you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldstorm21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 was very impressive, and i had allot of funny getting addicted. i have got to admit 
 when gears of war one first came blazing out on the stands i was not enticed. first person shooters 
 have always been my cup of tea. so the idea of a third person shooter gave me no thrill. but upon 
 playing it, i found myself playing nonstop. first on casual then jumping to insane. when the announcement 
 was made of the creation of two i found myself eagerly awaiting its arrival. then upon launch day 
 i was there in line to be one of the first to get a copy. gears of war two goes above and beyond 
 it predecessor. with its fantastic story, beautiful graphics and vast secrets its much much more. 
 gears of war two is an addiction worth having. this is a game that all should have, within the 
 proper age limit of course. so if you don't own it, go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was truly amazing; a game that shook the ground below every other shooter 
 available at the time. It had solid multiplayer which provided for plenty "Wow!" moments, yet the 
 story wasn't quite what it should've been. Now we have the sequel, and the roles have seemingly 
 been reversed. The storyline of GoW2 captures the grit and passion of the Cog army while displaying 
 the ultimately visceral and malicious ways of the enemy Locust. A story of loss and retribution 
 is layered with exciting moments and enemies that react to you and your tactics with sleek intelligence. 
 The pop-and-shoot mechanics and linear level designs are, while presented well with wonderful cinematic 
 cutscenes, something that lose momentum as you near the conclusion of the game. Hit detection and 
 chainsaws are some of the downfalls to the game, yet the storyline does a much better job of handling 
 these issues than does the multiplayer. GoW2's multiplayer is substantial to say the least, and 
 does in fact become addicting with statistical progression and a new ranking system incorporated 
 for the first time. The problem that remains is the gameplay itself during multiplayer, and the 
 numerous glitches and advantages of player-controlled opponents. Server lag is frequent and the 
 game experiences significant hosting issues at times and players will often get disconnected after 
 only a few rounds. When a shooter of this caliber is unable to satisfy fans of the first Gears 
 of War, perhaps there is something wrong with it. In no way is this sequel terrible, it simply 
 cannot maintain a balanced and fair multiplayer experience and loses points in this area alone. 
 Gears of War 2 is definitely worth a playthrough, but taking the challenge on Xbox Live is something 
 players will have to choose. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kataro
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, Full of heart pounding action and levels that draw you deeper and deeper into the 
 war of humanity... Gears of War 2 delivers none stop action packed thrill ride that pushes you 
 to the very edge in an attempt to end the war and save humanity. Game plays is smooth and direct 
 but you will notice from time to time that the AI of your comrades are a bit Slow and unhelpful 
 also I've encountered a couple of glitches but really nothing that will ultimately hold you back. 
 This game is lengthy enough for the $60 it costs and is an exceptional game to add to your collection. 
 Plus the online multiplayer is a gate way to none-stop entertainment. Anywho The Game starts you 
 off smack down in the middle of this ongoing war as Marcus Fenix, the commander of team Delta. 
 Throughout the game you are put in seemingly impossible situations with overwhelming odds that 
 will have you knowing your in for the ride of you life. An in-depth story and Characters you can 
 relate to, makes this an impossible game not to love. With its four different difficulty levels, 
 Horde Mode, and Seven different online modes makes it hours upon hours of fun also with Xbox Live's 
 constant updates you can always expect to find something new about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacksonguit2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is BEYOND Perfect,...... EXCEPT....
  The multi-player (specifically the matchmaking in the lobbies) is the worst on the market! It is 
 possible to wait up to 45 minutes (as I have) for you to be matched up with other players and start 
 a match. (All though 'WingMan' gamemode seemed to max out at a 10 to 15 minute wait time) Now I 
 know what your thinking, and Yes I have High speed cable internet (I'm on the highest/fastest tier 
 with my provider) and no, I'm not having network issues with my router or anything. I know this 
 because I can pop in COD:4 or GOW:1 and be racking up the points in under 2 minutes. One thing 
 that does save it's but a bit is the Horde mode and the fact that you can also make your own MP 
 match from scratch using nothing but 'Bots'. And depending on the difficulty setting, these 'Bots' 
 can be pretty smart too. So all though you're probably left in the dark for a match on Live, you 
 can still work on you're chainsaw skills using the Bots.
  But like I said, It is the best campaign EVER. so enjoy it!
  If it weren't for the MP issues, 
 I'd give this game a 10!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 can be described in one word AWESOME. this game provides a great story, fantastic 
 gameplay, and a great multiplayer. This is all worth your money. story keeps you playing and once 
 your done with single player you can sink your teeth in multiplayer. This is all great, but there 
 is lag. but they had an update which fixed tons of problems so its even better! I LOVE playing 
 this game it just never gets old has a variety of maps and guns and blood and gore you will enjoy 
 it from the start. its almost impossible to hate this game! i mean blood gore chainsaws multiplayer 
 what more can you want!!!!!!!! you will become addicted to this and wont want to stop. I FORGOT 
 THIS has THE BEST GRAPHICS! i mean they are not good BUT THE BEST! this has everything you want 
 in a game just gooooooo buy this now and stop reading!!!! GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetbackhair
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I played Gears of War alot, in my opinion this was my favorite game so far, just the gameplay was 
 amazing and the graphics were outstanding. Then Gears of War 2 came out I bought it the day it 
 came out and I was pleased. But there was a problem with it that I did not like about the game 
 that made the first one better than the second one.
  
  First off the campaign was an amazing story-line, you still play as Marcus Fenix with your trusty 
 side-kick Dom Santiago. Damon Baird, and Augustus Cole join them again in another adventure. There 
 are also newer members to the COG army, one is Benjamin Carmine who is Anthony Carmines brother, 
 one is Tai a fearless warrior who is tough to die, and there is Dizzy who you only helps you out 
 in 2 chapters pretty much. But the story-line was the best so far where you would be fighting on 
 the surface, or underground fight a giant worm trying to stop it from sinking Jacinto. You also 
 get introduced to the Locust Queen in the stronghold, where you won't believe how she looks. This 
 story also interferes with the problem of Dom trying to find his wife Maria. To sum this up the 
 Campaign was better than the first one and when you get this game I recommend you play the campaign 
 first.
  
  The multiplayer is great with some problems, but lets start with Horde. Horde mode is a great mode 
 with you and four of your friends can play Co-op and destroy 50 waves of locust attacking you. 
 It gets harder and harder every level so try not throwing the controller at the wall. It takes 
 a while to beat horde trust me I beat a couple of times, and its also a great time to practice 
 some of the weapons if you want to. Ok the multiplayer mode is why I think the first Gears is better. 
 The match finding is just like Halo pretty much, but its good instead of hearing people complain 
 about host and that crap. You have the same type of games as it was on the first like Execution, 
 Warzone, and Annex. But there are new ones like Wingman which is a 2v2v2v2v2, Guardian is like 
 Assassination but if you die and your leader is still alive you can respawn but if your leader 
 dies and you die your done. King of the Hill is like Annex but the circle stays in one spot. And 
 finally theres Meat Flag where you have to down a stranded and put him in a meatshield position 
 and take him to your spot.
  
  Ok what bothers me about multiplayer is how the movement and shooting works. It seems more less 
 than the first one where you can dive around and shoot but in this one its a little more strategy. 
 Also people in that game do the 2-piece to get a kill, and thats what they would always do nothing 
 else. And if you shoot a guy while he has his chainsaw reving, that person would probably still 
 chainsaw you anyway so it gets frustrating. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huan0602
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I think that the game was okay but it could have been wayyyy better, kind of dissappointing if 
 you ask me I was all excited for it because the first one was awesome but it wasnt any different 
 than the first one just a couple of new guns, a couple of new moves but not that cool of moves 
 and new levels and some new bad guys. Hope they do better one the third one i will still buy it 
 no matter what but i dont think their should be any more than 3 even if the third one is amazing. 
 otherwise they will just ruin the name and when people remember gears they will think it sucks. 
 after the third one they should start making a new game epic has a lot of potential anbd they should 
 focus it on something other than gears after the third one, maybe make an rpg that would be sweet 
 I think they can pull it off.... online was still sweet for this one though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  When Epic Games released Gears of War back in late 2006 they showed everyone that non-linear gameplay 
 and changing story in sync with your moral decisions isn't everything. Gears was a linear shooter 
 where seeking cover was everything and it was a huge hit. Following up such a successful game is 
 tough, and although not as hard hitting as 2 years ago, Gears of War 2 delivers on every single 
 field being even more entertaining and breathtaking than its predecessor. 
  
  The story is set six months after the smashing finale of Gears of War 1. The underground passages 
 where blown to smithereens, but unfortunately not every locust scum bag died. The locust queen 
 is still alive, and you have to find her and take her out. Delta Squad must once again travel down 
 into the very heart of the locust stronghold and blow the whole thing to hell. As with the previous 
 game, the story is straight forward and told from a soldiers view where you only get orders, and 
 don't really know everything that's going on. This time though there are more personal story elements 
 at hand. Ladies and gentlemen, our dearly beloved Don has a family! And throughout the campaign 
 you get a more personal connection with him when he cries out about missing his wife and stuff. 
 This works okay, it makes the game even darker and more gruesome, but I wouldn't have missed it 
 if it wasn't there. So yeah, the game is even darker than the first game. The action is mainly 
 the same, but there are some scenes in specific that are surprisingly morbid and they fit nicely 
 into this carnage of blood and misery. 
  
  Gears of War 1 blew my mind with its breathtaking artistic design. Like the "Houses of Sovereign" 
 which was a masterpiece in design, and just standing in the middle of it studying the ceiling was 
 worth the games price alone. This experience beats last years studying of the "Sistine Chapel" 
 in Rome, which may tell more of my fascination of games than the actual game. Gears of War 2 has, 
 believe it or not, even better environments than the 2006 mammoth. Strolling the underground caves 
 is an incredibly atmospheric experience, and gazing at the horizon of this huge underground lake 
 is amazing. I started wondering who puts so much time and effort into something than most people 
 who play it wont even notice, the answer is the bunch of imaginary and adventurous minds at Epic. 
 Gears of War 2 delivers on every single field. There are some fun new weapons for you to yield, 
 and there's not a single dull moments in sight. Everything has been taken to the next level. The 
 environments change all the time, from the town of Jacinto, to the insides of a gigantic underground 
 worm, you never get tired of Delta Squads journey to hells kitchen, where boiling lava and the 
 queen of the damned is waiting. The first Gears only gave us a taste of what was to come in its 
 sequel. The monsters you met once in Gears 1 will be coming at you in hordes in this mind blowing, 
 limb crushing superior sequel. Play Gears of War 2, please, please do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cogs1038
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is a good sequal of Gears of war. There is a few new game modes in Gears of war 
 2. Theres the horde mode where you have to eliminate all of the locust. there's also a game mode 
 called wingman where you have a partner and you are against 4 other teams of 2. first team to 15 
 wins the match. there's also king of the hill which is set up like annex only your team has to 
 stay in the ring. there's submission which is like a capture the flag only you have to grab the 
 flag as a meatshield and take the flag to the ring. As of guns you have the lancer, boomshot, torque 
 bow, longshot sniper rifle, boltok pistol, boomshield, frags, gnasher shotgun, gorgon pistol, hammer 
 of dawn, hammerburst, ink grenade, mortar, mulcher, flame thrower, snub pistol, troika turret. 
 Over all this game is worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandemic-7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  I was as excited as anybody else for this game when it came out. I even got it at a midnight release. 
 Now that almost 4 months have gone by I can give it a fair review. I wont go into minute detail 
 about the game, you probably already know for yourself what this game is like. The campaign, which 
 some people found disappointing, I found to be quite good. Somewhat short but I expected that considering 
 GoW wasn't very long. If I were judging the campaign alone Id give the game a 9.3. The graphics 
 are great, the control felt pretty well balanced, the story was kinda weak except for the Dom's 
 side story but lets be honest, we don't play this game for the story.
  
  The multiplayer was what I was waiting for, as was everyone else. There are personal gripes I had 
 with some of the changes. For example, I didn't like the addition of mine planting. To me it slowed 
 the game down a bit. It worked better in CoD4 and I know they wanted to add that element to the 
 game but to me it just never sat well. I thought horde was an awesome addition to the multiplayer. 
 This was the only aspect of multiplayer on GoW2 I loved. The maps felt uninspired to me and were 
 dull. 
  
  The method of choosing game types were the first major letdown in GoW2. The fact that you cant 
 choose the exact gametype you want to play and have to settle for warzone over execution was a 
 big bummer. I cant believe EPIC screwed that up that bad. 
  
  The other major letdown was brutal inconsistency in the game's multiplayer. Obviously people were 
 glitching left and right. The big patch was supposed to fix that and I was very excited about it. 
 All the patch did was show the game for what it really was, a buggy, incomplete online experience. 
 The best way to describe the problem with it in one sentence is to think of it this way: If I shoot 
 someone in the face 3 times with a shotgun as they are running at me with a chainsaw, it should 
 kill them or at least slow them down. GoW never had that problem. In GoW2 it was a constant case 
 of inconsistency. Finally yesterday I got $25 for it at my local gamestop. If I could go back I 
 would have saved myself $40, but I was as excited and as for this game as anyone else. I see lots 
 of reviews on here by fanboys left and right. If you are a serious gamer that demands top notch 
 design on anything you throw $60 dollars into not to mention the charge for Xbox live, you cant 
 seriously play this game and be ok with all of its flaws. Combine all of that with the fact that 
 it usually takes an eternity to find a game, GoW2 isnt worth the editors choice given to it by 
 gamespot.
  
  Sadly this was a major disappointment for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Besides Halo, Gears of War is one of Microsoft's flagship titles, the first one was released in 
 2006, met with critical acclaim, terrific sales and several games of the year awards, the game 
 managed to become one of the flagship titles. With the Halo trilogy finished, Gears of War is now 
 one of the games Microsoft focuses on the most, and now with a sequel released, does it live up 
 to the 1st one, or will it be overrated like Halo 3?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game takes place 6 months after Gears of War, after a lightmass bomb were detonated in the 
 underground, most of the Locust Horde were destroyed. However, the explosion caused much of the 
 liquid Imulsion underground to vaporize, causing a fatal disease called rustlung to spread among 
 the diminished human population. On top of that, cities have begun disappearing and the COG is 
 suspecting that the Locust have returned. With only one safe heaven left for humans (the city of 
 Jacinto) , the city shows sign of the same fate as the other cities and with a Locust attack, COG 
 have no choice but to fight, in order to save Jacinto. During all this, Dom's wife Maria is missing 
 and he goes with Marcus Fenix to go find her.
  
  First of all, it might sound weird that the story focuses on Dom, and not on Fenix, but this is 
 actually good, Fenix ain't the kind of guy you wanna make emotional. The story is also good at 
 showing you, that this is humanity's last fight, which really makes way for some epic moments. 
 That being said though, the story does have a few flaws. At one point in the game, you're sent 
 into a classified lab, it's a government secret, but once you're past it, it's never mentioned 
 again. Also, the story doesn't really use much of the so-called disease, it's mentioned in the 
 1st act and after that it's never really mentioned again. Couple that with a awful ending, it's 
 not a Halo 2 style ending, but it is one of those that makes you want a new one, just to see how 
 the story ends. Dispite a writer being hired this time around, the story is mainly told in the 
 same way as the first Gears of War, so it's nothing special, but it's all so epic, that you can't 
 help but love it and the story does have a lot of great moments.
  
  8.5
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 game is basically Gears of War 1.5, there's not a lot of changes here, you still have the chainsaw 
 gun (which never, ever get's old!) and so on. There's less Emergence Holes around this time oddly, 
 and you still got the same cover system from Gears of War, which once again, is one of the best 
 cover systems currently. That's not to say there's a few new additions though, you can grab crawling 
 enemies and use them as a meatshield (no pun intended) , there's chainsaw duels, and of course vehicle 
 sections. The chainsaw duels are rare to encounter surprisingly and the vehicle sections controls 
 like Halo, except the car psychics are better this time around. There are also sections with Reavers 
 and Bbrmaks, which are surprisingly easy to control as well.
  
  Besides the single player campaign, there's also multiplayer for up to 10 people. The multiplayer 
 is mainly a upgrade from the first Gears of War, though it adds 3 new modes: There's Guardian, 
 a modified version of assassination. Wingman and Submission, formerly known as Meatflag, it's basically 
 capturing the flag. While it's fun to play, there's seems to be a lot of bugs in the multiplayer, 
 it's also a bit unbalanced, and plagued by some connection issues, though disconnections doesn't 
 happen a lot. There's also cheaters, but hopefully a patch will fix it, because it's still fun.
 
  
  Another addition is Horde mode, here, up to 5 players is thrown into a level and has to survive 
 for as many rounds as possible; it's incredibly fun to play, though it exposes a few weaknesses 
 in the A. I.
  
  The single player is divided over 5 acts and their a blast to play, and it really feels like your 
 in a Hollywood movie, it's filled with epic moments, epic battles and is overall exciting. It lasts 
 around 8-10 hours, and while it may seem like you're playing one of the most epic games on this 
 side of Metal Gear Solid 4 and Call of Duty 4, the last act is ant climatic, thanks to the ending 
 and a final boss that's easily killed. 
  
  After the single player, there's of course multiplayer, co-op and a war journal that makes everything 
 more addicting.
  
  9.5
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 graphics are beautiful, it really shows what the Xbox 360 is capable of, there's hardly any frame 
 rate issues (though they rarely occur) , the environments are great and the character design looks 
 good, though everything seems to be bigger than real life. One neat feature is that you can tone 
 down the violence, so even yougner audiences can watch it, neat feature, though everyone knows 
 to leave the gore option on the highest.
  
  10
  
  Sound
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 voice acting is great, Fenix and his pals all have a lot of dialogue and jokes apparently, there's 
 even a guy that keeps making references to American football, but it's hard not to find yourself 
 laughing over the dialogue, mostly because their comments are so funny, that you'll never mind 
 them talking. Like the graphics, the dialogue can be toned down too, but again, we all know not 
 to do that. The music is mixed, composed by Steve Jablonsky, the tracks are epic, though personally, 
 I didn't like all the tracks, though I liked the most.
  
  10
  
  Overall
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  It's 
 Gears of War 1.5, but that doesn't stop it for being a amazing game. True the multiplayer ain't 
 as revolutionary as the 1st one and it's plagued by problems, but the game is so epic dispite a 
 awful final boss and ending. It's one of the best games that you can buy for your Xbox 360 and 
 it's defiantly recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19robson
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Ratings: 5=Excellent  1=Very Poor
  -------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: 4
  Sound: 4.5
  Graphics: 4.8
  Campaign: 4.5
  Online (Multiplayer) : 4
  Replay 
 Value: OFTEN
  -------------------------------------------
  
  Gears of War series just keeps getting better. Gears of War 2 carry's the story on from the original 
 which is taking the fight to the locust horde which is simply awesome. I can't tell you enough 
 how good the graphics are on this game they are a must see if not already seeing. Within the campaign 
 mode you can also play online and coop with your friends. There have also been some good improvements 
 made to this game which helps it out shine the original. The new weapons that are at your disposal 
 are much better also the new characters that feature throughout the game.
  
  The multiplayer has not changed dramatically from the original which is a good thing because this 
 is what made the game so good to start with. There have been a number of different game types that 
 have been added which will keep you occupied for hours. There is nothing more satisfying on this 
 game then blowing someone into a million pieces with you shotgun from point blank range.
  
  Favourite thing on the game: Graphics but most of all having a shotgun fight online.
  Most Hated 
 thing on the game: Chainsawing this is just because people run at you from 5metres away and even 
 if you shoot them they still keep coming.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Recommended?
  Definitely
  Just wish they would sort the chainsaw out as it takes much of the skill away of using a shotgun 
 online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-reviews
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I haven't played the first game so I didn't know what to expect from the game other 
 than the great graphics.
  
  The first point I'm going to concentrate on is the graphics as mentioned above, I think they were 
 fantastic and I didn't really think about checking out the overall graphics like moss coming out 
 of buildings and stuff until after I'd finished the story mode and started again just so I had 
 a little more to say for this review. I thought it was Utterly Brilliant graphics and I was really 
 impressed, it was the best graphics I had seen since God of War.
  
  Next point I'm going to concentrate on is the gameplay, the aiming system at first made me think 
 oh hold up a little dissappointing, but it didn't take long to get used to. It was actually really 
 good by the time I had got used to it and when the ducking system came into when you could hide 
 behind things and so on, it actually made me think WOW.
  
  The next point and the last point I will talk about is the sounds, clips and music. The clips were 
 amazing there was a few times when I had thought I was watching a movie. The sounds and speach 
 during the game was great when the characters would be talking to each other and you would forget 
 that you were even playing the game.
  
  This is just my opinion please don't feel that I am forcing this opinion on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagnozzi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  With great visuals, improved multiplayer, and the return of some of your favorite characters I 
 figured this would dominate it's prequel - it didn't. 
  
  Unlike other games, Gears of War 2 is most fun played offline. With online matches lasting only 
 2-3 minutes, it took a lot of the fun out of it. Most of your enjoyment in this game will be playing 
 through the campaign with a friend, or playing Horde mode. 
  
  I was impressed by the length of the game, which is about 2-3 hours longer than the original, but 
 I felt it dragged itself out. You spend to much time in certain areas and at times you felt like 
 dropping the controller and putting in another game. For example, running through the giant worm 
 was an awesome chapter, and the cinematic at the end of that is great, but my GOD, I felt like 
 I would never exit that worm. Another thing that bothered me was the 80% of the game being underground. 
 I understand that the basis of this game was to go underground to stop the invasion, but it just 
 didn't end. 
  
  The highlights of this game are def. the outside areas. I enjoyed riding 'Betty' through the jungle-ish 
 area, as well as defending it when it 'brokedown' as well as walking through the pitch black tunnel 
 while little exploding creatures are running towards you from the darkness. And you can't forget 
 about the fight against the fish boss as you are cornered on a boat holding on for dear life!
 
  
  But as much fun as I had with some of the better parts of the game, there were parts I couldn't 
 stand - riding through a pitch black cave with only a spotlight and the underground chapters.
 
  
  Playing through the campaign mode alone has no replay value to me. Sure you could play with another 
 friend, but as far as single player goes, you won't want to play it over again. The online multiplayer, 
 which was improved from it's prequel, still lacks in originality and replay value. The only mode 
 that has some replay value is Horde mode.
  
  All in all, the game was good. I had some great times playing through Campaign mode, the visuals 
 were amazing, the voice acting was great, but the fact that it has no replay value, mediocre (at 
 best) online play and long drawn out chapters - I feel this game failed to top the original Gears 
 of War. Overall I give this game an 8 out 10. It's worth playing for the offline modes, but as 
 far as multiplayer goes, stick with COD: WAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were an Xbox 360 owner in 2006, you probably were awaiting Halo 3. But as the clock kept 
 ticking ever so slowly towards that glorious day, rumors and stories arose about a brand-new franchise 
 from famed developers Epic Games. Known for their success in the Unreal Tournament series, Epic 
 Games was a staple in the FPS genre. This new franchise slowly came into the public eye under the 
 name Gears of War. After plenty of hype, Gears of War was released, and boy, what a ride it was. 
 A unique cover system, top-notch production values, and a rag-tag bunch of space marines as protagonists 
 made Gears of War a hit. It's been just a couple of years since Emergence Day and Epic Games has 
 already prepped the sequel Gears of War 2 for the Xbox 360. Marcus, Dom, and all the rest return 
 for some good ol' fashioned Locust hunting. Is the world ready for another Locust attack?
  
  Gears of War 2 takes place a short amount of time after the events of the original, with angry 
 anti-hero Marcus Fenix still the leader of Delta Squad. With the Locust Horde presumably destroyed 
 by the Light Mass Bomb, the word gets out that the Locust aren't just alive, but mobilizing stronger 
 than ever. The entire human race is ready to take out the Locust, this time hitting them where 
 it hurts: their underground lair. Though the story is essentially the same as the original, a few 
 new twists arise throughout the course of the narrative. Dom, for instance, is searching for his 
 wife Maria. Though he doesn't even know if she's alive or not, his journey gives some incentive 
 to the storyline. Also, newcomer young Carmine, the relative of the original Carmine of the original, 
 is your typical rookie soldier. His nervousness and lack of warrior resolve is a complete contrast 
 to the rest of the squad, but he tends to explore that sense of heavy, unwilling emotion that many 
 new soldiers feel. Don't worry, though; familiar faces make appearances. The story is essentially 
 the same, but once you're blasting away at Locusts, you'll no doubt forget the story's very familiar 
 trappings.
  
  What made Gears of War so groundbreaking was the cover system, which remains in full effect. Pressing 
 A when near a wall or cover will let the player sidle up against the obstacle. The player can then 
 use the L-Trigger to aim, or simply use the R-Trigger to shoot blindly at an enemy. The game also 
 uses the "second-person" view, where when pressing and holding the L-Trigger the player can aim 
 with an over-the-shoulder view, sacrificing speed for accuracy. The cover system and firing abilities 
 are extremely fluid, and in a tight situation, work well together. The Active Reload (where you 
 can either speed up a reload or slow it down depending on your reflexes) and Crimson Omen (the 
 replacement of a regenerating health bar) still appear, adding to the cinematic flair of the game, 
 while also making the gameplay versatile and linked. The controls may feel odd at first (especially 
 if you haven't played the first Gears of War) , but they are very easy to get together. Soon, blasting 
 at Locust becomes second nature.
  
  And you're going to need it, because Gears of War 2 isn't easy. Though the addition of a new difficulty 
 level Normal (a midpoint between Casual and Hardcore) is something, the game still pushes the difficulty 
 curve, most in part to the enemies and their dangerous access to bigger and badder weapons. This 
 adds some challenge, but even better is that there's a bit more diversity in the weapon choice. 
 After killing off a Boomer or Grinder, take their weapon and spill Locust blood everywhere. Some 
 weapons like the Mortar Cannon are pretty tough to manage, but the introduction of new weapons 
 is always a good thing in such an action-oriented game like Gears of War 2. The Lancer makes a 
 triumphant return, now allowing chainsaw clashes (when two Lancer-equipped opponents try to shred 
 their enemies with the chainsaw bayonet) where the player must hammer on the B button for victory. 
 Gears of War 2 delivers an excellent arsenal of weapons to learn, use, and master, making combat 
 intense and action-packed.
  
  Gameplay in Gears of War 2 is essentially the same stuff you've seen in Gears of War. There is 
 very little progression here. The introduction of certain gameplay quirks like using downed enemies 
 as "meat-shields" or having custom animations for specific weaponry adds some flair, but it all 
 feels gimmicky and tacked-on. There are definitely some amazing moments in Gears of War 2, some 
 that really shake up the scope of the Locust battle, but you'll mostly be using the cover system 
 and shooting at enemies. While this was very innovative in Gears of War, Gears of War 2 feels too 
 much like a sequel, with too little creativity and not enough new twists in the gameplay. That's 
 not to say that the game is bad; it's very far from it. The mix of strong action, expansive encounters, 
 and excellent control couldn't be more welcome. The game just feels rushed, lacking the awesome 
 innovation that the original bestowed upon the suffering shooter genre.
  
  Multiplayer has been a hit-and-miss affair with Gears of War. Despite having visceral action and 
 clever gameplay, weapon imbalances and a slight over-dependency on teamwork caused some players 
 to turn away. This time around the multiplayer makes some improvements, but just doesn't nail it 
 the way other online shooters have. You do get traditional gameplay modes like Warzone and Annex, 
 along with a few new ones like Wingman (where teams of two try to take out their opponents) and 
 Submission (where teams must down, capture, and escort an enemy) . These are okay, but you won't 
 find huge changes to the gameplay or the multiplayer atmosphere. The biggest multiplayer mode (or 
 at least the most hyped) is Horde, where five players tackle waves and waves of Locust. Like the 
 rest of the multiplayer, this is fun, but you won't see drastic changes in the actual gameplay. 
 The weapons are still pretty unbalanced and the different maps can leave much to be desired, but 
 Gears of War 2 does possess more substance and modes than the original Gears of War, and that's 
 far from a bad thing.
  
  The first Gears of War was a polarizing game when it came to presentation: though the graphics 
 were technically impressive, they also were generally uninspired. The game fell into the pitfall 
 of modern day graphics: the "brown" or "grey" game. While Gears of War 2 does make some effectively 
 unique situations, this is still very brown. Compared to other games that have been released since 
 the Xbox 360's debut, Gears of War 2 lacks cosmetic progression. Some sequences do add some spice. 
 One of the initial battles takes place on a giant rig in transport to a drill zone, where Delta 
 Squad is to infiltrate the Locust Hollow. Some of the later battles go beyond the action game norm 
 and really show off some creativity, something that Gears of War 2 seems to lack in this respect. 
 Fortunately, the audio does back up the graphics. John Dimaggio's role as Marcus Fenix is as gruff 
 and angry as ever, and Carlos Ferro's role as Dom makes his struggle to find his wife pretty expressive. 
 The sound effects and music are top-notch, filling the action-packed battles with powerful ambiance. 
 Silent moments are suspenseful moments, where the sound of an enemy will no doubt catch you off 
 guard at least once. Gears of War 2 isn't very different from its predecessor, but it manages to 
 hold its ground as a technically-impressive title, even though its style is pretty shallow and 
 repetitive.
  
  Pros
  + Great presentation
  + Amazing arsenal of weapons
  + Solid selection of modes
  + Exciting campaign
  
  Cons
  - Multiplayer isn't very much 
 improved
  - Storyline is essentially the same
  - Lacks cosmetic variety in levels
  - Not enough progression in gameplay
  
  Gears of War 2, in a nutshell, came out too early. 
 The action lacks the strong innovation of its predecessor, the multiplayer is still pretty flawed, 
 and the environments don't possess the diversity and uniqueness of other shooter games. But as 
 much of a problem those factors turn out to be, Gears of War 2 is very, very difficult to not like. 
 Despite these issues, everything else in the game shines. Gears of War 2 takes many of the shooting-packed 
 battles of the original and multiplies the action tenfold. There are far too many amazing and exciting 
 moments during the campaign to ignore. The controls are tight, the weapons are inventive, and the 
 presentation is unlike any other game on the system. Whether you're pinned down in cover while 
 a Locust swarm tosses a grenade or you're tackling a Brumak with a mortar cannon, Gears of War 
 2 is jam-packed with unforgettable moments. If Gears of War 2 had maybe half a year more in development, 
 the problems could easily be ironed out. Regardless, even in its current form, Gears of War 2 is 
 a wild ride with plenty of memorable moments and tons of shooter action. It's definitely worth 
 a purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  LOVED
  
  Gameplay: As expected with any sequel, EPIC Games refined the "Stop & Pop" gameplay that defines 
 the Gears of War franchise. I can't put a finger on it, but it's suffice to say everything that 
 made Gears1 so enjoyable is back and better thanever in Gears2.
  
  Co-op Campaign: Co-op is really the only way to play through a Gears of War campaign. The campaign 
 itself is fun and very action packed. But it's far more immensly fun when played together with 
 a friend.
  
  Graphics: Simply put; Gears2 sets the graphical benchmark for the Xbox360. This is the game to 
 show off to your friends.
  
  Audio Design: Gears2 is the kind of game that makes you happy that you bought a 5.1 surround sound 
 system.
  
  Party System: I've said it before and I'll say it again; Every Xbox360 (and PS3) multiplayer game 
 needs to have a Party System for it's online component. EPIC Games wisely includes this feature 
 and the game is better for it.
  
  Horde Mode: If you like co-op games (like myself) where you have a group of human players against 
 CPU opponents, then you'll love Horde Mode. I can see myself playing this mode until Gears3 comes 
 out. Yes, that good.
  
  Weapons: While there are only a few new weapons to use in Gears2, all of them are fun to use. Chainsawing 
 fools in half never gets old, and the new Mulcher (gatling gun) is a joy to use. I also enjoyed 
 the Boom Shield, which allows you to get close to enemies and melee them.
  
  Story: Yeah, I did enjoy the story.... maybe because my expectations were low. Regardless though, 
 I'd put Gears2's story on par with most action movies. Very enjoyable.
  
  Save System: Checkpoints are plentiful and perfectly spread out through the campaign levels. If 
 youhave limited game-time (likemyself) , you can easily play Gears2 for about 15min and get to checkpoint 
 (or two) and feel you've progressed the story.
  
  HATED
  
  Matchmaking: It takes way too long to find a game on occasion. Sometimes you can find a game in 
 about 1min, other times you'll be waiting for up to 10min. Matchmaking for Horde Mode is a breeze 
 though.
  
  Lack of 4 Player Co-op: Seemslike it would be an obvious feature since you have 4 main COG soldiers 
 in Marcus, Dom, Baird, and Cole. Hopefully this feature will be in Gears3.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  If you enjoyed Gears1, then you'll enjoy Gears2. EPIC Games improved in every single area that 
 made the original such an awesome game. The graphics are better. The controls have been refined. 
 There are new (and fun) weapons to use. Co-op is even better, espeically since AI teammates can 
 now revive you. Horde Mode pits you and up to 4 other teammates against a never-ending wave of 
 Locust to shoot. There are new multiplayer modes to enjoy. And the player cap has been upped to 
 10 players.
  
  Every Xbox360 gamer who enjoys shooters should give Gears2 a try. Make sure you have a buddy to 
 play co-op with and you'll love this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fball4life3030
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game is great, and the campaign alone makes it worth buying and playing for hours and hours 
 at a time because it is that addicting. The campaign in gow2 is probably the most fun campaign 
 i have ever played, with all the blood and gore it makes it a very very fun game. I like the addition 
 of the chainsaw duel from the first one and also that you do not have to use the lancer (chainsaw 
 gun) as your primary weapon, because you can use the hammerburst instead. There is not a lot of 
 difference between this game and gears 1 but there didn't need to be as gears of war was a good 
 game already. the only thing that keeps this game from being a 9.5 or even a 10 is the lag in online 
 multiplayer matches. Unlike Halo or many other games that dont have these problems, gears of war 
 2 has some problems with lag and "standbying". I don't know how to fix these problems but obviously 
 it can be done, and they really need to for this game to live up to its full potential. On the 
 other side, when you do get a good connection, (which happens rarely) the game is also lots of 
 fun online. Overall, this game is worht spending your money on, and i guarantee that you will have 
 loads of fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparrxxZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great edition to the Gears of War series. I literally marked the date of release 
 of this game when it was announced. I instantly fell in love with this game when I first executed 
 a member of the Locus Horde with my chainsaw lancer bayonet. Gears 2 provided everything I was 
 hoping for such as the depth in the plot of the game, the new awesome weapons, the realistic graphics 
 with the Unreal Engine, the new better capabilites of the co-op mode & some of the new features 
 like grenade wall-tagging and the chainsaw duels. But, enough of the ups of the game, like every 
 other game Gears 2 has some downs to it. Some of the unfortunates of Gears 2 are like the sluggish 
 movements of the players of the game, the online play & when I finished the game it left me with 
 more questions than answers. But, other than that this game was spectacular. And I really enjoyed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snrm007
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first got this i didn't think it would be really that good but right once i got it 
 i played public online and it was so much. Even when dying every time. it only increased to get 
 more fun as i got better and i started owning people.
  Then i tried the campaign which was a great sequel to Gears of war 1.
  
  But the best mode 
 of all was Horde which i think i have played the most. This mode features you a COG fighting off 
 many many waves of Locust or Horde. The waves go until round 50. it keeps getting harder and harder 
 with more harder enemies. but at wave 11, 21, 31, and 41 it restarts with easy enemies but one 
 of the enemies statistics increase. There stats are Health, Accuracy, and damage
  
  This game is amazing i suggest you go out RIGHT NOW and go buy it! It will offer you so much gameplay 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayabusa-Chaff
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is thhe reason i bought my 360. after seeing the high reviews and awesome trailers 
 and vids i couldnt help picking it up. What i played was mostly good.
  
  The campain is about 10 hours long, and will see you (marcus Fenix) and a bunch of othe bulky men 
 from squad delta try to take down a locust army (wierd alien things that apparently come from under 
 the ground) . For all its worth, the story sucks. It dosent throw any twist or turns and by the 
 time you get to the ending (which also sucks) youll realise that epic could have put more into 
 it. They were obviously planning a sequel when making this game.
  
  However, the level design in gears 2 is fantastic. the environments look breath taking and the 
 character models are superd. youll never have a sense of deja vu in any level you visit because 
 there unique in their own way.
  
  In case you didnt know, Gears 2 is a 3rd person shooter that revoles around the idea of take cover. 
 if you dont take cover, you die. The cover system is pretty flexible and works most of the time. 
 However the game is a breeze to finish, and i beat it on insane difficulty in about 10 hours, with 
 not much trouble at all, and i dont even classify myself good at this game
  
  Anyway, on to the main attraction, multiplayer. its dissapointing. Ill keep it breif but all the 
 maps are the same size, very standard and not very fun to play. also multiplayer has issuses with 
 chainsaw and shotgun interaction. For example i walked up to an enemy holding my chainsaw up near 
 him for about 5 seconds, where nothing happened and he just turned around and shot me with his 
 gun and i was dead. also if you plan on playing with bots make sure you dont die because the AI 
 is terrible and youll end up watching a match between computer playes last for about 20 minutes.
 
  
  Overall, dissapointing for me but still a great game. fantastic graphics and sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow0089
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best shooter i have ever played great graphics, great sound, great HEAD 
 SHOTS, great game-play.... yeh comes with the whole shibang BUT, im warning you in multiplayer it 
 can get VERY VERY FRUSTRATING, i guarantee that you will be cursing so much that you will probably 
 say every curse word that there is, its fun don't get me wrong but it will get to you if you are 
 out there with four random peps in your team, to make it less frustrating you should play with 
 people you know.... trust me its allot easier. People in multiplayer will also find ways to CHEAT... yes 
 allot of people in this game cannot win without them cheating, people will find ways to glitch 
 and so on, they will also leave the match when they know they are going to lose and if that person 
 is the host and you have been playing for an hour and you are so close to winning... guess what 
 it will kick everyone to the main menu and you won't get a single point for what you did... here 
 we go with the cursing and frustration   and you won't know who was the person who left..... but 
 it will still be fun and you will end up looking for another match anyway... if you havent broken 
 your controller by then lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Single Player: 
  The single player campaign of Gears of War 2 is a great, sophisticated, satisfying storyline. It 
 has its ups and downs, such as constantly and repeatedly having to protect and secure your little 
 robotic friend, Jack, numerous times so he can hack into a network, open a door, and other numerous 
 tasks that you must protect him from the locust horde. But, on the contrary, the of Gears 2's storyline 
 is great. In one level youre inside of a giant WORM! You also get to drive some quite amusing vehicles, 
 such as a centaur tank, a reaver, and the best of all, a brumak. You also get to go to diffirent 
 locations from Gears 1. You get to be in an Assault Rig with your hillbilly pal, Dizzy. So in the 
 campaign, from a Rig with a cowboy, to the center of Nexus. Gears 2's campaign, is great.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Gears of War 2's multiplayer is revolutionary, it has many great modes, excecution, 
 wingman, annex, and a couple new modes such as substitute and Horde. In horde your objective is 
 to kill locust computer enemies in waves of the locust horde, teamwork in this mode is essential. 
 Especially after wave ten, that is when you start dealing with bloodmounts and maulers and all 
 diffirent dangerous enemies, its a great mode, but is much better when played online. Substitute 
 is Gears of War 2 style CTF, instead of a flag, you capture a computer substitute that will defend 
 himself, your objective is to down him and then retrieve him to your base. To sum it all up in 
 this category, Gears of War 2's multiplayer is excellent and is definitely the best out there.
 
  
  Controls:
  Gears of War 2's gameplay and handling controls is top notch. It allows you to do all sorts of 
 diffirent things that you probably havent seen in other shooters, such as the active reload for 
 instance. This feature even makes reloading a challenge within the game. When youre outta ammo 
 and need to relaod, you press the reload button, and then under the gun and ammo display you'll 
 see a little line moving across a bar, with this you need to wait until the line is on the white 
 or gray part of the black bar, then you rapidly press the reload button again and volia, you have 
 managed the active reload, and have probably noticed noticed your ammo is flashing, then you have 
 hit the white part of the bar and gained a power bonus. But aside from the active reload, Gears 
 2 also has other things such as blindfire, or taking even a humanshield. The controls in Gears 
 2 is well sophisticated just as well as the first.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Gears is excellent, action-packed and explosive. Not only are the graphics great, 
 but the game itself is an entirely diffirent spawn of a shooter. Gears of War 1 and 2 also goes 
 great with the third-person view as well. A neat feature, and easily the most recognizable in the 
 series, is the lancer assault rifle. With its chainsaw bayonet idea, its a very useful weapon, 
 and a strange, yet awesome idea. The gameplay of Gears 2, is unmatched.
  
  Graphics:
  The last category of my review, the graphics of Gears of War are jaw dropping. The character effects 
 and movements are incredibly life-like, everything in the game is highly, and beautifully detailed 
 to the max. Although there are better graphicated games out there, Gears 2 still holds a great 
 position for having excellent graphics.
  
  The bottom line:
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltahunter3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I've had Gears of War 2 now for about 2 months and I have to admit that it is still my most played 
 online game. The single player experience was far more rewarding than the halo trilogy, and the 
 multiplayer never gets old. Unfortunately they still need to tweak some of the online experience.
 
  
  So the first thing I'd recommend to new players is to play through the story on casual/normal before 
 heading online. The story is captivating and difficult on higher difficulties. It can keep you 
 playing for hours on end trying to survive on insane and restarting over and over again. Co-op 
 has been extended to 5 players so you can get all of your friends to be frustrated with you. There 
 are a few twists in the plot, and the ending wasn't quite done as well as it could have been. But 
 who buys Gears of War 2 for the story mode?
  
  The first thing you should try out when you go online is Horde mode with your friends. Wave after 
 wave of locust and increasingly difficult even on casual. You and 5 friends can spend 6 hours in 
 a single horde match. But I would recommend jumping into regular online play so that you don't 
 fall too far behind. Epic is constantly tweaking the shotgun and chainsaw so that one is never 
 more powerful than the other. The problem is that one always is, and it gets annoying. They have 
 fixed most of the issues at this point, and more are on the way. Get in a party of 5 and go rampage 
 on other teams less coordinated. You can be sure though that there are standbyers just waiting 
 for you, so keep your chainsaw handy.
  
  Overall the new gameplay elements like meatshields, the shield, and grenade planting add a new 
 depth to multiplayer. This is a game you will be playing for months online with your buddies. Make 
 sure to pick it up next time you are out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomkringe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  While the single players graphics are extremely cool it also comes with a much better story than 
 the first one (it actually explains everything) and well the game does offer up some cheap shots 
 to some characters but it didn't even make me feel sad. The only disappointment was the lack of 
 an "actual" final boss. The Online multi-player makes up for the lack of the boss because its just 
 so intense whether your playing wingman or execution the action just doesn't let up and trust me 
 there is lag but it hardly occurs so stop sitting their reading this review, and go buy this game 
 now! oh one more thing the guns in the game are very well designed all the weapons are well balanced 
 like the boomshot's large damage rate it is brought down by the amount of ammo it can carry. So 
 all the weapons feel incredible all the maps are well crafted and every single nook and cranny 
 is very cool. Even the easter eggs are hilarious don't hesitate buy this TODAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enfroy10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game just because I played the first one and loved it. It was a great use of the 
 3rd person shooter technique and it was one of the best looking games that I had played.... That 
 was then.
  
  Now, here we have Gears of War 2, an incredibly hyped game that was supposed to be better than 
 the best. AND IT IS!!!!! Not only is the single player more epic than the first, but Horde mode 
 is so awesome. You get to fight wave after wave of hideous beasts while they keep getting stronger 
 and harder to murder! The single player is possibly better and more challenging than the first! 
 This game is a must buy for any XBOX 360 owner because this game is an "instant classic!"
  
  So basically go out and get this game and play it all the way through on insane and you'll 
 be very satisfied at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueBerryYum17
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, great graphics, great gameplay, great fun. The movements are the best by 
 far from any game out there. No game can match the run and gun style of play that Gears brings 
 to the table. Horde is the best for multiplayer action and the campaign mode is a blast with a 
 friend. The only things i would change are the end.... with no main boss to kill.... your left wanting 
 more .Guess thats where Gears 3 comes into play. I would also like to see more creativity on the 
 paths that are taking in the campaign. Is it so hard to make an open world game with Gears like 
 gameplay??? I also want more destruction... you can never have too much destruction. I want to be 
 able to blow everything and anything up..... please???? Overall, Gears 2 is the best game of the 
 year and decade. I can't wait to see what comes next out of Epic Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  the bad ways it differs from the original is the shotgun, the chansaw, and the multiplayer... and 
 the smoke granades! the smoke grenades are annoying becasue they keep knocking you down, and it 
 sucks in respawning games because it seems like every second a smoke is coming in.
  
  the multiplayer takes forever to get into and it sucks to have to vote for things because some 
 people dont have the maps you have or are not going for the same acheivements you are so you end 
 up playing random, stupid, worthless games... and your like WHY!?!?!
  
  The shotgun is signifigantly weaker... the best thing about GOW 1 was the shotgun battles but now 
 about 2 thirds of people dont use it so...
  
  THE CHAINSAW IS TOO EASY TO REV SO YOU DIE BY NOOBS AND IT PISSES YOU OFF!!!! trust me, its annoying!
 
  
  Other than that, everything is an improvement... you do much cooler things in campaign, better 
 graphics, game modes, guns, it is smoother blah blah blah!
  
  it could be a perfect game if not for the OBVIOUS flaws... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Gears of War: 2
  Graphics: trying to keep the same toned graphics as the magnificant gears of war:1 they have adapted 
 and polished the graphics to make a more realistic effect. although the game had ditched its darker 
 toned surrounings and thrown in a mixture of monsters stomachs, and the seiged city of jacinto 
 trying to be sunken by the mighty Locust Horde. So the graphics are more or less AWESOME.
  
  Gameplay: Epic games have done the right thing here and have kept the asy to use controls. They 
 have also fixed the cover issues where sometimes your game would glitch in cover and push you out. We 
 Thank the new addition of weapons such as the mortar and the flamethrower as well as new enemies 
 to make up for the loss of the scary beserkers!
  
  Multiplayer: Although it has probably the laggiest and glitchiest multiplayer EVER, it is still 
 incredibly fun when your not lagging.
  with the new and very fun addition of horde, a 5 player co-op game where it sees you surviving 
 against wave after wave of enemies. WARNING your time could get ruined by chainsaw noobs, which 
 is why gears of war 2 is best for a party who will constantly watch your back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachoMax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  In Gears of War 2 you reassume the role of Marcus Fenix, a once exiled "gear" who had redeemed himself 
 at the end of the far supirior predeasesor, and you are cast back into the brutal war against the 
 Locust Hoarde. Lets start out with what it acheives shall we, it delivers a good continuation of 
 the story, the cover system is very tight and really goes with the flow, a nice arsenal of weapons, and 
 aiming is very nice, and the graphics, FX, and multiplayer are tpo notch. Sadly, the been there done 
 thatness, (if you played the first one) reperative comabat, and having to be kicked out of a match 
 after you finishing it makes the game an almost exact mirror to the last. The INFORMATIONAL dialouge 
 is well written but the combat script is the typical "Oh yeah! Mother !@#$ers I could do this !%#$ 
 all day long!'
  The Cake is a lie, Dont believe the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baconman8910
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  .Gears of War 2 is without a doubt, in my mind at least, one of the best shooter/action games to 
 ever be devised. I just got my Xbox 360 yesterday and this was the first game I bought for it, 
 I've already beaten it in under 24 hrs. The game features a variety of weapons, my favorite being 
 the Lancer Assault Rifle getting its name from the chainsaw - like bayonet on the end which can 
 be used in the game to saw through debris or any locust dumb enough to stand against you. Movement 
 speed in the game is somewhat slow when moving normally but you can perform a rodie run by holding 
 the A button which seems to move you rather quickly and is good for advancing on positions or moving 
 into cover. Controls are often not very difficult, although you do often use the same button for 
 various movements such as rolling or vaulting over barriers.
  
  One problem I encountered is the switching of weapons in which you use the arrows between the two 
 joysticks, making it somewhat difficult to move while changing weapons, but I soon got used to 
 using it and it wasn't as much of a problem when switching behind cover but was still slightly 
 uncomfortable while moving. Another, which is really more of an annoyance than anything else, is 
 that when you are injured occasionally instead of your ally helping you up he either stays put 
 or runs around you, this isn't extremely common but happen on several occasions.
  
  In many shooters I have found that you often cannot stick with your same weapon that you begin 
 with because either ammunition was to scarce or it didn't provide enough firepower to suit your 
 needs. I kept the same rifle and handgun that was provided at the beginning of the game, the Lancer 
 Assault Rifle and the Snub Pistol, throughout the entire game as they both provided a good amount 
 of firepower and ammunition was found in ample supply.
  
  In Gears of War 2 you have no life gauge, as I have found many new games lack one as well, but 
 a GoW emblem will appear in the center of the screen and will gradually grow a more vivid red as 
 you take damage. So you will have to estimate about how much damage your taking, Marcus is strong 
 and can take a beating but he isn't invincible. Also your teammates can be injured in combat and 
 either you or another teammate will have to help them up.
  
  One thing I absolutely love about this game aside from the game play is the graphics and the details 
 of the models, it feels as though it were real. Your armor, your weapons, and your environment 
 all are in amazing detail. Also the effects of the game screaming, yelling, shouting, there's rarely 
 a moment of silence and it keeps you on edge and keeps your adrenaline pumping.
  
  Aside from your Lancer and your ranged weapons you have two finishing moves. When your fire upon 
 your opponent he, like you, will often be injured and can be revived by his teammates, this can 
 lead to some fun. Once an opponent is injured he will attempt to crawl back to his teammates, if 
 you can get to him, you can press A and Marcus will grab him and use him as a shield while you 
 fire with your handgun, or you can use a finishing move which conserves ammunition and is just 
 flat out awesome. If you press X Marcus will turn over the downed opponent and crush his skull 
 with his boot, if you press Y Marcus will hold them down and beat their face in with his fists. 
 
  
  Very graphic, very violent, but hey that's what makes it great right? Yes it is, but its also all 
 these other features that I have mentioned that have been comprised into the game. If you love 
 action, love blood, and love kicking Locust butt then this game will amaze you. I would definitely 
 recommend that anyone should buy it it is definitely worth the price. With a great combat sequence, 
 great graphics, and a very good story line I Gears of War 2 a 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simwods
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  i have never played GOW1 before so i did not know what to expect 7/10 is my rating and these are 
 my reasons why... i thought that story mode rocks the xbox world on GOW2 but online play could be 
 a little more exciting --- loving the horde i played it with my friends and its just so great! acheivements 
 are easy to get until you reach real hard ones such as kill 100,000 people!!!! ive killed about 
 700! although ive only played it for a few hours. The story mode is awesome and i love the weapons 
 and explosions they make :) to be honest im glad i did not buy the game brand new because i dont 
 think its worth the 40 pounds it was askin for but 25 pounds preowned i think was more than worth 
 it- i recommend u buy this game if your mates own it but i suggest you do not if not...
  I expected more from what i had heard so much from- i had researched this game for quite along 
 time and was dissapointed when i tried it for myself expecting to not finding time to write a review 
 100 words long and 800 characters but turns out i am... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pai-may
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Hmm, 
  
  Never really been a massive fps fan until I recently had the pleasure of playing GOW through on 
 Co-op mode with a university friend. I was very impressed with Epic's graphics engine and so decided 
 to pick up GOW2 when I recently bought myself an xbox360.
  
  This game has it all:
  
  Great single player mode with an excellent continuation of the original story mode (with a couple 
 of twists along the way.)
  
  Fantastic to look at. Very Pretty. Check out the variety of effects the engine performs for the 
 winter level at the start of chapter 3 and once you are inside the mountain with the tank lights 
 on.
  
  A wide variety of levels, including vehicle missions such as the awesome tank level, the disgustingly 
 realistic worm level and the awesome kick ass storming the Locust Queen's gaff level. Less annoying 
 on rail missions than the first game have increased my enjoyment of this solid shooter.
  
  Quality selection of weapons. Balanced and with enough of a selection to satisfy even the most 
 hardcore of shooter fans. Sniper rifle is cool. Active reloads are the way forward and some of 
 the locust guns are better than the standard cog selection, but meh, it's not like you don't get 
 plenty of opportunity to switch out.
  
  Great multi-player options which I won't really expand on beyond the fact that I love the way this 
 game provides a score tracker so you can see who on your team is pulling their weight (I would 
 probably not do to well here.)
  
  In short, if you own a 360 and like FPS's then you should be locked up if you do not own this game. 
 Only negative is a slightly disappointing ending, but then it will be a trilogy so It's kinda setting 
 the scene for the final game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeblon123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  gears of wars 2 is an amazing game. it is better than the original in almost every aspect. the 
 weapon selection is more diverse and the multiplayer modes are better. There are about three new 
 game modes if im correct and the new weapons, like the flamethrower, is awesome. they also kept 
 the graphics above standard as some of the best on the system. The best newest addition to the 
 game however was horde. horde was stremendously fun and could be played for quite awhile without 
 getting boring. trying to beat all fifty rounds on insane is a real challenge and feels so good 
 once you've done it. they almost coul have just sold horde as a game by itself on xbox live as 
 a downloadable game. the best thing comparitively is the campaign and story line in this game. 
 there is actually a little bit of story plot. im not saying its a+ but its better. the only bad 
 thing about this was online matchmaking took too long and glitches were often and common. Like 
 from having a shield and a shotgun out at the same time as an example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabu698
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is innovatie in so many ways!
  Multiple weapons give you time to find all types of finishing menuvers.
  The flamethrower and 
 motar guns make Gears 2 so much more better!
  The hammerburst and lancer are two of the more helpful guns in the game!
  must play multiplayer 
 including one of the greatest multiplayer modes ever, horde mode!
  Horde mode gives you just that much more from the gears series!
  Depending on the diffuculty 
 level you choose, AI sometimes tends to be stupid and hide in the wide open for you to shoot them 
 but thts only a minor problem!
  Gears of 2 is one of the best sequels i can think of in history!
  Keep the gears commin!
  In 
 more instalments i would love to see a list of things.
  -More weapons and mmultiplayer modes of course!
  -New and more challenging enimies.
  -Extrodinary 
 boss fights like the end boss for Gears 2!
  -More more and more gore!
  -new melee attacks or even an entire melee systen including knifes of some sort!
  -Just more 
 Gears violence in genarle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze93najam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  This highly anticipated sequel to gears of war has arrived and it's bigger and better.
  Gears of war 2 features a dramatic storyline set 6 months after the events of gears of war. the 
 human race is near extinction and locusts are increasing rapidly something has to be done to stop 
 the war otherwise the humans will extinct. we start as Marcus Fenix (the main protagonist) , dom and 
 ben carmine (anthony's brother) and are later joined by baird and cole.
  We start of at a hospital and make our progress through the city. We kill Skorge's big worm from 
 the inside by tearing its heart in a city. We are ordered to go to the city of locusts on a mission 
 to kill the lucust queen and later find out that Marcus's father was planning to sink jacinto to 
 finish locust but the same plan is used by the queen to destroy humans. They find out that the queen 
 is actually a human (or looks like one) . The queen escapes on a reaver and leaves skorge who escapes 
 our battle on his pet creature. We ride reavers and follow the queen but are attacked by skorge 
 on the way. We kill skorge and make our way to jacinto. In Jacinto we hijack a boumrack and make 
 our way underground. There the boumrack breaks our control because of a strange toxic liquid on 
 the ground. if destroys the lightmass bomb and we use it as a bomb. We break its legs, it falls down 
 and explodes. Jacinto is flooded locust is destroyed and we are escape.
  This game features a decent change in graphics which is easily notable by a serious player. Gameplay 
 remains the same but we get control of reavers and boumracks which is new for this series.
  Overall this game ROCKS! with a great storyline and control of other things except for just the 
 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The good: beautiful graphics, new physics, new weapon sounds, great mulliplayer, good story, excellent 
 features and satisfying action.
  
  The bad: matchmaking system is horrible, some multiplayer matches lag, way to easy to get a kill 
 in an online match all you have to do is two piece, chainsaw, or throw a smoke grenade.
  
  With horde being its main attraction and new game mode, gears of war 2's story is not all the great 
 but it is still satisfying enough to complete. the campaign now lets you or your partner to choose 
 what difficulty you want to play instead of just you and your guest playing insane and struggling. 
 Horde is a very challenging but fun mode. horde puts you through wave after wave of locust enemies 
 and after every 10 waves the locust become stronger and much more annoying. it is very challenging 
 and i highly recommend you to play it with at least 5 people. the online multiplayer is very enjoyable, 
 but the matchmaking system brings it down. it usually takes about 2 to 3 minutes just to find teamates 
 and another 3 minutes for the match to start, its really not worth waiting because the matches 
 always tend to have someone quitting which is usually the host when he is gettin owned. the voting 
 system is not really good either you usually end up playing the game mode you don't want to play 
 and forcing you to play on a map you dislike. the matchmaking system also chooses a random host 
 which is also dumb because most of the time you will be in a match the lags thus making it harder 
 to kill someone. the new modes are submission, which is like capture the flag, wingman which is 
 a 2v2 5 team death match, and king of the hill and guardian is excatly the same as assassination 
 from part one.
  
  Overall Gears 2 is a very satisfying game with enough action to keep you playing it for multiple 
 hours a day. it has a good campaign mode a new and interesting mode horde and the new multiplayer 
 is buffed up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexchapman25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get things straight here; Gears of War 2 is a hugely enjoyable and immersive game that 
 anyone who loves 1st person shoot em ups must own.
  
  The story is mildly interesting, the gameplay flawless and the graphics and sound are awe inspiring. 
 So whats wrong with it I hear you say???
  
  Well whats wrong is it is too easy and too short. I remember playing the 1st one and it just seemed 
 to take me so much longer and was so much harder than this sequel. Both of the games to be fair 
 arent difficult to master and they dont have the puzzle nature of other games like this; it is 
 just a blood fest but the quality and quantity of the enemies in the 1st game were so much better. 
 The bosses too were much much harder and bigger. 
  
  Now if you dont want the end of the sequel spoiled the story builds and builds upon the idea that 
 the end is going to be something special and the end boss that transpires took 15 seconds to kill 
 with the hammer of dawn? Is this really all that Epic can come up with?!
  
  Having got that out of the way, the rest of the game is still amazingly addictive and fun to play. 
 Some of the battles will take a few gos and need persistence and teamwork, and Im not going to 
 lie taking a big thing out with a sniper rifle headshot is the most fun Ive had in a while.
  
  The graphics on a HDTV at 1080i look amazing and the soundtrack has had my neighbours knocking 
 on the walls for days now; All in all whether or not you have played the original or not I would 
 recommend this game as value for money, but if you havent played the original GET IT NOW!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeast45
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The campaign starts where Gears 1 left off. The lightmass bomb was deployed, but the locust are 
 still strong and are angrier than ever. Jacinto is the last place where the locust can't pop up, 
 but when cities all around Jacinto start sinking, you know Marcus Fenix is up for more ass-whooping.
 
  
  The campaign is nice and long and will last experienced players about 8 hours on hardcore. Co-op 
 campaign is featured again. On harder difficulties, it is almost nessacary to have someone playing 
 campaign with you all the time. Insane is a lot more difficult and especially with the longer campaign. 
 I have now beat the story on all difficulties, and let me say Insane is stepped up man. No more 
 screwing around there, all business. Let me say, the campaign is probably the best part about Gears 
 2.
  
  The multiplayer is totally different this time around though. Now there is a new Halo-styled matchmaking 
 system with 5 on 5. Let me say, this can get very confusing to the veterans of Gears 1. But the 
 new system is soo SLOW! It can take up to 30 minutes to find 1 match, Not to mention the limited 
 choice of maps and what game you want to play. To me, it was very dissapointing and I just played 
 with 4 friends in order to fasten the matchmaking.
  
  Probably the best new addition is Horde. you can play with new people online or play with friends. 
 The latter is the best decision. The one problem I had with it though is that Wave 1-5, Wave 11-15, 
 Wave 21-25 etc. are easy with those above them can get exceptionally hard. With friends this may 
 be the best multiplayer experience on the game. 
  
  Overall, the game is very well made with amazing graphics, nice and long campaign, and slow but 
 promising multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  When you decide to play Gears of War 2, you know what you're getting into. It has gotten way too 
 much exposure for anyone to come into it with a virgin mind. There are a couple of important questions 
 you need to ask yourself before deciding to invest, however:
  
  1. Did you like the first Gears of War?
  
  2. Do you think you'd enjoy playing what essentially 
 amounts to a lengthier, more varied version of that game?
  
  If you answered "yes" to both of those questions, then Gears of War 2 is already either in your 
 possession or probably should be.
  
  The combat mechanics go completely unchanged here. Epic made an effort to improve the story telling, 
 deepen the plot and characterization, and provide moments of sincere emotional impact. In short, 
 they failed.
  
  However, blasting the hell out of the Locust hordes has never been more fun. There are new additions 
 to your arsenal of death, including the Mulcher gattling gun, the Scorcher flamethrower, ink grenades, 
 mortars, etc. 
  
  The graphics have seen marginal improvements, most noticeably in armor and face detail on the main 
 characters. The gore has also been turned up a notch, with squirting arteries, and giblets and 
 blood flying everywhere, gloriously splattering the camera with innards with every successful chainsaw 
 kill. 
  
  The battles seem to have more going on at once, with more enemies and allies rendered on screen 
 at once. There are also several enormous "boss" characters, and a myriad of annoying, pacing-ignorant 
 vehicle sequences.
  
  I think it took my friend and I about 10-12 hours to beat the campaign in XBL co-op on the Hardcore 
 difficulty setting. A new addition to co-op options is the ability to set different difficulty 
 settings for each player. That way, your buddy with the reflexes of an inebriated octogenarian 
 can run through on casual while you rack up the headshots on Insane. This is seemingly accomplished 
 by adjusting bullet damage/enemy accuracy/enemy life levels. In any case, it works, and it's a 
 welcome addition.
  
  However, the single-player/co-op campaign lacks the OMFG moments which warrant subsequent replays, 
 leaving such things to achievement seekers exclusively. It's the new MP mode, Horde, that has kept 
 me coming back for more, month after month.
  
  In Horde, you and up to four others are set loose in a multi-player map and subjected to, well, 
 hordes of Locust, which you must dispose of. These hordes come in waves. Once each wave is defeated, 
 the action stops, the numbers are tallied, killed teammates are revived, and you are given a few 
 moments' respite before the next wave descends.
  
  The waves become increasingly more difficult, with more enemies and different enemy types, culminating 
 in the tenth wave. Once you clear it, the Locust are given upgrades of some kind, whether it's 
 2x life, 2x accuracy, or 2x damage. Then, the waves essentially start over, with Wave 11 a replica 
 of Wave 1 with the aforementioned upgrade.
  
  In this fashion, the Locust receive another upgrade at waves 21, 31, and 41, and all the upgrades 
 stack. Wave 50 is the last wave, and it's, well, hard.
  
  In public matches, where you are matched with strangers via XBL, once every teammate is killed 
 in a wave, the game ends and you are kicked back to your lobby screen. In private matches, you 
 can restart from the wave in which you were killed, but your point total is reset (if you care 
 about that sort of thing) .
  
  Honestly, Horde is absolutely brilliant and highly addictive. There's just something insanely fun 
 about trying to outlast wave after wave of enemies, prioritizing ammo/weapon distribution, providing 
 cover fire and reviving your buddies, all while holed up in some marginally defendable spot that 
 hasn't gotten old for me. I really think Horde is the only online mode worth playing, as Gears' 
 competitive environment has never appealed to me. Glitching, host advantage, and severe weapon 
 balancing issues mar the competitive MP experience, which is an already unappealing mash-up of 
 tactical and run-and-gun gameplay.
  
  To me, the small but nevertheless welcome improvements to the single-player campaign and the addition 
 of Horde mode make Gears of War 2 a justifiable purchase for fans of the first. However, if you 
 weren't sold on the original, there may not be much here to convert you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 was a great game. Dont get me wrong, but i feel that its just the first one with 
 new weapons and maps. The storyline is good at first but after a while wears on you and you always 
 think this might be the end of the game but you are way wrong. Fighting underground and taking 
 the war to the locust is fun and a step up from the repetitive levels in the first. the vehichle 
 fighst are cool and you even get to ride reavers, and boomacks. The bosses are limited and not very 
 hard. The graphics are similar to the first but can you really do anything with them. Some of the 
 AI are stupid and take cover right in from of the line of fire. There are new executions but nothing 
 to brag about. Its a good game and online is solid.
  
  Graphics 9
  Gameplay 9
  Story 7.5
  
  There will probably be a gears of War 3 coming soon becomes the ending has that 
 feel of a sequel
  
  a good game and everyons should try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n4styg1t
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game builds on the success of GOW1 and epic have kept the gameplay and feel from the first 
 game of the year adventure. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  GOW2 still has the same, and possibly the best cover system any shooter has. This makes for the 
 same cover'n'shoot style action you have become accustomed to in GOW1, slow, steady and immensly 
 fun. You will be fighting a wide range of different Horde with huge boss battles and slightly silly 
 vehicle missions. The only gripe I have about the gameplay is that its slightly repetative and 
 is well.... easy. On Hard mode I rarely found the game a challenge and most of the sticking points 
 seems to be contorl issues such as the infamous 'ice' level.
  Playing Co-op is the mode I have had most fun with, sitting around with friends playing is where 
 most of my enjoyment came.
  
  Graphics + Sound:
  GOW2 has really nice graphics which emphisise the gameplay and add to the overall enjoyment of 
 the game. The lighting is really good, character models look great and the textures and the different 
 situations you are put in make the game really stand out. 
  The sounds in the game are some of the best I've heard in a game and pumped up on a surround system 
 brings the whole experience onto a new level.
  
  Online:
  In a word: Rubbish
  When you do finally get a game there seems to be nothing but lag and the most bizzare situations 
 seem to arise. I have got so frustrated with online I have let my friend review it as I rarely 
 play. "Online can be OK if you can sort out a game, lag plages the servers and you can sometimes 
 be waiting for an hour. When you do get online its not the most amazing experience ever, theres 
 no real reason to keep playing. A poor aspect of a great game"
  
  Conclusion:
  +
  Amazing gameplay, State of the art graphics, great soundtrack, levels and boss fights feel 'right', 
 fun co-op mode, All the plus points kept from GOW1
  
  -
  Online mode needs work, The amount of time spent underground is too much in my eyes, slightly too 
 easy, No longevity- A couple of runthroughs and the game is sitting on my shelf! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuaspc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  me gustan los juegos en los que tu solo prendes la consola y empiezas a matar ,pero este magistral 
 juego te mete dentro de la historia desde que enpiezas a jugar y no solo esto sino que el estilo 
 de cubrirte y las graficas estan muy porencima como dicen aqui en Puerto Rico . El sonido es envolvente 
 y digno del juego. El multiplayer enpeso con pocos server eso
  claro debe ser que fui de los primeros en comprarlo ya que ahora los server estan muy buenos y 
 rapidos. por lo tanto todos los que deseen u juego que no los aburre aunque lo hayan terminado 
 este es la opcion a comprar. Gracias epic. A y si estas por decidirte si comprar el xbox360 o el 
 PS3 
  esta es una razon por las que comprara el 360. Si no jugaste el primer gears of war no te preocupes 
 pues tiene un tutorial de lo m, as exacto. Si no tienes conexion online no te preopupes pues el 
 juego tiene una opcion de practica de multiplayer que te recompensara en lo que compras tu internet 
 provider.
  El idioma espanol del juego es muy bueno y de lo mejor que e oido. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagea
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game (maybe a week after its released) I put a good amount of time into it. 
 I was a fan of the first one, which I got way after the release. Gears 2 is so much fun at the 
 beginning that you will truly think that it's the best game you've ever played. After beating the 
 campaign, playing a good amount of Horde, and atleast trying the competitive online, you will get 
 bored quickly! The campaign is just way too easy, even on insane. Jump into cover, jump up, get 
 hurt, jump down and wait til you recover full health.. over and over again. Horde in my opinion 
 is the best thing available in Gears 2. You can play by yourself, play with some buddies locally, 
 or play online with up to four other players. This system works great because you're actually fighting 
 bots with other players. This is why I hate competitive online. You'll start shooting someone and 
 they will jump from one cover to the next. Another thing that happens is you'll be running and 
 someone who is camping behind cover will jump out and chainsaw you, or shotgun you. They degraded 
 both the lancer and the shotgun in this sequal than the first. So you'll typically be in a battle 
 with another player for a good amount of time. So wrapping this review up, Gears 2 is a decent 
 sequal. Not as good as the first but with Horde mode available, is a good game. If you're looking 
 for a great online shooter I would go for Call of Duty 4, Call of Duty: WaW, or Halo 3. Thanks 
 for reading this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  After I beat Gears of War I thought to myself "There has to be a sequel!". After the long wait, 
 it is finally here! The bigger, better, and more bad-ass sequel. This game is purely Awesome! There's 
 so much I can talk about in this review but I can't rant. Here are the categories that I will review 
 it by.
  
  
  Gameplay: The classic Gears of War gameplay is intact with some new upgrades that improve upon 
 the formula. The cover system that I think rocks is still intact but has some minor tweaks that 
 make it look better. Just like in the first installment, after getting shot several times you will 
 be downed but unlike in the first Gears, when downed you can blow yourself up to take the enemy 
 with you or crawl to safety. When you down an enemy you can curb stomp them just like in the first 
 game, but this time you can do different weapon based executions, use them as meatshields, or do 
 the traditional curbstomp. Multiplayer has been expanded with new gametypes such as wingman, or 
 my favorite mode known as Horde. In horde you and four other players hold off against wave after 
 wave of locust.
  
  Graphics: This game has the Unreal Engine 3.5, an advanced version of the highly succesful Unreal 
 Engine 3. Unreal Engine 3.5 gives this game breath-taking landscapes, advanced physics systems, 
 and character models that look like they just jumped out of a live action film. These are the most 
 advanced graphics that I have ever seen!
  
  Sound: The voice actors sound great, the sound effects of war have never been better! The only 
 problem I have is that in battle, characters are always screaming cheesy one-liners that makes 
 it sound like the voice actors had extra time on their hands and started recording the worst lines 
 that they could think of, but that's no big hold up.
  
  Story: This story is a HUGE upgrade from the first game. This takes place six months after the 
 bombing at Timgad. The COG have a plan to strike the locust where they live and breed... the Hollow. 
 That's all I'm saying because I'd hate to ruin it.
  
  
  Because this game is so good, i'm giving it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  THIS is my opinion if you don't like it don't waste your yime reading it...
  
  
  
  Being a new xbox360 owner, I was a bit worried about the game. I have never played gears 1 and 
 have always been a nintendo fan since I was a little girl. All my guy friends loved the game and 
 all of them warned me it was not the game for me, me being the girly girl I'm. 
  
  
  As I played, I fell in love with the game more and more.
  
  Graphics:
  
  One of the best 
 graphics on the console. All of the surroundings are so detailed it's amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very easy to get and in a hour or so you know how to deal with almost everything. 
 The cover thing isn't frustrating like some people said.
  
  Story:
  
  Like I said before haven't played 1st game but I understood it very well. {SPOILER) The ending 
 was kind of dissapointing I don't want to wait for the 3rd one but it was a great twist to the 
 story.
  
  Sound:
  
  The dialogue is the best of all the games I've played and every sound in battle is too good.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  haven't played....
  
  Add Ons: Downloadble content
  
  I hate when xbox live asks for money for something that was supposed to be on the game in the first 
 place.
  
  Replay:
  
  Very High... maybe play it after a few weeks of finishing it 
  
  
  Overall:
  
  I would have given it a 10 if it didn't have the ending it had and some 
 frustrating battles that I had to replay over and over. Recommended completly.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdpope
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I realize that I'm putting myself on the chopping block here, but lately the multiplayer on this 
 game has been so bad that I can't even stand it. I'm done as of 1:48AM EST Feb 12,2009 with Gears 
 2 online multiplayer (excluding Horde) .
  
  First off, I'm not the best gamer... but I am good. I am not that kid who just plays video games 
 all day, but I'm not the kid who turns his 360 on once a week. I play almost every day for a few 
 hours at least. Here's what's bugging me:
  
  I started off playing Gears of War 2 multiplayer over live and it was kinda fun... however as things 
 continued on I noticed that while I remain rank 1 (^) I've been increasingly facing more and more 
 people who are rank 2 (^^) or 3 (^^^) . It's gotten to the point now that I'm amazed if I see another 
 rank 1 person. I realize that the game recognizes that I'll prolly lose the game based on their 
 ranking system, but it would be nice if... iono 10% of the games I play would be against those 
 my own level. Just saying. I am in no way a Halo 3 fanatic, but I'm quickly becoming a fan because 
 I face... to some degree at least, people that are somewhat near my own rank.
  
  Some of you are probably saying, hey suck it up... get better and pwn later on. Here's the problem 
 with that, I'm almost the worst rank and the people I'm playing are those who wake up in the morning, 
 eat their wheaties and run to their xbox 360 so they can get in an extra 30 seconds of playing 
 gears 2 that day.
  
  I just played a game of wingman and on it I had no partner because some people decided to apparently 
 use some glitch so they could get a team of 3... (Black2419, XxGeTMUrKeDxX21 and Calis Finest DRE 
 ... just to share some gamertags on Xbox Live) . To make this game even more exciting everyone else 
 was at least rank 2. Now, can anyone explain to me how I always get shafted in only Gears2 on live? 
 That'd be great.
  
  Basically... Here's the pros and cons for the live features: (Note, in no way am I dissing the 
 storyline)
  Pros (+) :
  Something different than Halo 3.
  Way you choose maps (Potential to choose out of 3) .
  Horde mode.
  Cons (-) :
  Face people 
 who are higher rank than you, always.
  You never seem to rank up, except after your first game.
  Too easy to glitch or cheat.
  Gears 
 2 can't even set in stone number of players on a team?
  
  Cons... way outweigh the pros.
  
  Sincerely,
  Brian
  
  P. S. blink-182 is back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awsomecal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  Something about Gears 2 didn't click with me the way the first one did. 
  I had really high expectations for this game, with all the hype and good reviews, and i really 
 expected it to be Game of the Year. Any way, i got it, and finished in one day (i was sick and 
 had nothing to do) . The campaign was short and the story was weak. Howerver the game redeemed itself 
 with its amazingly entertaining online multiplayer. I spent so much time on it. Then i realised, 
 this is exactly like the Halo series. Firt game=amazing (like in this situation) second game=poor 
 story but amazing online (exactly like this) . 
  Graphics wise this game is pretty. Great visuals of destroyed cities, war torn landscapes.... and 
 the intestines of a giant worm (believe it or not) .
  
  Overall this game is a great multiplayer with an ok story. Fans of the series should really buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannsdan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  Better than the first one and the first one was amazing! Perhaps the best improvement over its 
 predecessor are the new game modes. sure you have your basic 'capture the flag' and 'submission' 
 modes (aka "meat flag" from GOW1) but its the new modes that really captured my attention. 'assassination' 
 is like team deathmatch but you can only respawn as long as the designated team leader is alive. 
 kill the enemy leader, then the rest of his team and you win. 'wingman' is a 5 team 2 v 2 deathmatch 
 style game. these game modes are great but the real fun begins when you play 'horde mode'. here 
 you face wave after wave of ever increasingly difficult enemies. the great things about this game 
 is that every map has its own characteristics that make change the tactics and strategies around 
 and change the location where you decide to hold your stand against the enemy horde. 
  you can play these game modes in a private party or in a public lobby. system links another 360 
 and play a private mode where you can even add AI bots on each team. 
  The graphics seem to be a step up from the first one, the maps for multiplayer mode are outstanding 
 and the campaign mode will keep your heart pounding. 
  all these make GOW2 one of the best games yet released on the xbox 360 platform! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 was highly hyped in print and electronic media and it did not disappoint. Gears 
 2 delivers on several levels in that the single player campaign is deeper, the control is tight 
 as ever, greater enemy diversity, new and practical weapons, and the introduction of "Horde" mode 
 on multiplayer which is a wonderful idea.
  
  Gears 2 picks up not long after Gears of War-the light mass bomb didn't finish the job and Locust 
 are now sinking cities. Marcus and Dom of Delta Squad are still in the war and are humanities last, 
 best chance. The game focuses on their effort to stop the Locust from sinking Humanities last refuge.
 
  
  The story is much deeper and is more coherent than last time. It has funny, exciting, and moving 
 moments. There are quite a few subplots, but they are relevant and makes you want to play more 
 to discover the story. The story (and backstory) are also revealed through the collectible items 
 to be found in each level. This adds replay to each level and helps the game progress.
  
  The control has not been changed at all since Gears of War and for a good reason-it works. Moving 
 from cover, running, aiming, reloading, and changing weapons is very fluid and works well with 
 the fast paced action of the game. The active reload has been enhanced more with different bonuses 
 for different weapons-they aren't that noticeable, but still nice.
  
  The gameplay has remained mostly the same, but some things have changed slightly. The annoying 
 "Kryll" have been removed which means it is safe to move in the dark, but a section where you have 
 to watch your timing was introduced. It was interesting, but didn't work well with the theme of 
 the game. All of the game mechanics remain the same, but it doesn't make the game boring or a clone 
 of the first-it is just that the gameplay works well and fits the style of the game. Some of the 
 weapon mechanics have changed, but they are barely noticeable and are improvements. New weapons 
 have been introduced and they are all relevant and offer players more choice and detail in terms 
 of options. New weapons like the mortar are heavy hitting and add a new element to the game.
  
  The graphics are vastly improved and it is noticeable from the beginning. The character models 
 are impressive, every dialogue has full facial animation. The weapons and armor are more refiened 
 and show much more detail without being terribly flashy. The areas are beautiful in their illustration 
 of utter destruction and the horror of war. 
  
  The voice acting is as good as it gets. The dialogue is "appropriate" it fits well with the mood 
 and style of the game. There are a few funny moments, but the game focuses mostly on people trying 
 to survive and carry out the mission. There is one scene in particular with a fan-favorite "Augustus 
 "Cole Train" Cole" which is probably one of the funniest moments in a game.
  
  The game does have a few problems-the story is much improved, but could have been more solid. New 
 characters that were hyped to death in the promotional materials were given "lip service," and 
 there are some problems with collision detection. There are more than a few times where you will 
 line up a perfect shot with the sniper rifle and see the bullet trail go through the enemies head... but 
 nothing happens. The difficulty levels are appropriate, but on Insane mode it is either not much 
 of a change or next to impossible. This is illustrated through the computer AI who will put themselves 
 into positions that make it impossible to succeed. They will get out into a hail of gunfire and 
 lay bleeding-which means: either you wait and fail the mission because they bled to death, or you 
 rescue them and get shot to pieces. Finally, the last boss fight is a MASSIVE disappointment.
 
  
  Gears 2 also introduces "Horde Mode" which can be done on single player or with multiplayer with 
 5 total teammates. It involves facing wave after wave of locust who grow stronger and grow in number 
 as time progresses. This mode never gets boring and is a total blast when you have a full team 
 of 5. It is one of the key reasons to get the game.
  
  Overall, the flaws of this game are completely outshined by the merits. This is a high quality 
 game which will leave you wanting more. If you enjoyed the first you will enjoy this one as much 
 or more. The campaign is fulfilling and Horde mode is great for team play. All in all, it doesn't 
 get much better than Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 or GoW2 is a brilliant game. From the killing of Locust to the driving a Reaver, 
 It's all good. In Gow2, the game has a better storyline than the first but the story is still not 
 very strong. In many reviews, people have said that there are too many open strands but I disagree. 
 There may a one or two but nothing big.
  The cover system has been improved while keeping the Gears Experience better than ever.
  
  
 The Pros:
  1. Good Graphics
  2. Good Voice Acting
  3. Amazingly Gruesome
  4. 'Active Reload' is a good addition to keep reloading an important part of battle
  5. Variety 
 between missions and objectives
  6. Brilliant Multiplayer
  
  The Cons:
  1. Weak Story
  2. Insane difficulty not available till you complete the story once
  3. 'Anticlimaxy' 
 ending
  4. Dom and Maria given too much importance while Fenix is neglected.
  
  In the end, Gow2 get a 9.5 from me. Go try it. I used to like Halo and wasn't interested in gears 
 but when I got it from my friends for my Bday, I was hooked. Go play it...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360fanb0i
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  As i played Gears of war 2, I started thinking just what made this game so great! There are many 
 aspects of the game which are so addicting and fun!
  
  First of all, the campaign is better than ever. Epic did an amazing job of taking what they had 
 in Gears 1 and improving on it to a whole new level! The game still has your basic weapons like 
 the lancer, shotguns, and a few others, but as an addition, Gears 2 added tons of new weapons for 
 us to use! The Mortar and the mulcher ar by far the most powerful and so fun to use! The campaign 
 is breathtaking and as to not spoil anyone's game, I won't say more :D But I will say that it definitely 
 is worth playing! 
  
  Then there is MULTIPLAYER!! Although there may be a few lag issues which in my opinion, is normal 
 for new games with an enormous amount of players, the pros defintely outweigh the cons here!! Horde 
 mode is AWESOME!! You never get tired of scoping from a super long distance for the perfect headshot 
 on that Locust!! Haha! The other modes of Multiplayer like annex, gaurdian and wingman to say a 
 few are also incredibly fun and the new maps tie it all together!!
  
  All in all, Gears of War 2 is by far one of the best shooters on the 360 and any person looking 
 for a great, immersive game look no further!! GEARS OF WAR 2 RULES!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesome_Ad
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I dont know where to start with Gears of War 2. This game is one of the best ever to come to the 
 360 console, even the first one , made a good impression. Just almost every element to this fun 
 rapid fire shooter, is truely awesome, amazing gameplay, brilliant cutscenes to the story, so this 
 game is good offline aswell, online is awesome aswell, brillaint playing different game types such 
 as Elimination or the new type Horde, with other players around the world. This game is not all 
 just shooting as well, its got an romantic emotional touch to it as dom is doing it for his wife 
 but doesent turn out too well. Overall this game rocks! And such many things you can do with this 
 game, offline or online, just so many elemnets. E. g 15 or more different weapons to choose from, 
 all so ammusing and fun to use, with funny sound affects from a sniper head shot, and the torque 
 bow charging which is quite frightening. 11 different executions to choose from using these weapons 
 such as the shotgun or the shield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  The story behing Gears of War 2 is a very unique one. It starts out in Jacinto, one of the human's 
 last strongholds. The rock onderneath in is too hard hor the riftworm to crawl through. As the 
 game progresses, you will eventually have to go inside a huge worm to kill it, advance on the Locust 
 stronghold, and eventually sink Jacinto purposely to destroy the Locust headquarters. It is pretty 
 awesome!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in Gears of War 2 is practically the same as it's predecessor. That being said, it 
 is still a lot of fun to play. There are new weapons in this game such as a flamethrower. At one 
 point in the game, you actually have to mount a Reaver, an ride it through the sky. Another problem 
 that I have with this game is that it is a pretty short game. It seems like I beat it in about 
 6 hours. The co-op in this game is amazing, as was the first's. Overall, the gameplay is great!
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Just look at the game on an HD TV............ totally awesome!!!!!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  The game's control is very smooth. I really like it. If you like third-person shooters, you'll 
 really love this one!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds in this game are some of the best in all of video games. The one thing that really bugs 
 me is that their mouths don't move with the words that they are saying at all. If you have read 
 any of my reviews, you'll notice that I really take off quite a bit for this
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  I must say, you need to play the first one before you play the second. If you liked it, then you'll 
 love this!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of war became an instant classic in 2006 with its innovative cover system, beautiful 
 graphics, and some even took Gamespot's game of the year award. The sequel doesn't deviate far 
 from that foundation, but the experience that Gears 2 provides is still exhilarating and definitely 
 worth your time.
  
  Gears 2 picks up a few months after the first game ended. Humanity's struggle is becoming more 
 desperate by the day, and it's up to Dom, Marcus, and other familiar characters to take the fight 
 underground into the locust stronghold and finish the fight. There are smaller sub plots that also 
 take place throughout the game such as the search for Dom's wife Maria. Although these stories 
 make the story more confusing, it is ultimately a much better emotionally and story driven experience 
 than the first game provided. There is also this underlying sense that your actions are more important 
 than they were before, and that everything is bigger and more perilous than it was before.
  
  Story aside, the fundamental gameplay remains the same. There is the addition of a few new 
 weapons including flamethrowers, mounted weapons, and new grenades. In addition are the improved 
 vehicle levels which although still a bit clunky, are far superior to the dismal attempt at vehicular 
 gameplay from the first Gears of war. Thankfully though, the majority of the campaign involves 
 intense firefights and extensive use of the cover system. Multiplayer has also been improved with 
 new modes and maps to choose from. Gears of war is still unparalleled with cooperative play, with 
 the option of having another player drop in on the action at any moment. Each player can also choose 
 their own difficulty, making the game more balanced and accessible to people who would have never 
 played cooperatively with each other.
  
  The biggest difference in this iteration of the Gears franchise is graphically. The graphics still 
 uphold the ambitious precedent set by the first Gears of war, but the environments and the style 
 of the game seems radically different than before. Frozen mountains, subterranean palaces, and 
 the intestines of the horde's latest weapon make each level distinctive and refreshing in their 
 own unique way.
  
  In conclusion, Gears of War is still the dominant franchise on the xbox 360. It may not have been 
 as innovative as its predecessor, but Gears of War 2 still provides an action experience that you'll 
 be playing well into 2009.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  ok this game has a solid story and it actually makes sense it doesnt need to be rented because 
 it is that good the only problem that game has is the online system frankly its just terrible it 
 cant stop lagging and if don lag there are always those cheaters and it runs this game and u are 
 guaranteed to come across cheaters and frankly it really gets annoying it cant support any amount 
 of players its just awfull but the game is awesome great story and solid gameplay challenging and 
 fun at the same time rlly brings the beast out of you and frankly this game is worth the buy by 
 far the new characters r awesome my favorite character is tai the man who cannot be killed! but 
 ull have to see what happens for urself this game is very enjoyable and frankly you spend hours 
 playing the game it takes about 24 hours to beat the game and you will enjoy those 24 magical hours 
 so buy the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElJay2010
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  GoW2 is a great game. If you have played GoW the first game you knew that GoW2 was going to be 
 great. As most of us really liked GoW the first game this is what we liked. We liked the graphics, 
 gore, head popping, body exploding, sniper killing, torque bowing, chainsawing, military running 
 shaking camera, action. We liked it all. We believed it was the future of console gaming. This 
 is what we wanted. We wanted no host, no active reloads with snipers, less lag, get rid of the 
 glitches, and a more depth storyline. I mean when you look at that its almost perfect. Even Cliff 
 Bleszinski promises a Bigger, better, more badass game. Well Cliff was right about bigger, because 
 their were some bigger guns, bigger enemies, and a bigger storyline wich really was good and one 
 of the best. IT was however not a better or more badass game because if you stayed and played GoW1 
 you stayed because the multiplayer witch GoW2 fails. They got rid of active sniper but weakened 
 it, they didnt entirely get rid of host, still tons of glitches although they patched it, the game 
 is still broken in my opinion. They also added bad things in my opinion. They added grenades that 
 you can stick to walls and even smoke grenades that make you fall down when you get hit by them. 
 Thank you epic for giving campers a reason to camp. They did add one good thing however, they added 
 hord wich is a great cooperative experience. My honest opinion is that this game is a great game 
 but GoW1 was better for its time, and that EPIC should have listened to the fans instead of going 
 in a different direction. GoW3 hopefully will learn from its mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarsrock4eva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is one of those games that will always sell well. Yes it is generic and not a huge 
 leap from the original. In some ways the original beats it hands down. 
  
  So lets look at the stronger areas of the game:
  
  Graphics: Gears of War was (and still is) 
 a standard bearer for great graphics. Gears of War 2 raises that standard with Unreal engine 3. 
 Overall the graphics are great and some of the best of this gen. The game even looks stunning in 
 Standard Defenition.
  
  Campaign: The campaign is very good and there is more of a storyline than the original. There are 
 many great levels to beat and you will go back for more on the higher difficulty settings.
  
  Storyline: Gears 2 has a good story but it ultimately raises more questions than answers.
 
  
  Horde: This is a great mode where you fight wave after wave of locusts. It is very fun and isone 
 of the games stronger points.
  
  
  Now on to where the game struggles:
  
  Online: You may remember Gears of War's amazing online multiplayer. Heck, it may even be the reason 
 why you buy this game. However, Gears 2 struggles due to long waiting times and other issues. By 
 long waiting times I mean sometimes over 10 mins and even after you have got into a game you will 
 be annoyed. The shotgun is less powerful and you can be knocked over by gas grenades. Overall if 
 you want a game for online multiplayer I suggest you buy Gears of War (the first game) .
  
  
  Overall: This game simply isn't worth what you will be charged for. Even though online is the 
 main area I find issues with it is a big issue and one that ultimately spoils the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:26 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is the sequal to Epic's third person over the shoulder shooter. It manages to combine 
 cinematics with gameplay in such a way that really makes the player feel something.
  
  The story continues after the events of the lightmass bombing in the previous game. The Locust 
 horde had survived and now they're back to stomp the humans off the face of the planet. You as 
 Marcus Fenix and your squad of Gears are to lead an assault against the newly discovered locust 
 citadel. Along the way the group suffers casaulties and losses. In most games these are normally 
 brushed away once the next objective is given. GeoW 2 provides a cinematic experience that makes 
 you feel this loss. It brings reality in the sense that this war is real. It is brutal and unforgiving. 
 It is bloody and it is messy. Even though the characters are for the most part two dimensional 
 the atmosphere inspires emotion and it sweeps you in.
  
  The gameplay is very fluid and the controls feel fine. You use cover to engage the enemy from and 
 can't really venture out of that cover unless it's to more cover. This adds to the realism in the 
 sense that your not Rambo blazing through this immense force of enemies. You are a vulnerable individual. 
 However, I felt this game did have some leniency comapred to the first. I found myself chainsawing 
 more people in half than I ever did in the first game.
  
  A new host of creatures has been introduced to mix up the game a bit and provide some interesting 
 battles. Kantus can up downed foes without having to walk over and pick them up. Boomers now have 
 multiple variations and combat roles. Tickers serve as a deadlier in your face kind of threat. 
 Brumaks actually play a role in the game this time around too. Though all the badies that were 
 invincible in the first game that youhad to trick into their death are now kinda easily disposed 
 off. This is a little dissapointing but you also have bigger weapons now so.
  
  The visuals are stunning. Light and color fill the screen and bullets leacetrails through the air. 
 The armor and textures are highly detailed and great care has been done to work on the models and 
 bring out all the detail possible. The sound is equally as impressive as it's crisp and clear. 
 It also is very sharp and prescise and you can hear the bullets ripping through the skin and having 
 brutal effects.
  
  Overall this game is excellent and has alot of production quality put into it to make you feel 
 as if this could be a movie and the gameplay is good to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highvoltage32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The overall package is amazing, the game is displayed beautifully. The game packs a similar engine 
 to that found in Gears fo War one, so it is still impressing. The graphics haven't gained much 
 since Gears one, as well in other areas.
  
  The gameplay hasen't change, but since it was so good last round, no surprise that Xbox didn't 
 change it. The sound is also much the same, but once again there is a amazing sound track, and 
 the voice acting comes back with much success.
  
  The Story Mode Features no "new concepts" as with Co-op.
  
  However, the multiplayer is as 
 good as ever, with massive maps, magnificent features, and more players.
  
  If you have played Gears of War one you now what your getting into in Gears 2, its an intense, 
 mature addictive first-person shooter that will have you playing multiplayer on Xbox Live for hours 
 on end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nillod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2. oh where do i begin. despite what others have said, this game is just as good as 
 the first game. there are differences, some good and some bad. The torque bow is more accurate, 
 shotgun is less powerful, time limit on the hammer of dawn, sniper less accurate, hammerburst is 
 stronger, smoke actually helps, etc. for me, the game is more fair than it was in the first and 
 the campaign was better. better story, cut scenes, and a little more difficult. one of the best 
 new additions was that npc's can actually help you up when you're down. the dialogue is better 
 as well. the online is vastly different though. instead of selecting a host game, everyone gets 
 thrown into the mix much like halo. it is nice because there is no host advantage but at the same 
 time, i hate that you can't always choose which game mode you want to play in. since it goes by 
 vote, often, you'll get stuck playing on blood drive and river match after match which gets hell 
 of boring. the proximity mines can also be pain when they're abused but the patch i heard has fixed 
 the unlimited number of sticks. the poison grenade is an excellent addition and is severely underrated. 
 it may not have the explosive impact of the frags and the smoke but it is incredibly useful king 
 of the hill and annex mode as it keeps people away from the gathering site. the party system is 
 also nice so that you can always stay with your friends for each match. horde is also a great part 
 of the game. i haven't had that much fun playing with friends in a long time but it can get really 
 difficult if you play with bad teammates. the best new addition by far though is wingman. it is 
 quite possibly the most competitive and tense multiplayer mode for any game on any console. for 
 anyone that doesn't want to give the game a try, just do it anyways. for those who have played 
 it and hated it, find another game, for those who love it, more power to ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  
  The Good: Graphics are some of the best that you'll ever see on the Xbox 360; solid third person 
 shooting action; tons of new weapons and new multiplayer modes; amazing voice acting and sound 
 design; same non-stop, gory violence you've come to expect from the first Gears.
  
  The Bad: Story seems far too different from the previous entry's, and leaves too many hanging questions 
 for its own good; takes too long to find a game online; online can be ridiculously unfair in some 
 situations.
  
  The first Gears of War made a name for itself for its over the top gore and action. Gears of War 
 2 is looking to capitalize on its predecessor on every way possible. Does it accomplish its goal, 
 or does it take one step forward, and two steps back?
  
  First off is the campaign. At the end of the last Gears, Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad set off a 
 light mass bomb in the locust tunnels to get rid of the locust threat completely. Let's just say, 
 it didn't work too well. The locust have, somehow, gotten a lot stronger. As the locust sink entire 
 cities, the COG have no choice but to hold down their last remaining city: Jacinto. The story itself 
 is good; the locust are back and their attacking relentlessly. However, when it comes to new twists 
 and questions, Gears of War 2 just doesn't seem to know when to stop. Different ideas and questions 
 pop up constantly and are left unanswered. This makes the story a bit harder to understand.
  
  Another problem with the story is how far it strays from the last game. The first Gears had 
 a simple story: A bunch of stupid alien brutes who live in underground tunnels named Locusts are 
 trying to kill all of the humans and take control of the planet Sera. In Gears of War 2, the locust 
 seem to completely switch their game up. They're incredibly smarter than the previous entry... and 
 I'm not talking about AI. 
  
  That said, the story is interesting and throws a variety of emotions your way. Just don't expect 
 a direct story. Things are a lot more different in Gears 2 where the story is concerned. However, 
 the story is not short on intense moments that appear throughout the lengthy campaign. You'll do 
 things in this game that you could only dream of in the last game. 
  
  The controls are basically the same as the first game. However, there are more actions mapped to 
 the "A" button. Besides running, rolling and taking cover, the "A" button also allows you to take 
 enemies as "meat-shields". In the last game, there were a lot of actions that the "A" button had 
 control over, and here... it's starting to get a bit problematic. At times you may want to pick 
 up a meat-shield, but instead you'll roll forward. This is especially frustrating on multiplayer.
 
  
  There are plenty of new weapons in Gears 2. The Grinder is a giant machine gun that resembles a 
 Troika from the last game, and the Hammerburst is a single-fire, locust gun that packs a powerful 
 punch. Some old favorites return as well like the Hammer of Dawn and the Boltoc Revolver. 
  
  A couple of advancements have been added to the game as well. When two chainsaws met in Gears 
 1, the computer basically just chose the victor... and if you were the victim, you felt ripped off. 
 This is remedied by chainsaw battles. When two chainsaws meet in Gears 2, each player is prompted 
 to press the "B" button as many times as they can before 3 seconds is up. Whoever hits "B" more 
 will win. While it makes things slightly fair, it's still quite annoying. Since you're completely 
 defenseless during a chainsaw battle, anyone can come up to you and take you out immediately... which 
 is kind of ridiculous. 
  
  Another problem in Gears 1 was how when you were downed in multiplayer, you couldn't move at all. 
 Now, you have the chance to crawl to an ally before you meet your demise. This is a good addition 
 and is especially helpful when you're sniped from a distance.
  
  You also have the ability to tag grenades to walls. Once a grenade is tagged it can be set off 
 by gunfire or an enemy. When an unsuspecting enemy comes close to a tag on the wall, it will explode. 
 This adds a whole new dimension to multiplayer games. You can no longer charge after your opponents 
 every match... you have to be more wary of your surroundings. However, some people may think it 
 is cheap when they fall victim to a frag grenade that has been tagged on the wall or ground... because 
 it kills you instantly. 
  
  A technique that most people did in the first Gears of War was rolling and then using the shotgun 
 to take you out once they were close. Gears of War 2 remedies this by putting stopping power on 
 every gun. This means that you become slower when being hit by a barrage of bullets. It may sound 
 unrealistic and strange, but it definitely works. 
  
  Though a lot of adjustments have been made to Gears of War's multiplayer, new problems inevitably 
 arise, along with some old ones that were never fixed.
  
  A technique dubbed. "the two piece" is one of the most popular Gears of War 2 techniques. Once 
 someone gets in close with a shotgun, they melee you with the "B" button. Once you're hit, you 
 are completely open to attack and about half of your health is gone. After you're hit, you are 
 then taken out with the shotgun. It's an annoying move. The developers either need to make the 
 melee less powerful, or not allow your character to stumble backwards after being hit.
  
  Though there are chainsaw battles, the chainsaw itself is still ridiculously cheap. It's an insanely 
 annoying experience to have someone chainsaw you. The weapon itself is awesome, but it's time that 
 the chainsaw be removed from online or made less powerful. Perhaps the developers could limit its 
 use and have it use fuel that gradually depletes when you use it. It's a problem that has to be 
 fixed.
  
  Smoke grenades are another problem. Once one goes off near you, your character falls over like 
 a rag doll for a while, and spends even more time getting up. During this time, your vulnerable 
 to any attack. Again, this is another thing that players may call "cheap" when they fall victim 
 to it.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty fun at times, but can be very inconsistent. Sometimes shotguns don't kill 
 people close up, and sometimes they do. The computer randomly chooses a host, which can result 
 in connection issues and lag that can totally ruin a game. However, when you're taking down everyone 
 in your way and winning every chainsaw battle that you get engaged in... there's no other feeling 
 like it. It's absolutely incredible. However, it's when people use cheap techniques that ruin the 
 multiplayer mode in some matches.
  
  Multiplayer is a mixed batch, but where it really excels is in its maps. Maps like Avalanche have 
 players struggling to move out of the way of an avalanche that occurs in the middle of the game, 
 revealing new weapons and areas to explore. Security is another inventive map that has red security 
 beams that will fry any good (or bad) soldier who gets near them. Hail is a map where razor hail 
 randomly falls from the sky during the match and players have to seek shelter lest they get cut 
 up. The maps are extremely fun, and inventive.
  
  The multiplayer modes are also interesting. There's Horde: A five player co-op scenario in which 
 a map is chosen and fifty waves of locust attack you. It's an interesting mode, and involves a 
 lot of cooperation if you want to survive. Execution and Warzone also return, but there are some 
 interesting new additions. Wingman is execution between five teams of two that involves two player 
 cooperation in order to reach fifteen kills. Submission is a capture the flag mode, except the 
 flag is a guy with a shotgun (otherwise known as a Stranded) . You have to go up, down the guy, 
 then take him as a meat-shield and bring him to a specific location. The modes are, no doubt, diverse 
 and fun.
  
  The first Gears had outstanding graphics. Gears 2 follows up and adds colors other than black and 
 white. Simply put, this game looks incredible. Lighting effects are spot on and the textures look 
 great. The environments are much more varied this time around, and the result is jaw dropping. 
 Though there are a couple of glitches in multiplayer and a couple water-related glitches in the 
 single player campaign, it's pretty hard to find a game that looks this good. 
  
  The music is epic. There's a lot of incredible scores that make the game feel so intense and contribute 
 so much to the to the atmosphere of the game. The voice acting is also amazing. Not one line is 
 delivered out of place, and the voices sound great. Each character has a personality. When they 
 get angry, they curse and struggle loudly. When they're sad, they stutter and speak with a tone 
 of desperation. It's simply amazing. The sound effects also rock. Guns sound appropriately powerful, 
 and smacking your back against cover always sounds great.
  
  There's plenty of multiplayer modes, plenty of fun achievements and a single-player that has multiple 
 difficulty settings and is pretty lengthy in itself. Bottom line: sixty dollars is a perfect fit 
 for this game. It's appropriately priced and there's plenty of entertainment here for everyone 
 above seventeen to enjoy.
  
  Altogether, this game is a good step above the last game. However, in trying to solve some of the 
 problems of the previous entry, some new ones have been added. It's still an amazing game, but 
 a couple of flaws hold it back from its true potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_chwedyk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  
  Matthew M. Chwedyk
  
  Gears of War 2
  1/28/09
  
  
  Gears of War 2 places you in control of Marcus Fenix, the grizzled veteran gear from the original 
 game that must lead his squad against the monstrous yet intriguing locust horde. Marcus is once 
 again accompanied by Delta Squad which consists of Dom, Cole, Baird and Carmine as well as newcomers 
 Tai, the tattooed mystic who can never die and Dizzy, the crazed cowboy driving "Betty" the gear 
 tank. 
  The real star of the game, however, is the newly revamped Unreal 3 engine that is able to generate 
 armies of locust grubs all on screen at once. The graphics are not only able to process more characters, 
 but also produce sharper detail and create textures that are slimy, pulsating, organic and just 
 plain fun to stop and stare at. Easily the most graphically sophisticated game on the Xbox 360, 
 Gears 2 dares you to find all the minutiae lovingly implemented into the game right down to the 
 searing red hot tip of an overheated lancer.
  The core game play of Gears 2 stays in tact for the most part. Balancing issues from the first 
 game regarding the dominance of the shotgun and invincibility during certain frames of animation 
 have been addressed yet these problems persist in some multiplayer situations. The curb stomp aspect 
 of fighting has been enhanced by giving you more options with downed opponents. New features include 
 a human shield maneuver which grabs a fallen enemy from the ground to take shots for you. You may 
 also perform weapon specific kills or simply beat enemies to death with your fists. Every option 
 is visceral and unbelievably satisfying as well as rewarding to pull off in the heat of battle. 
 Some of the new weapons such as the scorcher flamethrower, mulcher chain gun and mortar cannon 
 help balance the severity of some of the core weaponry. The shotgun loses some of its dominance 
 when the flamethrower fries anything nearby and so on. Using cover also feels more intuitive as 
 whatever looks like cover is cover instead of Gears 1 where only structures approved to be cover 
 are fair game leaving the player doing rolls into walls instead of returning fire.
  The sound design is also enhanced from the first game with a richly scored epic war drama soundtrack 
 and the distinctly varied sound effects of gunfire from each weapon. The voice acting is well done 
 despite some meat-headed and overdone dialogue. The screeching and thumping of footsteps are unique 
 for each enemy type allowing you to recognize the threat before you even see the Locust. Overall, 
 the sound is on par with the graphical feats creating an immersive experience in the single and 
 multiplayer realms of Gears 2.
  Multiplayer will be the best reason to keep Gears 2 saved to your hard drive. All of the original 
 modes are back along with the addition of "Horde Mode" which pits you and a group of friends against 
 computer controlled waves of enemies. Each wave becomes progressively tougher while ammunition 
 dwindles and does less damage. With fifty waves in all, the action becomes a thrill to play and 
 is further enhanced with the colorful commentary you and your friends will add to the fray. Horde 
 Mode is a feature that future shooting games should note as the next stage of online multiplayer 
 entertainment. Also new to the multiplayer suite is "Submission," a diabolical re-imagining of 
 the tried and true capture the flag mode except in the case of Gears 2 the flag is a stranded old 
 man with a shotgun that will defend himself. Utilizing the new human shield mechanic, players will 
 temporarily down the old man and drag him to their teams corresponding goal area. Much like the 
 new horde mode, Meat Flag will occupy much of your time online in the coming months.
  Although brimming with many positive aspects and achievements, Gears 2 has its share of negatives. 
 As a whole, Gears 2 would have benefited from two or three more months of polish in terms of artificial 
 intelligence and coding. Some of your team members (usually Dom) get themselves in situations that 
 render them useless. At times allies will face in the opposite direction of enemies or magically 
 disappear just to reappear in front of you when you are trying to return fire or perform a necessary 
 head shot. Some textures will also trap you if you perform a maneuver in a weird location. This 
 problem is less prevalent in Gears 2 than in the original Gears, however, this bug kills the action 
 quick and often requires restarting from your last checkpoint. 
  In terms of level design, some sections are simply more fun than others. Not to spoil any story 
 elements, there are sections that require you to navigate obstacles instead of shooting at them. 
 This slows the pace of the game tremendously and makes you want to get to the action already. Further 
 emphasizing the frustration is the fact that these sections are extremely difficult and will require 
 you to attempt them again and again. Thankfully these parts of the game are few and far between 
 yet they feel artificially placed to increase the overall duration of the single player experience. 
 On normal difficulty, one can clear the game within three or four sittings. Hardcore difficulty 
 may take a week to complete if that. 
  The story of the game is straight forward with you and your squad trying to defeat the Locust. 
 But all too often, strange mini narratives lurk in the most unexpected of places. allusions to 
 Marcus' father Adam, the Locust Queen's appearance and the introduction of the Lambent and test 
 subject enemies and their relevance to what is going on maybe answered in the Gears of War books 
 and comics, but they are certainly not answered in Gears 2. All these queries leave the door open 
 for a third sequel, but answering just one of these questions would have helped immensely. The 
 side story of Dom and his wife is hardly compelling while so many other potentially interesting 
 stories are winking at us throughout the game. 
  At the end of the day, Gears of War 2 is worth playing. It is worth completing over and over. And 
 it is most certainly worth the time to master all of the new features, modes and weapons. So why 
 wasn't it worth the developer's time to extend on the complexity of the story or filter out glitches 
 that were prevalent in the first game? The new graphics engine and enhanced game play does not 
 make up for the lack of technical polish, but it does make it very difficult to complain for very 
 long. Gears 2 is the most enjoyable shooter for the Xbox 360 in 2008. And with multiplayer modes 
 like Horde, Gears 2 might just be the most enjoyable shooter of 2009 and beyond. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lias444
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Anyone one who bought the first Gears, like me, would've been salavating in anticipation for the 
 release of Gears 2 (ok, maybe not salavating, but really, really excited) , and the anticipation 
 has been met.
  
  So, everyoneone knows there was no story in the first game, it was just moving from a to b, action 
 style, for guys that like shootin stuff, blah, blah, blah, The second game will satisfy Mass Effect 
 (possibly, maybe) fans with its storytelling. New characters are introduced and there's a big focus 
 on Dom finding his wife. The graphics are incredible, the landscapes huge (and the beasties) and 
 the detalis fine. There are new guns, that all look and sound awesome, the gameplay is pretty much 
 exactly the same as Gears 1, hidin behind walls and covenient obstacles and poppin up to shoot. 
 Also, this game is longer than the first, and a lot funner (no Beserkers) , the multiplayer is great 
 (Horde mode) and this is an overall far meatier package.
  
  So why not 10/10, well although its a better game than the first, it definetely won't have the 
 same impact, now that theres a lot more great games in the third and first person genre outthere. 
 Also, the end bossfight is a waste of time (it could have been a billion times better) . This game 
 is the 4th best game on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I was very hyped up for this title for a year and it surpassed my expectations. Visuals have undergone 
 a great improvement. The lighting is much better, the colour of blood is much richer, details on 
 the squad's and locust armour are now much more realistic, faces look better and emotions are easier 
 to tell from facial expressions. There are some visuals glitches here and there and the texture 
 loading might be slow a little bit, but players should be used to that little problem because thats 
 what the Unreal engine does.... it loads textures mostly after the loading screen.
  
  Weapons are just as good as before but now there's a wider range including the fun to use mortar. 
 Chain Saw Bayonet has had a little sound change in gunfire so it sounds more powerful than before. 
 Anyway now lets get to the gameplay of GOW 2.
  
  Gameplay has mostly remained the same except for the new human shield option. There's also a new 
 item called the boomshield which I don't find useful anyway but it's helpful sometimes even though 
 you move much slower while carrying it. Storyline is still simple but has a little more depth this 
 time around, I won't give any spoilers. Overall Gears of War 2 is a stellar sequel that I recommend 
 for any fans of the first and intense shooters. KUDOS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalabuck92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War. By far one of my favorite shooters to date. Lots of gore. Guys on steriods. Gun with 
 a chainsaw on it. Pure endless joy.
  
  Gears of War 2. A sequel to one of my favorite shooters to date. More gore. More guys on a hell 
 of alot of steriods. New weapons. A. K. A. Great Sequel.
  
  Gears of War 2 is everything you wanted and more. Single player follows Marcus Fenix and Dom amist 
 crisis in Jacinto. The Locust are sinking cities around the final hope of humanity in an attempt 
 to sink it. In the middle of this, Dom's wife is still missing.... and thats it without spoiling 
 anything. Oh! Did you know the Carmine had a brother? Single player was pretty fun to play through 
 but (Not really spoiler) you will most likely be disappointed with the ending. It was very satisfiying 
 with a friend, but thats it. But thats not why you want to buy Gears 2. 
  
  Multiplayer has improved on several cases in Gears 2. More game modes, AI bots (fun but easy) , 
 and new abilities and weapons. One of my personal favorites was Horde mode. Horde mode is 50 waves 
 of fully armed locust. After every 10 waves, the Horde increase in strength. This was very fun 
 to play with 5 people.
  
  Big problem with Gears 2: Finding matches. Seriously? The first game you could find a match in 
 a second. The sequel however, can take quite a while. Hope you have a computer near by or music 
 on you Xbox.
  
  Overall Gears 2 is a good improvement apon the first game. New weapons, modes, and levels are great, 
 but next time, make matchmaking faster. Still, superb game.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Marcus Fenix and the rest of the gears are back to kick some Locust ass and finish the war once 
 and for all in Gears of War 2. The story continues where the first left off. Except this time Marcus 
 along with Dom, Cole, and a few others must take down th locust queen and the last of the horde. 
 During the campain you'll face off against some pretty awesome monsters such as Brumacks, Reavers 
 and more. The multiplayer is pretty fun and can get addicting, playing against people from around 
 the world. 
  
  The weapons featured in Gears 2 are some of the best, such as classics like the Lancer to the Locust 
 Shotgun. Some new weapons have also been added this year, such as a flamethrower and mortars. Also 
 some new features or abilities have been added, such as now bieng able to stick grenades to walls 
 or corners to set up traps. And also my favorite new feature is chainsaw battles, when a battle 
 happens both you and your opponents chainsaws wil collide, in order to win the battle you need 
 to press B rapidly.
  
  Now on to the graphics, the graphics look awesome they look like true HD. You can see every detail 
 from the saw blade on the Lancer, to the wrinkles on Marcuse's face. As for the control layout, 
 the controls are the same as the first game. They work well with the Xbox360 controller and are 
 easy to learn and to remember. 
  
  OVERALL 10/10: GOW 2 is as I said one of the best and most anticipated shooting games of the year. 
 The story makes it a great game alone, it's filled with plenty of teeth grinding action and drama 
 and plenty of awesome boss battles. The graphics are great looking and make it feel like your really 
 in the war. Gears of War 2 is a fantastic game for the 360 and for all fans of the first game, 
 and even new fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  it was a very good game, but the first was a lot better. the weapons were a good improvement but 
 a think they could have been more original, after the chainsaw machine gun i expected a worthy 
 weapon. the story was terrific but again it had something missing, of course the game left us a 
 lot of question about the plot but the development of the story was strange, i mean e locust civilization 
 was poor and it lacked of develpment, we are talking about a civilization that it kicking some 
 ass so the underground civilization should have something pretty amazing but it's only a modern 
 ruin full of weird arts and traps. even tough this game dissapoint many of its fans, i think it 
 is worth playing and it's not a bad game at all. there is only one thing that i reccomend to the 
 one who create the game or to the studios a good "pre-sequel" talking about what have before the 
 e-day and explainnig the missing plot part. that would increase a lot the acceptancy of the game 
 and of course, would take this saga to the hall of fame because it only need to be completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UofG2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I was glad to see that Gears of War 2 could be picked up and played without knowing much about 
 the first game. I played the first Gears of War on my PC, but only briefly.
  
  The controls are well thought out and easy to execute. Good tutorials are available throughout 
 the game.
  
  There are some unique ways of dealing with foes that are not found in other games. Tagging baddies 
 with a frag grenade is a great way to deal with problems and it looks cool when executed correctly 
 as well. Human "meat shields" and a properly placed head shot and a unique combination as well. 
 Shooting from behind cover while cool to see, is not overly useful. Picking your shots and advancing 
 to cover is a better way to progress through the game.
  
  The gameplay on casual is relatively easy, finishing the game in under 15 hours. More experienced 
 players could start on the hard difficultly level, which would increase playing time. I suggest 
 playing through the game a second time to locate any achievements or journal entries, or cog tags 
 that you may have missed the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcashin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  This is a good game as was the first gears!!!!!!!!! dont get me wrong i am a fan of the series BUT 
 i will honestly say that the game has serious glithes on 2 occasions i experienced this the first 
 time at the end of chapter 4 before the cgi came on it kept saying object failed and it looks like 
 im not the only 1 that got this problum i tried a few threads and there were others with the same 
 prob... secondly when i was facing the leviathen dom disaperd i could hear his voice but he was 
 nowhere to be found... dont know bout anyone else but that is f""ked up if you ask me... but even 
 with the glithes i love the game... pleese if any else had a similer problum we should all get in 
 contact with the company (e. p. i. c) ... by the way if your the type of gamer who likes game short 
 and sweet this is the one for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatsplash
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  this game is perfect the ai is inteagent and you have a chainsaw on youre gun now you cant go wrong 
 with that i definently recomend this game to anyone including action fans si-fi fans shooting fans 
 and gore fans this game is definently worth buying or if you are not sure then rent it and i garentie 
 that the second you start to play it you will definently want to buy it but if you want to go in 
 order you can buy the first one witch is als great and if you dont like this game than you must 
 be really stubern this game is perfect on so many levles and the graphics are really great and 
 probably one of the best i have ever seen the charecters look more detaled than the original and 
 the sound desighn is great and the gore is is great it looks so good when you chainsaw youre enemies 
 and blow youre opponints heat to peices and it feels so good curb stomping locus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  Story: 9/10- The story is great but some of the voice acting is cheesy and some things i just don't 
 like. The part that brings this rating to a 9 is that Dom is annoying when he is constantly saying 
 "have you seen my wife" it sounds like he is a little baby!!!!! Other than that the story is great. 
 The Locust are back and Delta must finish them off for good. Can they destroy the Locust before 
 all their bases are destroyed
  
  
  Game Play: 9.5/10- The game play is why the game does so well. Who ever thought of putting a chainsaw 
 as a bayonet is my hero. Most of the gameplay is the same from the original GoW. Now if two people 
 with the Lancer try to chainsaw each other there will be a chainsaw battle. This is where who ever 
 taps "B" the fastest wins and chainsaws the other person. The only problem with this is that when 
 doing this online other players can kill you in the middle of a duel!!! Another feature they have 
 added is that you can now tag grenades to walls and people. This make them a mine so when walked 
 by they explode or if tagged to a person it will explode killing them or knocking them down. The 
 online mode will be the strongest point in the game. IF THEY FIX THE PROBLEMS!! I encounter major 
 glitches frequently, i don't have a weapon, cant shoot! The multiplayer is fun when you dont have 
 any problems which is a rare occurrence. The shotgun is always lagging, i shoot and 1 second later 
 the bullets appear. This may not seem like a long time but it is! There is also a co-op mode where 
 you can play through the campaign with a friend. There are many maps online and lots of different 
 game modes. Other than sticking to the wrong wall or something stupid like that this gameplay is 
 the best i have seen.
  
  
  
  Controls: 10/10- The controls are great, easy and you utilize them all. I learned all the controls 
 in under a halfhour. They are so easy and each one gets you through the game safe and sound. All 
 i can really say is that. 
  
  
  Sound: 9/10- The sound is great other than the fact that Dom is annoying. The guns, chainsaws, 
 birds, veichals, Locust, humans sound authentic and really add to the game. The reason i take 1 
 point off is because of Dom!!
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10- The graphics are great and the point where i can see this is when it is raining. 
 The rain hitting off the ground and your character looks amazing!!! There are no jagged edges and 
 everything is crisp. The blood looks unreal but i dont care it adds to the intensity of the game!
 
  
  Price: 9/10- Good price for a big game, but im a gamer where my mom doesn't pay for my stuff so 
 i dont get many games at this price!
  
  Overall: 9.3/10- This game is great for the majority of the time but with the frequent glitches 
 and lag it can be quite annoying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeviHohenfeldt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 1:43 am PT
Review:  Lets start off by saying this is by far the best Xbox 360 Game in my opinion. Its one game i can 
 get into and spend 30 mins or 6 hours and no matter what come away happy. Great Multiplayer too, 
 online is Classic in this game. Love the Chainsaw kills. The Campaign though is a decent length 
 and Delivers aswell with it continueing Gears of War. It will enlighten you on somethings in the 
 first one that you might never got the answer to. Plus with 57 Achievements it will keep you busy 
 for awhile. Plus the Horde is really awsome. You and a party go through 50 waves of alot of Locusts 
 on any map and any diffuculty. Plus with the bonus characters you can unlock by haveing certain 
 achievements from the first game its got some more reason to by the first if you never played it. 
 Plus if you have never played one i recommend playing it before this one so you dont ruin the story 
 mode. Also the controls might be hard to get used to in the First if ya start with the second as 
 a few more things have been added and the Game Engine just feels alot better. But i totally Recommend 
 this game for any shooter fans and anyone that wants to play a game that feels like a movie, LITERALLY. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Carmine
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  As a sequel, you'd be hard-pushed to track down a game that is as brilliantly structured, nurtured 
 and evolved as Gears of War 2. With a ruthlessly enthralling pace and variation of set pieces, 
 this is an effortlessly superb package. I haven't enjoyed a game as much as this since Call of 
 Duty 4: Modern Warfare, which is surely one of the greatest compliments a title can get. Gears 
 of War 2 is possibly the single best action game ever, but certainly in the history of the Xbox 
 360 is all you need to know about this must buy game. The co-operative gameplay, multiplayer and 
 The Horde mode are also great additions for the gamer who likes to play with friends.
  An epic masterpieces that raises the bar for all action games on the Xbox 360. It's an over-the-top, 
 action junkie's dream come true that easily surpasses the much-loved original that still haunts 
 the dreams of all Xbox owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game i was very exited to play it and i first whatched what would happen next in 
 the series. and so i beat it in 14 hours with my brother and we couldnt stop playng it. taken over 
 our bodies and my soul it was just that good, and the boss battles are the best fights and also 
 fighting the new boss SCOURGE. hes a crazy sob and when you fight him its very intence, and even 
 more brutal than fighting RAAM in the first gears. u use your chainsaw alot more then ever before, 
 and another crazy part about this game is that thier is so muck f%$%ing blood, its just crazy and 
 the best part about it is that Cole is back and hes better then ever. and u get to meet the queen 
 this time and she looks very odd once u play the game, but once u beat the game thier are still 
 some mysteries that r still mission about the locust and the queen but we all have to wait till 
 that day comes maybe another 2 or 3 years from now will all figure it out so anyways if you liked 
 gow 1 then youll love gow 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMAC21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When Gears of War was released it instantly became a top selling online playing game, however with 
 time passing there was inevitably a Gears 2 on it's way and they did not disappoint,
  
  Gears 1 had alot to live up to, it's one thing to make a good game but then to top it, more weapons 
 where introduced from the admittedly lack of choices from the first, Mortars/Flamethrowers/Poison 
 grenades/hand-held rail guns and a short burst assault rifle, All of these weapons can mix up the 
 game and keep it fresh, especially since the new game was designed to be the much bigger picture 
 of the GOW saga, The super weapons such as Rails guns and Mortars are used for the bigger and badder 
 enemies, and believe me, there are lots of them, more than you can handle sometimes, however (and 
 almost a sad note) no Berserkers for the first Gears of War, true they can be easily killed in 
 the first one, maybe thats why they didn't include them, but the Brumack makes up for that,
  
  The online multi player is just as good as before with a couple of new modes such as Meatflag 
 and Captain, Meatflag is basically "Capture the Flag" but instead this time, The flag.... is a 
 stranded human (for a sick twist) , Captain is slightly different, you are in team of 5, one of 
 you is the Captain, and the match doesn't end until the opponents captain is killed, and your team 
 can re-spawn all the while the captain lives, another fun playing mode,
  
  The Story mode is much more longer and indepth compared to the first, Stories are shaping up for 
 the third Gears and possibly the film (rumors) here's hoping, You still see the only faces such 
 as Marcus, Dom, Baird and Cole (the Coletrain) with a couple of new faces, oh and by the way, Your 
 achievements from the first Gears give you a nice suprise first time you play the game,
  
  Cog tags/collectables are still around but in much more detail, eventually you will find all the 
 tag on the first one, but now pieces of paper are involved and notebooks for information, hidden 
 in very secret places, sometimes can be annoying when you don't find one for a while
  
  The best mode saved for last, HORDE mode, The newist feature that i claim will set the standard 
 for shooting games for years to come, Horde mode can either be yourself or up to 5 teammates (online) 
 or 2 local against an onslaught of Locusts, Difficulty levels are there with Beginner, Normal, 
 Hard and Insane, only a select few have completed Horde on insane, they come wave after wave and 
 get harder, faster, stronger and BIGGER, there is 50 levels and it's near impossible to survive, 
 team mates are definitely required,
  
  Overall a superb game, Sets a high standard to follow for the third, However i have found that 
 for some unknown reason the game life for me a slightly withered recently, thats a shame but i'm 
 sure its just me, this game has a hell of a lot to offer, HIGHLY recommenced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanG642
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic. A masterpeice. But lately it hasnt been getting the respect it 
 deserves. Many people have been saying that its much worse than the first game and that it didnt 
 live up to the hype. It did. The only problem was a slightly overlong vehicle section and then 
 you get thrown straight back into the action. There are (Like the first game) many memorable moments 
 such as fighting reavers and at the end being able to fly them. Probably the two most memorable 
 moments in the game were fighting Skorge and hijacking a Brumak and using it to kill hundreds of 
 Locust. This game has some flaws, like the overlong vehicle section but the chainsaw duels and 
 Epic Boss battles really show that this game is the best in its class. Its been a top selling game 
 and should be ontop of your christmas list (Instead of the wii!) This is the best game the year 
 will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwarriorz71
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  If you are going to buy one game this year make it gears 2. Gears 1 was good and 2 builds up on 
 that in every way know to man. Gears 2 has amazing graphics awesome levels (including one way you 
 preform a chainsaw bypass on a worm the size of new york) there are loads of weapons and power 
 ups like the boom sheild. Some other features are the new Horde mode wear you kill growin waves 
 of loucist solider AI controled multiplayer bots awesome multiplayer a longer campaign inproved 
 AI Carmines brother Ben chainsaw duels mortars and so on and so on. Gears 2 also added new enemys 
 into the mix and got rid of some of the old ones old ones gone: besrker, kryle and that is the 
 ones they got rid of but there are so many new locust you wont miss those two gone. there are new 
 cog soliders to including Dizzy, Tia, Ben Carmine and others Overall Gears 2 is a great game with 
 amazing graphics vehicle sequenses new modes new faces and (spoiler alert) Marcu's dad somewere 
 in the mix. Do your self a favor and get out of that chair grabe $60 go to your nearest game store 
 and buy Gears 2 you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  *** GEARS OF WAR 2 ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Horde mode is extremely fun
  -Exciting story
  -Good cover system
  -Excellent variety of weapons and melee attacks
  -Fantastic team builder
 
  -Superb graphics
  -Great music and sound
  -Availability to use bots in multiplayer
  
  THE BAD
  -Moving still feels sluggish and cumbersome
  -Playing public/ranked online games of 
 Annex, Wingman, etc aren't much fun
  
  OVERVIEW
  Gears of War 2 is the exciting next chapter in the Gears of War series. This game takes place a 
 few months after the first Gears of War game. Basically, at the end of Gears 1 the human inhabitants 
 of the space colony Sera thought that they have defeated the underground Locust infestation that 
 plagued them. Unfortunately, for the humans, the Locust Queen survived and vowed to continue wiping 
 out all the humans. Her plan is almost complete because only the city of Jacinto remains. Now with 
 the Locust getting closer and closer to victory the Coalition of Ordered Governments' (COG) military 
 leader, Richard Prescott, rallies the rest of his GEARS army. Prescott knows that they won't be 
 able to hold out in Jacinto for long so he decides to take the fighting to the Locust hive.
  
  This last ditch effort is once again headed up by the infamous Delta Squad. Marcus Fenix and 
 Dominic Santiago are the main protagonists once again. Marcus, Dom and some other familiar faces 
 like Cole and Baird are launched underground and start to fight their way through hordes of Locust. 
 The Gears lose a few good men, in the fighting, but continue their efforts deep into the Hollow 
 (Locust territory) . Not only will you find more about the Locust Queen and the task at hand for 
 Delta Squad but you'll also find out more about Marcus's Dad and Dom's imprisoned wife. Gears of 
 War 2 has another exciting story along with some more chain sawing good fun. Some more multiplayer 
 options have been created to further increase the replay value of this awesome game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gears of War 1 revolutionized the cover combat system and Gears of War 2 is no exception 
 either. Not too many things have changed in the control scheme from its predecessor. Majority of 
 the combat still requires you to duck and take cover. I mean let's face it, in real wartime conflict 
 soldiers aren't going to jump out in the open and shoot the place up. Instead they are going to 
 take cover and wait for the best time to shoot. This makes the skirmishes in Gears 2 more realistic 
 (just forget about the part where you are killing aliens) . The shooting aspect, of the game, is 
 a lot of fun and works well. Taking aim and firing is made easy. Other controls like the active 
 reload, changing weapons, and melee attacks also work well and won't slow down the gameplay one 
 bit. However, maneuverability feels rather cumbersome compared to other first/third person shooters. 
 This was one of my pet peeves about the first Gears game in that it felt like your character was 
 carrying a 200 lb weight on their backs which made them move and turn slower than a normal person. 
 That and the fact that the A button is both your run and cover option can get frustrating at times.
 
  
  The Lancer (machine gun with chainsaw attachment) is still the main weapon of choice for Marcus 
 and company. There are some old friends like the Hammer of Dawn, Shotgun and Sniper Rifle to use 
 along with a couple new weapons like the flamethrower and mortar. There are plenty of great weapons 
 to create havoc with and it is very satisfying seeing blood and limbs fly off your enemy. There 
 are a bunch of new melee attacks and execution techniques to perform with a majority of the weapons. 
 Another cool new feature is that not only do you have iron shields and barriers to hide behind 
 but now you can use your enemy as a meat shield. After you down an enemy, simply walk up next to 
 them and press the A button. This action picks up the fool and holds them in front of your character 
 so that he can take the punishment from gun fire. When you're done with him just snap his neck 
 and move on!
  
  Aside from an exiting story mode (co-op is available here) , Gears 2 has a rather impressive multiplayer 
 mode that has an emphasis on team building. One of the best new features about Gears of War 2 is 
 the Horde mode. Here you and up to 4 other friends have the goal of taking on 50 waves of Locust 
 forces. After every ten waves the horde gets stronger so teamwork is essential. Plus, you can change 
 the difficulty and map to give yourself a new challenge. With over fifteen maps and four difficulty 
 settings, the possibilities are almost endless. Another great feature is the ability to play with 
 and/or against computer bots. With bots you can partake in the other multiplayer modes like Annex, 
 Elimination and Wingman, for example. This can be done locally or in a private Xbox Live room so 
 that you can still play with your friends. You won't have to worry about the computer aided bots 
 doing stupid stuff because they're actually very clever and play like a normal person would. As 
 you can see there are many exciting extra modes to keep you well occupied but there is one part 
 of the multiplayer that I really don't care too much for. This occurs when you play games like 
 Annex, Elimination, Wingman, etc in a ranked or public game. The way games are played out lend 
 themselves to some ridiculous outcomes. For instance, it seems like you can simply "dive roll" 
 through gun fire just to get up close to your enemy. Another example is that since most modes require 
 you to execute your enemy, long range fire with most weapons is useless. Now I admit that my shortcomings 
 with the public games could be due to the fact that I just suck but I've played with other veteran 
 people and most of them say that these games are lacking. So there is some backing for you. But 
 don't let this fact discourage you because there are plenty of other amazing game modes to play.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals in Gears of War 2 are stellar. The Rag Doll physics and gratuitous amounts of blood 
 are always fun to see. The environments paint a gorgeous picture of what life looks like on the 
 plant Sera. The cut scenes and character models are fantastic too. There is the right amount of 
 fighting and cut scenes to make Gears 2 fun to play and enjoyable to watch.
  
  SOUND
  The music, just like the graphics, complement the feel of the game completely. But more importantly 
 the sound effects are what really matter in the audio department. Whether you're watching one of 
 your sniper bullets explode the head of an enemy or being the victim of a chainsaw dismemberment, 
 you'll understand just how satisfying the sound effects are in this game. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Gears of War 2 picks up on the huge success of its predecessor and adds more to the enjoyment of 
 the series. Whether you are continuing on with the exciting story or working with your friends 
 in the Horde mode, there is plenty here to satisfy any fan of shooter games. This is definitely 
 a game you'll want to pick up and I would recommend this game to anyone (obviously those who are 
 mature enough to play) . Now if you'll excuse me I'm needed in doing some reconstructive surgery 
 with a chainsaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off the campaign was an amazing one filled with emotion, shooting, and explosions. 
 I took me about 2 days to beat so a little short. Has some good cut scenes and it has a better 
 story. The controls are fine and easy to learn. The aiming is good and has some cool weapons. Just 
 like the first one it has a cool reload system and its cool how you can go down. The guns are balanced. 
 It look good and sounds good. Has plenty of action if you don't want to have to solve puzzles and 
 jump around plat forms. This game is a great game. Some people say it takes a long time to find 
 a game, but they fixed it. I find a game in about 1 minute. The multi player is filled with action 
 and team work. It has good game modes such as guardian when you have a team leader and once he 
 is dead you don't respawn. The co-op is great and fun. THe single player is awesome, it doesn't 
 have a whole lot of boss battles, but lets toss that aside. A game every x-box owner who likes 
 to shoot should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Gears of War weren't content to simply shovel out a sequel that was basically 
 the last game with new levels, even though they still would have made a ton of money doing so. 
 Improvement was made on the original in just about every area. They addressed every complaint from 
 the first game and almost doubled the length. Because of this, it is probably the best action game 
 available on the system today.
  
  For the few of you that haven't played the original, Gears of War 2 is a fairly straightforward 
 shooter. The cover system works very well and must be mastered in order to be victorious. Much 
 like Call of Duty, you don't have a health bar. You simply have to hide and rest for a second if 
 you take too much damage. The guns all have a good feel and every battle is intense and rewarding. 
 On the other hand, the grenades still feel too weak. Unless your enemy is standing right on it 
 (which doesn't happen often, since they are smart enough to run away) , they won't get more than 
 a scratch. Some may think the gore is a bit over the top, but it is part of the feel of the game. 
 Sniper shots to limbs leave a stump spurting blood into the air. The main machine gun weapon has 
 a chainsaw attached that can be used to cut an enemy in half which sprays blood everywhere, including 
 onto the television screen. The action is basic, but never gets old.
  
  The last game was great, but it had it's share of issues. A clear effort was made to improve where 
 ever they could. The original was about six hours long, while this one took me around ten. The 
 chainsaw is much more reliable this time around. In the last game, there were times when it just 
 wouldn't work when I pressed the button, but that never happened here. When an ally goes down in 
 battle, they now crawl to you so you can rescue them, instead of just lying in one spot and waiting. 
 There is much more variety to the levels this time and you will never get tired of looking around 
 at the environment. More weapons were added, which is nice because I used the same gun almost the 
 entire time in the original. The vehicle driving segment is a vast improvement over the last one 
 and there is a second 'vehicle' driving part near the end that is even better. If I explained why 
 I put quotes around that, I would ruin the scene. Lets just say that it is one of the best moments 
 in the game.
  
  If there was one thing that should have been improved and wasn't, it would be your teammates' AI. 
 They are all complete morons. There almost always is at least one person with you, but you would 
 be better off alone. They constantly run into your line of fire (then yell at you for shooting 
 them) . Rarely will they ever get a kill. On several different occasions, I was shot down and crawled 
 to my nearest teammate's feet, only to have them stand on my body and let me die instead of helping 
 me up like they are supposed to. Any time they weren't running into my line of fire, they could 
 be found hiding in the back of the room behind some cover and not shooting at the enemy. Not exactly 
 the kind of behavior you would expect from battle hardened marines. This problem can be eliminated 
 by playing co-op with a friend (unless you friend is a moron too) , but if you are playing alone, 
 be ready for some pathetic behavior from your allies.
  
  Some other minor complaints would be the lack of boss fights and the lowered health of the enemies. 
 You don't even have your first traditional boss battle until five hours into the game. The final 
 boss battle consists of nothing more than holding down the trigger and keeping the crosshair on 
 the enemy. After some awesome bosses in the last game, I was quite disappointed to find only one 
 memorable battle in this one. All enemies' health has also been lowered in comparison to the last 
 game. They are mostly the same enemies, but they take far less hits to kill than in the original. 
 I recall being terrified every time I heard a Boomer approaching in the first game. This time around, 
 all you have to do is empty a half of a clip into the general vicinity of their head and they will 
 go down every time.
  
  The game is hit and miss on replay value. There are many more hidden items to find and they are 
 much harder to spot than in the last game. Each item also provides insight into the war in some 
 way and every one adds a little more to the story. The vast majority of the game is based around 
 scripted events. These are cool at first, but they loose their impact on the next playthrough. 
 There are four difficulties (one of which has to be unlocked) that really help keep you coming 
 back, though.
  
  The story is told quite well, but isn't original in any way. Basically, if you combine The Matrix 
 and Resident Evil, you will get the exact plot of Gears of War 2. This wasn't entirely unexpected, 
 since the last game so blatantly ripped off Pitch Black in it's middle section and the rest of 
 it had almost no storyline. This game also jumps right into the plot a little too quickly. I would 
 recommend at least renting the original game first if you haven't played it, just to get caught 
 up on what is going on. All of the characters are very likable and the game has more progression 
 than the last one. There are a few emotional scenes, which connects you with each person more and 
 is a key component that was missing from the last game. Gears of War doesn't fall into the trap 
 that many game and movie trilogies do, where the second title is just filler until the finale. 
 In this one, there is a clear beginning and a strong closing. The story could end here and it isn't 
 until after the credits that a short audio clip plays that sets up the final game.
  
  The graphics are still the best on the system. Everything looks photo realistic and there is plenty 
 of dust and debris that really brings the world alive. There are practically no clipping problems 
 and zero glitches that I found. The level of polish on this series is nearly unheard of among other 
 titles that are out these days. The only down side would be the colors used in the levels. Everything 
 is either some shade of gray or brown. On several occasions, I couldn't find the door to the next 
 room at first because it looked just like everything else. Although this was annoying, it actually 
 meant the levels look more real because of it. For example, in a room that was burned by a fire, 
 the door is going to look just like the wall at first in real life, so it should in the game also.
 
  
  Other than the moronic AI, all of the problems I mentioned were minor. If it weren't for the idiotic 
 allies, this game would easily have made my 'best games of all time' list. Even so, it is still 
 an awesome shooter that shouldn't be missed, especially if you want something to play co-op with 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregson616
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I got Gears of War 2 on sunday from my cousin, which i got for 15, coz he was sellin his xbox. 
 I played the 1st one, and loved it. So the sequal, for 15!! Bargin!!
  
  Oh yea, SPOILER ALERT!!
  
  I played the solo campaign on and off, and completed it tonight. 
 I've got to say, it's one of the best games i have played, ever. The gameplay is better than the 
 first, it's all action. The story line is a bit on and off. But the reason i love it, is because 
 of the graphics. Not just the close, in your face graphics, like the blood splattin on your screen 
 when your chainsaw a wretch, which is classic. But the background graphics, the scenery, and the 
 interaction with the locusts which are miles away. For example, that bit when your in the hollow, 
 and just got a sniper rifle, and you go up high. Then in the distance, you see a locust patrol, 
 and you just stand there and pick them off. Brilliant. 
  
  I also loved the variation of gameplay, like the change from being on foot, to being on betty, 
 then driving the centaur, then flying the reaver, and then if thats enough, controllin a brumack!! 
 Fantastic game.
  
  There are a couple of things which annoyed me. One, too much time underground. I heard myself moan, 
 when they said near the end, that I would have to go back underground to plant the bomb. Two, the 
 annoying A. I of Dom. Sometimes he just stands there, or gets stuck behind nothing. Or other times 
 runs into the fight without a care in the word, and ends ups needin revival. Hell, im gald his 
 bloody wife Maria died. Harsh i know, but he shouldn't be a muppet!! But after her death, he got 
 his act together and didnt muck up. So maybe it was a good thing she died, well for me anyway.
 
  
  But yea, worth buying!! Hope other people agree. Oh yea, no point readin my review of this game, 
 im just gunna copy and paste, hahaha.
  
  Take care, and keep on gaming.
  
  Gregson616 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluegamer216
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  Well, the highly anticipated Gears of War 2, sequel to the award winning (5 million copy selling) 
 Gears of War. But really if you plan on purchasing this game there is a lot to consider.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Pretty amazing graphics, which is expected from Epic Games, from the cinematic 
 views of Jacinto, to the wastelands of the underground locust stronghold, you will gaze in awe. 
 The only downside is in Multiplayer where there has been some graphical issues, that will be fixed 
 eventually.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  The game makes great use of the whole 3rd-person scheme especially when you aim, you look over 
 the shoulder of the character. Although there aren't that many weapons, there still pretty effective 
 if you know how to use them. But then again that's the problem.... I have played at least over 
 50 + matches over Live and all I can say is wow... not the good wow, the bad wow WTF type...
  You'll notice when you get into a match that the only way to survive is to either two-piece (melee 
 then shoot w/ a shotgun pointblank) or blindly spray with your lancer. Other then that pretty good...
 
  
  Customization: 8/10
  At least this part was good. you have your standard war zone (team death match) , execution ( team 
 death match with 1 shot kills or executions (curb stomps, etc) ) , King of the hill (self explanatory 
 if you have played other online shooters) , and more. Whats interesting is the new modes like Guardian 
 (each team has 1 leader, if they die the team cant re spawn) , Submission (one neutral NPC that 
 you need to knock down and carry as a meat shield back to your base) , Wing man ( 5 teams of 2 people 
 that work together and play the same character, who try to kill the other "tag teams") , and lastly 
 my favorite: Horde ( the 5-player co-op mode where the five people have to survive all 50 waves 
 of locust with fortunately, re-spawning ammo) Overall one of the best features.
  
  Length/Durability: 5-9/10
  The reason I'm giving this such a "wth?" type of score is that it 
 all depends on preference, the campaign is pretty short so you'll spend most of your time in multiplayer, 
 for some people, that's what they want, endless multiplayer, while others like myself wanted a 
 little more.. 
  
  Community: 8/10
  I'm actually surprised how little arrogance was in this game, besides the occasional 7-15 yr old 
 yelling and swearing, or drunk 25 or 30/ whatever person cussing endlessly, there were some pretty 
 nice people, compared to Halo3, but... then again pretty much any any popular franchise will have 
 nuisances..
  
  
  
  Conclusion: 8.5 
  I know this was a pretty lengthy review, but Im just stating what I know of playing probably about 
 75 hours... A great sequel to a great franchise, and although there are some things in this game 
 that might intimidate new ppl from the franchise, fans will absolutely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gears of War looks great once again with it's second installment taking the Unreal Engine a little 
 bit further into the future. Good looks aren't all this game has though. Gears 2 has a much needed 
 revamp on it's difficulty settings and improved friendly A. I. to make the game less frustrating. 
 The story is also more involved although still contains some elements that just don't seem to connect, 
 but may be revealed in a sequel hinted to by some audio at the end of the game. The dialogue and 
 repore between the characters is still good. In fact it is even better than the last game and is 
 very entertaining. The cutscenes are better and the lip syncing has been slightly improved. The 
 control scheme is still flawed by the cover button also being the run button, (so you still stick 
 to things you don't want to) but the cover system seems to have had a few tweaks that make it feel 
 a little better. Some new gameplay elements such as chainsaw duels and cool finishing moves make 
 the game feel fresh. Other additions to gameplay such as timed rolls and better vehicle sequences 
 make this game much better than the first installment. Other parts of this game still suffer though. 
 There are still glitches to deal with. In fact they seem like they have multiplied and have been 
 made worse. In addition the game (while longer than the first) is still pretty short. Ending before 
 the 10 hour mark. The worst part about the game is the broken online multiplayer. While it may 
 work fine when you are in a game (which I have never been able to get in one) being able to join 
 one is almost impossible by yourself, because of the new matchmaking system. If you have a half 
 an hour of your life to waste you may want to try it out, but for the most part you will just be 
 left frustrated. For all that's wrong with Gears 2 it still can't bring this game down from being 
 a great game and a must play title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is back with vengance adding new weapons, new story and a whole new way in killing the 
 locust horde.
  
  Story 
  
  The story takes place a few months after the first game and human race is headed so far in a gutter. 
 Only Jacinto remains. And now Dom has just lost his wife and has to go and find her. Overall a 
 very well crafted story adding lots of twists and turns. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The gameplay has gotten a whole lot better adding a bucket full of new weapons that just annihilate 
 your enemys such as the mulcher, morter, scorcher flamethrower, Boomshield, gorgon pistol, hammerburst 
 assault rifle, and ink grenades. Also some old weapons have returned such as the sniper rifle, torque 
 bow, and the lancer chainsaw. This adds new tactics to the game and just watching a locust fall 
 to little pieces while using the mulcher is very satisfying. Also this game has added new ways 
 to kill your enemys when there down by chosing to use quick kill, extended kill or the old fashion 
 curb stomp. overall great add-ons to the game!
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics I think personally have gotten more lighter than in the orignal gears of war but still 
 have the same type of flavor Epic games wanted. Overall still great graphics.
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is perfect adding explosions and hearing Sarg say "This war is gonna be over in no 
 time boys" is just crystal clear. Great Sound 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  The multiplayer is pretty good but still is not as good as the orignal because you cant play with 
 the same guys that you joined up with after the match that you made, so you always have to keep 
 trying to find new people to play with. But for those single players out there you can play every 
 single game type that you can in mutiplayer by playing against bots. Adding the bots in the game 
 was perfect to keep you playing for a long time because you can train with the bots until you get 
 good and then you can go online. Overall great multi with only a few speed bumps and adding the 
 bots was perfect. Thank you Epic.
  
  Conclusion 
  
  This game is worth the 60 bucks. Hey it may have already gone down after release. Even if you havent 
 played the orignal Gears its still a treat but if you like a story get the first one and play it 
 through and then play Gears of War 2. Overall I love this game and anyone who loves blowin things 
 up you will like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  When a gaming revolution comes along, most gamers will sit up and take notice. When an entire genre 
 is reinvented, that's when you have a landslide. Not so long ago Epic achieved this is the titan 
 that is Gears of War. A game that was so blindingly good, it clear blew Halo out of the water.
 
  A few years later Epic has gone and done it again, although this time, there has been no mad reinvention 
 of the formula, just pure solidification on an already successful one: Who can blame them?
  Gears of War 2 is a perfect example of sticking to a tried and tested formula and expanding upon 
 it. There is nothing relatively ground breaking about the game, but Epic has more than delivered 
 on more action, more weapons, bigger set pieces and furthering an already good story. It is an 
 all out visceral action game. One of the primary gripes of fans in the previous outing was the 
 length of the game thankfully that has been addressed here with gusto. The campaign will last a 
 lot longer than in Gears of War which of course many fans will be pleased about. Epic manages to 
 also bring back many important factors from the first game without ever bordering on being repetitive 
 of the first title, or pushing into the realms of cashing in on the success of the first. For example, 
 the members of Delta Squad are all present and correct, but they are not spoon fed to you and there 
 are plenty of other new characters to enjoy along the way. 
  The improvements present on Gears of War 2 are not all just about more weapons or bigger landscapes 
 or a longer story. The game itself looks wonderful too, that is not to say Gears of War did not 
 look pretty fantastic, but think of the graphics of the first one, and improve on it nearly fivefold. 
 That's how crisp and fresh it looks. The character models have more detail on their armour, brighter 
 blinking lights, and more refined facial features. The real treat comes near the start of Act 1 
 when you are atop a large APC literally cutting through hundreds of Locust with a Troika turret. 
 The scale is utterly mind blowing.
  Gears of War 2 has successfully pushed the Xbox 360 further than it has been in the past, and it 
 shows, without a drop in frame rate or loss of graphical presentation.
  With all these improvements and further advances on already fantastic game, there have been some 
 new innovations and some intriguing new content. The first of which is the new Multiplayer maps 
 both available with the game and downloadable from XBL. Some of the new styles of games are pretty 
 addictive. Take Meatflag for instance. Each side needs to successfully bring a living target to 
 a capture point and keep it that way in order to win, which makes for some hefty and exciting battles 
 over a target that won't stay still.
  The newest and probably most addictive addition is the Horde mode. This mode pits up to 5 players 
 against 50 waves of Locust, with each waves throwing more at you and each ten levels sees in increase 
 in difficulty, it's exhilarating.
  Meanwhile with all these new modes, characters, maps and storyline innovations you must be wondering 
 how the game sounds? It sounds like any perfectly sculpted action outing should sound. Deep rumbling 
 bass, hard lined musical scores and fast paced orchestration make all the difference and work to 
 make Epics game Epic.
  With all that said and done, there is not much else to say about Gears of War 2. Whether or not 
 this is a bad thing really depends on your individual point of view. Yes the game improves on every 
 facet of the original, and works very hard to entertain and already hardcore fan base. Although, 
 you will hear some hardcore fans moan about how the shotgun in multiplayer actually now reflects 
 the real range of a shotgun, those folks are just sad they don't pwn anymore. There is also the 
 minor glitch here and there in co-op mode in the main campaign, but seriously it is nothing to 
 get worked about or to allow detracting from the experience. My friend and I played the co-op mode 
 solidly one weekend, and not once did it put us off or ruin our game.
  The one small point that prevents Gears of War 2 from scoring a perfect 10 however is the fact 
 that it does nothing to reinvent or revolutionize the genre like it did in the first place. This 
 is by far not a bad thing, as the sales figures will show you, but, a sequel by its merits does 
 not to move things forward in new ways. Epic has kept on the safe route, which by and large has 
 worked.
  Gears of War 2 is success, don't miss it if you were a fan of the first, and if you have not played 
 the first, play it, then get this title.
  Go scrub some grubs!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 was arguably the most anticipated and most hyped videogame release of the year 2008, 
 and luckily it lives up to its name, but unfortunately it doesn't push the boundaries for videogames 
 like its predecessor did.
  
  The single player campaign for Gear 2 is rock solid, offering intense, cover-focused COG action 
 yet again. Marcus, Dom, Baerd, and Cole all make a return, yet new characters such as Dizzy and 
 Tai are introduced, and they're equally as unique. Clearly, the light mass bomb's explosion has 
 only angered the Locust even more. For now, their queen has begun an all-out assault, and in doing 
 so, has forced humans to retreat within their final remaining city, Jacinto. 
  
  Gears 2 improves the single player formula in many ways, but a few un-intelligent decisions made 
 by the developers burden the overall experience. 
  
  A handful of new guns make their appearance here. Mortars, chain guns, flamethrowers and shields 
 are worthwhile additions to a previously weak assortment of weaponry. Furthermore, a vast number 
 of previously unseen enemies arrive for this installment and help to eliminate the redundancy in 
 enemies the original game was plagued by.
  
  The campaign shows moments of brilliance, introducing new environments each act and telling a compelling 
 story, but oddly placed pre-set sections draw away from the fun. As a whole, Gears 2 is a blast 
 for 80% of the way through, but awkward design choices hamper the other 20%.
  
  A specific scenario involving a ridiculously large worm and an anti-climactic final boss top the 
 list of poor gameplay decisions, but these moments merely increase your yearning for the next installment 
 and more of the good areas Gears 2 has to offer.
  
  Cooperative play with a friend via split-screen or over xbox live will inevitably be a blast time 
 and time again. The multiplayer however is immensely frustrating but still surprisingly addictive.
 
  
  10 brand new multiplayer maps have been released at launch, with more to come ahead via downloadable 
 content on marketplace. Alongside these maps are a handful of maps remade from the original Gears. 
 In total, there is a healthy number of quality maps that, if played correctly, can be loads of 
 fun. Grenades such as smoke, toxic, and frag may now be mounted on walls and act as proximity mines. 
 While this adds mildly to strategic moments, it also promotes camping, a personal pet peeve of 
 mine. Not only that, but often multiplayer turns into a contest of who can retrieve the most powerful 
 weapon first and hold onto it. Severe lag murders nearly one in every four games you enter, however 
 a quality server is often very enjoyable to play in, given everyone is of the same skill level.
 
  
  Running into people abusing shotguns or chainsaw bayonets is inevitable and a price one has to 
 pay for playing Gears 2 online. Thankfully, the shotgun roll has been eliminated from Gears 1. 
 Eventhough there are several complaints listed for the multiplayer, it is still extremely well 
 populated and modes like team leader make for chaotic and monumental gaming moments. 
  
  Gears of War 2 is truly a blast when played with friends, be it cooperatively or competitively. 
 The story mode is full of high notes, yet occasionally hiccups, and the multiplayer is riddled 
 with bugs and annoyances however still manages to be addictive. Overlook the single players shortcomings 
 and it will surely be a great time to play. Accept the multiplayers issues and it as well may be 
 enjoyable. As a whole, Gears 2 is a good sequel, but not a great sequel. We can only hope that 
 Gears of War 3 will return to refine and ultimately perfect the series. Until then, Gears of War 
 2 is still a ton of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICON1K
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Where to begin, at first Gears of War did not seem like a game I would enjoy playing. I was into 
 the first-person shooters reality war games, like Call of Duty. I was not a fan of any Sci-Fi shooter 
 up until I decided to play Gears of War 2. Surprising enough it had won me over, with its groundbreaking 
 graphics, and impressive storyline not only did it make me look at Sci-Fi shooters differently, 
 but it opened the doors to other Sci-Fi games. It has a one of a kind plot that can only be experienced 
 in a Sci-Fi game. If their is a player who is trying to give a Sci-Fi shooter a chance play Gears 
 of War 2, and you will be blown away. To sum it all up, for any gamer interested in a mind-blowing 
 Sci-Fi shooter you should definitely try out Gears of War 2. Without a doubt, Gears of War 2 is, 
 to date one of the best shooters I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathanisawesome
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is just like Gears of War, just more weapons, more open enviroment, more gametypes, 
 and more B. S.....
  Man, this game was great at first, but when i put it online, i just cant play this broken bullcrap... 
 this game will make you want to throw that wireless controller out the freakin window... the chainsaw 
 is overpowered to the max and when you play you just cant seem to kill anyone no matter what... 
 you can say its just me or that i suck or something... but you know its true... every time i play 
 this game i find myself saying wtf... im in awe of how messed up the online play is, but hey... 
 its still a great game and you can overcome the fact that you will mostly get robbed of your points... 
 
  there is a ranking system on the online play
  first there is one bar
  then two bar
  then three golden bars
  then three silver bars with a backwards bar on the bottom 
  and then 
 some eagle looking thing
  most of the people you will play that are five bar are glitchers or cheaters in some size shape 
 or form.. the co op options are really good, you can play horde mode, which is battling wave after 
 wave of locusts until you die, which can be very very addictive, and the same old co op story mode
 
  the story mode is amazing, its epic, and it keeps you interested, there are many missions that 
 stray away from the original story, but they are very interesting...
  the characters are not as annoying as they were in the first game, and you dont just absolutely 
 hate playing as marcus, he actually grows on you through the game
  there isnt much to say about the matchmaking system, except for the fact that it could take 5 minutes 
 or 5 hours.... yes seriously
  the game is really great and i would recommend it to anyone, even though it has many flaws it still 
 is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDunlopeth
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I hope I don't get killed by the swarms of Gears fans out there, but I think I have the right to 
 say: "This game is overrated and I don't see the appeal".
  
  I'm a fan of online multiplayer so I thought I would give both Gears' a chance. To say I was disappointed 
 may be a bit harsh, so I will go with underwhelmed. There's really nothing to write home about 
 no matter who I was playing with or what map I was on. I admit, I had fun playing Horde for the 
 first 10 minutes, then, just like the campaign, it got old.
  
  Let's talk about the campaign. For what Gears is, a run and gun shooter (run gun and hide in this 
 case) , this campaign is way to long. I think I clocked around 10-12 hours. I had nothing to do 
 so I rented this one, sat down and went right to work and didn't stop until I was done. When you 
 play this game in a continuous stream you realize that every level is the same thing. Run, hold 
 right trigger, press A, run, press A, hold right trigger, repeat. And that to me just isn't what 
 a good game should be made of. 
  
  The vehicle sections of the game are not needed (except riding the huge transport vehicle, that 
 was quite fun) , the controls are clunky and it really didn't add anything to my experience.
  
  Being inside the worm seemed to me like it would have been a really awesome level. However 
 I was disappointed when all I was allowed to do was follow a linear path through the worm and cut 
 open the same stomach lining over and over. The blood filling up the area wasn't exciting at all 
 because by the time I had cut all the arteries it had barely reached my knees. After doing so, 
 the cast of characters (your standard dude (Baird) , whoopin' and hollerin black guy (Cole) , friend 
 to the end (Dom) and resident bad ass (Marcus) ) come spilling out covered in the worst blood I've 
 seen in a game. What was once a dark red liquid covers you as a near neon, cherry Jell-O like substance.
 
  
  Sure the game has its moments, but to me all of those moments are just that, moments. Toss this 
 one in the overrated pile with Halo 3 and Gears 1.
  
  -Levi Dunlop
  
  Gamespot- LDunlopeth
  Gamertag- Black Mumbazo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is great. If you Liked Gears1 you will like Gears2.
  
  Gears2 expands on all parts of the first game, to deliver a great sequel.
  
  It looks great, 
 sounds great, plays great.
  
  I normally do pretty long reviews on games but the above line says it all.
  
  It looks like 
 Gears1 with a few improvements. The game is overall brighter. The weapon sounds and voice acting 
 are on par with Gears1.
  
  The only drawback to Gears2 is that it doesn't differentiate itself much from Gears1, except expanding 
 the story, and adding a few new guns and multiplayer modes and maps. My only complaints were the 
 campaign, I felt too much of the games locales seemed similiar i. e. too much underground. It makes 
 sense in the story but i got tired of seeing the same environments, and no big boss fight at the 
 end.
  
  If you like Gears1, Play Gears2!! If you didn't like Gears1, go play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonsterHunterX9
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:35 am PT
Review:  Now my second review on the same day :D. LOL.
  
  This game is seriously NOT AS GOOD AS THE FIRST. Maybe their lancers got rusty over all this fights. 
 
  
  The Maps
  Great. But then still its boring. Not as good as 1. 
  
  Graphics
  Good. Better than the first. Can see the fine detail of the maps.
  
  Weapons
  Don't know 
 about this but people out there has been saying about the shotgun being from the best to the worst. 
 But i never use a shotgun :D. I use sniper and lancer style  :D. I think its the call the frag 
 grenades, that i think is seriously erm NO USE. I tried using it millions of times but none die 
 in the hands of it *coughs* i mean the *cough* ball of it.
  
  Overall
  Its worth buying it and its fun with its plain covering and shooting, chainsawing AND SNIPEING :D. 
 Oh, and about the online, i decided not to talk about it. Just say erm its NORMAL Okkies??
  
  PS
  Carmine
  Poor little fellow. He died in the mouth of a little *coughs coughs* BIG WORM 
 especially being kill by those digestive killers -.-" Salute the carmine bros!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonitachi5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games, horde mode is awesome online i play it all the time, its the 
 best xbox 360 exsclusive game and its one the few that have local multiplayer this game is a complete 
 blast and it you like bloody survival games (esspesialy on horde) The game is almost flawless the 
 only thing i dont like is that sometimes the corver system messes me up xD anyways if you have 
 a xbox 360 GET THIS GAME its a must have! you get way more than you pay for the story is sometimes 
 unexplained but good the gameplay is prime the arsenal of wepons are superb and the graphics are 
 flawless personally i like that bloodbath feel and the oh-so-many ways to kill your enemies if 
 you get this game be sure to have the original Gears you have to follow up on the story and see 
 how much this one improves some people might not agree but i love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 has been the most anticipated game of 2008, now that it's out, i get to enjoy it 
 to its fullest! 
  
  This time around, the campaign has greatly improved from the last game. You start off at a hospitable 
 only to be ambushed and fight your from there. This game has many memorably momments and the boss 
 fight are some of the best on the x360 in my opinion. Add in a co-op mode and different difficulties, 
 it's a stellar adition to the game.
  
  Though the campaign, is a big focus for GOW2, the multiplayer is where it is at. There is ten maps 
 on the disk, five downloadable maps for free if you buy a new copy of GOW2 [or 400mp if you bought 
 used] and another map pack called the Combustible map pack.
  
  The game now runs a matchmaking system similar to halo 3 and the raised the player cap from 4vs4 
 to 5vs5. Their are all the old classic modes but king of the hill has been transported from GOW1, 
 and new mode called Guardian in which each team gets a leader and so as long as the leader lives 
 you can respawn. Wingman is a 2vs2vs2vs2vs2 and Submission is CTF except the flag is a stranded 
 and can kill you.
  
  There is a bit of a learning curve to play GOW2, like you pretty much use shotgun the entire time 
 and although some people don'y like this, it is extremely satisfying in my opinion. There are also 
 power weapons on the map which you might wanna rush.
  
  Now horde mode is the greatest thing ever. You play on any multiplayer map with up to 5 people 
 and you fight 50 waves of locust with each wave becoming increasingly difficult. It's load of fun, 
 ecspeccialy if you have a good team or friends. If you need tips, go watch the IGN strategize video 
 for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 has just about everything someone wants in a game  over the top gore, top notch 
 tactical action, great game types, as well as a few of the best weapons in gaming. As one of 2008's 
 most anticipated games, Gears 2 had gamers flocking towards it like girls to the premiere of Twilight. 
 Thankfully Cliffy B and the boys at Epic Games made sure that none of us were disappointed.
  
  You play as Marcus Fenix  troublemaking soldier given a second chance. He and his partner 
 Dominic Santiago don't exactly play by the rules, but they do more than prove themselves in battle. 
 Following up directly after the first game, the Light Mass Bomb detonated underground just hit 
 the Locust pretty hard, but they are not wiped out yet though  and the COG take the fight to them. 
 Gears 2 retains the lovable ultra cheesy lines  but it's very evident that they had a good writer 
 on board this time. Besides form the main point of trying to take out locust, the story also focuses 
 a lot on Dom and the search for his missing wife, although it's hard to concentrate on this with 
 all of our overdeveloped trigger fingers, but if it's noticed, it's actually not bad
  
  Gears 2 is a tactical third person shooter heavy on taking cover, meaning run and gun isn't the 
 way to go. The campaign offers an optional tutorial, which is a nice way to ease you into the slightly 
 complex controls. After quickly getting used to them, the controls are easy to use, so in no time 
 you'll be tearing locust scum to pieces with much panache. 
  
  From a technical standpoint, Gears 2 looks fantastic. Intriguing level designs are supported by 
 the excellent textures and lighting. Epic absolutely nailed it when it came to facial design as 
 well. It's a bit disappointing that destructible environments didn't play a bigger role, but it's 
 easy to overlook this minor shortcoming. Sound will impress also; the music will fit well into 
 the tone of the situation, while voice acting is solid. And there's nothing can stop that smirk 
 covering your face when you hear your friend chain sawing someone behind you.
  
  Multiplayer is a strong point in Gears 2, and it's a lot better than in the first iteration. There 
 are plenty of game modes including Warzone  your basic deathmatch, Annex  a game of control points, 
 and several other great modes. The only big letdown is that the matchmaking system is terrible. 
 Instead of seeking out a match, it seeks out individual players to match you up with  very similar 
 to Halo's, except double the waiting time. Scary right? Good thing Epic jumped right onto patching 
 it up though. Private Xbox Live matches with friends are still better though, especially since 
 bots can fill in the shoes of any missing players.
  
  The competitive multiplayer just the appetizer though  good for a while, but not the reason you 
 came. The true feast lies in Horde mode, and it's one that you'll be done with anytime soon. After 
 joining up with up to 4 players, you can take on increasingly difficult waves of the Locust Horde 
 on the map and difficulty of your choice. As long as one teammate survives the wave, the team will 
 progress. There are 50 waves in all; and even if you beat them all, Horde is something that's easy 
 to go back to over and over again, due to varied maps and challenge. Although it basically repeats 
 itself every 10 waves (the only difference being a slightly vamped up difficulty) , Horde is extremely 
 fun, and excels in utilizing teamwork.
  
  The campaign will probably last from around 7-9 hours of play, and unless with a friend, it's a 
 bit of a bore to play through a second time. There are also several collectibles scattered around 
 each level of the campaign. Some of these can be interesting to read, but they're easy to ignore 
 considering the game's primary focus on fast paced action. They do provide a bit of background 
 story and have a few achievements buckled in with them. The bulk of Gears time goes into competitive 
 multiplayer, co-op campaign, and most of all, Horde. 
  
  Speaking of achievements, Gears 2 has a pretty good list, considering most of them build up to 
 something over time instead of being a "one shot" type of achievement. Some are just plain ridiculous 
 though, such as playing 1999 multiplayer matches, or getting 100,000 kills. So I tip my hat to 
 anyone who's unlocked them, but in my book you just lost all credibility of having a life.
  
  Gears of War 2 does the best job of any in providing the thrills everyone needs. Nothing tops 
 curb stomping that crawling enemy, or chain sawing an unexpecting idiot. If for some strange reason 
 you don't dig that kind of thing, there's even an option to turn gore and language off (although 
 you won't get the true gears experience) . It's that and superior action pack that go hand in hand 
 and form one of the best shooters of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and sound on GoW2 are excellent. The story is engaging, contains more details than GoW 
 did and leaves one hungry for much more. I do wish the campaign mode was longer. I share the opinions 
 of the other reviewers that say GoW2 tilted a little in favor of an interactive movie instead of 
 over-the-top, action-packed, unrelenting game-play. I would have preferred an even balance but 
 GoW2 is magnificent. If you loved GoW, GoW2 is most worthy of your library. But even if you never 
 played GoW this is an exceptional piece of entertainment and I highly recommend it.
  I'm a care-bear, so I milk the campaign mode and skip the multiplayer aspects (Lore/Campaign   
 Multiplayer) .
  
  The world of GoW has got me really interested in the lore and backstory behind it too. I picked 
 up the novel -Gears of War, Aspho Fields. I devoured it. I will most likely be purchasing the comics 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of War made quite splash when it first came out, but it disappointed me a little. 
 The sequel has received just as much, if not more hyped than the original. Did the final product 
 meet the hype?
  
  Gears of War 2 definitely lives up to the hype in terms of graphics and is a worthy sequel in that 
 aspect. The textures have received the usual facelift. Lighting and particle effects have been 
 massively upgraded, as well as fire and water effects. Character models have much more detail now 
 than before, and way more enemies and players can be shown on-screen now. My favorite upgrade by 
 far though, is the there's actually color now. We're no longer restricted to grey and brown as 
 our only colors and this is the biggest improvement ot the entire game by far. I can no longer 
 go back to the original Gears of War purely because of this difference.
  
  The soundwork is solid enough I guess. The soundtrack is pretty similar to that of the first game, 
 so it's nothing really special but it's certainly not bad. The dialogue is incredibly bad, I contsantly 
 found myself wishing the characters wouldn't open their mouths. As usal the gun and explosion effects 
 are top notch.
  
  The game-play is pretty much the same here but with a new story and a new horde mode for multi-player. 
 The storyline is better and more exciting than the first with some truly awesome boss fights and 
 live worms that you can use as cover, but at the same time it is much cornier and lamer than the 
 the first one. There were also many times I could tell that they took ideas straight from the Halo 
 storyline, if you play through it you'll see what I'm talking about. There's also a moment near 
 the end of the game that's very much like starfox, almost identical in concept actually. The game 
 is fun, but it's far from innovative.
  
  The game really doesn't do anything new, but it's a lot of fun. If you enjoyed the original, you 
 should be able to enjoy this one even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: five-zal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  first of all
  i wanna say congratulations to the creator of gears of war game
  i played the 1st, wow. it was quite superb especially when you can play co-op multiplayer split screen
 
  
  now i played the 2nd. much more better
  the storyline was not really bad i think its better than 1st
  other improvement was we can take 
 the enemy as a shield,
  drive car.. its hard but you will get used to it
  
  new character
  its just amazing
  
  when u play xbox live.. really enjoying
  i enjoyed playing 
 the horde mode. that was damn hard although played with 2 people.
  
  graphics
  8/10.. still look a bit cartoonish but nevermind its still good
  
  gameplay
  10/10 .. it just 
 great
  
  value
  8/10
  
  sound/
  9/10. niceee..!!
  
  its worth buying, its worth playing,
  its really worth. BELIEVE ME.
  
  that all i wanna said.. at 
 least its better than 1st, storyline and everithingg
  
  lots of improvement. hopefully there will be more improvement on gow3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screenhustla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  Alright- I finally finished the campaign mode and I must say that the gameplay is great. I finished 
 the game on normal in 8-10 hours- it probably would have been less but I watched the countless 
 minutes of cinematics. My only gripe with the story mode is the ending... Im not going to spoil 
 it for anyone, but lets just say it could have ended better- a lot of anticipation went nowhere. 
 The muliplayer mode has a lot of upgrades including a matchmaking system (online) , but it doesn't 
 work to well. I've never been a big fan of Gears online because of the crazy lag, and glitching 
 in the game, but I do like horde mode- you can play this online or off with up to four people. 
 Horde mode is sort of like Nazi Zombie mode in COD 5 where you fight waves of locust members starting 
 at LvL 1 and gets harder the more levels you complete. 
  
  I think Gears 2 is a half of step up from it's predecessor with continuing to offer good gameplay 
 and adding more options for people who play offline and online. Epic (makers of Gears) need to 
 continue tweeking the online modes to offer 98% lag free games 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinner912_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is very good.
  My favourite part of the game has to be the chainsaw blood n guts go everywhere.
  The worst part 
 for me was there isn't a large variety of weapons to choose from.
  There has been rumours that the game is a bit repetitive but I don't think so because some levels 
 you get to drive vehicles or some you get things like razor hail. Also the co-op is good and at 
 some parts you have to split up and the players have to cover their mates.
  Another cool feature to Gears of war 2 is that you can use your enemies as a kind of shield. The 
 storyline continues from Gears of war 1 but you can still get into the game (I think the prologue 
 might be in the manual but im not sure) .
  Some levels take a few attempts but you don't get bored.
  The boss battles are fun but their 
 isn't many.
  The main thing i wanted to see in Gears of War 2 was the Beserkers but their wasn't any.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinytoe007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game game has an interesting story about Marcus Fenix and Dom . At that time they are fighting 
 with the locusts . locusts are some type of ugly peach coloured wrinkled alien. There is a variety 
 of weapons . There are also a lot of achievements. In on-line there are some glitches but in normal 
 game-play it`s great. The basic weapon is usually the lancer which has a chainsaw attached to it, a 
 pistol, and a grenade launcher . There are also a lot of unlockables such as characters . There 
 are five to six acts each or some containing 3 to 5 chapters . In on-line you can do king of the 
 hill, warzone , deathmatch , horde , annex and some more. There are also some levels which are very 
 cool . Such as: Avalanche , Pavilion , and Jacinto . You can plant mines toe their back which is 
 simply awesome in some time they go poof ! And explode with the sniper you can bust their heads 
 out ! Which gore is aalmost the best thing about Gears of War 2 . 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombehhhh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, it's here. I have to say that this game is better than I thought it was going to be. Wait, 
 it's WAAAAAAAAAAAAAY better. I thought that it was going to be the same as the first game. Now 
 don't get me wrong, I liked the first game. I just thought that it was somewhat boring and repetitive. 
 I never even bothered with the multiplayer. I just heard that it was dull. That's all been changed 
 in this game. This game is amazing.......... and very bloody. You really have to have tactics and 
 battle plans for this game. However, there are some things that tick me off in this game. Number 
 one is something that is making a lot of people upset. Too often, you go up to chainsaw a Sniper 
 or a shotgun equipped locust. If they see you, they shoot, and you get hurt, AND YOU CAN'T CHAINSAW 
 THEM! Your guy just starts twitching and so you have to switch to a shotgun to take care of them. 
 It's definetely a gripe that I have with the game. Another downside to the game is the glitchy 
 multiplayer. It's usually not a problem, but it does happen too much. I was always getting disconnected 
 or killed for no reason. But there are only a couple thumbs down. The story has been amped up, 
 the weapons given a boost, the enemies smarter, the locations polished, the characters (old and 
 new) explained, and the badassness kicked way up! But with all of the new features and game modes, 
 one stands above them all. Horde. I think that Horde is even better than playing through the campaign. 
 I love Horde because you can play by yourself, online, locally, or with bots. Even if I died in 
 it, I just started again or joined another XBL lobby. I hope that Epic Games are in the process 
 of making a third Gears of War game so they can polish everything even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  As descripted in my review deck - bigger, better and more badass is what Gears of War is, and is 
 definatally improves on everything the original delivered.
  
  Winter approaches, War rages on, Sera hasn't been the same in well over a decade. The Locusts are 
 still coming, And the COG's last renforcements have been brang in, it's fight or die. The COG are 
 now attempting to put and end to the war with the last option remaning - An all out attack on the 
 Locust Horde.
  
  You now have an even greater arsenal to put an end to the Locust Horde with weapons such as the 
 Scorcher - A flesh burning flamethrower used by both the locusts and COG soldiers, the Mortar - 
 a heavy piece of artillerary which fires a self - directed shell into the air, before bursting 
 into several explsive droplets capable of damaging entire land areas, the Mulcher - another weapon 
 in the heavy side of things which splits multiple enemies into halfs, pretty much a portable troika. 
 The Hammerburst now no longer fires in a three round burst, it now fires as fast as your itchy 
 triggor finger can pull RT constantly. The new Gorgon Pistol replaces the Hammerbursts old 3 round 
 burst function but the problem here is that there is about a 2 second delay between each burst 
 which can be life threatening at times. The shotgun now has a longer delay aswell between each 
 shot, I think Epics objective here was to challenge the shotgun worshippers to a point where a 
 missed shot dooms you. Another inclusion in Gears 2 are meatshields, this means that when you DBNO 
 pck him up and use him as a mobile shield. Your meatshield absorbs bullets but eventually it will 
 be destroyed, but if you want to dispose your shield earlier, you execute him by snapping his neck 
 (brutal) . Yet another great addition is the fact that you can drag yourself to safety when you 
 are DBNO (down but not out) leaving a gruesome trail of blood behind you. If you ca =n manage to 
 crawl to a nearby teamate, if they are nice they will revive you, you also call out using RT or 
 if you have a grenade you can tag or detonate it, killing you, but killing that bastard trying 
 to execute you. 
  
  The campaign firefights are now yet again as promised - bigger, better, and more badass. You will 
 now witness alot more large locusts more frequently then the occasional boomer seen in the original 
 Gears. This means you will be testing out your neww weapons on a hell of alot more reavers and 
 variations of boomers. There are now a few more different enemies to fight also, such as the Kantus. 
 The Kantus is capable of raising downed locusts from the dead, making it essential to kick it's 
 ass first. Rockworms are now found in the underground hollows of the campaign and can be used as 
 mobile cover. It feeds on glowing fruit which often must be shot down to proceed or to utalise 
 mobile cover techniques. 
  
  Multiplayer is now smartly improved, alot in the fact that there are bots, meaning you can play 
 multiplayer modes that are played online (or off) but against the CPU. Great idea isn't? especially 
 if you are stranded without LIVE (like me) . One of the most anticipated multiplayer modes is Capture 
 the Flag/ Meatflag. This is Capture the flag with a few decisive twists, there is only one flag, 
 and it' s a stranded person! and it's armed and dangerous, and will defend itself at all cost! 
 This Stranded charatcer is controlled by the AI but that doesn't mean you shouldn't keep your wits 
 about you. Your objective is to down the flag and capture it as a meatshield, and carry it back 
 to the objective area. It is essential to act as a team here. Some good tactivs are to defend your 
 flag carrier (duh) , or you can tag a wall near the enemies objective area, blowing the unlucky 
 carrier to bits just when they think they have made it. Another good mode is Wingman. Basically, 
 this is a 2 on 2 on 2 on 2 on 2 deathmatch at it's maximun of 10 players (this is the most for 
 all game modes) . It is alot easier in the sense that you only have one ally to communicate with, 
 instead of having to swear at four others. 
  
  Gears of War 2 definatally is better then the original, Epic has done a good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunter92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  It's meets the expectations set by the previous game, about pretty much everything.
  
  Some of the main changes of the game include, new characters, more weapons, bigger vehicles, more 
 emotion, and more thrills. It raises the graphics bar for next-generation games through its crazy 
 visual effects, which are just astounding.
  There are also some new visual effects iv'e noticed about this one than the 1st one. Some of them 
 are, visual player shadows, improved character lighting, additional blood and bullet decals, advanced 
 destructible environments, new weather effects, and the introduction of fluid objects.
  
  The multiplayer is great, especially with a friend playing waves.
  Pretty much everything about 
 this game is amazing, but my favorite part is just playing waves with a friend. To me it's addicting. 
 The chainsaw battles are crazy. Slicing through the backs of Locusts... just something out of the 
 ordinary that you wouldn't think of. 
  
  I don't think there is any flaw with this game besides of a couple glitches here and there, but 
 I recommend it to anyone who is into shooters, if you haven't purchased it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 2:07 am PT
Review:  Gears of wars 2 is a must play for Xbox 360 fans! The game starts with you training a rookie but 
 soon it starts to get real when the locust show's up and then through out the game your main objective 
 becomes clear, to stop the locust by a counter strike! The game's gameplay is truly different from 
 the first Gow, its exceeds its exception's by far and the graphics is also to the max and this 
 game is one that all you and your friends can enjoy with the co-op and the online in Gow 2. Don't 
 worry the gun with the chainsaw is also in Gow 2 and it's fun to use when you want to rip your 
 enemy's apart and the grenades are also fun to use because it's a guarenteed hit when you swing 
 it into the enemy's territory but the best part is: you get to see the Locust queen in this one! 
 And with the Gow 2 it gives you feel of a fps and a Third person at the same time, This game won't 
 easily disappoint and a msut buy for Xbox 360's fans!
  
  
  Have fun gaming
  Venom192 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_warrio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  At the beggining of the game you will hear this phrase:"Take cover or die" that's exactly what 
 the game is based on.
  Gears of War 2 is Epic as this games' developers' name, the Unreal Engine 3 is really great, the 
 ambients look like they
  are alive with great membrane and water effects, the character models are awesome, the different 
 locust models vary a lot 
  almost eliminating the sensation that you are fighting against an army of clones. The A. I. is pretty 
 inteligent, the Locust
  alternate themselves on the battlefield making you change your strategy constantly. The history 
 mode has a co-op mode,
  limited to 2 players, where you can play with a friend on split-screen in the same console or over 
 Xbox Live, the Host plays as
  Marcus Fenix and the guest as Dom, the campaign lasts aproximatly 10 hours. The history is deeper 
 than on GoW1, the player is
  closer to the history of the characters and of Sera, the planet where the game happens. The game 
 starts like this:
  The locust found a way to sink entire cities, Jacinto is the only city that the Locust can't sink, 
 so they start sinking the
  cities around it, so the COG sends it's gears on an all out attack at the city of Landown, where 
 they use things similiar to
  elevators but with drills under them called "grindlifts" to get to the place where the Locust live 
 to eliminate them once and
  for all.
  The multiplayer is great the max number of players is 10, 10 maps are already avaiable on the game, 
 there are more 5 remade maps from GoW1
  that can be downloaded for free, there are 8 multiplayers modes:
  Submission: Two teams play 
 a game very similiar to capture the flag but instead of a flag it's a character controled by A. I.,
 
  you have to take the "flag" to the determined spot in the map, all players get infinite respawns.
 
  
  King of the Hill: Two teams fight against each other to capture a spot in the map and stay inside 
 the circular area (rings) 
  to score points, the team that scores, the team that scores enough points (that are determined by 
 the host at the lobby) first
  wins, you get infinite respawns, except when your team is inside a ring.
  
  Annex: Two teams 
 fight have to capture spots around the map to score points, there are multiple spots in the same 
 map
  but only one at time, the team that scores enough points (that are determined by the host at the 
 lobby) first wins, all players get infinite respawns.
  
  Wingman: Teams, formed by 2 players each, fight against each other, the pair that survives wins, 
 each player has 1 life per round.
  
  Warzone: A regular deathmatch where two teams fight against each other, the team that survives 
 wins, 
  each player gets 1 life per round.
  
  Horde: A team of players fight against wave after wave of Locust, each wave gets harder, to win 
 you have to get to wave 50,
  each player has 1 life per wave, if all players are killed in the same wave the game ends.
  
 
  Guardian: One player from each team is determined as the leader, one team has to kill the other 
 team's leader and then the rest
  of the team, because while the leader of your team is alive you get infinite respawns.
  
  Execution: 
 It's the same as Warzone but if you don't kill your enemies with execution moves (chainsawing them, executing 
 them 
  while they are on the ground, using them as a shield, there are 11 execution moves) or with one shot 
 kills they respawn.
  
  My favorite modes are Wingman, Annex and Submission.
  
  You can carry 2 primary weapons (Assault rifles, shotgun, flamethrower, etc) ,1 pistol,4 grenades 
 of one type, except for ink that
  you can carry only 2, and a boom shield or a heavy weapon at once, tough when you carry a heavy 
 weapon your move speed is
  reduced and you can't evade, run neither jump over low covers, when carrying a boomshield you can 
 run, but your normal move
  speed is reduced and you can only fire your pistol and you can't jump over a low cover.
  The 
 weapons are: 
  Primary weapons:
  
  Assault rifles:
  Lancer: It's the game's signature weapon, fully automatic, fires quickly without loosing accuracy, 
 lacks the zoom capability.
  
  Hammerburst: Locust standard weapon, it's superior to the lancer when it comes to firepower and 
 accuaracy, but it lacks the 
  lacner's melee capabilities of the chainsaw bayonet, is quick as your finger on the trigger but 
 if you fire to quickly tough
  it reduces accuracy, has zoom capability.
  
  
  Gnasher shotgun: Tough it has a small ammo capacity, only eight rounds, it's extremely deadly at 
 point-blank range, but it's
  very weak at long distances.
  
  Scorcher Flamethrower: Fires an concentrated flame that burns if the enemy stays exposed for too 
 long he dies, excelent to
  fire against multiple enemies that are too close to you.
  
  Longshot sniper rifle: Best zoom of all weapons, kills most enemies with a single shot, kills even 
 at long range, only one shot
  per reload.
  Boomshot: Fires a missle and it doesn't make you move, slowly takes out enemies with a single shot, 
 it kills a group of
  enemies if they are close to each other, if you fire it when close to the target you get blown along 
 with the enemy, tough it
  fires only one shot per reload has and has a slow reload time.
  
  Torque Bow: Fires explosive arrows, tough the arrow only penetrates if you charge the shot long 
 enough, extremely accurate,
  only one shot per reload.
  
  Hammer of Down: In order to fire this weapon you need an open sky, you aim a area and the satelites 
 sends a beam that blows up
  enemies in the range of the first impact, and when the beam is already formed you can manipulate 
 it around the map, taking down
  most enemies, this weapon requires a few moments to lock on the targets before it fires.
  
 
  Troika Turret: A powerful mounted weapon, avoid the line of fire at all costs, infinite bullets 
 but it overheats, you can cool
  it down, by holding down the reload button.
  
  Heavy weapons:
  Mucher: It's an high caliber machine gun that can be shooted by the hip but is 
 alot more accurate when mounted by holding down
  the aim button, the barrel spins then starts shooting until you release the trigger, or the weapon 
 overheats or it runs out of 
  ammo, too cool it down hold the reload button.
  
  Mortar: Is always two clicks away from massive explosions, hold the aim button to deploy and then 
 hold the fire button to aim and
  release fire, the longer you aim the farther the shot goes, as the mortar shell approaches it target 
 it bursts open releasing
  a hail of deadly explosives, if you fire it from the hip it just fires a bomb and then it blows 
 up, one shot per reload.
  
  Pistols:
  Snub Pistol: The standard COG pistol, fires one shot each time you pull the trigger to fire quickly 
 rapidly pull the trigger,
  even firing quickly the weapon doesn't loose accuracy.
  
  Gorgon Pistol: Powerful at mid-range and deadly at close range, fires 4 short bursts per reload, 
 tough it has a small clip and
  a long reload time, has zoom capability.
  
  Boltok Pistol: Each shot is very powerful, tough it has only 6 shots per reload. Is equally efective 
 at either long and close
  range, has zoom capability.
  
  BoomShield: Portable defense against gunfire and explosions, to plant it on the ground press and 
 hold the aim button and then
  press "A", but it can easily be kicked down by the enemies.
  Grenades (all grenades can be planted on walls to be turned into proximity mine or can be tagged 
 on enemies and blows up in seconds, or
  when you are down but not out you can blow yourself up dealing the same effect to the enemies around 
 then when you thrown it) :
  Frag grenade: Creates an explosion that is Very effective against multiple enemies, kills an enemy 
 easily.
  
  Smoke grenade: Fills an area with smoke, if enemies are too close when the grenade blows up they 
 are knocked down.
  
  Ink Grenade: Fills an area with poisonous smoke, if you stay in there for too long might lead to 
 death.
  
  
  
  Gears of War 2 is definetly a must buy for every Xbox 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great example of what a sequel should be. It's meets or exceeds the expectations 
 set by the previous game in all areas. The single player campaign is epic and the multiplayer options 
 are varied.
  
  The core gameplay is the same as the original and is highly addictive. It's simplicity in nature 
 makes is so accessible even new players to the genre can get up to speed and begin enjoying themselves 
 right away. On the whole the formula is somewhat repetitive in that you'll wander through empty 
 parts of the game world to reach the next check/choke point where you'll stop take cover and do 
 battle with a swarm of baddies. But the game manages to mix in just the right amount of story/dialog 
 and mission/setting variety to keep you interested. This game features a few more "vehicle" levels 
 of a few different types. It has some where you pilot the vehicle and some where you just man the 
 guns. 
  
  Playing through on the normal diffuculty was a perfect setting for me. Just when you started to 
 think that the action was getting too intense and you weren't sure how much longer you could survive, 
 the level would end and give you a chance to breathe. Never did I feel like I was stuck in long 
 battle with no hope to survive. All the levels felt doable from the start and I only had to repeat 
 a couple a few times. On top of that the stuff you found yourself getting into was just amazing. 
 Many times I was thinking "I can't believe how crazy (in a cool way) this level is."
  
  Graphically it's another stellar effort from Epic. The environments are amazing and you'll continually 
 be amazed at how detailed it all is. The level variety is also amazing and really shows off the 
 power of the graphics engine. Not once did I see a slow down during the action.
  
  Sound is also excellent with an appropriate soundtrack and ambient noises. The dialog is great 
 and helps to keep the story going while you are playing. Many times I'd be thinking something when 
 suddenly one of the game characters would ask the same question. 
  
  Multiplayer is excellent with a huge variety of choices. Being able to add a friend at anytime 
 in the campaign is a very cool option. 
  
  The achievement list is fairly comprehensive and you'll need to play the game through a couple 
 times solo and co-op to unlock a lot of them. What I like is that many of them can get obtained 
 by playing online or off. Unfortunately, after a single play through you're likely to have only 
 aquired about 300 points or less. 
  
  This is a highly accessible game with a movie-like epic feel which will keep you grinning from 
 begining to end. The game never gets bogged down with long difficult sequences and the rare boss 
 battles are also quite manageable ensuring that the quest continues without frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpmonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This si probably the best game i have ever played. It ticks all the right boxes, it has a good campaign, 
 amazing online multiplayer and you can play it over and over again. One of my favourite aspects 
 to this game is that if you die (on multiplayer) you will not respawn which gives this game a much 
 more tactical approach to games such as halo or call of duty since player does not want to die 
 and have to wait for the round to finish. This leads to a very different gaming style to other shooters 
 causing players to sneak around corners and holding back. This game is a cover shooter which means 
 that you should not go in attacking willy nilly.
  In conclusion i would certainly recomend this game to a freind although the gore and swearing is 
 not for younger children (not that i am saying do not get it for them it is wicked) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikelantel
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Thing I'm getting tired of with this game is it's just one long tunnel chase the whole time. There's 
 very little option to actually do your own thing other than follow the story. But I guess I knew 
 that when I started. That said the story is pretty cool. I'm looking forward to the third one already. 
 What they've done with the graphics capabilities of the game on the 360 is astounding. I'd like 
 to see them do a larger multiplayer game but at the same time I wonder if you could cram all the 
 graphics into a bigger play field.
  
  There's a whole sequence inside a worm which is probably one of the highlights of the game. I'm 
 really curious what they'll do with the story for a third game if they decide to continue down 
 this road. Great cinematic quality. Alot of the voice acting is great and very convincing unlike 
 alot of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thex360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  The storyline is more developed in gears 2 than it was in the first. You play through many acts 
 with about 5 chapters in each. The multiplayer isn't the greatest for people that are new to the 
 gameplay. It has a in game feature called Horde which you go through levels surviving the horde 
 which makes it really fun. The achievments are basic and are fairly easy to get. I would rate the 
 game 9.5/10 if not more. I would reccomend the game to anyone who likes good graphics, wants something 
 that has a good storyline, and has a different style of gameplay than a normal shooter. Gears of 
 War 2 has accomplished a lot in this game. They did improve the multiplayer than the first one. 
 They added a new feature "Horde" and they also improved features such as running into walls and 
 such. The most fun in the game would be doing it on coop with a friend. The only thing that was 
 a little dissapointing is that it was only 2 player max for coop. But the 5 player horde was deffiantly 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juk3n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Fantastic, thats what i think of this game, fan-bloody-tastic.
  
  Played and loved the first? The you will most likely love this one. It expands on the original 
 brilliantly, it's more cinematic and immersive and in a lot of ways much better than the first,
 
  
  Ofcourse it can't bring TOO much new stuff to the table, otherwise it would be changing a winning 
 formula, afterall, i didn't buy GoW 2 for it NOT to feel like GoW 1.
  
  I wanted better graphics, i got them.
  I wanted more story, i got it.
  I wanted more depth, 
 i got it.
  I wanted a more cinematic feel and i got it.
  Weapons - check
  Chapters/sub-chapters - check
  Length - check
  Modes - check
  Some stellar on rails moments 
 - check
  
  Everything is MORE with this game, and it is exactly what i hoped the sequal would be.
  
  Don't 
 listen to the morons saying "they loved the first but this sequal gets a 1.5/10" it's a ridiculous 
 statement to call this gamea dissapointment. I mean i know that "technically" other peoples opinions 
 can't be wrong, but in this special case they are.
  
  Im not here to convince you all to go out and buy this game, im just here to say if you really 
 liked the first one and wanted more of what i mentioned above...
  
  then go check this one out.
  
  Game on
  
  Juken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaepheon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  Before i start on gears of war 2 just to let you know i have played to first Gears of war and i 
 thought it was an amazing game a few bug however but nothing that stopped it being a really enjoyable 
 game. but then this "Game" came along a shattered the gears of war bubble because it's not even 
 in the same league gears of war one. well if you were to compare them Gears one would be a shining 
 example of how to make a great classic however, gears of war 2 would be the most perfect example 
 of how not to make a great game or at least how to make a good thing go bad.
  
  Gears of war 2 a first had a really good story to follow on from the first one. however, its was 
 let down by the multiplayer because they tryed to copy call of duties matchmaking system this meant 
 games would be extremely laggy and it wouldn't allow for great gameplay. I prefered to old method 
 where people were allowed to create there own game which meant there was less lag and you were 
 more likely to find a game you liked. all they had to do make Gears 2 better than Gears 1 was to 
 change the graphics, bring out new maps and weapons, the horde mode and the party system. But what 
 they done change some of the weapons that didn't changing like the shotgun so its way too weak 
 so its was more like a rifle than a shotgun and the chainsaw bayonet making it way too hard to 
 lower and the perfect noob weapon the only weapons they seemed to improve was the Sniper rifle 
 and the Hammerburst. most of the other weapons were changed so they were either overpowered or 
 underpowered.
  
  the blame can't fall completely on the game its should really go to epic games for letting alot 
 of gears of war fans down. what epic should have done to make this game reach its full potential 
 was to ask what bits of gears of war were good then kept them and improve on other aspects of the 
 game. however, what epic went and done was take most of the good bits from Gear of War and chucked 
 them in the bin or changed to make the worse. most of the people who would think Gears of war 2 
 is far better than Gear one either haven't played the first one or weren't good at it
  
  Gears of war 2 is just such a complete let down compared to its predecessor if you don't believe 
 me go and play Gears 1 both in the campaign and the multiplayer then go play gears of war 2 then 
 you'll see how much of a let down it really is. let just hope when they bring out Gears of War 
 3 they won't make the same mistakes as they did in this "Game". only one sentence can sum up this 
 game for ' what was the point in that '. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Sous
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I Bought It, Put It In The XBOX, And Played It For Hours And Hours Untill I Beat It. Not Only Was 
 This Game Longer Than The First, It Was Sleeker, More Explosive, More Hectic, And Very, Very Fun! 
 The Gears Series To Me Is The Main Reason XBOX 360 Is Where It Is Today. This Game Is No Exception 
 To This Theory. With The Release Of This Game, I See The XBOX Sales Numbers Shooting Up! Gears 
 Was A Great Ride From Start To End. Although The Story Smelled A Little Cheesey At Times, It Continued 
 And Ended On Such A High Note That I Am Basically Waiting With No Patience For GOWIII! The Games 
 Explosive New Weaponrey, Enemies, And All Around Feel Was A Nice Touch To The Great Story And Even 
 Cooler Online Modes. Speaking Of Mods, Gears II Brings Forth A New Feature That Is Easily The Main 
 Reason To Snag This Game And That Mode Is Horde Mode. Horde Mode Is Basically Wave After Wave Of 
 Locust Scumb Flying At You And Your Squad At A Devilish Pace. Sure It Can Be Repetitive, But In 
 No Ways Will You Ever Say This Mode Was A Letdown. The Game Was One Of The Top Games Of The Year 
 And For Sure One Of The Better Games For The 360. I Recommend This Game To Gamers, Casual Players, 
 Shooter Fans, Heck, Pretty Much Anyone Who Wants To Pick Up The Paddles And Chainsaw Some Grunts! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwhite88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  Before i played Gears 1 everyone was raving about it and i decided to jump on the wagon so i got 
 it. Campain was good but online i hated it but i seemed to be the only one!. So i was scepticle 
 about the second but still i thought id give it a try. From the first bullet fired i was amazed 
 on how the gameplay had improved. The movement of the characters were nimble, unlike the first 
 Marcus was a walking tank, and it was easyier to dodge. The campain was amazing probably the best 
 campain-shooter id ever played especially on co-op, even my girlfriend got into it with me. The 
 Horde mode is also very enjoyable as you and friends, on or offline, can jus blast shish out of 
 groups of locust. The online play is much easyier, to easy sometimes (chainsaws lol) , but the ranking 
 system is real bad as you rank down in a flash but cant get up again. I cant wait for Gears 3 as 
 the story with Marcus's dad is quite compelling. But as my final piece..... Another victory for 
 Microsoft over Sony!!!.
  
  xxx xx xx xx x x x x xx x x xx xx x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shurikenfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the first game then you will love this sequel! Not only can you do everything you 
 could in the first game, but you can also do a lot more.
  
  First off, the story, characters, and environment have been given an improvement from the first 
 game. The characters do seem more realistic, with a more human feel to them, but are still the 
 same from the last game. Although the crumbling buildings and apocalyptic feel from the first game 
 do appear in this game, their is also a nature side featured, such as forests and caves. The battles 
 seem to be on a larger scale and the boss battles are more interesting this time around.
  
  The gameplay itself has also been improved. The weapons do feel slightly different when used but 
 in a good way. You are now able to take enemy locusts hostage as meat shields and you can now crawl 
 away and have allies aid you. And (I won't spoil anything here) but you get to do some things this 
 time around that you may have wanted to do in the first game.
  
  The multiplayer has also been improved, including that you can now used bots. The levels are great 
 and there is also a new training mode for multiplayer. Horde mode is also very fun when with your 
 friends online.
  
  Pros:
  1.) Great Improvements to a great system.
  2.) A more human feel.
  3.) A larger scale feel also.
  4.) Multiplayer is now better.
  5.) 
 Story and characters are now improved as well.
  
  Cons:
  1.) Single player is still short. That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob0800
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Epic went all out with their sequel, tweaking everything that needed tweaking. The graphics have 
 received a nice upgrade, making them look even more beautiful and cover is more, essential this 
 time around. The campaign is longer, with greater variety and it definitely holds a much stronger 
 story than seen in Gears of War 1.
  
  Of course, online still holds a few flaws, however many result down to the players online. Two-piecing 
 does get annoying, but that's just the way it all works, some people are ignorant, naive and stupid 
 online. If you can ignore them however, you're in for a brilliant time online, and even a few laughs. 
 The addition of Horde also benefits the game greatly, giving a great game mode to chill out on 
 with your friends, or give it everything you have to reach the top of the leaderboards.
  
  I was going to give this game a 9.5, but if GTA IV can got a 10, Gears of War 2 deserves it as 
 well, as the game is at the same, if not a slightly higher level of brilliance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  ah, gears 2, this is a great game and doesn't disappoint. it's gory greatness raised the bar on 
 the whole theme in general. the campaign is sold, but the multi-player is even more solid, it is 
 one of the funnest multi-player games to this date. 2 things that isn't great is that chainsawing 
 is to easy and requires little skill, and for new players, it will take awhile to get use to the 
 whole gears concept and gameplay. this game shows that this series means business and that they 
 are not gonna back from the Halo franchise. This deserves more than a 9.0 because it's freakin 
 amazing! The graphics are to die for, for a minute you might actually believe you are really killing 
 people from the underground, but then you realize that that isn't possible. the audio is great, 
 especially when you hear that ever so lovely sound of a chainsaw ripping through you enemy.
  
  if you are unsure of this game i recommend for anyone that wants a bloody good time, especially 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjoyner629
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The developers went all out to make sure that any shooter fan will enjoy this game. You can play 
 single player through the campaign; if you have a buddy you can play co-op through the campaing 
 either on Xbox live or local through split screen. You can also do this through all of the games 
 modes, which helps if you have a buddy over your house, or if you don't have internet access. If 
 you played Gears of War, then you know what Gears 2 is all about. However, this game is twice as 
 epic as the first and has more game modes. The graphics are the best I've seen on Xbox 360. The 
 cover system and squad based combat add strategy that you don't get with other shooters. I particularly 
 like this game more than Halo 3 for this reason, but also due to the style and intensity. My wife 
 even says she enjoys watching me play Gears 2, much more than she liked watching me play Halo. 
 This isn't a knock on Halo, which is a great game, but it goes to show you how well the presentation 
 is executed. This is a must buy for any shooter fan, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felerek25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  This is the Game which I got with my xbox 360 console (As a Bundle) And I loved it! The Story was 
 intriguing and full of surprises.
  But lots of characters of the first game died what made me feel pretty weird I just thought to 
 myself "Why Tai?" Or "Why Maria Died?" but the graphics seems more detailed and more bright than 
 the first one but even on the easiest level the game still is darn hard
  But if you haven't played the first one I would recommend you to play it. And the chainsawing is 
 fun But Sadly the Wretches and lots of those "VEHICLE" missions can spoil your fun And Another 
 dumb kid from Carmine family joined to trash talk. But most of charcters trash talk as the dialogue 
 is kinda crappy but this game is Really must-buy for Xbox 360 owner! Buy or be ashamed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eragon55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 plays like the first game. The control is intuitive and responds very well. I'm 
 not into the driving portions of the game which is why it's not a perfect 10. Some how they improved 
 on the bench mark graphics on the first game. Yes you dumb game programmers of the world, gears 
 of war was the bench mark that you have yet to beat. Now that gears of war 2 has been released, 
 you have higher standards to beat so get to work. The game is just plain fun not only to play, 
 but to watch. My wife likes to watch me play just to see what is going to happen next. It's like 
 being in a movie. It's awesome! From a story line perspective, the game has passed the Halo series. 
 It is interesting to see if they continue the series. I'm betting they will. It's just too good! 
 The only draw back (besides the driving parts) is that the game leaves you wanting more just like 
 the first one. Which I guess is a good thing. I have a PS3, a Wii, an Alienware Area 51 and of 
 course 360. This game along with Halo 3 makes having a 360 a must. I will be honest with you. The 
 only major difference between all of the systems is the games that can be played. If your wondering 
 which system to get, just go with the system that has the most games you like. I prefer the PC 
 and 360 followed by the PS3 and then the Wii because of the games that I like to play. Each system 
 has positives and negatives. I feel that Gears of War series along with Halo will be a staple in 
 video game history. I would hate for any serious gamer to miss out on these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Even though the campaign mode might be a bit short which made it a bit easier but gears of war 
 2 still bring the high level action pack game that I know from the previous gears of war. There 
 like all the things you need to make a perfect shooter game, For example: The graphics are superb, 
 It is an outstanding game for a shooter category and the weapons are amazing with not only the 
 names and what the affect is especially doing. I think one of the gun name was the dawn of hammer 
 or the hammer of dawn which really had a good effect on the bigger enemies of the locust. The missions 
 or acts if you prefer, The missions gets to more blood and gore towards the end and a bit more 
 challenging like most games. Throughout the game you meet new characters to come to your squad 
 named DELTA or maybe they would of been with you in the previous gears of war. Anyway I am hoping 
 for gears of war 3 to come out and I am really looking forward to it hopefully this year or maybe 
 another year. So that is My review for gears of war 2 and for all the people who read it thank 
 you very much and I hoped you liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaborfeketejr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:41 pm PT
Review:  pretyy good game single player 2 short but good story wanna now wat happend 2 fenix's dad 2 players 
 good because theres a hole bunch of differnt types of modes u could pick didnt play live but its 
 the same as 2 plyers weapon's good i like to stomp on there heads grab as hostige n break there 
 neck but u do get bored wen ur don with campaian n u dont play with frends. d d d d f f g g c fd 
 d g d gf a g agf da g a g ag ea rg df gaev ev venjge veaj vke vkjdf vkjf vkjdf vkjd bkdjf bkdjb 
 k bk kadfj vka vkjadf vkajdf vkjf vkja vkjafv dkf vkdav kd jvkdab kjb kf bkd bkdjf bkjdf kjb kajd 
 fbkadf bkdjf bkjdfb kjdfb kjfdb kdjfb kdfjb jdfkb dfkjb kadj bdjkb dkjb kjdfb kjdf bkjdfb kjfb 
 kjfb kfj bkjdfb kjfb kdfj bdfkjb jfb kfjdb jfkb fdkj bdkjb kdfjb kdfj bdfkjb kdfjb kdfjb kdfb kjfb 
 kdfb kdb kb bd fb earf d vdf b fd b dfa bdf a hb dgb df bfr bf ger bdf ber g dg er g er 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franciscochicho
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2
  i may wanna star off saying Gears of War 2 is my favorite game of all time, at least til 3 comes 
 out. Gears of War 2 has everything u want in a video-game, from graphics to a story that you will 
 love. its starts off 6 months after the original left out. It turns out that lightmass bomb didint 
 work guys!!!!!!!!! now it's time to kick some ass for Marcus and Delta Squad. Gears 2 expands what 
 made the original so good and just makes a wonderfull expierence either online or offline. Must 
 Buy for anyone that has a 360 period.
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
 
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS! GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  GEARS 2 ROCKS!
  
  Gameplay=10
 
  Graphics=10
  Story=10
  Multiplayer=10
  Controls=10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramram1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  i played gears of war .. then halo 3 ... but !! GEARS OF WAR 2 is the best of all mcs studio games 
 ... evry chapter is diffrent thene the otheres ... lots of action .. great music .. they alwayes 
 try to compering gears of war 2 and metal gear solid 4 .... for me gs 2 is better then mgs4 , and 
 of caurse gs 2 is a lot fun than gs 1 .... the diffrence betwen theme that gs 1 u go on camping 
 on ur won with cole , baird , dom ..... the DELTA squad ... gs 2 u and a big army of GOG againts 
 these ugly monsetrs ... but i expected more in the last chapter , it should be more exciting and 
 harder to kill the brumak when he turns to a bomb ... last and not least we all know ... THERE 
 IS GEARS OF WAR 3 .... Hope they make it with more vehicules and more wepons and more characters 
 and more chapters ....
  cya all x360 fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrixx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, just awesome. Graphics are what got my attention more than anything. The 
 way they design the look of the ruins and vehicles is just perfect and with a noticeable improvement 
 from the first game. The multiplayer part is very impressive as well. There is bunch of new matches 
 but the most fun one to play is the horde mode.
  
  On the other hand, this game has flaws when it comes to story representation, and new characters. 
 It is very disappointing to see what they did with the flaw of events and how characters end up. 
 Yet they manage they get the point across, not in the best way, but they do it. Yet that does not 
 ruin the whole feel of the game.
  
  I love this game, missions, and multiplayer is just unstoppable. I wish they have done a better 
 job with the story, but it looks like they haven't payed much attention to it. I advice any shooters 
 lovers to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_McSpank
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  "Gears of War" 2 is truly one of the best games you can get for the Xbox 360. It has a great campaign 
 (aside from marcus's voice) that you can play cooperatively or by yourself with an exceptional 
 story and great game play (if you play on hardcore or insane) , you'll find that all your favourite 
 characters are back including some new ones. 
  
  But better than the single player is the multiplayer and more importantly the new mode horde in 
 which a group of 5 or less take on wave after wave of locust AI. Each wave the horde grows stronger 
 and larger in number making a great game mode which can go on for hours. Im not a big shooter fan 
 but i would recommend this game too anyone who does not yet own it. 
  
  BUY THIS GAME! Go work on minimum wage if you have too as long as you can get enough money too 
 buy this game! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS 
 GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of War was the first game that made me want the Xbox 360. Needless to say, when 
 I got a 360, I got Gears of War. It was an amazing experience, but it did leave areas to be desired. 
 The game had tons of bad glitches, especially abused in online multiplayer. It also lacked any 
 kind of story or plot in the campaign mode. Epic Games follows up it's original hit with Gears 
 of War 2, which easily outdoes it's predecessor in every way imaginable.
  
  The main area GoW2 trumps the first in every way is the depth. All the new gameplay features make 
 the first game feel completely outdated. The game has a much better offline multiplayer component. 
 You can now play with bots in two-player split screen, in whatever mode of your choice. The new 
 Horde mode is also a big draw for the game. There isn't much I can say about how awesome it is 
 to have five buddies teaming up and planning against seemingly endless waves of Locusts. The new 
 War Journal feature also adds a very convenient tracking of the Collectibles you've found (something 
 that would've been great for Cog Tags) , achievements and characters unlocked, and leaderboards.
 
  
  The modes are better as well. Many returning from the original, new modes like Wingman add a brilliant 
 kind of fun to the game. Instead of two teams of five people going against each other, Wingman 
 pits five teams of two people all fending for themselves, aside from the player and their specific 
 partner. It's very well done, because instead of the last group alive winning, your kills get you 
 the win. Wingman is personally my favorite mode in Gears of War 2. However, something else I enjoyed 
 very much was the Campaign mode. Where the first game had a relatively short story mode (Finished 
 in two days) that was difficult, the sequel has an all-around easier, but more satisfying Campaign. 
 The levels have more variety, it's way longer, and the story will have you much more genuinely 
 interested than before. It feels like an actual war this time. The feeling of there being a threat 
 and being loss is very present.
  
  The only area Gears of War 2 has a few problems in is the online matchmaking. It has some issues 
 bogging the game's quality down with slow team finding, but I never lost the connection like I 
 did in the first game very often. Luckily Epic is rolling along patch after patch to remedy this 
 issue.
  
  Gears of War 2 is definitely a true sequel. It improves so much that it makes the original seem 
 much worse than it was two years ago. While it's not perfect, it's definitely showing that the 
 right polish could make this game even better than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anak1nsky3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  
  I know my shooters and i am tough to please, but this game had me on the edge of my seat and shivers 
 were running down my spine. The new features in this game is just purely amazing, the blood n' 
 gore looked almost real. There's humor in the game and i felt the enthusiasm, sadness (poor maria) , 
 humor and the anger.
  
  gears 2 picks up after gears 1 just perfectly, new characters come in but somehow i just felt like 
 tai was in gears 1 but he wasn't! 
  WARNING: IF YOU HAVEN'T PLAYED THE WHOLE GAME DO NOT, I REPEAT DO NOT READ THE NEXT TWO / ONE AND 
 A HALF LINES!!!!!!!
  (don't read on if you haven't played the whole game) and i will say it, i can't believe they killed 
 maria ( I warned you) 
  The plot was explained quite well but i can safely say that "epic games" will be working on gears 
 of war 3.
  
  and when that comes out, lord have mercy on the poor saps that don't have a xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I will start this review with the observation that, yes Gears 2 graphics are an improvement of 
 the originals that said they arnt "That" much an improvement.
  
  Gears 2 takes place 2 montghs after the end of its Prequal. The Locusts were thought to be destroyed 
 but the truth was they were biding thing time to luanch a second offesive. Its started with small 
 Guerilla raides and grew to a full on continuation of the war. humanity is falling behind in the 
 race to Victory and are left with one option. Attack!!
  
  
  Chairman Prescot Speach  
  "Humans are no stranger s to War. After all, we've been fighting for as long as we can remember.
 
  War Is All We Know. 
  In the past, we fought for imulsion. We fought for country. We fought for Freedom. 
  But all 
 that Changed after E-Day.
  
  For 15 years , we've been fighting for our very survival against inhuman, genocidal monsters.
 
  But it is a fight we cannot continue. Humanity faces extinction; unless we end this war now!
 
  We had hoped the Lightmans' Bombing would decimate the Locust Horde but they Survived 
   and here returned stronger than ever.
  They've brought with them a force that can sink entire 
 cities. Even Jacinto, our last beacon of hope through all these dark days, is now at risk.
  Soon we'll have nothing left to defend, and that means we have only one option
  
  ... A t 
 t a c k !
  
  Gears, what I ask of you now is not an easy thing, but it is necessary.
  
  If we are to survive 
  if we are to live long enough to see the seasons pass, our children 
 grow, and experience a time of peace that we have never known 
  We must now take this fight to the Locust!
  
  We will go to where they live and where the 
 breed and we will destroy them!
  This is the day we take the battle to the heart of the enemy!
  This is the day that we correct 
 the course of human history!
  This is the day we ensure our survival as a species!
  Soldier of the COG, my fellow Gears, go fort and bring back the hope of humanity!"
    End
  
 
  The highly anticipated sequal also has a new Multi player Mode. Horde. you and up to Four other 
 players join in a Co-op campaign of Surviving Waves and Waves of locust Hordes that grow stronger 
 each time. With a total of 50 waves its no easy task but is my favorite Multi player mode even 
 above the original Warzone and Elimination modes. So with that said the modes from Gears are all 
 continued in the sequal with new maps as well as Several "throwback Maps" that are redone with 
 improved graphics and effects.
  
  In total this series is reason enough to own a Xbox 360 along with Halo 3. Games like these Xbox 
 360 only games are true games of Innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onikage87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  Although this game has some great boss battles and overhauled graphics things still seem to just 
 not click right. Epic boss battles don't yield the difficulty that you'd expect. During harder 
 difficulties the enemy A. I. is impressive however your own teammate is still just a zombie with 
 a gun at times. Another thing that seems broken in contrast to the first GeOW is the multiplayer. 
 Given that the addition of new modes, maps, and party system have been implemented lag affects 
 gameplay even worse than before. It's disappointing that Epic Games has let things slip so far. 
 After playing the first one religiously you would expect something with more improvements than 
 flaws. Beyond gameplay things like matchmaking and map voting are still frustrating. Matchmaking 
 still takes a little longer than it should and although there are so many more maps to play it 
 seems the same 3 are recycled for each time you vote. All in all its definitely worth the play. 
 However, if you feel you want to wait for more updates I don't think anyone could blame you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 Microsoft's and xbox's biggest title (maybe even surpassing halo) it has become 
 a cult classic game. Probably most recognizable from the lancer a gun with a chainsaw attached 
 to it. What more could you want I will tell you in my review...
  
  before I do this don't say to me TROLL or FANBOY crap like that I have a Xbox I have a ps3 I even 
 have a wii. Now on to the review...
  
  A gear of war 2 is an amazing game don't get me wrong. Thing is in most games you become attached 
 to them in FF7 you became attached to cloud. Hell in halo you became attached to master chief. 
 Thing is with this game you can't really attach to them. Marcus fenix proba... no DOES have an 
 odd voice but that's not why you can't connect with him. He's just foul mouth and rugged and stuff 
 like that IF YOU CONNECT TO HIM THATS YOU. I just couldn't. Gears doesn't have a great story and 
 pretty bad lines. The voice acting is good but the things they say sounds right out of a d-grade 
 movie. I don't want to hear people going it's got a GREAT STORY ITS THE NEXT CITIZEN CANE! No it 
 isn't okay stop being fan boys and be reasonable. Games are well known for enemies and the things 
 you must kill in GeOW2 are great. BUT games are also well known for their boss battles. MGS series 
 has the oddest boss battle there's one you actually have to change the controller port to beat 
 him like wtf. Anyway the ending boss battle left much to be desired. Now multiplayer. I haven't 
 played competitive on GEARS 2 but i have on GEARS ONE i suggest it would be the same with some 
 new features. I have played horde it was in my eyes amazing but constant glitches and the textures 
 taking MINUTES to come in and constantly disconnecting. It was like heres an ice-cream but every 
 time I disconnected it felt like they took it away. It just wrecked it when it disconnected. 
 
  
  Story: 7.5
  Game play: 9.2
  Graphics: 9.5
  Multiplayer: 8.3
  
  Overall: 8.5 
  
  (I dare you to do an average with these scores it adds up to 8.5)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and I actually have never played the first one at the time. I knew nothing about 
 the game or anything about characters or weapons. I started off playing online and I was thrilled 
 with the game. After many loses (since I didn't know how to play well) I started up the campaign 
 did the training and learned about everything. Most storylines are boring but not this one, the 
 connection between the characters and the rage against the grubs were incredible. The graphics 
 are masterfully designed. The campaign lasts a long time and you could play it over and over again 
 and never get bored. I am on the 5th time playing it and don't intend to stop there. I am absolutely 
 thrilled and would not hold back against buying this game. Don't even waste your time renting it 
 because it is AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  Gears of War was a great game that made brilliant use of cover in an almost unparalleled manner. 
 Gears of War 2 carries on this amazing tradition, and makes great use of not only cover, but also 
 all the fun of co-op which made the first one great. Not only does Gears 2 carry on this great 
 name, but it also bulks up the storyline and gives you plenty of back-story into the other characters. 
 The characters are developed and each one has their own little quirks. For example, if you payed 
 attention during the first Gears you will know that the Cole Train used to play thrashball (what 
 is believed to be a form of American Football) . Due to this in Gears 2, a lot of Cole's sayings 
 relate to thrashball. There are also lots of tiny little things that help make the game enjoyable. 
 For example, if you are far away from a team mate on the campaign you hear them talk through a 
 radio. There are also lots of tweaks to the gameplay that have really helped the game in my opinion. 
 For example, you cannot roadie run as fast, but you can do it for longer. Also, you cannot now 
 run straight up to someone in a straight line with no cover and then shotgun someone in the face 
 due to the stopping power bullets now have. Smoke grenades are now useful as well, not only to 
 cause havoc with the smoke, but also have a concussive effect, which can be hilarious if used to 
 knock someone off a ledge. 
  The new enemies are also a great load of fun. There are bloodmounts, which are massive beats ridden 
 by some plucky locust. These enemies are a great nuisance, as their riders will shoot you from 
 far away and the mount will maul you up close. The Kantus are a new addition, being the priests 
 of the Locust. If you don't take them out quickly they will respawn any downed locust, meaning 
 that you will just be fighting the same people over and over again. Not only can they do that, 
 but they will also throw ink grenades which will temporarily block off an area with poisonous cloud. 
 There are also several new types of Boomers, all of which are just as deadly as the original. The 
 old Boomer is still there, but he is accompanied by the Butcher, a melee Boomer with a large knife, 
 the Grinder, a Boomer that carries round a Mulcher (a new heavy machine gun that he can wield accurately 
 without using a wall to prop it up, but you have less chance of hitting a wall) , there is also 
 my least favourite of new Boomer, the Mauler. The Mauler runs around with a boomshield, and an 
 explosively tipped flail, making it one of the most deadly and annoying. 
  Despite all of these fun new features there are some drawbacks. The matchmaking takes an age, and 
 even then you don't necessarily get partnered up against a fair team. The vehicle section of the 
 game is quite unwieldy and difficult to control, although the rest of the game makes up for this 
 though in my opinion. All in all Gears of War 2 is a great sequel and a brilliant game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxter223
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Well to start the graphics are too perfect to be true when you see the blood spilling out of a 
 locust grunt it looks like its your blood!
  Also the 3d dynamics imerse you deeper into the games experience taking you further into the great 
 gears of war 2 storyline !
  The missions were great taking you from the depths of jacinto , to the depths of the locust stronghold 
 and even into a giant worm in which chopping a vital organ with your lancer chainsaw is just too 
 dang fun .
  The weapons range from a lil gun to the greatest flametrhower and mini-guns but the best must be 
 the lancer chainsaw gun thingy this gun is great while shooting as is while chopping an enemy in 
 half ..
  Thing is when it comes to chopping a enemy in 2 or just shooting people you may not have even met 
 on multiplayer gears of war 2 is a must have in any gamers collection ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidChocobo1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:03 am PT
Review:  If you liked the first game, this is the game for you :D
  Nearly the same, although that's not a bad thing in this scenario.
  
  The single player is 
 sweet- Intense, bloody, emotional (yes emotional) and funny at times.... just like any action movie 
 / game should be :D
  
  I wont dwell on the single player, though, or the gameplay, because anyone reading this is probably 
 just reading it to see what the one flaw i find in this game is, so they can flame me.
  
  Well, here it is:
  Chainsaws.
  
  mhmm, chainsaws.
  
  In single player, somewhat impractible, 
 but the scene is awesome enough to leave yourself vulnerable for those few bloody sweet seconds.
 
  
  BUT- IN MULTIPLAYER THIS IS A COMPLETELY DIFFERENT STORY
  Chainsaws are instant kills, and are a default weapon.
  Let that sink in.
  
  Imagine in Halo, 
 if everyones default weapon was a rocket launcher, regardless of what Game type, or map it was.
 
  
  Even if the cuscene JUST starts and the blade just touches you, and your teammate blows them up, 
 you still fall to pieces from the chainsaw.
  
  This is one of those things that pisses off everyone in the game. If your team uses chainsaws during 
 the majority of the game, expect a lot of white-noise trash talk and the end briefing from your 
 opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  DISCLAIMER: The author of this review has spent time playing the on-line campaign only. He will 
 not be going into detail regarding Gears of War 2's other multiplayer modes.
  
  Marcus Fenix and Co. are back doing what they do best: killing hordes and hordes of... well, Locust 
 Hordes. Taking off directly where the first installment ended, Fenix and the rest of Delta squad 
 take the fight directly to the Locust Horde in a campaign fllled with more thrills than the first 
 one could ever deliver, with all the blood soaked carnage you've come to know and love.
  
  If you're familiar with the first Gears of War game, you know what it's like. It's a tactical shooter 
 that involves you taking cover and popping out from behind it to take shots at your enemies when 
 they become available. You can blind fire, keeping your body safe from harm, or lob grenades over 
 your shoulder. Jump over cover and dash to the next obstacle to get a better position, or wait 
 for your teammate who's at a better angle to clear the area so you can proceed. Get up close and 
 personal, and you lay into your enemies with your no-nonsense chainsaw bayonet, and finish off 
 any stragglers with a good curb stomp to the head. Master Active Reload by reloading your weapon 
 at the precise time and be rewarded by more powerful rounds of ammunition.
  
  All that classic action is intact in the sequel, but what really pushes this game beyond its predecessor 
 are the incredulous new scenarios you'll be experiencing. The new environments are jaw-dropping, 
 the new hazards are intensifying, and the new ridealong segements are terrifically exciting. The 
 pace of the game can be so chaotic sometimes that when you hit several of the game's lulls, you'll 
 actually appreciate investigating barren corridors more so you can catch your breath.
  
  There aren't many new game mechanics added in Gears of War 2, but the few new ones are rather cool. 
 For starters, if you down a Locust to the point where he's crawling away, you can actually use 
 him as a human -- er, well more like body -- shield, and fire away at your targets with a handgun. 
 There are giant enemies that carry shields, and once you take them down, you can adorn those shields 
 for yourself. Borrowing from Halo 3, you can even pick up massive guns and mortars at the expense 
 of your mobility, and wreak havoc on your enemies. You'll even ride some of the terrifying creatures 
 and enemies you encountered in the first game. 
  
  Playing the campaign via online co-op is definately the way to go. Tactical shooters like Gears 
 of War were designed to be played with a friend. There's nothing like covering your buddy, or coming 
 to his aid when he's gunned down to revive him. However, it seems like there are more glitches 
 this time around that actually effect gameplay. One such glitch has a partner falling off a lift 
 when the two seperate paths, landing on the partner's path preventing the progress of the game 
 since that player needed to be on the other side to activate a switch. Every once in a while, a 
 player will just get hung up on an object and not be able to move. Also, sometimes a cutscene will 
 sort of get skipped over where you'll be thrusted in the middle of a firefight with your hand still 
 glued to your ear piece. The almost complete lack of latency more than makes up for the game's 
 online co-op glitches, though.
  
  Not too much has been improved graphically, but that's not saying very much considering the first 
 Gears of War was an absolutely stunning game. Every impressive detail such as textures on the armor 
 to textures on the face, to exploding debris and thick viscose blood and gore can be expected in 
 Gears of War 2. Speaking of exploding debris, if you really want to see this game shine, wait until 
 you get behind the saddle of an armored behemoth and lay waste to enemies and rock pillars alike. 
 There can be so much going in on Gears of War 2 at times that it will overload your senses. There 
 are just a few times where you may continue from a check point that the textures won't completely 
 load right away. It's a rather noticeble blemish on an otherwise perfectly polished game.
  
  Just as with the first Gears of War, it's such an audible delight. It has that same fantastic 
 orchestral soundtrack. The voice acting is still wonderfully acted. The sound effects are just 
 as incredible. Loud guns. Booming explosions. Disgusting sounds of flesh being rendered and skulls 
 being exploded from sniper rounds, or impacted from curb stomps. You'll definately want to be playing 
 this game the same way you played the first: with volume all the way up.
  
  If you're expecting a revolutionary improvement of the franchise with this sequel, you can forget 
 about it. You have a few new things to do, and a few new weapons to use, but that's all. What you 
 will you get that matters is a campaign filled with much more exciting moments that will literally 
 take your breath away. You'll also get a game that's a little buggier than the first title, which 
 is kind of a shame. Bugs are something you're supposed to see less of in sequels. Still, even though 
 the game is a little too familiar, considering the first game was so spectacular, it just means 
 you'll end up loving it just the same. It's a very solid purchase.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivitaminwater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Following from Gears of War 1, Marcus and co. are back in a "bigger, better, and more bad-ass" 
 sequel. This game basically takes every single bit of advice that was given for the 1st game and 
 tore it apart to create gears 2. 
  Gears of war 2 is indeed a game to get for 2008 and here are some of the reasons:
  Longer campaign: 
 When I played gears 1, I remembered the campaign a lot. It was great but lacking some sort of plausible 
 and great storyline. Now, this extended new campaign not only provides countless hours of re-playability 
 with now 4 different modes, it also has a great story attached to it too. This game puts the story 
 of saving humanity and mixes it with a Dom wanting to save his wife. It's a nice touch to the campaign 
 and provides a good look at one of the characters. I just wish that there could've been a bit more 
 info about everyone else.
  
  Awesome multiplayer: Gears 2 doesn't shy out when it comes to multiplayer too. There are several 
 new game-types added to this sequel such as wingman, where you and a friend fight up to 4 opposing 
 teams of 2 and whichever team racks up the most points is able to win. Submission is also a great 
 addition to gears 2 where a shotgun-wielding "meatflag" is what you have to down and carry back 
 to your base. It's like CTF but brutal and gory. The mode that impressed me the most is horde. 
 Horde is where you and up to 4 other people can duke it out against waves of locust that get stronger 
 every ten waves. It provides a great challenge and uses an already used idea, and perfects it.
 
  
  New Executions/etc.
  There are many new executions to gears 2. In gears 1, the option was limited to just a curb-stomp, 
 but in gears 2, there are 11 unique new execution plus a new "punch the crap out of your enemy" 
 execution. From the sniper sledgehammer to the torque bow decapitation, these executions don't 
 shy on the brutalness. There is also a new useful addition that gives you the able to crawl around 
 for a limited amount of time to find someone and get revived instead of in gears one in which you 
 frantically pressed the a button to hopefully revive. (Correct me if I'm wrong there) The new "chainsaw 
 duel" is an awesome addition to settle out the whole "who chainsawed who first" business. But in 
 the end, it's just who's the better button-masher, so warm up those fingers because they will hurt.
 
  
  Complaints
  Epic took the advice of the gamers seriously, but a little too seriously. Here are some things 
 that I didn't like about the game.
  
  Unreasonable stopping power: Gears 2 introduces stopping power, but too much stopping power. I've 
 had instances where I try to run up and chainsaw someone and they shoot me with one lancer round 
 and I get pushed back, and pushed again, even if I'm not being shot at.
  
  Matchmaking=sad-face
  Matchmaking in gears 2 takes FOREVER. Epic said they would fix it but it 
 takes a long time in almost every place except horde.
  
  And to sum it up in the end, gears of war 2 is a game that I recommend 100% to those shooter fans. 
 It's a must-get and you will not be disappointed with what Epic Games has done with their new sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, it`s well worth mentioning that Epic have made the right choice. Let me explain. Many 
 people have often complained that Gears of War 2 didn`t offer much new and that it was just a slightly 
 modified version of the first. Exactly! And this begs the question, why would we want Epic to change 
 a winning formula? Chainsaw guns + Locust dismemberment + Badass Protagonists + Addition of great 
 multiplayer modes = Awesome. That simple. The story in GoW 2 is much more compelling than in the 
 first. And the graphics are awe-inspiring. The good old cover-system works very well and the Online 
 Multiplayer mode in Gears 2 is everything it always should have been. GoW 2 stands tall in comparison 
 of other 360 exclusives, and it`s right up there with Halo and Fable. Anybody who hasn`t played 
 this is missing perhaps what is the best game of 2008. And if you enjoyed the first one, there 
 is NO way you will not love GoW 2. Your 360 deserves this game. Go on, treat yourself!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear...
  
  Did someone drop the ball, Epic? Yes, they did, didn't they.
  
  I'd better explain first that 
 I am not a fanatic Gears of War player let down by this sequel. No. I thoroughly ENJOYED the original, 
 and felt a little bit short changed by this game. 
  
  Let's start positive. Graphics are superb, the character models look amazing and the textures are 
 fantastic. I personally feel that the lighting is a bit weird, though and that all the characters 
 seem to have a slightly hazy glow to them, especially the light grey locusts. But on the whole 
 everything looks great. Very sequel-y, though. You can tell they were trying to outdo themselves.
 
  
  Sound effects do exactly what they're supposed to do, no more, no less. I still think the shotgun 
 sounds and feels a bit weedy. Music seems a bit less inspired than the original, but nonetheless 
 does its job. All of this is to be expected, though, and nothing sticks out as vastly improved.
 
  
  As it is a sequel, there has to be some inexplicable changes since the original, for example, Marcus 
 has been on a special COG training course that has taught him to be able to use locusts as shields 
 and also to kill them when they are down in THREE DIFFERENT WAYS! AWEsome! The training course 
 also taught him how to kill enemies from behind in a slightly different way. Perhaps his future 
 training will teach him how to use his chainsaw against the boomer style enemies instead of just 
 standing behind them revving the chainsaw like a fool. The locusts haven't been dawdling themselves, 
 completely redesigning the hammerburst carbine AND distributing it to all their forces, while removing 
 the originals completely from service. Lots of the boomers have also retrained as grinders, flamers, 
 butchers and maulers using mulcher machine guns, flamethrowers, machetes and a shield and mace 
 combo respectively. That's right, people! It's the obligatory new weapon section! The new weapons 
 are all pretty much excellent and expertly balanced. The hammerburst has a low rate of fire, but 
 is more accurate and powerful, BUT the lancer has a chainsaw and faster rate of fire. The boomshield 
 completely covers your front from fire, but limits you to your pistol. The gorgon pistol has a 
 terrific rate of fire, but only in bursts and can only fire 4 bursts. The chainsaw duelling is 
 also a neat new addition, with the fastest person tapping (B) winning the duel and sawing the other 
 person up.
  
  So some good stuff there, but what about the irritations... Where to start?
  
  How's about 
 with the story. Meatheads shoot things because that's what they do. They then perform more and 
 more absurd acts of heroism, but are oblivious to obvious plot points that come up. There is an 
 attempt at a heart wrenching scene or two, but you honestly couldn't care less about the caricatures. 
 Oh, no! Anya might be dead! And Marcus looks inexplicably upset! Why? They haven't established 
 any kind of relationship! Dom's wife? Only alluded to briefly in the first game and now the sole 
 driving factor in his fight? They didn't ESTABLISH the relationship! Tai is a big tough guy who's 
 fate we're supposed to care about? Guess what they didn't establish.
  
  Annoying plot points pop up frequently. Dom seems surprised that Marcus's dad is on the locust's 
 computer system, but in the first game no one questioned how he could have a complete map of the 
 enemy tunnels... Why were the lambent on the train at the end of the first game... I think you 
 see what I'm saying. The story is dire, but without the pace of the original, which segues nicely 
 into the gameplay and the pace thereof.
  
  When you are making a big, dumb action movie game, it needs to be filled with blistering set pieces 
 and a lightning fast pace. You certainly shouldn't force your audience into wandering about for 
 a few minutes wondering exactly where to go - it's not an exploration game. There are a few sections 
 of the game where a big door opens and grinders (big locusts) come out, you shoot them and continue 
 through the door. Then at one point this happens, but if you go down the fairly long corridor they 
 come out of, you then need to double back on yourself to leave the area. It takes less than a minute, 
 but by this point you're supposed to be on the final stretch toward the big boss it really hurts 
 the pace. As does the many times you are just walking to the next fight, the worst part being when 
 you have start what is supposed to be one of the most exciting and intriguing parts of the game 
 and you spend ages walking to lift, then ages watching them on the lift, then ages walking to the 
 next lift, then ages watching them on that lift, then ages walking to the next fight. Shoddy. And 
 the game is peppered with areas like this. A lot of time you spend running around looking for the 
 way out of an area, or for an enemy that has glitched into scenery so you can trigger the next 
 cut-scene.
  
  Talking about pace, I bought Gears of War 2 on the understanding that it was a third person shooter 
 which relied on its cover system. NOT a tank driving game and not a Reaver simulator. Why do game 
 makers feel this need to break up the type of game that the player has PAID MONEY to play with 
 a game type that is nothing like the game that they have PAID MONEY to play? I am trying to say 
 that the vehicle sections are the worst kind of dross I ever played. EVER. The tank handles like 
 - and travels at the speed of - an arthritic donkey. The level that you play in is dull until you 
 reach the frozen lake you have to drive over (while under mortar fire, causing the ice to break 
 all around you) , then it get frustrating. You need to slow down from a crawl to an even slower 
 crawl, or risk driving into one of the game's all to frequent insta-deaths. The end of the level 
 is punctuated by an interminable drive through a cave with NOTHING in it until the very end, and 
 even then, the enemies are beaten in no time. The reaver levels are, by comparison, much better, 
 but If I had wanted to play Panzer Dragoon, I would have stayed in the 90's.
  
  In all, the single player campaign is bearable, but I personally felt like it dragged quite a bit. 
 So let's turn to the co-op mode. Hmm.... I've played through twice now, and the annoying glitches 
 are almost enough for me to trade the game in. Examples would be that after fighting the sires 
 and opening a gate with a turny valve handle, Dom (as I was playing) decided that he like that 
 stance so much, he would slam into the nearest wall and hold that pose while juddering in an alarming 
 manner. Reloading the checkpoint helped, but it was annoying. Being thrown out of the tank was 
 another bizarre one. It made it far easier, but it was bizarre nonetheless. Which reminds me... 
 Apparently, my co-op partner was seeing a very different battlefield in the tank to what I was 
 seeing. When I played as Marcus, I cursed him for not shooting a pack of locusts on three occasions 
 and he claimed he had no idea what I was talking about. When I played as Dom, the same thing happened. 
 He kept trying to run over hordes of invisible enemies. There were plenty of other times when my 
 character would spasmodically move on the spot, or jump out of cover unbidden, or get stuck on 
 cover for fun, or start floating. Wonderfully buggy, When everything was going right, however, 
 the experience was nothing short of excellent.
  
  The Horde game type has also so far proven fantastic fun as well. Far better than I expected. Adverserial 
 multiplayer, however... I have played in little over 5 games and see no reason why I would ever 
 play it again. My team was made up of people of my rank (no chevrons) and we were matched with 
 people 3 chevrons. They duly annihilated us. It was pretty much the same story every time. The 
 other team knew the map inside out and wiped out the new guys. Awesome. When I say "played in 5 
 games", I'm not counting the 2 hours plus of waiting for teammates, waiting for opponents, waiting 
 for people to pick a map, waiting til the 10 second counter ticked down... Then getting spat out 
 of the match cos the host left. Even in the games, it seemed that certain people were bulletproof, 
 sliding in and out of cover constantly. Not fun. Not fun at all.
  
  So all-in-all, a decent enough game hampered by a lot of niggling faults, but enough to really 
 damage it. I can't really say I'm disappointed, because I wasn't looking forward to it that much, 
 which is lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad-aussie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  This game is one that you must buy the storyline continue after the events of the first one. The 
 graphics are great the armor of the main character looks very shiny and stuff there are lot more 
 on the screen and etc. AI in the game are great on it especially when it come to healing you. 
 
  
  There are few new features like when you get knocked down you crawl to your AI or teammate the 
 multiplayer is very good there is a training area for you to see what each multiplayer mode is 
 like before you choose one and another very good feature is the horde wave which lets you and other 
 player fight against a pile hordes or you can attempt it solo, the make of waves is 50 which can 
 take a long time. there is also the meat shield which you can pick up a half dead person and use 
 it as a shield. 
  
  There are lots of new weapons like flamethrowers, missile launcher, frag grenades, poison grenades 
 and etc
  
  This is a game you must buy and you shouldn't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  Sometimes a sequel can try to be too different than its predecessor and end up in a place fans 
 of the first don't like. Not so with Gears of War 2. They were able to stay true to form, giving 
 fans of the first exactly what the love, again, while at the same time adding even more content, 
 game types, weapons, enemies, types of destruction, etc. Take the new Horde mode for example, this 
 is great because there aren't that many games where you and your friends can actually play on the 
 same team against the computer controlled enemy. My favorite new weapon is the Gorgon Pistol, that 
 combined with the Boomshield is a deadly combination. Then there's the Mulcher, a gattling gun 
 you can carry around. Now that's a lot of fun. 
  I also love the fact that if you have an xbox live gold account, when you're playing through the 
 campaign, you can make it so that people, anybody, can just drop or out anytime to play with you. 
 It's great because they can drop in and out on their own time, without even affecting your game. 
 Most of the time, a human playing Dom next to you is better than the AI.
  I love this game and can't wait to play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parry117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Gears 2 offers the same thrilling feeling of over-the-shoulder gun play as you persist in humanity's 
 desperate struggle against the Locusts. Through the campaign you'll come across expertly done environments 
 and scenery as well as music that only helps to intensify the action. All the guns from the first 
 game make a comeback as well as a few cool extras, as well as all new unique executions to use 
 against those enemies that are down but not out.
  In multiplayer, a new addition to standard match types, Hoarde mode supplies hours of fun as you 
 and up to 4 friends pit yourselves against wave upon wave of increasingly difficult enemies.
  Any fans of the first Gears of War will enjoy this game, as it adds to the already winning formular 
 and even newcomers should find the straightforward and action packed gameplay pleasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Great Multiplayer
  Horde Mode
  Fantastic Graphics
  Likeable Characters
  Brutal
  Acheivements are great
  New Enimies.
  
  Cons:
  No 4 player co-op
  Doesnt have 
 that "haunting feeling" like the original
  Music doesnt set any mood
  No Beserker
  Predictable New Enimies. (Still fun though)
  Hard to follow story
  Not nearly as funny as first
 
  EXTREMELY EASY
  
  Unfortunatley this game has more cons than pros. With the Beserker and Kryll wiped out the fear 
 factor of gears has almost dissapeared. Sorry to spoil people but Brumaks are pushovers. You would 
 think a 30 ft. Iguana with a F'ing cannon on it's back would be epic battle but your standard lance 
 can kill it without much difficulty. The enimies are predictable like you'd expect. 
  
  -Mauler carries heavy machine gun
  -Tickers=kamakazie
  -Grinders are bad Beserker knock offs.
 
  
  I oftern found myself confused as to what the hell I was doing. Chapters 2 and 3 really dont make 
 much sense at all. Chapter 3 in Gears 1 was Scary, thrilling, funny, innovative. Chapter 3 in Gears 
 2 was scary.
  
  But lets get positive. Playing multiplayer with friends is a blast. Horde mode is both challenging 
 and extremely fun (with friends, you need friends, no losers) . Fantastic gunfire sounds, visuals, 
 hundreds of enimies on map at once. Execution moves are awesome. Curb stomp is improved and chainsaw 
 battles force you litterly fight for survivial. 
  
  I know this game may seem pessimistic but...
  
  If you have played all of Gears 1
  -Improved 
 multiplayer
  -little bit of a letdown yet still buyworty
  
  If not
  -Get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zachary-Goh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war Is a really good game as you progress through the game you experience real game play 
 the gunshots are awsome the violence out of this world but the game is too easy because in the 
 first you think that in the second game that the grunts of the locust would be half as strong as 
 RAAM
  but as u play all you need to do is to learn to do the head shot and thats really it the good thing 
 about the game is that u can do any thing with cover if you get skilled at the game and you grow 
 some balls you will learn the Grenade to back. if you want to buy this game i say GO FOR IT the 
 game is awsome to play and it will take you a few days and there is a wide range of weapons and 
 strategicaly place grenades to make them into proximity mines. Have fun and remember The motto 
 take cover or die really take that motto into heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjl259
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  To start, Gear of War 2 - what a great game! I started playing it with the mentality that it would 
 not be much, if any, better than the first title, thankfully I was wrong. Although the characters 
 and environments are familiar, the gameplay is much, much more fun and replayable than ever. The 
 boss battles are remininscent of the Zelda N64 games - just a blast. 
  
  Shooter games just aren't like that anymore - with building sized enemies that scare the pudding 
 out of you. This game takes the solid gameplay from GOW, but takes it a step further with more 
 exciting gunfights, enemies, weapons, and vehicles.
  
  -Spoiler Alert-
  I mean, for crying out loud, you get to ride and use a brumak, one of those flying locust bug things, 
 and a bada$$ COG Tank in this game! how cool is that?! The story is more engaging and emotional 
 than the first game too, as you see humans get tortured, friends die horrible deaths, and our home 
 planet get annihilated and ready for invasion by the locust. This brutal reality gets you into 
 the story more and further drives you to complete the game faster. The campaign can be beaten in 
 a couple sittings - I took me around 8 hours to beat the campaign on normal, with me taking extra 
 time looking for collectibles.
  
  I haven't played online that much, but what I can tell you is that it's every bit as good as the 
 first title. Also, If you buy the game now, they have a promotion going on that includes a xbox 
 live code that entitles you to a free map pack and one-month gold trial.
  
  The bottom line is, this is one of the best video game campaigns I've ever played as the action 
 changes repeatedly just when you think the gameplay is getting redundant. The sheer scale of the 
 game is impressive too, particularly in some of the bosses and underground locust hideout kingdom. 
 This game is worth a rent at the very least to just experience a wonderful campaign experience, 
 solo, or with up to four friends co-operatively! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycunnings
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Like the first game, Gears 2 is a really solid game. The big improvement on this round is the "Horde" 
 game. It is 50 levels of wave after wave on ever increasingly bigger and faster Locusts. The addition 
 of the Grinder gun and several other smaller weapons give you some additional variety. The graphics 
 continue to stun and wow you. The variety of different settings is also a plus for this game. 
 
  
  The very few things that could use some improvement include the resetting in difficulty in the 
 horde game where the enemies start off rather simple and get significantly harder as the level 
 number progresses to and of the 8,9 or 0 of fthe next set. The only other issue is the lack of 
 answers about who, what, where and when in terms of the story. The questions from the first game 
 are not even answered.
  
  Overall this is a must play for anyone who likes shooters. It is great to play with your friends 
 and it supports up to 5 player co-op! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trixta92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:55 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, everything looks awesome, co-op is brillient, story line is very imaginative, which 
 is good, also a lot of new features added.
  
  The only thing that lets it down is the online, its very laggy at times, and finding a match in 
 the new party feature can take a long time too, other than that, its good, there is ment to be 
 a patch this jan 09 though!
  
  The achievemnts are fun to get, like in the first one and are very well thought out. Seriously 
 2.0 is crazy though - 100,000 kills !!!
  
  The new features in the levels are awesome though, epic have really out done thereselfs this time 
 and really have created a brilliant game!
  
  My biggest reccomendation though is to play this game in co-op with a friend, it is sooo fun and 
 is by far the best mode, like in the first one, you'll be ammused for hours and hours.
  
  A must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vannet89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 takes place soon after the events of Gears of War 1 where the COG Army, in an attempt 
 to destroy the Locust horde, detonated the Lightmass bomb within the catacombs of the Locust stronghold. 
 However, this failed to achieve the desired effect (no surprises there!) . Now the last bastion 
 of human civilization, Jacinto, is under threat from the Locust. As Marcus Fenix, you are entrusted 
 to ensure that humanity defeats, once and for all, the Locust enemy before human-kind itself is 
 annihilated.
  
  As screenshot comparisons show, this game is graphically quite similar to the first Gears of War. 
 However, differences in settings between the first and second game mean that aesthetically, they 
 are quite different. It must be said that several instances of glitching were encountered during 
 the campaign mode. This usually involved fellow soldier Dom either not following as he is supposed 
 to or else standing in one spot and shaking violently until being shot out of his spasm. Honestly 
 though, these problems were rare and were quickly forgotten once the action resumed.
  
  A lot has been said about the 'scope' of Gears of War 2. Despite mainly being confined to the first 
 and last chapters of the game, sequences involving dozens of other COG's, not to mention enemies, 
 makes for extremely compelling gameplay. It must be said however that this 'scope' becomes less 
 tangible when, in the middle chapters, you find yourself and your three comrades in all too familiar 
 sequences fighting groups of only around 6-7 enemies at a time before an invisible switch triggers 
 either a cutscene or the next group of enemies.
  
  On paper this may seem a less than adequate mechanic for one of the most popular IP's of this decade. 
 However, Gears of War's ever-popular and even more refined cover system; the precise feel of the 
 weaponry and a slew of new enemy types makes this assertion less that valid. The first Gears of 
 War was not known for its varied enemy line-up but Gears of War 2 has raised the bar. Obviously 
 related to the Boomers of the original game, enemies like Grinders (who use a massive turret gun) 
 and Maulers (mace-toting giants equipped with a shield) add a large amount of excitement, especially 
 when seen up-close. Also, enemies from the first game have been tweaked, such as the Wretches who 
 have become much harder to kill. A disappointing part of the first game for many people was the 
 difficulty of the last boss fight. Mercifully, Epic Games has paid heed to the hundreds of online 
 guides produced solely to educate gamers in the complex task of killing General RAAM. 
  
  Epic Games has placed a lot of emphasis on the back-story of the Gears universe in this sequel. 
 From the deep emotional story of Dom's search for his wife to the references to past conflicts 
 on Sera, the establishment of an even richer Gears universe shows that there are obviously very 
 big plans for this franchise. It is therefore not surprising that Epic Games has ensured it has 
 not changed the formula too much. The resulting game, however, proves that evolution, at least 
 in this case, trumps revolution any day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWOL_76
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Well once again we are back into the world of Gears... and what a hell of a trip it was. If you 
 werent gripped by the first game with its graphically revolutionary visuals and great new take 
 on the third person genre, then you really have no option in GOW2. 
  
  The humans are in dire straights as the locust horde have systematically been sinking key human 
 strongholds leaving only Jacinto as the last human stronghold. Marcus, Dom, Cole, and Baird are 
 back to take the fight to the locust. With their backs against the wall the COG forces command 
 has decided to locate and hit the locust underground in the heart of their hive. New vehicles are 
 introduced and well integrated into GOW2 as the entire scale of the game has broadened to a global 
 standpoint where these vehicles are needed to be able to achieve the distances of the immense maps. 
 
  
  Besides the scale getting bigger the characters are getting a lot deeper as the story line reveals 
 more about Marcus and Dom. Dom has been looking for his wife ever since midway through Gears1 and 
 in this game *SPOILER* he finds her but not as you would ever expect. The scene is probably the 
 most humanly soul splitting emotion evoking scene in any game that I have ever played. Maria, had 
 been captured, tortured, brainwashed and left as little more than a breathing husk locked in a 
 crude prison pod. The cutscene as it plays out makes any hardened veteran want to break down and 
 cry and then feel an extreme hatred afterwards for the locust and those responsible. The exchange 
 after Dom has to put what is left of his Maria out of her misery is just classic. Marcus asks Dom 
 whether he wants to go the back way or just breakdown the front door, and Dom replys, "I wanna 
 kill em.... I wanna kill em all" as you effectively take control once again of the duo and go on 
 a rampaging killing spree. It is probably one of the most satisfying @$$ kickings you ever get 
 to deliver and makes you ever so happy if you still have a lancer with you. 
  
  The development of Marcus is a little less progressed although there is this great forboding shadow 
 lingering in the background of the whole game leading you to some dark or perhaps not so dark secrets 
 about his father. It seems that geniously, the development of Marcus will lead us not only to the 
 answers leading to his father but also the answers leading to where the locust came from as that 
 has still yet to be defined. Lets just say the locust queen looked eerily human for the grisly 
 appearance of the rest of the locust horde. Anyway not what I expected. Wink wink... When we do 
 find out I have no doubt it will not be what I expected but not far from what I think it is. 
 
  
  Getting away from story lines and getting dirty with some details... the weaponry in GOW2 is much 
 improved on what existed and adds some new fun little toys of destruction to play with. My least 
 favorite is the gorgon pistol. its functionality seems like it would work better if were a dual 
 wield kind of situation because then you could pulse each pistol independently to create a constant 
 stream of bullets at the enemy. My favorite new weapon of course is the flame thrower although 
 in multiplayer it proves to be almost useless. The graphics of your enemy charring from the inside 
 out is a very cool visual, going along with that the hammer of dawn stream has become more flame 
 like and is a fun new visual as well. I like the improvements are rather all out changes to the 
 hammerburst rifle as well as the addition of the super weapons. How can you not like the grinder... who 
 says Rambo is dead. 
  
  I like the addition of the new "vehicles" to the campaign they are alot of fun. And I unlike other 
 people are very happy they were left out of multiplayer. Vehicles tend to cheapen multiplayer games 
 as the game becomes about controlling the vehicles as opposed to controlling just your opponent. 
 But lets not get started on that... it really has nothing to do with the game itself. 
  
  To conclude the campaign portion of this review: the campign is awesome. Much more developed storyline 
 and a better delivery of the story is a major plus of gears 2. I am not on board with the other 
 reviewers who were unhapppy with the venues and backgrounds of the levels as I thought they were 
 appropriate and alot of fun to play. Especially inside the worm and the leviathan. Nice Job Epic! 
 No doubt we will see newer backdrops in GOW3. Remember its no fun without the things you dont expect. 
 I want to address one more thing... Boss battles. I am not one of those who needs a ton of overly 
 redonculous bosses that are impossible to defeat for me to feel good about beating the game. Most 
 people complain about the ending *SPOILER* with the giant lambant brumack. Most people say he was 
 too easy, I say what the hell did you expect else to do to kill that thing... you sure as hell 
 werent going to lancer it to death or get it with a sniper. It ended the only way it could. And 
 thats the end of that.
  
  Moving right along to the multiplayer. The multiplayer in GOW2 is much improved for GOW. The addition 
 of a party system was much needed and a more than welcome perk of GOW2. The addition of the Territory 
 game types was also a nice surprise. I am a big fan of COD4 and the headquaters game type so when 
 I got a hold of Annex I fell in love. The new horde mode is all the rage as well. Having bots to 
 practice against is something that most games in recent history have neglected to have. Everyone 
 under the sun complains about matchmaking speed but my major grype is about how there is no way 
 to leave a game once you are in and when people do manage to leave by going to dashboard there 
 is no way to to replenish the ranks of the opposing team. This can get extremely frustrating as 
 it is starting to happen more often. PLEASE FIX EPIC its my only pet peeve of your game. Hit detection 
 is shoddy sometimes but that could also be due to connection speed and not a direct defect of the 
 game. All in all a very fun and fulfilling experience of which I will enjoy no doubt almost every 
 night until GOW3 comes out. Worth every penny you spend.
  
  Graphics 10
  Gameplay 10
  Difficulty 10
  Sound 10
  Replayability 10
  Multiplayer 9.5
  
  All in all a great game. 
 A wonderful addition to the series and also my game collection. Hope this review was helpful to 
 you and that you enjoy the game as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  The storyline is somewhat superior to the original, adding a sense of tension and actually feeling 
 for the characters. As much as the voice acting isn't perfect, and typical marine talk which is 
 sometimes more humorous than serious, the development of each person is created well mainly thanks 
 to the background of each one and the story surrounding them. For example, Dominic hasn't got the 
 best actor voicing him, but the whole romantic storyline of retrieving his wife is considerberly 
 heartbreaking. Also, the newcomer marine is an innocent, warm heart surrounded by a brutal battlefield, 
 that makes you think he dosen't deserve to be there. Little things like this made an impact on 
 me to carry on the game. If it wasn't for the storyline, the campaign would probably be an empty, 
 soulless pit of dullness. Playing it with someone else would transform it even further into a fest 
 of enjoyment. Having three team mates gang up on one helpless locust has never been so much fun. 
 
  
  Multiplayer, however, is where the game disappoints. People's main argument against multiplayer 
 is basically the server, and the lagging factor. Yes the game does lag. And alot worse then the 
 previous did. But it's more the fact that there is little to offer that the first GoW already did. 
 Submission is a great and unique variation to Captue The Flag, and King of the Hill is better in 
 this game than any average online game, but there's some depth missing. It feels empty and sort 
 of down graded compared to the previous GOW's multiplayer. The maps are also not incredible. Good, 
 and absolutely nothing wrong with them, just not as mind blowing as the graphics itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kramer0024
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  
  
  First of all, I would like to say that I really didn't like Gears 1. For me, it was bland, boring 
 and difficult, amongst other things. But that doesn't matter anymore; Gears of War 2 blows its 
 predecessor out of the water! More honesty: This series is nothing more than just kicking ass and 
 taking namesno story line. This is another reason that Gears 2 is superior. The story line is 
 far better than Gears 1 and the gameplay is fun and addicting. There are some flaws though, as 
 well as some heavy discussion about the multiplayer. But this does not... I repeat DOES NOT... take 
 away from the entertainment this game offers. 
  
  Okay, basically I would not be giving it enough credit if I said better graphics, a more detailed 
 story line, and super addicting gameplay gave this game a 10 alone; the most incredible aspect 
 about this game is the breathtaking environments. As you move through the story you are just left 
 breathless and I believe the most important characteristic of a game is that "wow" factor, where 
 you are left in amazement after just a few minutes of gameplay. 
  
  The story line is very simple and very detailed at the same time. The first priority of the Delta 
 Squad is always to kick a lot of ass. The writers obviously relied on Gears of War 2 to move the 
 series with a it's more thorough story line. And the plot will be revealed more in later games 
 according to many sources. With that said, Gears of War 2 jumps right into an all-out-war on the 
 locust, and you are the heart of the COG (human army) again, Adam Fenix. After being attacked on 
 home-soil, Fenix, Delta Squad and several other squads go straight underground and into battle 
 in an intense, emotional, and entertaining ride to find and eliminate the locust queen and her 
 army. There are several components to this story, and the game throws you around several times 
 in several situations to create an entertaining gaming experience with unstoppable action. 
  
  The gameplay and graphics are absolutely amazing! Horde, multiplayer, and the campaign make 
 for a great package and I found myself coming back even when I completed the campaign and level 
 50 Horde: the characteristic of a great game-replayablity/addiction. I believe that it says 1080p 
 on the back of the box, so this game is at the best quality of any game on the 360 (graphic wise) . 
 The sounds are great, but the voice acting is kind of corny sometimes-Cole is a character. The 
 environments are incredible and I cannot stress this enough. The ceilings and sides of these worlds 
 give you an incredible sense of how large the locusts really are and how little you are. A giant 
 worm-that's all I'm going to say. The game is addicting-now go buy it!
  
  Finally I will talk about some problems. Yes, there are several problems with the game, and Epic 
 if you would of came out with this game in December instead of November you would have made a perfect 
 game! Perfect Game hmm Okay I'll be honest (again) and not many games could do this, but I loved 
 this game from the very beginning. While I was playing it with a friend, we got to this one level 
 and enemies started spawning and we killed everyone of them, then for about 5 minutes we waited 
 and waited and nothing happened, and I got very angry and then he loaded the checkpoint. It was 
 fine the second time, so I'm guessing it was just a bug I don't know-weird. There were also a 
 few problems with the loading textures, and sometimes my game froze while loading checkpoints
 
  
  But I want to make this clear, during my gameplay these things didn't bother me because the game 
 was truly amazing, and the great experiences exceeded the disappointments by so much more that 
 I didn't care anymore. I was hooked! .. if that's possible.
  
  Well, I beat the game and had nothing else to do, so a great multiplayer is what I have to look 
 forward to. I read online about wait-times, bugs, problems, and glitches, but I decided I would 
 try it out. I loved it and minimal problems for me. The wait times are a little slower than I would 
 like, but what I really liked was the survive-anyway-thats-possible intensity. For instance, there 
 is a way to switch a weapon with the shield, and highly strategical and annoying "Smoke Grenades" 
 that knock you down depending on how close they hit you, but does that make it cyber-ethicalI 
 don't know, if I have to use it to survive I will.. So I use the boomsheild with a shotgun, and 
 throw a smoke grenade everytime I move into combat and I get Hammer of dawned, that's what makes 
 this game great! Give a bit and get a bit, that's my philosophy for you haters. I haven't had many 
 complaints about the multiplayer so I am happy with it!
  
  Story-10/10
  Much much much better than the first story. I loved the emotions this game portrayed
  
  Gameplay-10/10
 
  One of the best experiences I have had in a while.. Why didn't this game get GOY?
  
  Controls-9/10
  Although I can't pull off a jerk shot with the sniper as much as I would like, 
 the controls due take a little getting used toof course that's prob cause I didn't finish the 
 1st one.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Gears 1 was bland, Gears 2 is just absolutely incredible!
  
  Replayablity 10/10
  Definitely My next halo!!! Very addicting!
  
  10/10
  An extra 10 
 just because I can shot someones head off and see the bullet trail!!
  
  Overall 10/10
  A must buy! Enough said!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  With Gears of War 2 carrying the incredible weight of hype and expectation upon its impossibly 
 large shoulders, it was always going to face a huge amount of scrutiny. Gamers and critics will 
 pore over every inch of Epic Studios' well-oiled war machine, looking for the seams, seeing if 
 the boughs will break when given a hard enough prod.
  
  It's a phenomenon fairly unique to video games - hell hath no fury like a gamer scorned - so developers 
 often succumb to the temptation to strengthen the foundations by laying on extra features in an 
 attempt to confound expectations. More features, more characters, more, more, more. Inevitably, 
 this can lead to the game collapsing under its own weight.
  
  How Gears 2 avoids this problem is as subtle as a sledgehammer. Here is a game that pulls no punches 
 - a brash, testosterone-fuelled, hyper-violent shooter that makes no apologies for what it is. 
 Gears 2 is a sequel that remains true to its origins while being, in the words of Clifford Bleszinski, 
 the lead designer, "bigger, better and more badass".
  
  As such, there is little in the way of surprises when it comes to gameplay. For all the pressure 
 of being a standard-bearer for the third-person shooter genre and, indeed, the Xbox 360, Gears 
 remains one of the purest video game experiences out there. It's you, a whole load of guns and 
 waves of bad guys to shoot at. It's kill or be killed - load up, take aim and save the world.
 
  
  But what makes Gears' combat such a success is its vicious, intimate intensity. Firefights are 
 so up close and personal you can almost smell the Locust horde as they bear down on your position.
 
  
  The game's opening stage is something of a microcosm of the whole game. Beginning in your army's 
 makeshift hospital base, you must stave off the oncoming Locust as they storm the building. Fighting 
 your way through crumbling, claustrophobic corridors you must slip from cover to cover, overturning 
 medical gurneys, digging in while chipping away at the assaulting enemies. Move forward; take out 
 the snipers in the overlooking floor above with a well-placed grenade and dash up to high ground, 
 taking the advantage. It's a frenetic blur of blood and bullets, an intense lesson in tactical 
 nous.
  
  Eventually, you clear the hospital and reach the front door. Kicking it open, you are greeted with 
 a city at war, buildings fall and helicopters buzz overhead while your comrades desperately fight 
 off Locust ground forces. It's a heart-stopping moment and the first of many to come.
  
  Never has a studio's name been so apt. Epic's ability to create an astonishing spectacle is second 
 to none. The first Gears was a showcase for the new generation and still has very few peers in 
 terms of visual wizardry. The sequel takes it even further. While the "destroyed beauty" of the 
 original is still the foundation for the artwork, the locations are far more varied, splashed with 
 lush blues, greens and a little more life. At one point you are battling through a war-ravaged 
 town that you could imagine bustling with residents in a more peaceful time. It's exactly the kind 
 of character that, arguably, the original lacked.
  
  The outstanding locations are a large part of what makes Gears 2's campaign so gripping, not just 
 in terms of visual splendour but in the way the gameplay is varied enough to hold you in thrall. 
 While you're never far from a gun battle, the game is a masterclass in pacing - mixing the intimate 
 with the epic in just the right dosage. One minute you'll be clashing chainsaws up close with Locust 
 grunts and the next you'll be manning the machine gun on a gigantic tank, rumbling through a forest 
 while mortar fire sends huge boulders plummeting from the cliffs beside you. Epic seems to know 
 exactly when to have you holding your breath and when to have your heart thudding through your 
 chest. One section in the pouring rain is the very essence of this, ramping up the tension to an 
 unbearable degree before smashing it down in a maelstrom of tooth and claw. The campaign does get 
 a little flabby around the three-quarter mark, with your mind starting to wander after you've spent 
 just a little too long underground. However, any malaise is swiftly shaken in the suitably explosive 
 denouement.
  
  Needless to say, Gears 2 is relentlessly brutal. While the gore and swearing can be switched off, 
 the entire game is full of violent machismo. So much so that it does eventually begin to grate. 
 Your hero, Marcus Fenix, with his neck as wide as a tree-trunk, is a gruff-voiced killing machine 
 who quips things such as, "Ooh, that's gotta hurt", or "Look Ma, no face", as he takes the head 
 off a distant Locust with a well-placed sniper bullet. It's all in keeping with the game's tone, 
 but it you do eventually reach saturation point with the macho brouhaha and you can't help but 
 hope for some levity.
  
  An attempt at this does come with the much-publicised search for Maria, the wife of your partner, 
 Dominic Santiago. Unfortunately, while the plotline itself holds some strong, almost poignant, 
 moments, the execution is too heavy-handed. Epic clearly wanted to answer the criticisms of the 
 first game's lack of a human touch, but the Maria plotline, while far from being weak, does come 
 across as a little forced. The story in general is a great improvement on the original, but tends 
 to be a series of interesting events strung together with a slightly weak thread. The mythology 
 of the Gears universe is a fascinating slice of science fiction, but melding it into a cogent story 
 is proving somewhat elusive.
  
  Epic has no such problems in building its multiplayer. The campaign can be played in two-player 
 co-op, both online and off, with the option for each player to choose their own difficulty level. 
 The new online mode, Horde, allows up to five players to team up against ever-increasing waves 
 of Locust in what is effectively a score attack mode. Horde is merciless, in many ways the ultimate 
 test of your skills. The five human players must work together to somehow battle their way through 
 50 waves of Locust. As you'd expect it starts off light, but just a few waves in the amount of 
 enemies becomes suffocating and the short break between waves becomes a mad scramble for weapons 
 and ammo, which always seem to be just out of reach.
  
  The original Gears multiplayer still has its hooks into million of players and, with Horde, Gears 
 2 is looking to reel back in those who have defected to Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4. Maps are tightly 
 designed, with plenty of cover and holdpoints. Teamwork is essential. Getting caught playing the 
 lone ranger is likely to get you killed and won't win many friends in your team. Favourite modes 
 such as Annex are even better in Gears 2, but the real star of the show for me was the new mode, 
 Submission.
  
  Submission is essentially Capture the Flag, but with a twist: the flag is alive and fights back. 
 Represented by one of the Stranded from the storyline, the "meatflag" is armed with a shotgun and 
 you must take him down in a hail of bullets before you can grab him by the neck and drag him back 
 to the scoring zone. As one player is dragging the Stranded, his team-mates must protect him, otherwise 
 the "flag" can get loose and take out members of your team with a few well-placed shots.
  
  Submission can lead to some fraught back-and-forth encounters that can last for some time as each 
 team refuses to concede the score. The intimate nature of the battles leads to ferocious competition 
 in all gametypes and, for me, Gears 2 is one of the finest examples of online multiplayer warfare 
 yet. It matches, if not beats, the frantic running-and-gunning of Halo and Call of Duty with tense, 
 tactical encounters.
  
  Gears of War 2 doesn't claim to be any kind of paradigm shift for the medium, nor does it need 
 to. In its own, very loud way, Gears 2 is still an important figure on the video game landscape. 
 Sure it's uncouth at times, but it stands tall as an example of just how heart-poundingly exciting 
 games can be. It is a game of gargantuan spectacle that grabs you by the throat and throws you 
 headlong into a frantic, terrifying, exhilarating adventure, armed to the teeth with huge guns 
 and one hell of an attitude.
  
  Bigger, better and more badass? You'd better believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightower8655
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  If you played Gears of War (GOW) , then you probably have been waiting for this game for some time. 
 Well, I am happy to say that you wait has been well rewarded. This game is a must for fans of the 
 original GOW, as well as a must play for fans of the shooting/action genre in general. You will 
 not be disappointed!
  
  HIGH POINTS: Graphics. They were tops in GOW, and they are even better now. Though it is not a 
 quantum leap from the year before, it is noticeably better, even in standard def. Another high 
 point is the new modes. The multiplayer offerings are well-diversified and offer a lot of thrills 
 outside of your standard CTF and deathmatch modes. Wingman and Annex are personal favorites that 
 will keep you on XBox Live way too late! What's wrong? Not the competitive type, but you still 
 want to play online? Well, Sally, GOW2 has got something for you too! Horde, which is a multiplayer 
 mode that allows human players to team up against waves of Locust, is an awesome diversion for 
 non-competitive players, or players looking for some good team action. Believe me, if you are in 
 for a challenge, just try to complete every wave in that mode. You are asking for pain. You probably 
 have a better chance of spotting a whore in church than you do of getting to that final wave. Finally, 
 all of the new additions are perfect for the updated game. New weapons (two handed and standard) 
 and grenades add new levels of strategy. This is definitely not just a retread of a successful 
 formula.
  
  LOW POINTS: Though the story in this game is MUCH better than last game, unfortunately, it is nothing 
 more than a popcorn affair. You will not be losing sleep over the emotional moments or epic lives 
 of the core characters. The are 'roided up, they are bad ass, and they want to kill the Locust. 
 That is all you need to know. I did like the random touch backs to the first game though. I liked 
 the continuity it created, and made the story work, even in a limited degree. I am not saying that 
 the story is bad, it just isn't more than a standard action, sci-fi flick. But hey, did you expect 
 much more? Second, I wish the campaign was a little longer. It is decent size compared to other 
 games in its genre, but GOW2 is so good that you will want to play this game for longer than it 
 lasts. Maybe that is a backhanded compliment, but regardless, unless you have XBox Live, the new 
 experiences will be over pretty quick.
  
  THE SCOOP: You like action, I know you do. You also enjoy killing aliens and saving the world. 
 I can feel it. So do yourself a favor, and pick this up. Unless you never played the first GOW. 
 In that case, get the first one, beat that, then get this. You will appreciate this game that much 
 more if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulleb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is all that it is cracked up to be despite what some may say. The game, which handles exactly 
 like the original is the same addictive experience we all had during the first game. With changes 
 to a fewe of the weapons, some good, others terrible, the game evolves a bit, and with the more 
 earthy, light settings it seems like a step in the right direction. Despite the glitches in the 
 multi-player side, which are still present, they are not as common as they were in the first, which 
 makes the online more enjoyable. The story, which is a little bit more emotional introduces a few 
 new characters while deepening others, and the multi-player is the same as in the first game, with 
 an additional player per team and a few new modes. The old modes remain the exact same, but are 
 more interesting on the new maps as well as the Flashback remakes of the most popular maps from 
 the original. All in all, Gears 2 is a must have for fans of the first game and is one of the best 
 games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  One word desicribes the spectacular events of this game, Epic. Delta Squad undergo some unworldly 
 triumphs weather its cutting out of a colossal being or fleeing death by the skin of their teeth. 
 I wont go into details too much so to sum up the story its excellent, it could be better and more 
 jaw dropping yes but its an outstanding experience well worth the wait.
  The graphics and game style is outstandingly individual, most games scrape close to eachother but 
 this is an individual style. The characters look awsome but some things do look a little blocky 
 but thats the way its all been designed. You will already know all this if you have played the 
 first Gears of War. The differences with the fist game is that its not bleak and grey anymore. 
 Some would argue otherwise but I personally found it perfect for the atmosphere and practicality 
 of the game. The graphics also appear more crisp than before.
  Multiplayer is a thrill to play. Its great fun but there is major issues with the server meaning 
 long times spent in the lobby waiting around to find a match. I have been waiting for up to around 
 30 minutes for a match. Some may say the great game modes make up for the wait but I personally 
 dont have the time to wait that long for a game. Many people however have not had too much trouble 
 with waiting, perhaps I have been unlucky along with thousands of others? Theres some great modes 
 like meatflag and horde. Horde is similar to call of duty WaW's nazi zombie game. You are not trapped 
 in a location you are placed on a multiplayer map and you have to survive wave after wave of locust 
 attacking you and your team. Its great fun and probably the most popular game mode on GoW 2.
  
  Worth the money? Yes most definitely a top notch game. In the UK all main stores are now selling 
 it at 30 which I would say is an excellent price and well worth it. Worth the hype? Yes GoW fans 
 have a right to be excited by the game and the advertisments and its reputation made me them even 
 more excited. I was not waiting for it at all as I didnt enjoy the first game that much but after 
 watching advertisments and its reputation like the fans it made me want to get it! So I got it 
 and I love it.
  
  Yes get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  Gears of War is now almost as big a brand name, if not bigger, as Halo. It has got everything going 
 for it. It got a spectacular first game. It got a most revolutionary gameplay engine and a masterful 
 soundtrack. The first game was more successful than most of the shooters out there. It was a given 
 then, that a sequel would be released. When Gears 2 was announced earlier this year (2008) , my 
 hopes went sky high. The first game was THE best shooter I had ever played... the second one would 
 HAVE to be better. When I bought the game and played it, I realised one thing: there is no other 
 shooter as good as Gears 2 (well, apart from maybe Resistance 2) . 
  
  Basically, Gears 2 uses the same gameplay engine as that of Gears 1. It uses the same stop and 
 pop gameplay engine that made us all love Gears 2 so much. Even though its nothing new, its damn 
 great fun. Then there's the cover system which adds to the greatness of the game's gameplay. It 
 completely sucks you in. The boss battles are great too. The bosses are so huge, you might have 
 to go INSIDE them to beat them sometimes. 
  
  There are a certain tweaks to the gameplay here and there. The revival system, for one, has been 
 significantly modified. Not only can your Ai teammates heal you, you can simply press A so that 
 you will crawl to them when you're injured. This gets really exciting if you're hiding behind a 
 wall and are badly injured and a Locust might be standing on the other side, and you have to crawl 
 slowly to your teammate to get yourself healed while the Locust might just give you a finishing 
 attack and finish you off completely. Its really heart stopping.
  
  A really cool weapon that has been added is the Flamethrower. It may have some drawbacks, like 
 having a short range but its great fun to use it against a horde of enemies and its really cool 
 to watch them all burn before our eyes. The Mulcher and the Mortar are other great weapons that 
 we use in the game. The mulcher is like a chain saw that an cut through almost everything and the 
 mortar sprays a bunch of explosives on your enemies. The grenades can now be stuck to the ground 
 and be used as mines. The smoke grenades also are fun to use.
  
  The over the top violence that made the first game really cool is still there. And its even more 
 intense, if that is possible. There are certain buttons dedicated to make some really cool looking 
 moves that will make your enemy's blood spry all over your screen.
  
  Also, unlike the first game, this game has some great outdoor environments and underground levels 
 or snowcapped mountains to see. It looks really awe-striking and makes the game even more heart 
 stopping than ever before. The graphics of the game are top notch and so is the presentation. They're 
 even better than the first game, if you'll believe that. 
  
  Moving away from the gameplay, lets now talk about the story. Even though its nothing special, 
 its really great when compared to the story of the first game. It gives a certain depth to the 
 characters and makes you feel good/bad/whatever for them. Not as much as, say, Cecil or Kratos... 
 but still... its better than Gears 1. 
  
  This game has a brooding soundtrack that adds to it's value and is really cool to listen to.
 
  
  The online sucks in this game. I dont think Epic gets the point of match-making at all. The modes 
 in this game, though, are really great. The four new modes and several new maps make this game 
 even better. Warzone, Execution, Assassination, and Annex modes all make a return, along with King 
 of the Hill, which was introduced in the PC version of the game. 
  
  The bottom line is this: Even though the game is highly similar to the first installment in the 
 series, it still is one of the best, i not THE best (as I said, second to Res2) shooter I've ever 
 played. If you don't buy this game, you seriously are going to regret. If you have, then you're 
 in for a joy ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was a revolutin in the action genre. Featuring beautiful graphics, a compelling 
 character, and violent, gory, over the top yet addictive gameplay, the game provided a much needed 
 breather to Microsoft, by giving the Xbox 360 its first must have title. And while the game was 
 inherently flawed- nobody can deny that the game had practically no story, or that it's online 
 was next to horrendous- the game was so much fun that it had players returning to it long after 
 they should have replaced it back on the shelf.
  
  Given the monumental success of the first game (over 6 million copies sold) , it was but a given 
 that a sequel would eventually emerge. And so, when Epic confrimed Gears of War 2 earlier this 
 year, there were no squeals of surprise, only gasps of excitement. Epic was promising a lot for 
 this title- a bigger story, better graphics, better online, more ways to play, in short, everything 
 that a sequel to one of the highest regarded games of all time should have. And now, finally, they 
 have given us Gears of War 2. And after spending quite a long time with it, I am ready to give 
 you my opinion on this game.
  
  First things first, this game is practically identical to the first Gears title when it comes to 
 the gameplay department. Yeah, a few minor tweaks here and there have been given, like the better 
 cover system, but essentially, it's just the same shot and pop gameplay that we've all come to 
 love (or hate) . This of course means it's familiar to all of us Gears veterans... but to those 
 who were looking for something more, something better, something beyond what the first title offered, 
 this comes as a slight disappointment. But once you begin playing, all of your earlier apprehensions 
 are cast aside, as once again, the engaging Gears of War gameplay sucks you in. There can be no 
 doubt about it, this same gameplay system might be repeated a thousand times from now, but we'll 
 still love it like anything, and that's because of the sheer addictiveness of it all. Yeah, there 
 were loads of areas where so much more could have been done, but when you're still having so much 
 fun, why bother twiddling a formula that's a sure shot success anyway?
  
  Where the gameplay has remained just the same, the game itself has moved on to a much grander and 
 greater level. Offering a scope of story not offered by the first game, Gears of War 2 does everything 
 that the first one didn't. There were some common complaints, like the characters being too shallow 
 or uni dimensional, or there being practically next to no narrative to speak of, but this time 
 around, that's all changed. The characters are given their own personalities, and the game touches 
 on themes that lends each character his or her own distinct identity. Okay, you still won't come 
 to care for them as you care about, say, Kratos, but seriously, its a lot better than the grunting 
 props that we had as sorry excuses for characters in the first game.
  
  It's not just about the story though. Everything in this game represents a change in the approach 
 of the developers. No longer are the environments limited to dreary gray crumbling ruins of once 
 majestic cities. We get outdoor environments, and the strength of proportion that these add further 
 lend to the overall epic feel of the game.
  
  And yeah, we also get these giant bosses, sometimes so gargantuan that we need to get inside them 
 to defeat them. Like everything else, the bosses in the game are big... and that further adds perspective 
 to all the characters and their sufferings.
  
  The soundscore of the first game was excellent, and this game only improves upon it. To back the 
 excellent compositions that play throughout the game, we get excellent voice acting (though Marcus' 
 gravelly voice is really starting to get to me now) , so that, for the first time, the characters 
 appear as real people with real problms they're facing.
  
  The graphics of the first game were nothing if not good, and though the second game does little 
 to improve upon what the first acomplished, there is little doubt that Gears of War 2 looks simply 
 specacular. The outdoors, in aprticular, have truly shown what the Xbox and the Unreal Engine are 
 capable of producing, if enough time and resources go into extracting the very best. Not even any 
 game on the PS3, except for maybe Metal Gear Solid 4, comes close to looking as good as Gears 2 
 does.
  
  But like always, there are flaws to Gears of War 2. Even if you are willing to overlook that this 
 is essentially a repackaged Gears of War 1, there simply is no overlooking the multiplayer component 
 of the game, which has only grown worse. The modes themselves are top notch, particularly Horde 
 mode... its just that online matchmaking suck, and you often have to wait for upto ten minutes 
 before you can get into a game. Compare this with last year's Modern Warfare's excellent and seamless 
 online, and you can do nothing but scream in frustration.
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to Gears of War 2 being an excellent title, but there's simply no overlooking 
 the fact that Epic Games has foregone an opportunity to make this one an instant classic. This 
 is just the same as the original Gears of War, which in its turn was nothing revolutionary, and 
 the online has just grown worse. But the fact remains that for all its flaws, Gears of War 2 is 
 an undoubtedly fun and compelling game, and all action maniacs should try it at least once. After 
 all, you won't really care if the game offers you nothing new as long as there's plenty of blood, 
 gore and fun, right??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conan1234100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:08 am PT
Review:  So Gears Of War 2 or what Cliffy B calls it 'bigger, better and badder'. Lets get started on the 
 Single player, it revolves around Marcus Fenix and Dominic Santiago six months after the events 
 of Gears Of War, the thing that is different this time is they are bringing the fight to the locust. 
 From the start it feels a lot bigger scale than the previous game with Marcus and Dominic starting 
 at the hospital in the city Jacinto. Dom is looking for his wife Maria who has not seen since Emergence 
 Day when the locust horde appeared 15 years earlier. I will not spoil the story anymore than this 
 because there is a lot of twists and turns in the campaign.
  
  On to the multiplayer side of the game there is one fault with it, the matchmaking, it takes at 
 least 1 minute to find a normally five minute game, but it features things similar to find matches 
 as say Halo 3 or Call Of Duty 4 as now in this game you can get your friends in the party before 
 you search for a match which was not available on Gears Of War. This makes up for the matchmaking 
 problem but that may be fixed soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinmjtbean
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  Overall the campaign was a really good storyline with some very good battles but most of them were 
 way too easy to get past and horde mode is fun & challenging that needs good team work especially 
 on insane but at some points i have seen the locust teleporting across the map and spawning right 
 next to me i like the idea how the locust get stronger after every ten waves but horde needed just 
 a little bit more to make it more enjoyable maybe.
  
  The online play lets this game down with the voting system for a gametype and map selection which 
 is just plain stupid and alot of people quit including myself when we dont get the gametype wanted. 
 Some of the new maps are ok but the weapon cycles ruin most of the maps be prepared for lots of 
 lag, glitches & full of cheaters to be honest i would rather play gears of war 1 online than this 
 easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpmeritt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that this game is crazy. Everything that was great about the first one has been 
 improved on in every way. All the people that say this is more of the same need to be slapped because 
 your nuts if you think its the same. And I'll tell you why.
  The campaign is a couple hours longer, the graphics are better, the sound of the guns is better. (the 
 sound in general is def a LOT better. Do yourself a favor and play this game in surround sound.) 
 The guns feel a lot more powerful (Trust me, go back to the first one and then play the second one 
 and you'll know exactly what I'm talking about.) The music is as good as any hollywood action movie, 
 and the story is better. 
  Now to the gameplay: The cover system has been tuned up (once again play the first then the second 
 and you will see for yourself) . There are more routes to take by yourselves in co-op, more driving 
 missions, you ride a reaver and a brumak, more guns, destructible environments which look cool 
 as hell, more multiplayer modes, and Horde (which kicks ass) . 
  The only things I can really knock about this game is that the voice acting can be a little hoaky, 
 it takes too long to find an online game sometimes, and there can be lag issues in multiplayer. 
 So once again, the people who say this game is the same as the first need a backhand to the face. 
 Honestly what more do you want from a sequel. You can't change the whole concept of the game, otherwise 
 it won't be a sequel. I do expect Gears 3 to deliver the best action game ever made. You'll see. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomster58
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  i love this game lol this the first game i ever gotten ive played the first which was superb unbelievable 
 sound and action gears 2 is good recommendation
  Graphics were good ive been playing horde nonstop, its where you and 4 other players fight wave 
 after wave of locust dudes its tough when you get to the 40s but ive managed to finish all 50 waves 
 i love the chainsaw and ive seen a couple of ppl wit golden lancers. really cool but must get the 
 limited edition package to get it
  Must have game its fun and now you can have chainsaw duels and pack grenades on ppl or even floors 
 or walls as traps and also the flamethrower is new to the series and its crazy ownage when its 
 attacking you lol i get almost owned when its on me Cant wait for the next gears of war game. Gears 
 2 should have been the game of the year but oh well its the game of the year for me
  Insane is just TOO INSANE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  Where to begin, where to begin? Gears 2 takes place approximately 6 months after it's predecessor, 
 as Marcus Fenix, and Dominic Santiago are helping the COG to try and force back the Locust Horde. 
 They gain a new recruit into their squad and after they teach him all the moves of being a Gear, 
 the real action begins. 
  
  Gears 2 is almost the same as the first except they've added new ways to kill people, some new 
 weapons and a few other things. I've never played the first Gears in my lifetime, and I thought 
 it would be a bad idea not to as I was starting up in Gears 2. Yes you do have to know the plot 
 to the original, but since Gears 2 is almost exactly similar to the original, (which isn't a bad 
 thing because the original was a masterpiece) it seems like you are playing the first one over, 
 so that would be good for newcomers who already know the plot. 
  
  Mostly this game is run, cover, aim, shoot, cover, reload, etc. Some of the different covers are 
 damaged cars, tables, walls, columns, and so much more. You get the original Lancer with the hefty 
 helping Chainsaw Bayonet on the bottom, and shotguns, sniper rifles, an exploding bow and arrow, 
 grenades, and a few others. The graphics have somewhat improved over the original by adding a clearer 
 sight and much more.
  
  The plot works exceptionally well here, and at parts will feel purely epic, especially on the last 
 chapter, and at moments are very, very sad, which there are quite a few moments like that in the 
 game, I should say. The game will take you about 10 hours to beat, and it is longer than the first 
 I've heard. 
  
  Now onto the flaws. There are only 3 flaws in this game I had trouble with: action can get extremely 
 hard at parts if you are not used to the Gears of War gameplay, the gameplay can start to get a 
 little repetitive towards the end of the game, and the one that really got me is on the last chapter 
 the A. I. of Dom was so stupid that he just stood up out of cover doing nothing whatsoever not even 
 moving at all and he was getting shot up, and so me and another A. I. had to hold off the Horde 
 while he was doing nothing, so yes the A. I. can be pretty stupid at times.
  
  I do not have XBOX Live but I hope to get it soon. I played the Training Grounds on this game with 
 bots and it actually felt like you were playing with other people from across the world. You can 
 either play as the Locust or Humans, but I stuck with humans most of the time I played through 
 it. There are about 10 maps and about 10 different matches you play through but almost each one 
 seems similar except for a select few. Another flaw that I encountered is that you can only play 
 Horde on Live, or with other humans, and no bots, which let me down a lot because I was looking 
 forward to playing Horde, and not just by myself through 50 waves of oncoming Locust. 
  
  Besides these 4 flaws the epic gameplay and storyline keep it from getting an even lower score. 
 The ending has a twist after the credits so look out for it. This game was an amazing achievement 
 that shouldn't be missed by anyone even if you have or have not played the original, or you are 
 just looking for an all around fun and hardcore third person shooter. A 9.5 out of 10.
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  When Gears of War 2 was far enough along in development that it became time to start promoting, 
 Epic Games constantly made use of the tagline "Bigger, Badder, and More Badass" to describe it. 
 When I first heard this I rolled my eyes, but it turns out that this is actually a pretty good 
 way to describe Gears 2. It takes everything that Gears 1 did well, throws in more enemies, weapons, 
 vehicles, ect, and turns the action up to a level I have never seen before. Gears of War 2 is honestly 
 the most epic and intense game I have ever seen, and is a blast to play from beginning to end.
 
  
  I think most would agree that the storyline in the first game wasn't all that great. It provided 
 the player with enough of a reason to keep playing, but didn't little else to pull you into the 
 universe. Epic Games said they gave the storyline a lot more attention this time around, and it 
 really does show. In addition to learning a lot more about the universe itself, the story carries 
 some emotional weight that actually manages to pay off. Many questions from the first game are 
 answered (or at least made clearer) , while new (and more interesting) questions are asked. Don't 
 get me wrong, the plot isn't going to win any awards, but it is on par with a good summer action 
 blockbuster.
  
  Gears of War 2 takes place months after the events of first game. It turns out that the Lightmass 
 bomb didn't do as much damage as the COG hoped. After a short period of peace, the locusts have 
 returned in larger numbers then before. They now have some new weapon that is capable of sinking 
 entire cities, and the city of Jacinto in one of the only remaining safe places for humans to live. 
 However, there are signs that the Locusts are getting ready to sink that city as well. Humanity's 
 only hope is to launch one final massive offensive against the locusts, and hit them on their home 
 turf. And what an amazingly epic battle that is.
  
  The word "epic" gets thrown around a bit too much these days, but if there is one game that deserves 
 to be described as such, Gears of War 2 is it. The thing that really stuck me while playing Gears 
 2 is just how intense and unrelenting the action is. After beating the game I literally felt tired, 
 as if I was actually there fighting along with Marcus and the rest of Delta Squad. The scale of 
 the battles is huge; its just one massive set piece battle after another from start to end. There 
 are very few moments when the action slows down. The game hits the ground running and never lets 
 you catch your breath. Plus, no other game has ever given me such a sense of being a small (although 
 important) part of a huge war.
  
  There is a lot more scenery this time around as well. While the first game mostly took place in 
 destroyed urban settings, Gears 2 takes you out of the cities for the majority of the game. You 
 will find yourself fighting everywhere from a snowed covered mountain town to deep underground 
 locust cities. There are some other incredible locations, but I wouldn't want to spoil anything 
 here. So lets just say you wont believe some of the places that you end up in.
  
  The gameplay from the first game was extremely solid, so there aren't many major changes. However, 
 the new weapons, enemies and vehicles go a long way towards making the game feel new and fresh. 
 The new enemies come with new AI, making each one require a unique strategy to defeat, while new 
 weapons open up new combat opportunities. Most of the actual gameplay changes or additions deal 
 with how cover works. A new shield has been added to the game, allowing players to advance on enemies 
 while remaining in cover. Downed enemies can be picked up to be used as "meatshields", also adding 
 to the idea of movable cover. Some cover is now partially destructible, making you slightly more 
 vulnerable as you come under fire. There have also been numerous tweaks to other gameplay systems, 
 such as bullets having stopping power (slowing enemies down) , or smoke grenades knocking down nearby 
 enemies when they explode.
  
  All of the new gameplay additions and changes come together really well. Thanks to great controls 
 you will find yourself jumping from cover to cover, blindfiring around corners, tossing grenades 
 and sniping with pinpoint accuracy in no time at all. The new enemies are challenging, the new 
 vehicles are fun to drive, and the new weapons are enjoyable to use. The only real disappointments 
 in the gameplay department are the new bosses. While they are pretty epic, they are simply too 
 easy to defeat. All of them have some small trick, and once you figure that out they are laughably 
 easy to defeat. They just lose a lot of their awe when you realize how easy they are. For example, 
 you would expect the massive final boss to be extremely tough, but instead it is probably one of 
 the easiest boss battles in any game to date.
  
  Graphically, the game looks great from both a technical and artistic point of view. There were 
 numerous points throughout the game when I was stunned that the Xbox 360 can output such amazing 
 visuals. From the level of detail on every surface, to the improved lighting, to just all the "stuff" 
 on the screen at once, I was just constantly impressed with what I was seeing. Plus, the new locations 
 gave the artists the opportunity to add some much needed color. Compared to the first game, Gears 
 2 makes vivid use of colors.
  
  The multiplayer in the first game was admittedly a bit of an afterthought. Despite this, the online 
 action in Gears 1 was extremely addicting and kept players (myself included) playing for many months 
 after the game's release date. This time around, there was clearly a large focus on the online 
 aspect. In addition to some really well designed multiplayer maps, the game also features many 
 new gamplay modes as well as a higher player count. The most interesting new mode is called Horde. 
 In this mode, you and your friends team up against wave after wave of increasingly difficult locusts. 
 It has a very arcade like feel to it, and it is really addicting and infinitely repayable. Getting 
 to the end requires not only skill but good teamwork as well, since the amount of enemies you face 
 off against would be overwhelming by yourself. The game also has a great matchmaking system which 
 is similar to the one found in the Halo games, allowing groups of friends to easily move from one 
 match to another without ever sorting through a list of servers. If Gears 1 kept you playing for 
 months, expect Gears 2 to keep you busy for years.
  
  Overall, Gears of War 2 is pretty much flawless. The single player game is relentlessly action 
 packed, while the multiplayer offers a lot of lasting value. The only real disappointment I came 
 across were the boss battles, but when taken with the rest of the game, it's really only a minor 
 complaint that didn't inhibit my overall enjoyment. If you like action games at all, Gears of War 
 2 is a game that you cannot miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I am not a hardcore gamer... I hardly have time to beat a game... but I have taken the time where 
 I did not have to beat this one...
  
  I bought this game... My first purpose when I came to home with this game was to test it in my 
 360 and leave it meanwhile I finish another older game already started but I hooked me up since 
 the very beginning... I finished the game in a single weekend... I couldn't stop this game since 
 I inserted the disc into the 360...
  
  The game is not too long... I think is long enough...
  
  The graphics are one the best I've 
 ever seen... I think it is the best 360 looking game around... not better than MGS4 for PS3 but 
 close enough...
  
  The sound is great... the game takes advantage of my 7.1 receiver... it immerses you deeper in 
 the game...
  
  Gameplay is awesome... It never bores you... it is the most original shooter around... very immersive... 
 very enjoyable...
  
  This game seems to take almost full advantage of the 360... Push it hard... great physics and some 
 things in the environments are destructible...
  
  Being brief this is a great game... A most buy for everyone who has 360 and enjoy playing it... 
 won't be disappointed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_korea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is amazing in two fronts. The first is the graphical presentation. In three words 
 "it is amazing". The second is the scope of the story and the world within. 
  
  You can immediately notice how the graphic has been bettered than the eye-candy we saw in Gears 
 of War the original. Now not only do you see dreary world land scapes that sometimes only comprises 
 of gray to brown colors, but also in Gears of War 2 has a huge explosion of different colors that 
 mesh beautifully in the backgound. For example in one scene I died couple of times because I kept 
 admiring the scenery that particular scene of action led me into. Hint- It involves some huge vehicle 
 that transports troops with mountains in the background.
  
  The story is very intriguing and some heartfelt moments are felt. Unlike Gears of War 1 with its 
 almost shallow "half-assed" story telling, Gears of War 2 gives the player an almost unfathomable 
 amount of story-telling that will impress any gamer of all ages. Again Gears 2 pit you in the boots 
 of a war veteran named Marcus Fenix. Again you have to fight overwhelming odds and come out as 
 the victor. Again you have to kill huge monsters that are so big that "beep". Crap, better not 
 go too far.
  
  Anyway the story is amazing, the graphics is amazing, and most of all the same fun Gears of War 
 1 action returns, with ten times the number of weapons and tricks such as "executions" (dont know 
 what that means? Buy the game and you will find out)
  
  My only complaint, the shotty is now required to be aimed or the bullets will fly everywhere except 
 where you intended.
  
  "just wish they kept the no-aim shotty action"
  
  SO GO OUT AND BUY THE FRIGGING GAME CUZ IT IS FRIGGING 
 
  
  -blumonkispartan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this is my favorite game at the moment, and favorite game series. With fixing alot 
 of glitches, the improved graphics, re-loading, etc., this game passed my expectations. Completely 
 dominating in a shooter, being adult-erated, and massively violent, the game still brought in more. 
 Suprisingly unlike the first, the story was more, suspensful, energizing, addictive, and sad. Adding 
 in new weapons and attacks to use on downed victims, the game has solely improved from great, to 
 holy... well, unholy but in a good way. With the multiplayer being improved with less lag, new levels, 
 and weapons, it is truelly an addictive game. You all remember the COG tags that kept us busy after 
 the story right? Well now we've got 41 collectibles to find this time, so you'll be drawn to getting 
 that achievement and going on through the the immersive story again. The horde mode is deffinetely 
 what makes it a true multiplayer with feel, thanks to having to work together and fight harder 
 than in versus matches. With the, few, new weapons, new beat-downs, more characters, well made, 
 detailed, and powerful story, great voice-acting, amazing gore and graphics, and new-and-improved 
 driving system, GEARS OF WAR 2 is an addictive 3rd person shooter that will bring players to have 
 a smile on their face as they kill, tears on their cheeks from some funny or powerful moments, 
 and red-faced when they die and get ready to kick the guys ass, we'll be playing this till the 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laytoncc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the best third person shooters to date. Better than Mass Effect!!! It's true this game is 
 one of the best if not the best third person shooter ever. Anybody who gives it less than a 9.0 
 is out of they're mind. This game has all the addictiveness as previous games like Call of Duty 
 4 and Assassins Creed, but has the save intensity with newer games like Fallout 3 and Metal Gear 
 Solid IV, with a story that almost compares to that of Grand Theft Auto IV. These were all great 
 games then and I'm sure they will be to come and I'm sure Gears of War 2 will be up there with 
 them for many months just as the first one did. I mean come on it's like Mario 64 without the cartoon 
 affects (And Italian Guy) , like Mass Effect without the long dialogue portions and unimpressive 
 cut scenes, like Fallout 3 without all the walking around and searching. It gives the the feeling 
 of accomplishment when you snipe the head off an opposing locust or firing away at a boomer with 
 your shotgun until he moans and falls to his knees. This is one of those games tht "move to fast" 
 even though it has a long story you'll get so caught up in it you'll end up beating half the game 
 without feeling like anytime has gone by, that's just how awesome it is!!! If you could give this 
 game a 9.8 I would but since you can't let's round up, 10-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollingMeatball
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  As much as I would like to join the band wagon and agree that this game betters it's prequel, I 
 just have to depart from this trend. It's a brillianty made game, absolutely incredibly looking... 
 but the creators basically took everything that made GoW 1 what it was, and recycled it. Everything 
 near enough the same. From the looks to the actual gameplay itself. 
  
  I have to say, however, as much as the campaign is way too similar to the previous one, it's a 
 unique expierience that we've done before, but why not relive it again, and this time, with added 
 modifications. Improved visuals, A. I., minions, weapons etc. Not to mention a cooperative multiplayer 
 that really shines compared to the original. 
  
  Vehicles are added to the game, but not as pleasing as it sounds, thanks to clumbsy controls, repetitive 
 objectives and... well pretty much dull atmosphere. Infact, the whole vehicle thing is pointless, 
 and does nothing to the game. Weapons, however, are just as great as before, and we still have 
 the incredible Toque Bow. 
  
  The storyline is somewhat superior to the original, adding a sense of tension and actually feeling 
 for the characters. As much as the voice acting isn't perfect, and typical marine talk which is 
 sometimes more humorous than serious, the development of each person is created well mainly thanks 
 to the background of each one and the story surrounding them. For example, Dominic hasn't got the 
 best actor voicing him, but the whole romantic storyline of retrieving his wife is considerberly 
 heartbreaking. Also, the newcomer marine is an innocent, warm heart surrounded by a brutal battlefield, 
 that makes you think he dosen't deserve to be there. Little things like this made an impact on 
 me to carry on the game. If it wasn't for the storyline, the campaign would probably be an empty, 
 soulless pit of dullness. Playing it with someone else would transform it even further into a fest 
 of enjoyment. Having three team mates gang up on one helpless locust has never been so much fun. 
 Not to mention horde, a mode in which up to 5 players face waves upon waves of enemies, reacing 
 as far as you can until you can survive no longer, and in which teamwork strategies are as vital 
 as ever.
  
  Multiplayer, however, is where the game disappoints. People's main argument against multiplayer 
 is basically the server, and the lagging factor. Yes the game does lag. And alot worse then the 
 previous did. But it's more the fact that there is little to offer that the first GoW already did. 
 Submission is a great and unique variation to Captue The Flag, and King of the Hill is better in 
 this game than any average online game, but there's some depth missing. It feels empty and sort 
 of down graded compared to the previous GOW's multiplayer. The maps are also not incredible. Good, 
 and absolutely nothing wrong with them, just not as mind blowing as the graphics itself.
  
  All in all, GoW 2 feels extremley similar to the original, and because of this, the repitivity 
 factor is high. We've done it all before, even the majority of the objectives are the same. There's 
 numerous of added features, but these will only delight for the first few plays. Gears of War 2 
 is a little bit of a let down when compared to it's prequel, but by no means a major disappointment. 
 It's more Gears of War 1.5 than a total brand spanking new sequel. Nothing more than an expansion 
 pack, with added depth to the story and slightly more enjoying campaign. Die hard GoW fans will 
 absolutely love this game, and casual games will pretty much enjoy this for a small period of time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoro0
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Its hard to explain this masterpiece of a game
  the storyline will keep you on your toes as you fight the locust horde from your home to theirs
 
  although the campaign lasts only around 7 hours which is quite short nowadays 
  you are compelled to complete it on insane
  collect all the collectables
  and even once you 
 have done that 
  much like me.. you wish to play with you friend for the sheer fun of it
  unlocking characters for multiplayer is also a reason 
  the multiplayer is just endless fun although 
 usually its a one way win with not many fair matches about but still fun nonetheless 
  I haven't even completed horde yet it can be so difficult 
  unless all of you have a microphone 
 and are willing to work together rather then going solo much like what happens if you search for 
 a game and play with random people... which can be quite frustrating at times
  
  overall 
  its a brilliant game and is an instant classic
  I give it a 10/10
  although I was 
 hoping more characters could be unlocked for multiplayer and the collectables could be more rewarding 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Ok overall gears of war 2 is addictive. Me and my brother could not put the controller down on campaign. I 
 still can't put the controller down on the multiplayer. But on one level with a vehicle it sucks! It's 
 hard to control, and it blows up really easily. I kept getting mad, but one reason is probely cause 
 we started on hardcore. I'm on insane right now. But the new weapons are just great. It is not as 
 good as the first gears just because of the vehicle part. But the multiplayer is great just like 
 the first gears but better. One reason is because you can chainsaw battle when you both have the 
 chainsaw revved up. Then you have to tap B, but who ever does it the fastest wins. They put a mortor 
 on this one. The also have a shield on here. It's awsome because you can carry that in one hand, but 
 shoot with youre pistol in the other. They have new executions in the game to. Like the old one only 
 had curbstomp. This has a lot more, because sometimes you use the weapon to do it. This game is a 
 game i can't stop playing. It is a MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fone_Bone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Gears of War 2, I didn't get excited or anything, I didn't even give it 
 a second thought. But about a week before it's release, I started to get excited, and I decided 
 to buy it. Boy, what a good decision that was.
  Gears of War 2 is a fantastic game. It provides endless hours of play, either online, battling 
 your friends, or in Singe Player where you must find the Locust Queen. Both can be played on different 
 levels of hardness which provides challenges for everyone. The game does not have many problems. 
 The reason I didn't give it a 10 is because usually a game rated "Perfect" needs to have the extra 
 push to make it to a 10. Gears is a great game but isn't some spectacular revolution. It's simply 
 fun. What else could be more satisfying then chainsawing an enemy or killing an enemy with any 
 of the 11 executions? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  I totally loved the first Gears of War. I beat it like 6 times and played it through co-op with 
 everyone that would play with me. Now i feel like im the same with Gears of War 2! I love how they 
 increased the action this time. It was something i didnt think was possible. The story continues 
 on very nicley. I also loved the fact that there were so many wonderful chances to use the sniper 
 rifle. Though I do wonder why the guns dont hold as much ammo as before. Not that im complaining, 
 its laying around everywhere. Haha. But anyway, I also thing the non-online multiplayer feature 
 they added was great! I dont play online, I prefer to just play alone and now I can! So yay! Gears 
 of War 2 is totally worth your $60! If you thought the 1st one was worth your money than this one 
 should not disappoint. I love curb stomps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPowis
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I think the games graphics are stunning, they're so smooth, and detailed and precise. Ex: The locust 
 queens kingdom level. The levels were very unique i think, (the one when your trapped in the massive 
 worm is awesome, and when your at the locust kingdom) and failed to bore you. Some moments were 
 very epic, like when dom finds his wife and has to kill her, when they find tai, and hes brutally 
 tortured, and kills himself. Also some moments were hilarious, like when Cole saves them, and when 
 Cole goes on the "intercom" and goes on a rampage swearing at the queen and the locust are like 
 ... huh? The story has gotten some sour reviews by critics stating "its no different than the first", 
 "feels like the first game", "no advancements made by the story" but so what! The story is awesome, 
 so why need tons of changes! Also another great part of the game is the blood and gore part of 
 it. Especially when you chainsaw someone, or throw a grenade, and you see the body parts flying, 
 or when you curb stomp locust. I could go on forever about how much i love this game, and hate 
 how gamespot disagrees, but their entitled to their own opinion,, and im entitled to mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoonen123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The answer is yes. It does!
  
  Not only is the game's story more fun, its also far more compelling to sit out. Ofcourse most fans 
 do not buy this game for its story, but for those who are, it isnt bad!! It is been kept rather 
 simple, compact but still enjoyable. So question remains, how short is the story campaign. I spend 
 two evenings on it, so it isnt that long. Replay value is only there if you play it again with 
 a friend on dual screen (remember multiplayer free review) . Anyway more important is the handling 
 of the weapons, the enemy's and the rides during the game. Weapons not so much improvements, but 
 the flamethrower among others is a nice addition. The enemy's are far more divers, and also far 
 more bigger. The rides, there are many different rides in the game, maybe even too much, but if 
 that is your kinda thing (almost like a RPG, those rides) , you are well of buying the game!!
  
  But most of you are not that interested in the single player, but still I thing the game held 
 its own on that department, kudos for that. I was pretty critical coming into the game, wasnt even 
 that big a fan of the original, but the graphics are definably a big improvement, more rich colors 
 are used. 
  
  All in all a must buy for anyone who wants one of the best shooters out there, and can withstand 
 some story elements along the way!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite games of all time. Gears 2 has a perfect intense feeling you get with the story 
 and give a great sense of excitement. Multiplayer could be better, but the co-op multiplayer is 
 one of the best out there. Going against the locust as Marcus and Dom is one of the coolest things 
 out there cause your partner always has your back even if hes a 12 year old dummy who likes running 
 up to them and chainsawing the **** out of them leaving you to go save him cause they pretty much 
 jump him. Chainsaw deaths and new kill moves gives a hell yea! just stomped yo ass feel and you 
 feel intensifyed wanting to get another. Gameplay mechanics remain nearly the same. Few things 
 I didn't like to much. The co-op story though good was too short and left you wanting a bit more. 
 There were to many parts where your in an annoyingly drivin car where i rather run and gun. The 
 characters are always charismatic although I wished they were funnier like in the first one. Few 
 new character come into the mix like the Hawaiian Tai and my new favorite character Ben Carmine 
 who's pretty funny i suppose. So yea must get game if you haven't played it yet. Go out and get 
 it. Worth 60 bucks? Maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmhoffman2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first GOW and i loved the second too. But there was a part where you have to ride in 
 a vehicle which is really BAD. i played on co op with my brother on hardcore and he drove and said 
 it handled TERRIBLE. then there is a part in the game where it is so dark i can hardly see where 
 to go. at one point i threw a frag under a guy and he was standing on the top of it when it blew 
 up and he didnt die. but other than those things the rest of the game is great and if you liked 
 the first youll like the second. the multiplayer is ADDICTING and i dont even have xboxlive. i 
 really like how when you die you can crawl to safety and even the bots can heal you. also whenever 
 you down an enemy there are a couple of different ways to kill them and i love picking them up 
 and using them as a shield. also if you like sniping, just find a good spot and plant a grenade 
 on the wall so if someone tries to sneak up behind you it will explode on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: why9090909090
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the sequel to the instant classic GoW. The story is much improved and the enemie 
 make it that much more intense. You'll never have a down time moment and always will be blasting 
 grunts and boomers that you'll almost feel like you were in war with the gears.
  
  I completed the campaign with my brother and have yet to try it solo, but i must say it is probably 
 more fun co-op if anything. 
  
  The story also is immersive. There are points in the story were you feel anger and have no remorse, 
 and other times you feel sympathetic and you feel as your heart just sank through the ground. That's 
 what this game does to you, you grow on the characters. You feel horrible when someone dies like 
 it was your own friend. When a game does that to you, that is when they have succeeded. 
  
  I gave this game a 9.5 and not a 10 because the online multiplayer falls rather short.. You wait 
 longer to fight than the actual fight itself. But it still is rather enjoyable. 
  
  This is a MUST BUY people, what are you waiting for? The Gears need your help to finish the fight 
 so get your $60 and get this game ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  gow2 is plain awesome. everything about it is much more improved
  
  graphics:
  new graphics outshine the first game. cinematics seem much smoother, and lighting is softer. sometimes 
 i enjoyed watching the cinematics more than the gameplay itself.
  
  gameplay:
  not too different from teh first one, but that just means its awesome. you'll fight more enemies 
 than you did in gow1. more weapons and grenades available, like the mortar and ink grenades. and 
 brutal execution moves are really fun. for multiplayer, you can practice with bots if you like 
 ,something that was not featured in gow1 i think. storyline is more dramatic and involving, but 
 kind of cheesy at the same time. seems that a gow3 is coming up.
  one thing i didn't like was the roadie run. while you run faster when enemies are actually present, 
 it seems harder to take cover while in roadie run. you just run towards a wall, and stand there. 
 you have to press a again to take cover, so sometimes thats annoying. but thats about the only 
 slight problem bout this game.
  campaign is much longer than the first one.
  
  sound:
  just as good as the first. voice acting is great, and cole is as funny as hell as ever. locust 
 kind of sound the same, but w/e. 
  
  get this game, its plain awesome, and you'll enjoy the new types of features in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is one of the most greatest games in the world it is most in definitely hands down 
 greatest shooter of all time. If your are not a fan of shooters but you haven't played a good one 
 for a long time this is the one that will make you get backone the horse. I know that there is 
 always a new shooter coming out every week but this is truely one that you will be playing for 
 a long time to pass. If you didn't like Gears Of War 1 some of you will still not like this game 
 because the set up is still the same shooting style. But some of you will also change you mind 
 about this series because there are so many different things about it that may make you change 
 your mind. Please even if you didn't like the first one give this one a try and send me what you 
 thought about it if you didn't like the first one. This game did get the best graphics game of 
 the year award and should have got the overall game of the year or at least been a contender instead 
 of Left 4 Dead even if Left 4 Dead was a good game and i will review that one next or those of 
 you who care and or track me. Definitely a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djdiddles77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is the 2nd game in the Gears trilogy. The 1st one was great game play and fun so Gears 
 2 had some shoes to fill! For the most part it did and here is why! I mostly played this with a 
 friend and really enjoyed it!!! Story line isn't the best but the fun game play and chainsawing 
 through people made up for it! The game doesn't take that long to play if you sit down and just 
 go through it! One particular part I got stuck on was with the monster in the water!! Shooting 
 the eyes to open the mouth and then trying to launch a gerenade wasn't as easy as it looked!! Besides 
 that the game wasn't all that difficult to play, even though we were playing it on hardcore! One 
 of the fun parts/achievements was killing enemies with every different weapon which I believe was 
 12! Even when you are done with the game the hourd missions are fun to play with friends! Over 
 all it was a very enjoyable game and look forward to the next one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredNoodle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 1 is soooooo much better than the Gears 2. The campaign, the multiplayer, music, graphics, 
 gameplay, and multiplayer are all BETTER in Gears 1 than Gears 2. It seems in Gears 2 that the 
 game is almost "too" polished and crisp. Wheras Gears 1 has a dark, gritty yet detailed feel, Gears 
 2 has a bright, clean look to it. IMO this setting does not fit Gears 2 well at all.
  
  Multiplayer in Gears 2 sucks, we all know that. It can be addicting at times, but waiting, the 
 quitiing, and you can't choose your gametype or map.
  
  The sound effects are so much better in Gears 1 also. The active reload sound effect, the sniper, 
 the roadie run, switching weapons, they all sound a ton better in Gears 1. In Gears 2 you feel 
 lightweight, there's hardly any sound that makes you feel heavy. The sound of your bulletproof 
 armor when moving is almost non-existant.
  Playing Gears 2 is like playing a cartoon. Its too colorful and bright. The industrial feel to 
 Gears 1 is the "fit" for the series. The lancer is better in Gears 1. It actually feels like an 
 old greasy gun that barely gets the job done. In Gears 2 you really don't need to use any other 
 weapon besides the overpowered shiny lancer now with bright sights to it.
  I think the main problem with Gears 2 is they left the whole atmosphere similar to Resident Evil 
 out. In Gears 1 this atmosphere was clearly visible. In Gears 2 there's no horror elements.
  So, Gears 2 is a rent. Hopefully Gears 3 returns to its roots, adds brutal fatalities and returns 
 the the setting that the first had.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Epic Games is back for Gears Of War 2.
  
  The main story of this game has Dom trying to find his wife who had been captured. Of course, to 
 get to her you have to go through a number of bosses and locust. 
  
  The story is actually very well told. They add some great drama to the story that seemed to be 
 missing in the story of the first game. The story is also much darker, you have a member of the 
 team commit suicide. They end up having to kill Dom's wife. It's a very good story.
  
  Graphically, the game is just as extraordinary as the first game, even better in some areas. The 
 enviroments are more detailed and more lively then the first game. However, there are some things 
 that i feel don't look as good as the first game, for example, i don't like the character models 
 as much in this game, i don't think they lood as good as they did in the first game.
  
  The weapons are pretty much the same as the first game. The flame thrower has been added to the 
 roster and some of the smaller guns have been tweaked as well and look a little different this 
 time around.
  
  The sound in this game is one of the biggest effects in the game. If you have surround sound, i 
 suggest using it during this game.
  
  The difficulty of this game, much like the first game, goes up and down, some bosses are extremely 
 easy and others are unbelievably hard and annoying. The regular locust are just as easy to get 
 through as the first game but in some levels they come in insane numbers to up the difficulty.
 
  
  The online has also been updated with four new modes, Guardian, Wingman, Submission, and probably 
 the most addicting of them all Horde. Horde Mode is very similar to the Zombie Mode from Call of 
 Duty: World At War. However, in this one you are facing none stop Locust.
  
  There is one negative to this game in my opinion and it is pretty much some of the flaws from the 
 first game weren't fixed for this game. The story still ends very poorly. There volume of the dialogue 
 during loud action sequences is a very big problem, especially if your like me and hate reading 
 subtitles.
  
  Overall, a game that lives up to expectations and is just plain fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Imagine the first Gears of War campaign pumped with steroids. Well, it's a perfect description 
 of this roller-coaster, Hollywood movie-like AND solid sequel to the original story.
  
  There's more monsters, more questions, more cringing moments (and eye-rolling cheesy ones too) , 
 updated graphics, lighting and a revamped online . Sure it's plentiful and I will be upfront about 
 this: The Gears of War series have now been cranked up to their highest potential. I really don't 
 know what's left to be done to the series other than continue the storyline. What 'wowed' people 
 from the first one doesn't strike too much of a chord here anymore ( ie the charm is quite charming 
 but no so much as the first) .
  
  However, that doesn't negate the fact Epic threw the whole sink into exciting the fans with the 
 campaign. Split-screen is still here. There's now offline-"multiplayer" with bots and new modes, 
 notably "Horde" which is essentially similar to Unreal Tournament 2004's "Invasion." Gears online 
 multiplayer interface has been changed to Halo matchmaking one, added along with a easier party 
 system. So there's no more of that server list format from Gears 1. Democracy will have to rule. 
 This does have several annoying drawbacks, for if you are in the mood to play a specific mode or 
 map you have to hope the players will vote for THAT map. On a further note, finding a match sometimes 
 takes quite a while; hopefully this will be fixed soon enough.
  
  In all, Gears of War 2 is a solid sequel. And I highly recommend those who have enjoyed the first 
 one to go out and get it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears was a duck-and-shoot action-game. It featured a war-torn world called Sera under 
 siege by genocidal cave-dwellers known as the Locust Horde.
  
  When the humans of Sera realized that the Locust Horde would soon destroy them, they hatched a 
 plan: It was to infiltrate their underground Hollow and detonate a "Lightmass Bomb" that would 
 hopefully obliterate the Grubs, Boomers, Seeders, Reavers, Corspers, and Brumaks of the Locust 
 Horde. 
  
  Seargant Marcus Fenix saw to it that this plan succeeded.
  
  
  
  Gears of War 2 takes place some place after the first Gears of War. 
  
  The Locust Horde had 
 not been as badly wounded by the Lightmass Bomb as the humans had hoped. Jacinto, a mountain-city, 
 is humanity's last safe settlement. All the others have been sunk by a cataclysmic underground 
 force. 
  
  An all-out attack on the Locust Horde is the only hope for the humans of Sera.
  
  
  
  Gears 
 of War 2 can be played single-player or local/online co-op. In it are new gear, including the Mulcher 
 (a highly-powerful machine-gun) and the Boomshield (a portable cover that is indestructable) ; new 
 enemies, such as the Kantus (martial Locusts priests) and the Tickers (suicidal, organic bombs) ; 
 and new characters, for instance Dizzy (the cowboy pilot of a rig) and Skorge (a Kantus warlord 
 with a chainsaw-staff) .
  
  Gears of War 2 bears multiplayer very similar to the original, but a new game mode has been added: 
 Horde mode. In it, you play as a COG soldier of your choice who must withstand wave after wave 
 of the Locust; Horde mode has no end, so the objective is to see how long you can survive. Horde 
 is especially fun with a friend.
  
  
  
  
  Graphics - 10/10 - Great like the original Gears; fluid and perfectly lighted.
  
  Sound - 10/10 
 - Gunshots and blood and Locust battle cries all sound perfect in GoW2. The music gets the action 
 flowing in your veins, and complements the epic moments. 
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 - The original Gears was great fun. So is its sequel. Its a little old, though, 
 and you may feel like your playing the first game over.
  
  Plot - 9/10 - Gears stays true to the fast-paced plot it is known for, though it opens up concepts 
 that it can't immediatly explain. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is an amazing game, especially if you're a fan of Gears of War 1. It takes the story to 
 a whole different emotional level and it really gets you interested. As for the campaign, it's 
 a whole lot bigger and more bad ass. It's the same game play from the original though so don't 
 expect anything new and innovative except for new weapons and bigger enemies. The multiplayer is 
 a lot better than it was in the first game because it involves more team effort. The horde mode 
 is amazingly fun to play with friends. The shotgun has been tuned down a lot so don't expect to 
 beast like you did in Gears 1 with it, those days are gone. If you're going to be successful online 
 you're gonna need to work with your team. Overall I recommend this game to fans of the first and 
 even people who have never played Gears because it's a great game with a solid single-player campaign 
 and great team based multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keritio
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game has many glitches and many problems having to do with lag, it needs a region filter. The 
 weapons on the maps are usually unbalanced and the first to get the power weapons control the game. 
 The shotgun shoots straight to the ground when there is a lot of lag. lets not forget host advantage 
 is back and you can easily tell who is host because they can down you in 2 shotgun bullets while 
 you shoot him like 5 times. The game has various easy to pull of instant kill the most annoying 
 being 2 piece which means you punch and then hold RT to shoot your opponent, the punch stuns you 
 for a 2 seconds leaving you to be shot, the chainsaw is a dirty instant kill because if you are 
 not the host you will have to shoot the chainsawer many times for him to lower his chainsaw. Point 
 blank is really broken and most of the glitches from GOW 1 or should i say all of them are back.
 
  
  The most annoying part of the game is.... Lag switch or standby, if you are host you can kill a 
 whole team in seconds with this and do many glitches such as... Invisible glitch, crab walk (Walk 
 really really fast) , and make everyone but you have no guns.
  
  Like i said the game can be fun if played right, in my opinion they should have had a open beta. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shifty-Sniper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  You spend the $70, you open the case, you put the game in your heart is racing.... And then................... You 
 play....
  
  Five minutes into the first level you feel nothing new except for the graphics and you say to your 
 self "Been here, done this" Gears of War one was it's brilliant graphics it's new cover system 
 and it's run and shoot gameplay. This game just recycled that and put a new sticker on an old apple. 
 The ten hour campaign is fun while it lasts, no theres no four player campaign mode. It picks up 
 where gears one left off with Dom still looking for his wife and having no luck, and with Marcus 
 still being a straight up bad ass.
  
  The multiplayer is shocking.... The matchmaking takes almost 10 minutes to find one match, and then 
 people will leave the match for no reason. Epic games have added in a new game type named "Hoard" 
 in which you basically you alone or four friends battle against wave after wave of locust hordes.
 
  
  Basically GOW 2 is just polished up a bit and giving some new guns
  
  THE GOOD
  - New guns - New Campaign - Hoard Mode - Better graphics -
  
  THE BAD
  - Recycled - Horrible 
 matchmaking - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is by far one of the best games that I have every played. I went to the midnight 
 release of it with a couple of friends, we played in the tournament, and then at 12:01 we got our 
 games and went home. I was the third person to get it in my town. I beat it in about a day, then 
 I beat horde in about a weak. After about a day or two of the game I new it was a Classic. The 
 AI's are smart, but not too hard. Horde is so much fun too, playing with five other friends on 
 Gears of War that night was the most fun I ever had. The campaign is amazing the Storyline is AWESOME. 
 The whole concept of sinking the city was cool to me. The multiplayer was also crazy fun. The new 
 maps, the golden hammerburst, and the golden lancer were all amazing. The chainsaw duels I have 
 to say is one of the top features of the game. If you want to know how to get 10 easy wins al you 
 do is get your friend to play with you and scrape a pencil over the B button it will give you an 
 instant win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the first Gears of War in action a few years back, and I remember being completely 
 blown away by the graphics, art design, and pure brutality of it all. That game is what made me 
 decide to blow 400 bucks on an Xbox 360; it was the first really "next-gen" game that I had seen 
 yet. Now, two years later, the sequel has finally has hit the shelves, and I would go and spend 
 all of that money again to play it if I had to. Onward to the review.
  
  Graphics / Art Design
  
  The Unreal Tournament 3 engine is in it's most advanced and possibly 
 final form with this game, and it couldn't look better. Gears of War has always been considered 
 a high water mark when it comes to breathtaking visuals, and Gears 2 certainly raises that mark 
 considerably. At a glance, the game looks roughly the same as the first, with the same 'roided 
 up art style and similar environments in the first few levels. But new lighting and shadow effects 
 contribute to make the game look much softer and more organic than the first, which now seems slightly 
 mechanical and cold by comparison. The environments in particular are the stars of the show, in 
 my opinion. The opening chapters of the game take place in dilapidated cities, similar to that 
 of the first game. But as soon as you leave the surface and hit the Locust where they live, underground, 
 the environmental design quality quickly flips from good to spectacular. The Locust's networks 
 of caves and tunnels are more like something you would expect to see in a Metroid Prime game rather 
 than in a shooter like Gears: strange glowing plants and mushrooms cover the scenery, and the occasional 
 skittering wildlife serves to remind you that this is a living, breathing world. Beyond the environments, 
 the rest of the game still looks as great as ever. Character models are meticulously detailed, 
 and throw off soft, convincing shadows that change and move depending on the lighting conditions. 
 Your main enemy, the Locust Horde, throws plenty of generic alien soldiers at you, which are intimidating, 
 but are nothing compared to some of the larger and more grotesque creatures featured in this game. 
 And finally, Gears' celebrated level of ridiculous gore and brutality has been one-upped by it's 
 sequel. Plenty of blood flows in this game, and it's all very beautiful in the most disgusting 
 way possible. Destroying a wounded monster's head with a sniper round and watching his guts pour 
 onto the ground has never been so gratifying.
  
  Sound Design
  
  One thing that many games seem to put off as unimportant is good sound design. Audio almost always 
 contributes to the background and ambience of a game no matter what, but when it's good enough 
 to stand out and be noticeable on it's own, you know you've got something special. Gears 2 re-uses 
 many sounds effects from the first game, such as the cries of wounded soldiers and creatures, but 
 the entire soundscape is much more crisp than it used to be. Your weapons in particular are incredibly 
 punchy now, to the point where the guns are fun to fire simply because they sound powerful. The 
 voice acting quality is generally great, with Marcus Fenix delivering a particularly memorable 
 performance throughout the game. The dialogue itself honestly hasn't really changed or improved, 
 there's simply a lot more of it. I'm one that actually enjoyed the stupidly macho action-movie 
 dialogue between your fellow soldiers in the first game, and it returns this time to full effect. 
 My only complaint about the voice acting is that Dom occasionally throws tantrums about not being 
 able to find his wife, and I almost burst out laughing every time. Don't take me wrong, these parts 
 could have been very emotionally effective and disheartening, but the way the actor delivers the 
 lines... I mean, not to nitpick, but it sounds more like a whiny pre-teen brat than a grown man 
 who's probably packing 500-plus pounds in muscle and badass-ery. But it's the only small annoyance 
 in the game's otherwise-great audio presentation.
  
  Story
  
  Well, I'll start off by saying that, looking back on the first Gears of War, it seems like nothing 
 really happened in that game's campaign compared to this one. Gears 2 increases the scale and intensity 
 level exponentially from the first game, and it's all for the better. The Lightmass Bomb from the 
 end of the first game didn't quite kill off the Locust, predictably. It actually didn't really 
 hurt them at all, looking at how many of them are left in this episode. The whole goal of most 
 of the game is to stop the Locust from sinking the city of Jacinto, which is humanity's last remaining 
 stronghold. Marcus and company are also tasked with finding the center of Locust operations, finding 
 the Locust Queen, and hopefully destroying them. Along the way, you'll go through several plot 
 twists and turns, some of which are very engaging, but never expanded upon. There's one section 
 in particular which reveals some rather shocking information that hints at something much larger 
 going on behind the scenes, but this sequence is seemingly forgotten and never referenced throughout 
 the rest of the game. Overall though, the plot is satisfying and engaging enough to make you want 
 to keep playing, even if it doesn't expand on new plotlines as much as it should. It's just a pity 
 to know that now we'll have to wait another few years for the inevitable Gears 3 to find out what 
 exactly is going on.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ah, yes. The most important part of any game is, well, the game itself. I'm happy to report that 
 Gears of War 2 remains nearly identical to it's predecessor's gameplay style at the core, while 
 adding enough interesting new weapons, situations, and options to make it seem new and fresh again. 
 For the uninitiated, Gears of War holds an incredibly unique gameplay style, one that mixes fast-paced 
 shooting action with the tactical movement of games such as Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon. The gameplay 
 revolves around taking cover behind whatever barriers or objects are available, moving around and 
 flanking enemy groups, and popping up out of cover to fire when the time is right. The end result 
 is a sublime mixture of bloody, in-your-face battlefield intensity and intelligent strategy and 
 teamwork. Your weapons are the usual generic assortment of machine guns, sniper rifles, grenades, 
 and shotguns, but Gears' special level of gore and brutality separates it from the rest of the 
 pack. The greatest example of this is your Lancer assault rifle, probably the most iconic symbol 
 of the Gears of War series. The rifle itself is a standard automatic bullet hose, but the gun also 
 possesses a nasty chainsaw bayonet on it's underside that you'll no doubt use to shred hundreds 
 of enemy Locust throughout the game. This kind of over-the-top and ridiculously awesome detail 
 is typical of what to expect from Gears. There are several new weapons worth mentioning in the 
 game though, particularly the heavy weapons, a mortar and a chaingun aptly named the Mulcher. A 
 new flamethrower also makes an appearance, and surprise, surprise, it's actually worth using. Besides 
 the new weapons, there are also new ways of using your equipment to attack and defend yourself. 
 Grenades can now be stuck to walls and objects to serve as proximity mines, a very useful ability 
 when you're too busy running from a ten-foot tall tentacled Reaver to return fire with one of your 
 guns. There are several new ways of taking cover on the move now, all of which are fun and useful 
 in their own way. Taking human (Locust) shields is a very viable defensive option in Gears 2, unlike 
 in most shooters where it's there simply to make you feel badass. Overall, Gears of War 2 incorporates 
 many new gameplay features that are fun and useful without feeling gimmicky, which is quite a feat 
 to pull off.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  To put it simply, the campaign is good enough to merit 60 dollars on it's own if you're into single 
 player, but Gears 2's multiplayer options push it into must-buy territory. The game features AI 
 bots for offline multiplayer, which is always welcome for people without a high-speed connection 
 (myself included) . Two player splitscreen is available for all game modes including campaign, which 
 is another huge plus for people who can only play offline. The multiplayer game itself plays identically 
 to single player, and features several different game modes to choose from. Of particular note 
 is the new Horde mode, which is like an old-school style survival mode in which five Gears can 
 take on increasingly difficult waves of Locust. This mode is incredibly simple, yet surprisingly 
 intense and addicting. Personally, I don't think Gears of War 2's multiplayer is varied or customizable 
 enough to keep my attention for very long compared to Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4, but it's certainly 
 a fun diversion, and fully featured enough to warrant a play.
  
  Overall Value
  
  Gears of War 2 is worth buying for the campaign alone, which continues to throw new, unexpected 
 and sometimes-shocking situations at you up until the very end, and presents a compelling and interesting 
 story to drive the missions forward. The multiplayer game shines and is just about all it can be, 
 and the fact that Epic included bots and split-screen support for offline play is a testament to 
 how much they care about player satisfaction. Overall, Gears of War 2 isn't exactly the most innovative 
 or revolutionary game ever made, but it doesn't have to be when it holds such an amazing breadth 
 of content and quality gameplay. Games like this are the very reason that I own a next-generation 
 console, and if you have an Xbox 360 and are at all interested in shooters you simply need to play 
 this game. We rarely see sequels of this caliber anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bostondunn182
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 came out almost 2 months ago and wow what a month and 30 days it has been since 
 its release this game has given me reasons to stay a loyal gear head since the day i played the 
 first game. this game took the first which was great and multiplied its greatness several times 
 over. reasons for why new and deadly weapons new enemies characters longer campaign funner multiplayer 
 the return of Carmine! everything about this game is perfect minus the fact that it takes 5 min 
 to find a match which is easy to get over and lack of critical checkpoints in the campaign but 
 quit complaining and get over those minor inconvienances and just play the game for the reason 
 you wanted to and there is now an update that fixed the match making problem even though i havent 
 gotten it yet because im away from my house right now but i play the game im good at it i have 
 fun with it you should to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is one of the best games I have ever played in my life. The campaign is loaded with 
 levels and is extremely fun and there is online and local co op play also. The online play is loaded 
 with action especially Wingman. There is also a new mode on GOW2 called Horde. Where there are 
 waves of enemys that come after you and you have to kill every songle one of them. I mean I picked 
 this game up a couple says ago and I am so addicted to it. The Game is just so rich in things to 
 do, you never get bored. It is somewhat like the old GOW but it is so much better for some odd 
 reason. This game was the first game I picked up when i got some money. So I Highly recomend this 
 game. The graphics are stunning. Audio Flawless. And the gameplay is epic. This is maybe the best 
 online game i have played (besides COD5+4) But if you crave a great game this is the exact game 
 thst you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyherz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  
  gears of war 2 is the sequel to the best game in 2006 (gears of war) . cliff blesinsky promised to 
 the press that this game would be bigger, better and more bad ass. he was true to his word and 
 heres why.
  
  this game starts off by introducing you to the problems currently happening in the war, and telling 
 you that jacinto (the city) is humanitys last stand for survival. you then figure out that you need 
 to go under ground to the locusts terf to kill the queen. later on you see a huge worm that has 
 been eating up different citys, and those citys are surrounding jacinto. so when you get swalloed 
 by the worm you plan to kill the worm and get out safley. after that dom really starts to get mad 
 and fustrated on where his wife is so you go and try to safe her. after that there are some parts 
 that are real spoilers so i wont say them. so the story over all is great!
  
  In this game you will meet new characters such as ben carmine the brother of carmine from the first 
 game, tai the big bad ass hawaine soldier, and dizzy the guy who will help you drive the derricks 
 that you will incounter in the early part of the game. also the game happens to have more enviornments 
 then the first from the city streets, to the cold tundra then to the bif areas of water all the 
 way to big palaces and locust tunnels. also throughout these enviornments you get new guns such 
 as the scorcher, the new improved lancer, ink bombs. boltok pistol, mulcher, hammerburst assault 
 rifle. etc. also you get a chance to ride a reever, and brumak in the late stages of the game.
 
  
  in the perfromance and techincal issues it is great. the graphics are top notch and perfromance 
 is great. also just for facts it got the best graphics award of 2008 and best thrid person shooter. 
 so no argument there .
  
  for multiplayer there hasent been much changes from the first game except the fact for new maps, 
 you can crawl for saftey, new game modes, and you can drop out and in at anytime you want. and 
 last its easier to set up. last thing is that they brought a new mode called horde and that can 
 be played either xbox live or locally and its up top 5 people to try and make it through 50 waves 
 of survival, its simple really you have to try to survive through the wave and kill every locust 
 you see and its really fun, and very addictive.
  
  so over all i think gears of war is from a 9.5 to a 10. also i think gamespot did a bad job on 
 the review for this game. ign, gametrailer, g4, and gamesbomb gave it at least a 9.5 so yea. and 
 i do think you should buy this game since ITS GREAT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarxPhil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, Gears of War. The ever popular Xbox 360 exclusive that has stolen the hearts of millions 
 of gamers. With its load of gore and blood that just keeps you wanting more. Now it's time for 
 rounds two with Gears of War 2. The story has left off with the first Gears so i recommend you 
 play that one first if you really want to get into it (check out my Gears of War 1 review!) . Now 
 as the first Gears the second is also a short overall game, if you are really into it you could 
 finished in about two sittings. The graphics have been overhauled a bit, nothing mind-blowing, 
 but there are some visual upgrades that you will notice if you have played the first Gears and 
 even if you haven't you still will be peeing your pants at the level of detail this game has. Some 
 enemies have returned in this Sequel, but others left out like the ever popular Berserker from 
 Gears 1 does not make an appearance in the second Gears. But don't worry, they have made up for 
 it by add some new one like the Tickers. The mulitplayer is still as great as the first Gears, 
 some environments are different but its still the great mulitplayer we have come to know. I did 
 rate this game a 9.0 while i games the first Gears a 9.5, that's because there not a huge difference 
 in the games Gears two could easily pass as an expansion pack. But overall, the game is just plain 
 amazing and if you don't have it you really need to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 review
  
  
  Gameplay 88 % Gears of war 2 has more missions and more action then the first one. There`s some 
 few glitches but overall the single-player is pretty good. You can also play online and coop with 
 your friends. The game is pretty hard if you cover allot you wont get killed so easily.
  
  Graphics 90 % The graphics are awesome for a standard TV i`m impressed by the details of the characters 
 and the map. You can dowload multi-player maps in the dashboard.
  
  Sound 88 % The sound and music is good some parts in the game are scary and the scary music works 
 perfectly with the game.
  
  Difficulty : The difficulty is ok if you`re a begginer you might not get the hang of it fast but 
 if you practice you``ll get better.
  
  Controls : The controls are like the first gears of war its pretty easy to aim, shoot, cover and 
 use guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of War introduced the most visceral and satisfying action ever to grace the 
 360. Yet, it's story was rather weak and many plotlines, particularly the ones regarding Marcus 
 Fenix' past, were left hanging.
  
  Well, the good news is GoW2 is more of the same. The bad news is GoW2 is more of the same.
  
 
  The intense action is back and better than before. There's some new weapons and fantastic new 
 environments, including the inside of a giant worm. You also get to ride around on a Reaver and 
 a Brumak. The graphics were strong despite some minor texture pop in.
  
  Yet, as is always the case, the game isn't perfect. 
  
  The questions about Marcus Fenix, his 
 father and whatever it was that went down between them and the government that landed Marcus in 
 prison, go unanswered. Also, several new questions arise and are not answered.
  
  If GoW3 doesn't start answering some questions, the franchise will be at risk of becoming the Lost 
 of video games. All questions, no answers.
  
  Finally, I was really disappointed in the game's facial animations. Voice acting that good deserves 
 better. When Dom found his wife, the voice was emotional, but the face was doing little more than 
 frowning.
  
  When Tai dies, John DiMaggio delivers a hardy "Nooo!" but Marcus' face doesn't show much. And then 
 at the end, when Marcus sees Anya, there was no relief on his face at all. When you look at The 
 Force Unleashed, Heavenly Sword and Mass Effect, there's really no excuse for such poor work.
 
  
  Ok, let's turn to The Simps-o-meter.
  
  Presentation: Woohoo!
  Gameplay: Excellent
  Story: Meh
  Polish: Excellent
  
  Overall: Excellent
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Big meat-head macho guys, powerful guns, lots of gory effects and blood, ugly aliens, all check 
 yup it's Gears alright. Finally here is Gears of War 2, the inevitable sequel to undoubtedly one 
 of the biggest games on the Xbox 360, Gears of War. It's the same third-person pop-and-stop light 
 tactical cover-heavy system high-octane action firefights (that was a mouthful) from the first 
 given a few steroids. Fortunately these 'roids don't just tighten up the combat, but it helps inject 
 an amplifying boost of artistic direction, personality and plot into the series. Despite all the 
 improvements, I still came away a bit unflustered at Gears 2.
  
  
  The first Gears was really just like any other big Hollywood action movie, dumb and full of crazy 
 action. It had little substance, but that's not bad, it was well aware of that and it played out 
 its role of being a 'big dumb action game' very well. Gears 2 is like the first; on the planet 
 Sera humans are fighting the Locust in a battle of survival. After years of civil war the humans 
 have united under the COG name in order to fight the Locust aliens. During any of the cutscenes 
 you'll swear that you saw a scene just like it in a movie, because you most likely did. The characters 
 are also the epitome of rough and ready jarheads with biceps the size of a child's waist. In fact 
 all the COG soldiers are like that, also some of them are too stupid to wear a helmet, or too tough.
 
  
  
  Gears of War 2 paints a simple plot. There are lots of aliens to kill and lots of guns, not much 
 to it. It's a little more involved then the first game but still, nowhere near a satisfactory tale. 
 At the end there are more questions than answers and at times there could have been great memorable 
 plot points but the game just fails to capitalize on them. For example, one part has you investigating 
 an abandoned facility, which headquarters has picked up word of. After some really spine-tingling 
 events and some disturbing revelations, the chapter is over and all links to what seemed like a 
 complex project involving mutated humans is gone. Never to be mentioned again. I disliked that 
 part; I wanted to find out what was behind the facility and what exactly was going down there. 
 But it's never explored and that's a shame.
  
  
  Cover, it's your best friend in Gears. Try running and gunning and you'll just see the game over 
 screen over and over. You have to hide behind something and pop out and take shots. The cover system 
 in Gears 1 worked 80% of the time, even the developers admit to that. In Gears 2 it works about 
 85% of the time. There are still plenty of times when you'll want to hide behind a pillar, only 
 to roll past it by accident and get killed. For some odd reason, Epic kept the controls just like 
 the one from the first game. That means that the A button still serves triple duty as the 'enter 
 cover', 'run' and 'roll' functions. Putting three actions on one button was a bad idea in the first 
 game and it's still bad here. If you want to slide into cover the game will do it, most of the 
 time. Overall the controls are by-the-number third-person shooter controls.
  
  
  However Epic decided to give the A button yet another function on top of the three already mentioned. 
 Whenever an enemy is on the ground, not only can you curb stomp them still, but also you have two 
 other options. One is to do a fancy execution; these are weapon specific and take a few seconds 
 to pull off, so it's best to only do them when you're not getting shot at. The other new option 
 is to grab enemies and use them as meat-shields. This basically takes them hostage so you have 
 a body of meat protecting yourself, but you can only use pistols and you move slower. But to pick 
 up a person you have to press the A button. You know Epic, I like simple control schemes as well, 
 but putting four functions on one button, is not a good idea.
  
  
  Ok so the firefights are pretty fun despite some control irks, but that's not to say everything 
 else is. Gears 2, thankfully has a ton of variety in its eight hour or so campaign. There are plenty 
 of 'vehicle' sections, turret parts, one lengthy tank part and some more unorthodox fights between 
 gondolas and huge land rigs. Unfortunately, some of the non-standard firefight sections are incredibly 
 frustrating and annoying. There is this one part when you must protect the Com-arrays at the COG 
 headquarters by using a turret against airborne Reavers. The bad part is that the turret has no 
 aiming reticule and the Reavers are fast and shoot rockets at the com-arrays. After failing for 
 about 45 minutes straight, I got up, cut out an outline of a square of paper and taped it in the 
 center of my screen. Voila, makeshift reticule. Four more tries later and I had successfully defended 
 the com-arrays. [I did later find out that you can hold down the left trigger and a reticule appears, 
 but the game NEVER tells you that. So naturally, I didn't try.]
  
  
  The thing about this is that, why isn't there a reticule in the first place on the turret? It just 
 made no sense to not have one; I mean the bullets still go in the center of the screen, but it's 
 freaking impossible to aim. I don't know what Epic was thinking but that's some really bad design 
 choices right there. If however the scene weren't so damn hard and vexing then it would be more 
 tolerable. But I failed it constantly for 45 minutes; in an eight hour game one turret segment 
 should not take that long. Also there is one boss battle (I'm trying to avoid spoilers) that, unless 
 you already knew what to do, will require you to die 3 or so times just to find out what the hell 
 to do. There are more trial-and-error moments as well; in the section with the tank, three Corpsers 
 confront you. It took me five tries to find out how to get past them; and each time I had to wait 
 for the checkpoint to load, listen to the dialogue between the characters and watch the Corpsers 
 do their scripted entrance. Irritating segments like this should have been streamlined, toned down 
 in difficulty, or taken out entirely. The few bothersome set pieces really do mar the otherwise 
 highly enjoyable campaign, as they serve to break up the pace and make you pissed off at the poor 
 design choices and unfair circumstances.
  
  
  Maybe the nuisances I had were because I was playing the campaign on 'Hardcore' (hard mode) by 
 myself. But the way the difficulty is designed 'Hardcore' is for hardcore gamers. The game describes 
 hardcore difficulty as "You can pull off a headshot". I can do that, so I choose it. Little did 
 I know that "Withstanding stupid design choices and multiple trial-and-error setpieces which become 
 tedious and will make you want to kick puppies" was in the hardcore difficulty as well.
  
  
  On the other hand, the set pieces that are really well done almost make up for the crappy ones. 
 There were a handful of "did that just seriously happen?" moments in Gears 2. The escape from Nexus 
 is just amazing and the boss battle with Skorge was excellent. It's weird that some moments are 
 just superb while others are so incommodious. But really, overall the campaign is decently paced. 
 
  
  
  However there are too many obvious hallways/staircases/elevators that are just clearly serving 
 as loading time channels and there are way to many little cutscenes. Every time you go down an 
 elevator or enter a trolley or something, there's always a five second cutscene showing Marcus 
 and Dom going in and standing there; it's just superfluous. One thing I do give the campaign credit 
 for is that everything is done in real time with the engine.
  
  
  Speaking of graphics, I'm proud of Gears 2. Gears 1 had three colors; consisting of grey, brown 
 and red. Gears 2 has at least 5 colors, a huge leap in the color palette. Gears 1 did not pioneer 
 the heavily saturated look and Gears 2 looks very similar, something I'm not a huge fan of. Also 
 there are less clipping issues than in the first one and shadows don't flicker as much. Unfortunately, 
 Gears 2 is running on the Unreal engine, and that engine is notorious for texture pop-in. This 
 is most noticeable on the character models and especially in multiplayer, it can take up to 10 
 seconds sometimes for all the textures to load up. There are some really vast caverns underground 
 as well as some impressive outdoor areas, all which made me take a moment to soak in the sights.
 
  
  
  On the audio side Gears 2 retains most of the same music, as well it's signature ambient menu music, 
 which I do like. The sound effects are pretty standard, satisfying and wet for headshots, loud 
 cracking muzzle cracks for weapons and a hearty ripping rattling sound for the chainsaw bayonet. 
 Voice acting is a bit heavy-handed, which further makes the story feel a bit more forced, but it's 
 nowhere near a bad performance.
  
  
  The campaign is worth playing solo but it's much better with a friend. Be it splits-screen or over 
 Xbox Live the campaigns co-op is a welcome addition. Epic however cannot design lobbies at all 
 it seems. To enter the co-op campaign lobby you must start a game, then pause the game and choose 
 the option to return to the campaign lobby. Why didn't Epic just give us a menu option to enter 
 the co-op campaign lobby right away? I have no idea. Online multiplayer is broken as well. Gears 
 2 uses a matchmaking system and it's near impossible to find a match, even in a full party. The 
 only mode that actually works online is Horde mode. This is a team game where you and four others 
 face-off against waves of increasingly difficult Locust. Be prepared to be playing this mode a 
 lot, because it's the only that works.
  
  
  In the end Gears of War 2 does not warrant its full price tag. The campaign is worth playing, but 
 it would be better to rent the game over a weekend and play it with a friend. Online does not work, 
 but you may fare better, but don't count on it. It can take up to ten minutes to find a match, 
 and then you have to hope it won't be a lagfest. Gears 2 is a perfect rent and maybe worth a purchase 
 if you either really liked the first one or you're patient enough to wait for the patch to fix 
 multiplayer.
  
  
  [NOTE: Review was written before the early December update/patch, so online was still broken.] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is by far one of the greatest games of this generation. It took the great things 
 that Gears 1 had, and went to the next level. With an expanded arsenal, improved graphics, compelling 
 campaign, and an excellent multiplayer experience, this is one game you'll be playing for the years 
 to come.
  
  The campaign continues not long after the first Gears game ended. The Locust have returned, more 
 powerful than ever, and Jacinto now stands as the last hope for humanity. Armed with your lancer, 
 and various other weapons, you play as Marcus Fenix and lead Delta Squad on a brave objective to 
 storm the Locust underground, and end the war once and for all.
  
  The first Gears of War plot was straightforward. You were a group of soldiers who mission was to 
 use a weapon of mass destruction to destroy all of the Locust. In Gears 2, you find that there 
 is much more to the story. More characters have been introduced that make an emotional impact on 
 both the characters and the players. Dom stands as the most interesting character, as throughout 
 the game he is driven to rescue his wife Maria. Alongside with stunning graphics, and memorable 
 cinematics, you'll find yourself playing the campaign a lot in Gears of War 2.
  
  The overall gameplay experience has been enhanced as well. New features, such as meat-shields, 
 and more weapons added to your arsenal make the gameplay more skill-driven. As well, new Locust 
 enemies have been included, to make for new encounters and interesting action sequences. All in 
 all, Gears of War 2's gameplay makes Gears 1 look somewhat shameful.
  
  Multiplayer has never been better. There's still online Co-op, as well as new game modes to play 
 with, such as: Horde, Wingman, and Capture the Flag. Another nice little feature is the inclusion 
 of a downloadable Flashback Map pack, a handful of multiplayer maps from the first Gears that include: 
 Gridlock, Canals, Tyro Station, Mansion, and Subway. The new variety found in the online experience 
 on Gears 2 will please any gamer.
  
  In the end, Gears of War 2 stands as one of the greatest games of both 2008 and this generation. 
 The tweaks and add-ons to the gaemplay, graphics, and online experience make for a much enjoyable 
 video game. Don't miss your chance to play perhaps one of the most cinematic video games of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  Yes... thats pretty much all you can say about the gameplay in gears 2. With all the sniper headshots, 
 chainsaw duels and pure shotgun power gears 2 is even more powerful then the first, Gears 2 also 
 improves things like the sprint now it's easy to get around while sprinting and the cover system 
 has been tweaked as well to give you optimal combat performance. Also the local multiplayer is 
 way better then before since you can now have bots ( no more player hunts in big levels) and the 
 horde mode is great as well.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Even 2 years later epic still manages to pull off a technical feet and gears 2 is proof of that. 
 Levels are much larger and more vibrant, giving everything in the world of sera a grand look. There 
 is also more variety in the envirements in the first gears it was all pretty dark and grim, but 
 in gears two it's large, breath taking and grim.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The voice cast is really great once again and sound effects are pusle pounding and in you face 
 but theres just once tiny thing about the sound in gears 2 and that is the fact that you can't 
 ever really hear the fantastic soundtrack.
  
  Value 9/10
  With horde and local multiplayer bots the valu is much greater for those out there that haven't 
 invested in a gold membership. for those who have the online offers a lot of great bloddy times. 
 The single player has an average length at about 12 hours but the story here is far greater then 
 the first and while it doesn't exactly answer that many questions it does give you a much deeper 
 look into delta sqaud and also gives you a grim look into sera's future.
  
  The good
  Gears of war is back and better then ever. another technical masterpeice, a much deeper story then 
 before, fantastic soundtrack, hored mode and bots for local multiplayer, tweaks all the right things.
 
  
  The bad
  Waiting for gears 3 is gonna be tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_swordx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is a game that i never ever expected to be played in the future of my time. It's 
 the most 'Tacticial Shooter' i have ever played in my whole entire life'. it's SO realistic and 
 adrenaline rushed. It's really worth the wait, The amazing Story, Co-op mode and Muitiplayer mode 
 is just phenomenal. 
  The gameplay just blows me away with all these wepons, monsters, machines, Unforgetable characters, 
 and last but not least The COG Squad. 
  Blindfire, Taking Cover, Melee System, Snipers, Heartbeating, Gold Lancer and the Stratagy Gameplay 
 system is so flexible. It's fun teaming up with people and taking on the Locust Hordes, but the 
 most recent level i got up to in 'Horde Mode' was 22. Of All my years of playing video games (Other 
 than Zelda , Mario and RPGS) Gears Of War 2 is the best game i played in 2008. 
  
  
  Gears Of War 2: The Game Of The Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, having said , it really is just good fun, The story though couldve have had more depth into 
 it because they talk about the queen and how to kill her, but it doesnt give much depth to the 
 main locusts backround and other than that the ending feels like you just played 10 hours of story 
 and theres still more. I dont mind realy but the fact that theres more is just a joykill saying 
 that now you have to wait 1 more year for more story. But what realy shines is the gameplay. The 
 Block and pop way of shooting games feels more tactical and therefor fun in a way. But if you like 
 just going in guns blazing then u better off just play casual. Fun online, but being Aussie, we 
 are prone to huge amoutns of lag whilst playing against people overseas, unless your like me and 
 have invested on some high speed internet. 
  
  Overall, it looks great, feels great, plays and handles well, lags a little when things get intense 
 and the story is a real cliffhanger but then again, arnt all great series? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I loved Gears of War 1. It had great graphics, great dialogue, great combat, great characterization. 
 Gears of War 2 has all those things and more. More variety, more weapons, more dialogue, more backstory 
 and more story period. There is a problem though with the storyline. It is all over the place. 
 The characters are numerous but they may die at any time leaving unanswered questions about their 
 part in the big picture. Even the key storyline elements are scattered, blurry and left open ended.
 
  The combat is FUN! Even more so than in the first game. The weapons rock, the enemies are varied 
 and challenging, the background sounds and dialogue are realistic and funny. The vehicle operation 
 is not so great, but I find that to be the case with all these games (except Halo, of course) . 
 There is no inventory system and the interface is minimal and easy to use. The graphics are beautiful 
 and the environments well rendered. I loved playing this game but with a little more work on the 
 story it could have been a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearHead117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  You are Markus Fenix. New enimies, new guns, new GAME!!! You will be extreamly surprized on how 
 hard this game is at first. (oh and FYI there are no Bezerkers =D) If I only had to use 1 word 
 to discribe this word it would probobly be... Addictive. But I don't have just 1 word I have 100. 
 So long story short... No Bezerkers but different kinds of Boomers Theron Gaurds have new armor 
 and Wreches are faster and came with one big prize. Story is kinda short but you actually see Hoffman 
 in combat. Oh 1 more thing There are Tickers..... much like Wreches but the explode... a lot. Try 
 this game not just cause your board but beacause you have a need to blow someones head off with 
 a sniper rifle. Thanks for reading =D kasm kasm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goozeynintendo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2, Its finally here, its much greater than its predesecor, or as Cliff says, its bigger, badder 
 and more BADASS!! Yeah! Well for all you that have played the original this game is just a more 
 refined version, with new weapons, a tweaked cover system and more executions and the biggest of 
 all a refined multiplayer, along with other various additions such as meat shields and new locusts 
 and boom shields! This is one game that is a great sequal. Continueing from the second Gears, the 
 story takes place 6 months after it, The main plot is that the Locusts are back with the power 
 to sink entire cities and you need to stop them. So you take these machines called derricks and 
 go underground. As much as the story gets better than the first one so does the gameplay. With 
 a tweaked cover system as mentioned and the ability to tag walls with grenades and enter into chain 
 saw duels this game gets awsomer Please excuse my english) as you embark in this dark quest to 
 kill the locust queen!!! I mean who has heard of a chain saw on a gun thats just plain awsome! 
 This is one third person shooter that stands out in that genre and represents. If you like shooters 
 and dont mind endless ammounts of blood you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  
  Another year, another hit game release. Last year it was Halo 3, this year was the sequel to the 
 2006 Game Of The Year... Gears of War 2. There are many things to talk about with the game, but 
 let's start with the basics.
  
  The game has your simple Single Player Campaign, Multi-Player Campaign, and Online Play. Lets start 
 with the campaign.
  
  The Campaign follows Delta Squad. Marcus Fenix, Dominic "Dom" Santiago, Augustus "Cole Train" Cole, 
 and Damon Baird. The main story follows Delta Squad 6 months after the events of the first game 
 with the humans loosing the battle against the Locust Horde. But the human have a new plan to attack 
 the Locust's on their home turf, underground. There is also a smaller second storyline in which 
 Dom is looking for is missing wife Maria. Although the gameplay is fairly similar to the first 
 it does feature new weapons, new enemies, and CHAINSAW DUELS! Some of the new weapons include the 
 Gorgon Pistol, a pistol which fires 4 short bursts of ammo. The Boomshield, which is pretty much 
 movable cover, and the Scorcher Flamethrower. There are also a Mortar launcher and a mini-gun called 
 the Mulcher. Some of the new enimes are very tough, like the Bloodmount. Which is a bulky locust 
 creature which uses 2 strong legs and a rider that fires a weapon while riding. Tickers are like 
 time-bombs. They swarm you, then explode. Kantus's are kind of like the religeous members of the 
 Locust. They can revive downed Locust which means you have to kill them if you want an easy fight. 
 Bosses include the Rift Worm, and Skorge. But I'm not spoiling anything. Now to the Chainsaw Duels. 
 The duels utilize the Lancers chainsaw bayonets. When you and an enemy come at each other with 
 a chainsaw, it triggers a quick time event which requires you to rapidly tap "B" to knock the enemy's 
 lancer away and cut him in half. All and all, the Campaign is an enjoyable experience that you, 
 or you and a friend can enjoy. Although I do have a problem with the game leaving more questions 
 than answers. But I can look past that just a bit to say I really like the game.
  
  If you liked the Multi-Player in the first game, you most likey will absolutely go nuts with the 
 Gears 2 Multi-Player. There are 5 new game types. Submission is a lot like CTF, but the flag is 
 a person who is trying not to be captured. Wingman pits 5 teams of 2 in a all out war. Guardian 
 is pretty much Assassination from Gears 1, except as long as your Guardian stays alive you can 
 respawn. The team who goes th longest without dying wins. Warzone is Warzone, but you can now have 
 5v5 instead of 4v4. Then comes Horde. Which lets 5 people team up against wave after wave of increasingly 
 difficult Locusts. Then you have your Annex, and Execution. Which are just the same as the original. 
 I personally love Wingman the most, but all the modes are equally enjoyable.
  
  I'll put it this way. If you bought the first one, buy the second. It's a very simple answer to 
 a problem you might have. The reason I gave it the score I did is because the whole "Left more 
 questions than answers" thing kinda bothered me. But at least we know that can only mean one thing.... SEQUEL!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthrockfan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay.... So just let me start off with saying that I am not really a huge Halo fan, and that's 
 almost exactly what I feel like this game is.... Its a more gory and slightly more entertaining 
 Halo... The battles are simple and repetitive and my 11 year old brother can beat the game on hard...
 
  The main problem with this game is the short story line and the far to easy difficulty..... what 
 ever happened to the games that when you turned them on hard it gave you a realistic feeling? I'm 
 talking about the games that you die in a few hits, and so does the enemy... This is one of those 
 games that you hit the bad guy with a grenade launcher and he gets back up... shoots you with some 
 sort of plasma rifle and then it finally all end when you saw him in half with your big chainsaw... 
 This annoys me... just die the when I hit you with some bullets like everything else in the world.
 
  
  On those notes... The game does have good graphics and will keep you entertained for the whole 
 12 hours it takes you to beat it... Its not really a game that I would say has a real high replay 
 value either... Once you finish it, there is no real reason to continue to play it... I would say 
 rent the game.... beat it... then return it to blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I am amazed at this game. The first Gears was great but really really really short. This game fixes 
 that. The campaigns actually really long and really hard. People say that the first Gears was confusing 
 but to me this one is.
  
  Spoiler:
  
  So You get some intel that adam fenix might be pssibly dirty or something, maybe hes good i dont 
 know. But what happens is Adam says something and marcus is like holy **** hes right but the other 
 cogs are like i know hes your dad but hes a total *** but then you go through with what adam said 
 to do. It worked so your like sweet. But then you watch the credits and you hea r adam fenix say 
 "you fools what have you done" blah blah blah! We did what you said and now were fools. you know 
 what forget that. Plus whats the deal with the sires, they are lame enemies man really.
  
  
  Ok so lets do this
  +graphics
  +periodic achievements
  +chainsaw owning
  +horde
  
 +wingman
  +gameplay
  +new enemies (except sires)
  +Length inproves
  -sires
  -chainsaw too strong (i know it contradicts)
  -CONFUSING!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDespair
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a tactical third-person shooter video game developed by Epic Games and published 
 by Microsoft Game Studios for Xbox 360. It is the sequel to Gears of War, and was announced by 
 lead designer Cliff Bleszinski during the February 20, 2008 Game Developers Conference. The game 
 uses a heavily upgraded version of the Unreal Engine 3 During E3 2008, a worldwide release date 
 for the game was set for November 7, 2008. Since its release, Gears of War 2 has been received 
 with critical acclaim and in its opening weekend the game sold over two million units.
  
  In Gears of War 2, the Locust have found a way to make giant emergence holes capable of sinking 
 entire cities at once. Marcus Fenix and the rest of the COG Delta Squad are now drilling underground 
 to "take the fight to the Locust." In a teaser of the first scenes of gameplay of Gears of War 
 2, COG soldiers engage in battle with a large army of Locust as they travel to drill into the underground 
 region. Comic book writer Joshua Ortega says, "The stakes are raised. This is humanity's last stand. 
 Everything is at risk. Nothing is safe."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheifSniper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  At first this game was all great, you know, great campaign, cool new weapons. But once I set foot 
 in the multiplayer.... haha things turned to the worst. What struck odd to me at first was the 
 horrendous waiting time in matchmaking. took me at least 10 minutes to find a game. Next, once 
 I got into the match, the game was lag. I constantly teleporte everywhere, and a few times in wingman 
 my friend and I were different characters on the same team?? Also the amount of glitching in the 
 game is phenomenal. Boomshot glitch, kungfu back flip, crab walk, etc. Also some of the maps are 
 unbalanced such as hail, where one side spawns with better weapons, also some weapons they added 
 are hugely overpowered. The boomshot from gears 1 was okay, but now, they added tons of splash 
 damage PLUS 3 bullets in the magazine. Also the flamethrower is heavily overpowered. The main problem 
 however, is the lancer chainsaw, which most people call the godsaw. IT can suck you in from 5 feet 
 away, and when its lagging in the game, it can easily kill every player on your team.
  
  This game was overhyped and I overall prefer gears 1 multiplayer by a land slide. I agree though, 
 that the campaign is amazing, except for the tank level which is so boring. That can easily be 
 overlooked because of the other slendor of the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM_punk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is worth all the hype. Let's start with the campaign. The campaign has a very emotional 
 and intresting story. The great letdown to this is if your playing alone your ai partener is a 
 complete IDIOT. Your crawling and right next to him he dosn't revive. I'm like OMG WTF just happend!!!! 
 The campaign can get annoying at times espically the razorhail level. But multiplayer capagin is 
 really fun. Now the multiplayer competitve. I find the competive mulyiplayer pretty annoying beacuase 
 you die once your dead for the whole game. The weapons and grenades are great. Also the excutions 
 and gore are amazing. Also I love the fact that theres no health bar and instead have this blood 
 system to tell you if your fine wounded or crawling for life. The Horde mode is gears comeback 
 to nazi zombies in CoD: World at War. If you don't know about that it's a co-op mode where you battle 
 against wave after wave of horde guys. To get to the next wave one player must be alive until the 
 end of the wave. Overall this is a blockbuster hit sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokeydabear076
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is not a horrible game, just over-hyped and ultimately more of an expansion pack 
 rather than an actual sequel. The single player component (I played it cooperatively) has received 
 some major improvements. For example, the increase in the number of enemies you fight at one time 
 and the large environments greatly supplement the action and pacing of the game. The action in 
 general is just balls to the wall insane when you compare it to the rather slow-paced original. 
 The problem is that with this insanity comes an unbelievably easy game. I can think of only one 
 moment where the game challenged me on "Hardcore" difficulty. In contrast, Gears of War provided 
 plenty of challenge the first time through and even more of a challenge on "Insane". No, I do not 
 expect my games to be too challenging otherwise they are not fun, just annoying as hell. But I 
 expect to die a few times and I did not die a whole lot in Gears 2. Along with the great pacing, 
 Gears 2 receives a boost in visuals. The graphics in general are not ten times as superior as the 
 visuals in the original, but I loved the environments in this game. The underground Locust architecture 
 was especially grand. The problem with Gears of War 2 and the presentation of the visuals is that 
 it never goes the distance. Meaning, although the architecture of the underground caverns is impressive, 
 the direction of the visuals never captures me and causes me to say "wow, that's totally original 
 and disgusting!" When given the brutality of the game, I expected something more reminiscent of 
 hell; instead, Epic gave me something too humane for my tastes. The visual style may be too weak 
 for me, but I welcome the introduction of color into the Gears of War universe. Everything is much 
 livelier in Gears of War 2 and I am glad that Epic realized that the trend of grey, monotone warfare 
 games is quickly becoming redundant. However, sometimes the addition of color does not work well; 
 mainly the out door environments tend to look almost cartoon-like rather than realistic at times. 
 So, although the visuals are some of the most impressive to-date, none of them totally blew me 
 away.
  
  The sound in Gears of War 2 is better than the original, with the exception of the music. The now 
 all too familiar wails of the chainsaw bayonet are as crisp as ever. All of the weapons, explosions, 
 screams, and curses sound fantastic. The voice acting is still as corny as the voice acting found 
 in Sci-Fi Channel Original movies (the way it should be) . One of the best voices in the game was 
 the AI in Act 3, which closely resembled the android in the movie Alien. When mixed with the slow-paced 
 action, this voice created a great sense of creepy ambiance. Almost everything sounds great in 
 this game, but the music was not memorable. Gears of War featured a great musical score, clearly 
 inspired by movies like Starship Troopers, but I cannot remember a single track from Gears of War 
 2. This is unfortunate because Gears is almost perfect in this area. 
  
  Gears of War featured a small variety of well-designed enemies and Gears of War 2 expands the amount 
 of foes by a somewhat large number. Although the variety is great, the enemies are not as interesting 
 as before and sometimes they feel tacked on. The Boomers lost their "charming" personality, but 
 they are now able to wield a few more weapons such as a flamethrower. The Reavers are not new to 
 the Gears of War universe either, but you never fought them while they stood on the ground in the 
 original game. Reavers look interesting and intimidating at first, but after your first encounter, 
 you will find that they are easily disposed of. During Act 3 you face a new opponent called the 
 Sire, I expected these enemies to be quite challenging because there was a large build up to their 
 introduction. Unfortunately, these enemies were a joke. All you needed to do was keep your chainsaw 
 revved up and you would get out alive without a scratch. You also get to fight plenty of Brumaks 
 in Gears 2, but once again, there is no difficulty because an explosive weapon is always near by. 
 Essentially, Gears of War 2 features plenty of new opponents, but the presentation is lacking. 
 In the original game, encounters with Boomers or any other special enemy had a unique movie-like 
 quality to them. I feel that Gears of War 2 just throws countless hordes of enemies at you instead 
 of making the encounters meaningful. No matter how big the enemies became in this game, they never 
 amazed me, but with proper presentations, they could have. Despite these setbacks, Gears of War 
 2 is still a lot of fun to play. The take cover and shoot gameplay mechanics are still sharp as 
 ever and the action is non-stop. The vehicular sequences are also a vast improvement over the original 
 game, but I feel that some of them are unnecessary.
  
  Gears of War did not feature a particularly memorable story and neither does Gears of War 2. Even 
 though the original characters are not very interesting, they are more interesting than before, 
 so I guess Epic took a step in the right direction. Still, I believe that they would have been 
 far more successful with a great introduction sequence and a different storyline focus. Gears of 
 War 2 tries hard to make a meaningful storyline through emphasis on characters, but fails miserably. 
 The characters in Gears of War were over-the-top macho men, so when the characters start to show 
 emotions out of the blue it does not fit well. I remember hearing Dom's first "emotional" lines 
 in Gears of War 2 and laughing. I am not suggesting that they should be stone cold killers, but 
 there should be an apparent catalyst for the abrupt increase in emotion. Perhaps the death of an 
 important character would have been more fitting, either that or an intense battle that ultimately 
 results in retreat rather than victory. Dom only mentioned his wife once or twice in Gears of War, 
 so asking me to care about this obscure relationship between two boring characters is asking too 
 much. And since a large portion of the storyline focuses on this relationship and the search for 
 Maria, the story fails for me. Gears of War 2 also introduces some new, potentially interesting, 
 characters, but their relevance to the story is short lived. 
  
  However, the love story between Dom and Maria is only a part of the story. The light-mass bomb 
 failed and now the humans must rely on their last standing stronghold for survival. Like in Gears 
 of War, this portion of the storyline drives the action and the characters face numerous sequences, 
 which imitate great action movies. The problem I had with these action sequences is that I never 
 felt intimidated by them. As I mentioned before, the difficulty in this game does not provide a 
 challenge. So, having a giant worm thing attack me may sound crazy, but I never felt threatened; 
 therefore, the intensity was non-existent. Epic had the right ideas, but they never executed them 
 properly.
  
  Since the intensity was non-existent, the cooperative experience was not as immersive as before. 
 Instead of barking out orders to my brother as I did in Gears of War, I found myself just playing 
 through the game without any outside discussion. The main quality of Gears of War, which made me 
 score it high, was the great times I had playing the game with my brother. I would get into the 
 heat of the battle and after exterminating the Locusts, I would find myself catching my breath 
 and saying to my brother, "that was awesome!" This interaction rarely happened while I played Gears 
 of War 2. Outside interaction is a necessity for split-screen cooperative games; therefore, I simply 
 cannot put Gears of War 2 on the same level as the original.
  
  I do not want to ramble on and on about Gears of War 2 forever, so I will move on to the multiplayer. 
 Simply put, the multiplayer in Gears of War 2 is broken. If you have been reading about this game 
 or playing it, then you are probably aware of these problems. Weird shotgun, long waits in match 
 making (now improved, but not perfect) , annoying stun grenades, people quitting after getting their 
 asses kicked so you cannot rank up, and the list goes on. I have been talking with my brother about 
 this game and we agree, Epic added too many things that do not fit the gameplay well. We actually 
 went back and played Gears of War online and it was a lot better. The design of the maps and balancing 
 of the weapons fits the gameplay perfectly in my opinion. Gears of War 2 on the other hand, screws 
 everything up. Along with the standard multiplayer experience, there is a new game mode called 
 Horde. A lot of people say that Horde mode alone is worth the $60, but I disagree. In Horde mode, 
 you fight endless hordes of enemies with up to five friends online. Yes, this mode is very fun 
 at first, but eventually it wares off. If Epic took the time to design maps specifically for Horde 
 mode than it would have been a lot better. Imagine fighting tons of enemies in a much wider and 
 more appropriate battlefield. Maps specifically designed for Horde mode would also allow the bigger 
 enemies such as the Brumak into madness. Once again, Epic has the right idea, but the execution 
 is weak. 
  
  Ultimately, Gears of War 2 feels more like an expansion pack rather than a sequel. In the past, 
 I have talked about sequels not needing to reinvent the wheel every time, but I feel that the evolution 
 from Gears of War to Gears of War 2 is almost not substantial enough to justify its label as a 
 sequel. Maybe the pace of the game was too fast and it caused me to feel that the experience was 
 over in a blink of an eye. Whatever the case is, I do not feel that Gears of War 2 had as big of 
 an impact as the original. In the end, the new weapons and enemies, somewhat lengthy campaign, 
 and broken multiplayer experience do not grant Gears of War 2 a perfect score, but this game is 
 still good regardless of its flaws. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game adds so much more to the universe as a whole, and while the original Gears of War was 
 an incredible experience Gears of War 2 is easily the better game of the two thanks to several 
 new factors. This game features identical game play as the previous installment and it is certainly 
 worth your time and money because it is amazingly fun and memorable.
  
  The story picks up right after the final stage of Gears of War to give new players some back story 
 and to remind returning players about what happened. Several cinema scenes provide actual footage 
 of the previous game so new players will not completely be in the dark and it will serve as a simple 
 refresher for veterans. Essentially what the story boils down to is the Locust were not only not 
 destroyed but they were planning a massive invasion from underground, and it is up to Marcus and 
 Delta Squad to stop them-this time for good. The story pans out much like the original because 
 it is usually the story of run from point A to point B with a load of enemies in between, but since 
 Gears of War 2 does such an exceptional job of conveying its extraordinary story the legwork is 
 irrelevant. The fact is you may get so wrapped up in its story that the extra running will just 
 serve to whet your appetite for the next juicy bit of the story. The other thing Gears of War 2 
 does that its predecessor did not was flesh out some of the characters' backgrounds or previous 
 lives before E-Day to a certain degree. These little tidbits of information add to their character 
 and it also creates an emotional connection to them, and often it shows a side of one of the tough-and-buff 
 Delta Squad members never before seen. When these characters show they have a human side the player 
 honestly feels a real connection to them, and that is truly how powerful GoW2's storytelling power 
 is. I was glad to see the men of Delta were more than just flat, emotionally painless marines that 
 only knew how to pull the trigger of a gun. So easily the story and characters are years better 
 than the first game. The nice thing about this game is the controls are identical; nothing has 
 been changed or moved, but a few things have been added. Among the new things in the game include 
 a curb stomp, a human shield, and even a lancer chainsaw battle mini-game. A couple of the new 
 ones involve an enemy being injured and on the ground trying to crawl to safety, and it entails 
 the player to run up to the incapacitated enemy and pressing the corresponding button to use the 
 action. The new moves that require you to run out in the open are extremely fun to use and brutally 
 satisfying to execute. Though like veterans know and new players will soon find out, using cover 
 effectively is the only way to stay alive. Running out through enemy fire to reach a downed enemy 
 is generally not a wise idea, and this is even more so on harder difficulties. The fact is that 
 the implementation of these actions is both clever and appropriate, though it is just a shame that 
 you will not be able to pull them off often because use of cover is essential for survival. Though 
 the situation may arise from time to time where you do not have to expose yourself to enemy attack 
 and these instances really only arise if the enemy closes in, flanks, or vice versa. The single 
 most impressive and innovative new addition to the GoW universe is the Lancer chainsaw battle mini-game. 
 In multiplayer you will encounter this more often, but when two players are using Lancers they 
 have a chance to lock chainsaws in a deadly duel. The players then frantically mash the B button 
 to gain the advantage over the other player. The new moves add so much to the game in both quality 
 and grittiness. And of course, a sequel like this is bound to have new weapons and this game delivers 
 many new and very powerful weapons. Among them remain the iconic Lancer assault rifle, the Hammer 
 of Dawn laser painter, and my personal favorite the Longshot sniper rifle. New weapons include 
 the Locust assault rifle hammerburst, the two-handed mortar launcher, and the mini-gun the game 
 calls "mulcher" and even a few others. These new weapons have new modes of attack that the player 
 will definitely want to experiment with. The original game featured only a single outstanding trial-and-error 
 area that caused frustration, but GoW2 has a couple areas within that are quite irritating. Two 
 of these outstanding instances are all in the same vicinity and they are difficult to overcome 
 the first or second time through, and the other one involves successfully navigating a quickly-crumbling 
 lake of ice. The individual thing that makes them frustrating is a single misstep causes instant 
 death to all involved or to a cooperative player, and both forms of death require a checkpoint 
 restart-and that could lead to another death and so on and so on. And in some of these periodic 
 sequences you can sometimes come up with a methodical way to overcome them though it does not promise 
 success every single time. Though the game's difficulty can be turned down before the beginning 
 of a campaign is does not make these sequences any less frustrating after having to redo it for 
 the sixth time. And thankfully the game provides plenty of cover everywhere you go so you never 
 are really completely defenseless. Though, if you decide to camp and play turtle enemies will likely 
 flank you or in some situations they will use weapons to make you want to move. Like its predecessor 
 Gears of War 2 features a cooperative campaign mode with a friend, and this time around the campaign 
 is more insanely fun than ever imagined. You and a friend will blaze through a decently lengthy 
 campaign to ultimately destroy the Locust, an you will go through hell and high water to attain 
 that goal-literally. This game will take you places you wish you had never seen, but at the same 
 time you will be pleasantly thrilled to have gone on this rollercoaster story with Delta Squad. 
 There is so much meat to this game it would be impossible to describe every last morsel, but know 
 that the game is significantly better than the first and anyone who owns a 360 or who loved the 
 original GoW should most certainly buy Gears of War 2.
  
  Gears of War 2 stands as one of the best action games you will have ever played this year-or maybe 
 for all time. Along with its new gameplay it sports astounding graphics that both show the minute 
 details of facial features to the enormous towers of devastated cities. Unfortunately, GoW2's graphics 
 are both its biggest strength and its biggest weakness. It may sound like an oxymoron to put it 
 that way but it is true. The game's major weakness comes usually when it automatically checkpoints 
 and the whole shebang hinges up for a second or so then it chugs a little bit then it relocates 
 its stride. The biggest offender to the game's graphics is when things get hairy in-game. When 
 that happens sometimes the game will sluggishly chug for a few seconds which is both extremely 
 noticeable and extremely bothersome. To be fair, the game's graphics are sometimes too powerful 
 for its own good. It just seems like sometimes it cannot handle what is going on so things get 
 distorted and everything suffers thanks to it. However, there does not seem to be any particular 
 pattern when the game chugs like this because sometimes it runs as smooth as a whistle in crazy 
 situations. Fortunately these graphical negatives do not appear regularly but they appear enough 
 throughout the whole game. That is the "bad side" of Gears of War 2 and after that everything is 
 great and gets better. Graphically GoW2 looks identical to the first game in just about every way 
 only it is considerably more epic in terms of action and battles. Cinematic scenes generally convey 
 the most epic aspect of the story and they are extraordinary. Often huge battles or enormous vehicles/beasts 
 pepper the screen along with insanely fast and furious action. These same scenes are likely among 
 the best cinematics ever made because they are clear, sharp, and extremely detailed and they run 
 very well. The game most definitely features more action than the first in many ways thanks to 
 several sequences where you drive a vehicle or operate its weapons. Sometimes you might just be 
 passengers along for the ride, and these rides are just as intense as actually driving the vehicle 
 if not better. The levels you and maybe a lucky friend will come across are enormous, epic, and 
 gorgeous all at the same time. The range also at which the levels appear is impressive; you will 
 be visiting the Locust nerve center later in the game, you will fight your way through a large 
 city both ruined and occupied, and you might even find yourself inside of a very large creature. 
 And there are several other brand new places you get to explore as well. I mentioned the game features 
 many new weapons and they either look similar to previous guns in terms of actual models, though 
 there are some "heavy" guns that bring something new to the table. Quite frankly nothing graphically 
 has been done with the weapons and that includes the new weapons. The new weapons, as I made brief 
 mention of earlier, are actually very different from the standard collection of common conventional 
 weaponry found throughout the game. A couple of points during the story you will come across huge 
 weapons that actually requires the use of both hands, and fortunately these big guns do not require 
 you to drop any other weapons. One of these new guns is the "mulcher" or a minigun, and it is great 
 to use because it literally shreds anything that gets in its path. The other weapon is a mortar 
 which has tremendous range, but unfortunately it is difficult to aim accurately. However it does 
 have a huge range of effect because it rains down meteor-like missiles from the sky. Another noteworthy 
 weapon would be the flamethrower which is not one of the bigger, two-handed weapons. It is needless 
 to say that this weapon is perfect for roasting Locust to well-done, though it may not always completely 
 kill them. Regardless of the fact the graphical power of Gears of War 2 remains almost completely 
 unchanged from the previous game they are still superb.
  
  Sound in this game, just like the graphics, remains mostly unchanged thanks to the complete return 
 of Delta and the plethora of weapons and vehicles. One outstanding element in the sound department 
 would be sound effects in general; just sitting back and listening to the sound either during gameplay 
 or cinema scenes like explosions, gunfire, or even yelling add to already-intense environment. 
 The gunfire will be what you will hear most because you will be shooting at something most of the 
 time. Each gun has its own unique sound of course, and when ammo starts to run out in the clip 
 a distinct clicking can be heard to indicate a reload is needed. The shining gem of the game's 
 sound would be fantastic voice work. Each character including Marcus, Dom, Cole, and Baird return 
 each with their original voice actors and once again they are done to perfection. This voice work 
 is perhaps some of the best work ever done in a game and it is done convincingly and professionally. 
 The men of Delta certainly look their part, but with their excellent voices it completes their 
 rough-and-tough personas perfectly. The game does feature some music but honestly there since there 
 is usually too many other things happening it is hardly noticeable. Overall sound rocks in this 
 tremendous sequel.
  
  Gears of War 2 stands as the superior game to the original. And this is due to its lengthy and 
 memorable single/cooperative campaign and its amazing local/online multiplayer options. While the 
 game is identical to the first in the sense that it sports identical graphics and gameplay it makes 
 itself worth its $60 price. So if you have played the original and loved it then you must certainly 
 consider picking this one up as soon as possible. For those who have not played Gears of War before 
 this would be the perfect time to start. Despite some graphical flaws and frustrating gameplay 
 instances it is still worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shah1000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  ok game, not as good as expected, terrific features ok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific 
 featuresok game, not as good as expected, terrific featuresv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  I really didn't say much about the first Gears of War. It wasn't because I couldn't think of anything, 
 I just didn't think my opinion would go to much use when the game got so many awards and was the 
 best selling Xbox 360 game. But now there's a sequel, and it's only been out a month. Is this sequel 
 worth getting? The answer is yes, for any and every possible reason you could think of. First of 
 all, it's hard to imagine how they could make a campaign that's more epic, as interesting and as 
 thrilling as the first game. But they more then pulled off that. The battles are bigger, the usage 
 of vehicles and bigger monsters are through the roof, and there's no scale big enough to compare 
 the levels of "Epicness" between the 2 games. The cut scenes are as big, meaningful, and epic as 
 ever, giving you that "big war movie feel". Gears 2 builds upon everything you loved about the 
 first game, bringing you a shifting level of suspenseful and unique situations with action packed 
 survival against the locust horde, that uses far more than the first game. The first game lacked 
 epic sized battles and real usage of vehicles. Well here you fight Locust Reavers on foot, ride 
 in a tank instead of that cheap light gun buggy, fight countless Brumak monsters, and watch a new 
 level of movie rivaling cut scenes that'll make you sad when it's all over. Although many things 
 from the first Gears that wasn't used much comes into more use in this sequel, there are new monsters 
 and characters to add to the universe. They don't feel out of place or cheaply tacked on, and neither 
 does the story for that matter. You'll especially be waiting patiently to find out how the locust 
 are sinking cities, and longer to see how you're going to stop that. You get to meet the locust 
 queen, the woman narrator voice only heard in the first game. There are countless moments in the 
 game that'll make you say "OH SH IT I didn't think the second Gears would be as good as it is, 
 but it really makes the first Gears feel like a small experience, which can hard for anyone that 
 hasn't played it to believe. The environments are bigger, the battles are bigger, and you will 
 be fighting many more enemies at once. One of the lacking features of the first game was the absence 
 of a real arsenal. Gears 2 builds upon this downside by adding enough new guns to play around with. 
 Despite the bad things I've read, I've enjoyed most of the new guns. It's a great feeling to mow 
 down countless enemies with a gattling gun that reduces your movement speed to a crawl while carrying. 
 I also favored the flamethrower for its amazing ability to easily aim/blindfire around close corners 
 and roost enemies at close range, without being exposed to aim like most other guns. The 3 new 
 heavy weapons are things you will enjoy every time you get to use them during the single player 
 experience. You'll enjoy slowly walking around nearly unkillable with a shield, even if it means 
 being limited to a pistol for firepower. You'll enjoy pummeling groups of locust far away with 
 a mortar from a ledge. But the old weapons weren't cast aside, a Shotgun is still the go-to gun 
 for close range in the absence of flame, and you'll still be using a Lancer or Hammerburst in the 
 many situations you can't get a heavy weapon. (When you do, you'll very soon run out of ammo) The 
 2 basic guns were changed a little to make them more useful. It doesn't take quite as long to chainsaw 
 an enemy, and the Hammerbust now has a more consistent rate of fire, making it much more useful. 
 Both guns feel a big more powerful than before. One of my favorite changes was the other, minor 
 things. The drop in and out feature for CO OP, meaning you no longer have to reload every time 
 a player ditches on you. (Countless times a player would join my game, stay for 2mins, and then 
 leave, forcing me to reload again and again) You can also have separate difficulty settings, something 
 every game should feature. A pro doesn't have to downgrade to play with a newbish friend in this 
 world. The collectables now have unique readable text on each of them, giving you a bit more motivation 
 to collect them. Multiplayer got a huge buff. The addition to bots means you can split screen some 
 multi player with a friend or fill in the missing slots of a game to keep a game even. Their AI 
 isn't perfect but I more then found them fitting for the job. The addition of more settings, bots, 
 maps, and modes make this sequel a step up from its original. I didn't find the added executions 
 to be that thrilling, but do make it less repetitive to execute. Multi player is as gory and bloody 
 as before, with the ability to now select a preferred model for use. No more "Random" every game, 
 you can look like general RAAM in every game, provided a person doesn't already have it selected 
 in a game you joined. I prefer the Carmine newbs, they wear helmets. :) As for locust, I choose 
 the third model, soldier locust wearing goggles. If you own Gears of War, this sequel is a must 
 purchase. If you've enjoyed Gears of War even slightly, it is at least a must play.
  
  Single player:
  (Experience) Star (Perfect)
  Presentation:
  (Video/Audio) Star (Perfect)
 
  Performance: Star (Perfect)
  Multiplayer: A (Good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quizee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, epic games gave us Gears of War. After years of anticipation, it was finally released 
 with over-whelming reviews. It featured incredible graphics, audio, addicting multiplayer and a 
 chainsaw! 
  
  I loved the first gears of war, I thought it was near perfect. although there was technical glitches, 
 the biggest disappointment about the game for me was the storytelling. Epic created an interesting 
 world, and interesting characters. But the story felt weak and not fleshed out enough. So going 
 into gears 2, I was concerned that the same would happen with the sequel. I am proud to say that 
 my concern is nonexistant as this time around, the story feels more in depth. What helps this is 
 that there are plenty more cut scenes in gears 2, its no metal gear but players will be stopped 
 frequently to watch a cut scene (although you can skip them but why would you.) 
  
  The characters feel more fleshed out as many of them have their own kind of backstory and epic 
 tells you their motivation to be in the war. A big part of the story is Dom's continueing search 
 for his wife, It's definately more of a focus this time around.
  
  The first gears featured some of the best graphics ever and the sequel is no different. Some how, 
 epic has made gears 2 look even better than the first. There is more facial animations, better 
 textures, huge vistas, and it looks much more colorful.
  
  If you thought the first gears was gory, wait to you play the sequel. Blood now splatters from 
 gunshots and the chainsaw now paints the walls with blood. If a downed enemy crawls, they will 
 leave a trail of blood wherever they go. And headshots could make the quezzy throw up. Basically, 
 this ain't a kids game and it wears its "M" rating with honor
  
  The first gears of war gave us some very addicting multiplayer, although there wasn't many game 
 modes and they weren't that varied, the gameplay was golden. Gears 2 brings that gameplay back 
 but with a vastly superior multiplayer mode. There are many more modes and weapons and it features 
 a matchmaking system making it easier to get into a match. To sum the multiplayer up, this game 
 will be played online for years to come.
  
  As you can tell I love gears of war 2. Its my game of the year and I give it a perfect 10/10. Its 
 not a game you wanna miss out on. Halo is no longer xbox's flagship, that title belongs to gears 
 of war. An Instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RakinR
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a solid sequel from the first game. They added so much more to it especially 
 a more improved matchmaking system that really made me enjoy the game so much. Allow me to BREAK 
 IT DOWN: 
  
  Pros:
  Excellent add-ons were made to the game such as:
  1. Matchmaking: Similar to Halo, the way they match you wtih players. When Gears 2 first game out 
 it was ridiculously slow but now as days progress, matchmaking has really gotten faster. They do 
 not have a number level system but an army rank system. 
  2. New Weapons: They added heavy weapons such as the chainguns, and mauler. Also added gas grenades 
 which in my opinion arent that useful. 
  3. More executions: Allow you to do the basic curb stomp or a unique weapon dedicated execution 
 with the punch of the y button when your opponent is downed. 
  4. New mode: Horde mode is a new mode in this game and is one of the best reasons to buy this game. 
 I'am not that great online playing against other players so you verse a group of bots and there 
 are 50 waves. The waves get more difficult as you go closer to 50. 
  5. Bots: Adding bots to games makes sure that you are never lonely in your multiplayer matches. 
 
  
  Cons:
  1. Story was expanded but after more story expansions, they still left some major questions unanswered 
 and even more questions arose. 
  2. Guest sign ins are a hastle. You are only allowed to do private matchmaking with your guest 
 which requires you to invite friends or bots to play and whenever someone signs out you return 
 to the main menu, leading to more load times. 
  
  Gears 2 is better and "more badass" than the first and i recommend this to all xbox 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdustTheGMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I don't even know where to start... there are so many great things about this game.
  
  Pros:
  -Great graphics and sound. I was blown away when I first turned Gears of War 2 on with 
 my HDTV.
  
  -Great story mode, it can also be played co-op over Xbox Live making it even better.
  
  -Fun 
 Game play that is easy to learn for people new to Gears of War.
  
  -Many of the things that made Gears of War 1 online less fun than it could have been fixed, like 
 the lobby. Also increased player count from Gears 1 (from 4V4 to 5V5)
  
  -New "Horde" gameplay mode is very fun.
  
  -Last but not least: It has a gun with a freaking 
 chainsaw on it, how cool is that?
  
  Cons: 
  
  -The story mode seems a little short imo, however every second of it was amazing
  
  -Online 
 mode is not all it could be.
  
  Overall Gears of War 2 is worth every penny. Gears of War 2 is one of the best shooters you will 
 play this year. A must play for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackie8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Gears of War a surprising shooter that sold over 3 million copies. how could they top the original? 
 by giving us this game. It is the best shooter ever and it has so many fun modes that even those 
 without x box live can have a great time. The campaign mode was stellar! I have beaten it once 
 and still want to play through it again. For me the campaign felt a little too short and the dialogue, 
 well it wasn't exactly great. These were part of the few flaws that this game has. The addition 
 of horde mode was excellent! Nothing is better than kicking locust butt on increasingly difficult 
 levels. Taking horde mode online is even better. Going it alone good luck. The multiplayer is good 
 on line and offline. On line multiplayer might have it's problems but those are easy to get over. 
 I think this is the shooter to get this year and everyone who enjoys shooters should get this. 
 the campaign is best with a friend so make sure to take it on line or get a friend at your house 
 pronto! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterchief
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game, there's no question about it. It follows up on its predecessor 
 really well, with the unique gameplay, even more pristine visuals and a gritty story.
  
  Gears 2 does everything that Gears of War did, just taking it all a bit further. The campaign is 
 largely lengthened, and it has immense replay value. A lot of things feel right in the game, from 
 chainsawing a Locust drone, to just making a Boomer's head explode with a sniper round.
  
  The story is even better than Gears of War, the developers actually having the guts to take emotional 
 twists and turns, even delivering one moment that's just depressingly reaching. The gameplay fits 
 in to the story very well, the weapons are great, the setting, it's all good.
  
  The visuals are stunning, attention to detail and all that. But there's something I've wondered, 
 why is Gears always set in a grimy, dull colour? That's a part that seems to slightly take away 
 from it all. Gears is a wonderful game, but sometimes you can't help but feel it isn't all that 
 original. I can spot lots of moments and other mechanics that come right out of movies like Star 
 Wars: The Phantom Menace and The Matrix Revolutions, and games such as Halo 3. 
  
  The last thing is multiplayer. I felt that Gears just isn't quite made for multiplayer. There are 
 people that enjoy it, but like Gears 1, I found it chunky and annoying, not to mention the pointless 
 10 second countdown at every interval. 
  
  Overall, Gears of War 2 is a great game, almost a must buy if you're old enough, and it has a well 
 thought out story to boot. It falls short in online multiplayer, and maybe some originality, but 
 it's still easily one of the best games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunaticrichard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  gears 2 is all that it has promised. bigger, better and more badass as cliffy said.
  it takes you further into the story of marcus finix and buds. it has a better mp and sp then gow1 
 and the graphics look even better then in part 1. also the cover system has been improved witch 
 is an absolut blessing. i could tell you about the story or how the inviroment looks in levels and 
 the flaws it has, although they are verry minor. i'll just say its a hell of a ride and you; ll feel 
 plenty satisfied at the end .at least i did. and even if its not a great inovative game, i am veryy 
 happy with the result and i think manny gears fan is too.
  chances are that if you liked gears 1 you'll like gears 2 if not then this isn't for you. this is 
 a game for fps lovers and action lovers. it with an even better mp and more maps and more mp options 
 it realy is badass !!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse13289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say it looks like the xbox has another winner on its hands. 
  Gears of War 2 is an awesome third person shooter that is set six months after the events of the 
 first game.
  You reprise your role as Marcus Fenix a cog soldier fighting for humanity's survival as it turns 
 out that the Locusts have survived the lightmass bomb and are attempting once more to claim the 
 surface and destroy humanity for good.
  
  The gameplay is pretty awesome but not too different from the first game it feels pretty much the 
 same except for the different story but again everything is the same the controls, the cover scheme, 
 but since it is a game with such a great story and adding a few more weapons to play with. Im willing 
 to overlook that minor detail and the other gears fans should to.
  
  The multiplayer is kickass there is a bunch of modes to choose From like warzone, guardian, and a 
 new one called horde which you have to fight wave after wave of locusts with their difficulty getting 
 harder with each wave.
  
  So if you want a game to play and just so happen to have a xbox 360 then Gears of War 2 is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXFr34k_0uTXx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay. GoW:2 offers the same great gameplay as GoW did, but a better game overall than number 1 
 due to great adds. If you played and liked the first one I would recommend buying/renting/borrowing 
 this game for a play. More weapons, executions, and a satisfying campaign and on-line multiplayer 
 make this game one of the current best on the 360. At first the multiplayer was terrible with load 
 times, but since the update, things go much smoother now. 
  Beating the campaign leaves you with Fenix's father still alive with a broken voice . . . basically 
 a teaser for GoW:3. 
  GoW fans be prepared for number 3 a couple years down the line, and we'll see where Epic leads 
 us to.
  
  However, if you are one of the people who did not care for the original, do NOT buy this game. 
 It will feel very similar and a dissatisfying waste of time=O.
  
  + achievements are not hard to get either. Just a little time.
  
  =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_Payne773
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  GOW 2 was worth the wait.
  I really enjoyed this game from start to finish, even thought the ending felt rushed.
  
  
 
  Single Player:
  The single player campaign was very fun and gruesome at the same time. I felt i was in familiar 
 terratory and that was good. Means i did not have to relearn the game all over again. The controls 
 were the same as the first game and that was very good, because they were already perfect the first 
 time around! The story picks up 6 months after the first game ended and the Locust have survived 
 the light mass bombings. Now they have found other means of destroying cities from underneath. 
 I will not give away how they do it but i can tell you it is very suprising and very cool! The 
 charecters are more fleshed out here and there is more emotion in the story this time. The story 
 is longer than the first game which is better. More play time that means! But sometimes i got the 
 feeling it would never end! But that was because i sat up all night playing. It was that fun!
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  The game uses a modified version of the Unreal 3.0 engine and it looks better than ever! Textures 
 are very smooth with less pop in this time around. It looks better than the first and runs smoother 
 some how to. The boys at Epic should be very proud of themselves! The game can render hundreds 
 of enemies at once on HUGE battlefields without any drop of the frame rate, which is perfect for 
 a game this intense. But there are more moments in this game than in the first you can finally 
 catch you breath from the action and see the lovely scenery and very nice glare and lighting effects. 
 The game may hiccup sometimes but that is very rare. Makes Killzone 2 look like Doom 1 compared. 
 Animation is smooth and effects very well done. Looks even better if played in either 1080i or 
 1080p, but looks fine on even 720p.
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Great fun even though i have only played via system link with 4 friends. Horde is a very fun new 
 addition. My team has at least got up to wave 28 on Hardcore. The only gripe i have about it is 
 all the loading in between the different options screens.
  
  
  All in all a solid 9 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of War came out for the 360 in 2006, 2 years ago. It was the first game to glorify 
 the Unreal Engine 3, and introduced an innovative and signature game play mechanic. Cover. A year 
 later Gears of War came out for the PC, and also Unreal Tournament 3 seeked its release. Now a 
 year later, Epic Games have introduced us to Gear of War 2. But sadly with all the work they had 
 in the past 2 years, Gears 2 is still in Beta.
  
  The story is set after the events of Gears 1, and this time around the locust are packing a punch, 
 sinking cities and such. Humanity has now taken the fight underground, as in the last game your 
 squad went underground, now the whole COG army is going under. The campaign is much faster pace 
 than its predecessor, and adds a little more variety, especially with the boss battles. There's 
 more interaction with the boss battles rather than seek and destroy.
  Epic Games has also hired a professional writer as they wanted the story to be darker and more 
 emotion, frankly that's far from the truth, the story still keeps the tough guy tone intact. Although 
 I will admit there were 1 or 2 moments that were impressive.
  
  Gameplay is familiar to the first, with tweaks added such as the ability to break out of a swat 
 turn, and you also wouldn't be sticking to every wall you encounter this time around. A new addition 
 are the new executions, there are 4, one for each face button, A turns your opponent into a meat 
 shield, B is a quick melee strike, X is the new curb stop, and Y flips your enemy on his back while 
 you beat his face in.
  The weapons are mostly unbalanced, with two exceptions, the enhanced Hammerburst, and the Longshot 
 Rifle. The hammerburst is like the Battle Rifle of gears, with the ability to zoom in, it provides 
 accuracy that other automatic weapons cannot such as the Lancer. The Longshot hasn't changed much 
 other than that the one Active down shot has been removed.
  Unfortunately those are the only two weapons that feel balanced, and not too overpowered. The Lancer/Hammerburst 
 packs stopping power which disables anybody from rushing and rolling to pack your face full of 
 lead, many might assume that stopping power will slow you down, but it seriously stops you in your 
 tracks.
  New weapons include a Mortar, shields and poison grenades, these new additions are well balanced, 
 as well smoke grenades now act as stun grenades.
  
  Multiplayer can be played on and offline, either with bots or players locally or on LIVE. Player 
 count has increased from 8 to 10. The lobby borrows from Halo 3 as Epic has integrated a Matchmaking 
 system. Matchmaking takes a long time to find a game, around 10-20 min on average. When you do 
 find a game, you will enduring large amounts of lag. The chainsaw is overpowered, when you hit 
 someone when they have their chainsaw revved, it does not stop and stun the opponent.
  
  A big addition to Gears is Horde, you and up to 4 others can duke it out wave after wave of various 
 Locust, on any map. The difficulty racks up every 10 waves. You earn points for every enemy you 
 kill and gain bonus points for how many players survived and rounds survived. This mode is fun 
 and can consume alot of time if you want to be top on the leader boards.
  
  Graphically , Gears 2 is stunning. It runs smoother than the first, textures are sharper, and added 
 detail/draw distance. Little details such as your character leaning left and right, to show the 
 weight and momentum. The nozzle of your Lancer turning red and smoking. Even though the game runs 
 smoother, it does have alot of hiccups when the screen is overwhelmed enough.
  
  Audio is average, new orchestral music adds some atmosphere but nothing jaw dropping. Voice overs 
 are the same qulity as the first, cheesy tough guy lines, but are good enough for the task.
  
  Gears of War 2, when I heared that Amazon was taking pre orders of the game, 2 years after 
 the first installment, I didn't beleive it. 2 years is not enough to develop a game. And this product 
 shows, Gears of War 2 requires more time to shine. Because for now, it is still in beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoachVic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very entertaining, unbelievable graphics, great music score, good storyline, fun to use 
 weapons, intense action, checkpoints are not too far apart.
  
  The Bad: A little repetitive in the middle of the game, but that is being nit-picky.
  
  Overall: 
 Simply awesome! If you liked the first Gears, you will enjoy this one. Despite what I have read, 
 I liked it better than the first one, and I didn't find it too short, which is what a lot of reviews 
 are saying. The last chapter is the most fun I have had playing a video game in a long time. Can't 
 wait for the next one!
  
  Why does a review have to be 800 characters long? I prefer reading the short reviews from the actual 
 gameplayers and the longer ones from the employees of these gaming sites. Maybe now I have 800 
 characters typed in this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam6996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Excellent game. Definetely a must have. Excellent continuation to the amazing story. A very wide 
 variety of new enemies to cut in half and bury. New weapons show the true ability of the awesome 
 cog fighters. Improved graphics with an improved engine which u will realize while begining the 
 second act. the unreal 3 engine has been upgraded which gives marcus fenix new abilities to decimate 
 opponents and watch as the y beg for mercy. Character movement differs to the prequel in few ways. 
 Such as having the ability to quick reload while sprinting to find cover. Also the way which the 
 characters sprint has change in this sequel the cogs bend down more and lower their head in order 
 to avoid enemy fire. Also the link in the story is that instead of protecting and defending the 
 human territory as in the first game. The sequel is more about the cogs sending in all they have 
 got in order to get rid of the locust manifestation. Multiplayer may include a few glitches but 
 the joy of firing at someone till they get on their knees makes up for it. Making the game more 
 exciting by including new ways to chainsaw enemy locusts in new different ways spices it all up.
 
  In other words if you dont have this game you should either go buy it or throw your worthless 
 life off of a long long long cliff.
  
  To those worthless Graw 2 haters ill see you at the bottom of a pit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpspawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Basically this review is based on my single player experience only and comparing this game with 
 the original. The original Gears of War I found exciting the first time but I was reluctant to 
 play the single player campaign again. In Gears 2 this is not the case, the single player is more 
 fun and has more to offer. 
  
  PRO: Most of the weapons are available early and provide a good variety of choices for combat. 
 New weapons include the Scorcher which is a flamerthrower type weapon useful for hitting enemies 
 in cover and rushing targets. The Gorgon Pistol which is a locust weapon which sprays multiple 
 bullets which makes it effective at close range even when not accurate. The mortar is useful for 
 hitting enemies behind cover, by launching grenades upwards, however challenging to target. Also 
 you can grab a shield and advance using it as cover and firing a pistol at the same time. This 
 is a great idea except it makes you harder to kill, the enemy needs a tactic to counter this, but 
 seems to not have one or not use it. There are several other weapons I could mention but overall 
 there is more variety than Gears of War 1.
  
  PRO: The Graphics have been taken to a new level. I really noticed the difference from the beginning. 
 Greater use of colours. More intricate details. Some enviroments have fantastic backgrounds, especially 
 the underground levels with the water caverns and locust architecture.
  
  PRO: A greater variety of interesting enemies. Some of the encounters will have you facing a small 
 horde of locust enemies. Some of the new types of Locusts include a giant gladiator carrying a 
 shield and wielding a swinging weapon. There are also some beast riding varieties. These new enemies 
 really highlight the locusts as montrous opponents.
  
  PRO AND CON: Great developing story, which is really setting up for a sequel. The ominous mystery 
 surrounding the plot actually helps the game. The only CON with this is that new characters seem 
 to be not used to any great potential within the story which is disappointing.
  
  CON: On the lowest differculty this game is quiet easy to progress. Definitely easier than the 
 original game. This is probably due to your squad mates having lots of health and not dying. They 
 will also do their fair share of killing the enemy. On many encounters the squad stomps the opposition. 
 This is actually a good thing though, but I recommend setting this game to higher differculty levels. 
 The boss encounters are easy and are thus disappointing.
  
  Overall a fun game, with some decent replay value, more so than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKingofAllWC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 has an excellent campain on either solo or coop. But thats not what really sticks 
 out. The multiplayer is an excellent thing that can be really hated or loved judging on your talancy 
 to lag. Some people think that there is no host, but indeed there is. And in this game the host 
 is chosen randomly at the start of every game. The host can sometimes, have a bad connection that 
 can make you want to Kill some thing or some one. Some times the host leaves the game when they 
 are getting wrecked in a matchup. (Understandable) What I don't seem to understand is why Epic Games 
 did not chose the person with the best connection in the room to host the game. That is not even 
 the worst part about Gears 2. The glitches are extremly easy to use by everyone. There is the Shield 
 Glitches that can really be fun to use, by complete NOOBS or people that are desprate to win a 
 round. But by now you are probably woundering why I rated this game 9.5. And thats because when 
 you get used to the Shot Gun system this game is 20 Times better and more fun than Gears 1. The 
 Sniper and Tork Bow are easier to use but getting to them can be hard. Yes the camera system that 
 can be used is Cheep ways. But if your teamates are struugling in a hard match you will be more 
 than happy to get into a party soo you can reveal to your teamates and friends where the ememies 
 are hiding. Soo this game should be bought by everyone who had fun and skills with the first game. 
 Hope to see you on Gears 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  good: story is better but still it isnt good, it longer, the chainsaw action and online play are 
 improved, get to ride a brumak, destructible cover is cool, less pop-up, very detailed faces, there 
 are some great speeches
  bad: the story really isnt that good, somehow the characters suits dont look as detailed as last 
 time
  
  so six months after the first weare fighting very hard against the locust nd want to drop another 
 light mass bomb on them and take the battle to were they live we must go underground there we will 
 find a longer experience with better gameplay in this sequel there are actually chainsaw duels 
 were you rapidly press b to win improved online play for up to 10 players wingman is especially 
 good destructible cover wich unfortunatly is really used as a game mechanic and great graphics 
 now the story is much better but still bad and thats pretty much the only thing its more of the 
 same but if yu loved the original gears definitley buy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southp777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me get 2 things straight:
  1. I would love to give this game a 9.7, because I believe it's improves on the 1st game's premise. 
 Didn't want to give it a ten and look like a fan-boy moron.
  
  2. It leaves the plot open the way it is so that the 3rd game can tie up all the loose ends. Why 
 the hell can't reviewers understand this???
  
  The story involves delta squad trying to finish off the locust after the light-mass bomb. As it 
 turns out, the locust are making a full recovery and are ready to fight back. Plus the locust have 
 something that is now sinking entire cities at a time. To help you in this process of stopping 
 this "entity", you meet Dizzy and Tai. As the story progresses you soon find out that Dom is seriously 
 struggling about not knowing if his wife Maria is safe. This is about as far as I would like to 
 go without spoilers.
  
  The gameplay remains the same... a good thing. A few new additions are meat shields, chainsaw dueling, 
 new execution moves, new weapons, and just as important new defenses. The cover mechanics definitely 
 feel more solid. You also have a few driving/flying sections which don't feel necessary but add 
 more depth to the game, especially the final section...
  *spoiler* Once you get into the rift-worm that's been destroying the cities, you have to take out 
 the heart of it. In this section, you are treated to a bit of platforming within the worm such 
 as dodging body movements on the inside. You also have to chainsaw the arteries closest to the 
 heart... you can imagine by the time your done with this and out of the worm you're pretty bloody. 
 Trust me, gameplay won't disappoint you.
  
  As far as the graphics go, one word... phenomenal. The graphics were great in the first game, but 
 the team at Epic studios added more color this time around and have updated the Unreal engine to 
 have 100's of enemies on the screen at once and so much more.
  
  The multi-player has also received welcomed updates. You are getting a great online experience 
 in this game. Whether you would like to frag competitively or frag with a friend on co-op, you're 
 all set for a great time online.
  
  It isn't without it's downsides though. Let me put it to you this way.
  THE FINAL BOSS................ SUCKS... 
 no really, it doesn't even take skill to defeat him.
  As far as the other bosses go, it's about half and half, nothing fantastic or incredibly interesting. 
 
  
  Would it be possible for someone say from RE4 or God of War teams to help with this constant problem 
 I keep seeing? Just a thought.
  
  To sum this all up, Gears of War 2 is a AAA title that should be picked up for your xbox 360 immediately 
 after you are done reading this review. So go on now.... 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  This review is going to be based upon one aspect of this game, and that is Multiplayer. If this 
 is consider a QQ (crying) review, based on facts than a mere fan boy review such as "It kick a**" 
 or my favoritelearn to play with terrible mechanics noobs" 
  The mechanics is obviously added :D, or 
  "It great and Epic rocks, PWNED, OWNED you noobs Blank" 
 (something derogatory) and we all seen these day in and day out, anyways now that out on the table 
 and done, lets begin.
  
  The game play through campaign is solid, and offers no less. And the graphics are by far amazing, 
 but the major reason why people play these types of games is cause of one thing, and that is ding, 
 ding multiplayer. The multiplayer for GOW has always been terrible, but for some odd reason has 
 never really been call out as a major issue, which is ultimately the reason why players who actually 
 see the mistakes and not overlook them, don't see a significant change in the multiplayer; which 
 is why GOW 2 is, what it is. The new matchmaking system is down right pointless, and unfair, and 
 is another cheap trick to play this game even longer, which i thought the Seriously (achievements) 
 was made for. This new system makes players wait for mins on end to join matches, which at times 
 aren't even set up evenly like 5 vs 5 and such. 
  
  The choices for which mode to play on is also ridiculous, so if someone doesn't need what i need 
 in this room lets vote against it, sense now what you play comes from majority vote, hm sounds 
 fair and balance, especially when you can invite people you know to have the vote in your advantage 
 lol. Like for example, I need the guardian achievement (guardian a game mode) , but everyone in 
 the room I'm party with has it or simply doesn't want to do it, so you're basically stuck playing 
 something else you don't want to play which makes one ask, was giving players the freedom to play 
 their own ranked match to much or just wasn't ideal? 
  I want to go into more detail about the ranking system, sense it totally relates too the matchmaking 
 making system, but if you're getting what I'm saying at this point? Then there no need, cause it 
 should come naturally with uneven matches and stuff + it being changed. There also lag issue which 
 have been address with different reasons such as firewalls, crappy host connections which could 
 default everyone else connection too crap, which was avoided in GOW 1, cause you can see which 
 connection worked for you, which makes me think again, why did they change something that work 
 in the 1st one, that everyone liked?
  
  Overall this is another overrated game with the best publicity team/fan boys around, and for sure 
 has made me a 100% a renter when it comes to the next installment. It either throw me and decent 
 bone that worth me going after with $60 bucks, or just don't at all and loss my trust. You should 
 for sure take caution and rent before you buy, cause it may look good on the outside, but the truth 
 always lies within actually playing it first, especially for multiplayer fans. which you should 
 be, if you show a interest in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMMONMASTER
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. I just think that besides a few extras, the first Gears was far more interesting, 
 inventive. The first Gears was ground breaking and fresh, 2 is interesting but does not pull you 
 in as much. It is a must have as this year was not as great as last year for games. Co-op is always 
 good and this is a fun co-op so that makes it a must. I sold this game after my first run through 
 and then bought it again for the co-op but not the storyline for sure. I was never a Gears multi-player 
 fan, just didn't find it as enjoyable as regular shooters are but having buddies and going up against 
 the Horde is very cool and challenging. So, once again, Gears 2 for the co-op but not much replay 
 value in the single campaign. There will be a sequel as there is way too much money in this game 
 not to do it and I think in the next, we will see some very inventive new tech and game play come 
 our way. Buy this game and enjoy it with all your friends that surly have it and as an after thought... will 
 Marcus ever find love to warm that steel heart? LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traybrown24
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is one of the greatest games you could ever play. There are a lot of haters that 
 love to hate on the game with comments like it isn't as good then the original gears this is an 
 absurd thing to say seeing as this game improves on nearly everything gears one did great. Like 
 the ability to hide behind things and peek your head out from behind the cover and of cores the 
 beautiful graphics that blow you away every time you chainsaw someone in half with a lancer or 
 blow a head of with a active reload shotgun shell. There are a few drawbacks to the game like the 
 multilayer matchmaking if you don't have a full party of five friends you will not find a team 
 for like five minutes. Once you find a team it could take several more minutes to find an opposing 
 team. Another drawback is the ease for any old noob to come up and chainsaw you like you are the 
 worst player ever. This is something epic couldn't stop but still a miner drawback. There is one 
 other thing about the campaign that needs to be mentioned which is the final boss is nowhere near 
 as exciting as the boss from the first gears of war. Since GTA IV could get a perfect 10 with all 
 its flaws I figure why can't GOW2 get a perfect 10. To anyone who thinks I'm hating on GTA IV you 
 are completely wrong it is one of my favorite games and it did deserve a perfect 10. Gamespots 
 terrible reviews make me want to find a new primary source for all my gaming needs. Also they need 
 to bring BUTTON MASHING back it was one of the reasons I even started to use Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garygrsport
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  LOOKS GREAT , GRAPHICS , SOUND PERFECT,,, GREAT IDEA,,, OTHER THAN THAT MAKE SURE YOU BUY A MILLION 
 BATTERIES FOR YOU CONTROLLERS, TO FIGURE OUT CHECKPOINTS ,, TO GET IT CORRECT,, IS ALOT OF WORK, 
 AND FRUSTATATION, AND IF YOU DONT GET IT CORRECT,, YOU WILL WILL START BACK IN THE BEGGINNING OF 
 THAT CHECKPOINT,,, WHICH BY THEN YOU ALREADY BEEN PLAYING TO NIGHTTIME,,, TO FIGUTE OUT THAT CHECKPOINT 
 I AM A GOOD GAMER, AVERAGE, AND THIS GAME IS A PAIN, FROM CHECKPOINT TO POINT, ITS MORE WORK THAN 
 PLAY TO STAY ALIVE, A GAME IS SUPPOSSED TO FUN, NOT WORK , I SHOULD OF WENT TO MY REAL JOB, ATLEAST 
 I WOULD HAVE GOT PAID,, VERY FRUSTATING GAME, I TRIED IT, MANY TIMES CAUSE ITS REAL COOL LOOKING,, 
 BUT THERE IS NO WAY IM PUTTING THAT THING BACK IN MY XBOX, UNLESS THEY PAY ME FOR FINISHING THE 
 CHECKPOINTS,, VERY ANNOYING,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoMiNiC147
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: These may be the best graphics I've seen on Xbox 360 yet. It a real improvement from 
 the first one. I really appreciated the detail in this game.
  
  Controls: It control basically just like the first one. With some minor difference. Like the chainsaw 
 interacts with the environment more. You'll have to chop down somethings to get farther in the 
 game is all.
  
  A. I. : I like the A. I. for this. Both sides can take care of themselves really good. The one thing 
 that got me is it seem that the friendly A. I. has too much health. I saw Dom standing in front 
 of a sentry taking every bullet it sent his way. He just stood there for 4-5 minutes. 
  
  Sound: I don't know about you but I loved the sound of bullets flying, Buildings crumbling and 
 of course the sound of my chainsaw tearing apart some locusts.
  
  Multi-player: This takes to long. It takes forever to get a game going. Also in my opinion it not 
 worth the wait. Sure there is horde and it is fun. It also takes the least time to get a group 
 together. It's just not enough to keep me playing multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 starts off with Marcus Fenix and his Delta squad partner, Dom, at a hospital. Tons 
 of patients that are suffering effects from the lightmass bombing from the first game are being 
 rushed into the hospital. The lightmass bombing did almost nothing to the locust. Up comes a rookie, 
 Benjamin Carmine, brother of Anthony Carmine, who died in the first game. You can choose to train 
 him or just to move on. You should train him, and get the 10G achievement for it. So the locust 
 are still there, which is not a good thing. That is why "grindlifts" were invented Grindlifts are 
 drill like passenger vehicle like things. You strap in, and it drills underground. Early in the 
 game you get in a grindlift to assault the locust on their home turf. You will spend almost the 
 rest of the game in there. GEARS 2 is notibly easier than the first. This game is more like a movie 
 than a video game, because you will do a lot of traveling, and not action and shooting 24/7. Well, 
 I am only doing this review to get my level up so i am just going to waste time by typing random 
  WAW sucks. Don't buy Left 4 Dead, it is like 
 the worst game I have ever played and it sucks so ya I am going to go now, sorry for wasting your 
 time on this review.
  
  -ShawnEffect_58
  
  Add me on Xbox Live: EffectedDrummer
  
  Review Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is a fine example of why you need a balance between story, gameplay, graphics, etc... don't 
 get me wrong here gears of war 2 isn't a bad game... but it's still not the best game ever either. 
 As always let's see the pros and cons to this game:
  
  (Watch out there are some spoilers for the game in this review so if you don't want to ruin the 
 experience just read another review...)
  
  -The pros:
  
  gameplay: gears steps out of the bunch with it's gameplay going from cover to blind fire to snipe 
 and even use your lancer (chainsaw/gun if your not a fan) to cut enemies and even to make yourself 
 a path if you possibly find it similar to another shooter in the gameplay area I guess you've played 
 to many games....
  
  wide array of weapons: going from snipers, to chain gun and even to magnum this game offers you 
 freedom in weapons if you like it up close and personal then use the lancer's chainsaw if you like 
 to be cruel then stick an ink grenade to your enemy and if your the headshot type then the longshoot 
 (sniper) or the magnum is for you
  
  Original enemies: did you feel that the 1st gears only had the same enemies over and over? well 
 gears 2 solves the problem by letting you fight Reavers (last fight in the last game) beast riders, 
 spike ball wielding Boomer, Brumak and more (ok so there is no more Berserker in this one but is 
 that really bad news?)
  
  (Here is one of the spoilers) : 
  
  
  -Riding Brumak and Reavers: yes this is one of the major highlights of the game
  And let me tell 
 you its way to fun to bad that those two events only last a level or two because it gave the game 
 a fresh new feeling...
  
  
  (End of spoiler)
  
  Great multiplayer mode: tired of always playing as Marcus or Dom? Well then try the multiplayer 
 on for size where you can play as Carmine, Cole, Baird, Tai, etc... And if you are bored of playing 
 as humans well there is always the locust side (I know this was also in gears one but still...)
 
  
  -The cons:
  
  (There are still some spoilers in there so you know what to do if you want to keep the experience 
 unique)
  
  Undeveloped story: so ok, ok there is the part where Dom looks for his wife and it's kind of good 
 but then pretty much everything else in the story is either undeveloped of just plain useless I 
 mean new characters like Tai and Carmine (no not the one that died in the 1st one who was Antony 
 Carmine this one is actually his brother Ben Carmine, and your suppose to know this by either reading 
 the manual of searching on the internet because it is never explained in gameplay (what's even 
 more ridiculous is that they both wear similar armors and that they both share the same voice actor... 
 let me take one the famous quote from the angry video game nerd here... : WHAT WHERE THEY THINKING!!!) ) 
 are introduced in the beginning of the game (the relation between Tai and Marcus is never explained 
 because when you 1st meet him they say it's been a long time... and then that's it nothing more!) 
 and they die like three or four levels after what's the point?! (Carmine is show has being new 
 to Marcus and Dom as he his suppose to be their rookie in training and although it is never explained 
 in gameplay or in cinematic After carmine's death Dom's state that carmine loved fire (even thought 
 you meet him in the beginning of the game and he never evens mention fire!) aside from the character 
 the locust is also a major problem in the story because when you finally meet the queen she talks 
 to you for about a minute then she let's Skorge (her bodyguard) to fight you while she gets away, 
 it would be fine but then why do we never see her again in the game? I mean the only explication 
 we have his that Baird and Cole got distracted and that she fled (because yes Marcus orders them 
 both to follow her before you actually fight Skorge)
  
  Easiest last boss in video game history: you want to know what the last boss is? A freaking monster 
 which you fight in a helicopter now how can that be easy? let me explain 1st you have the hammer 
 of dawn second the copter circles the monster so all you have to do is point the hammer of dawn 
 at the monster for about 15 seconds and then he dies and that's it end of the game...
  
  Lag fest: and now I'm not even talking about online play but about the multiplayer mode, if you 
 die activate the ghost cam and watch the same CPU for a couple of minutes... here is some of the 
 lag that happened while I was playing:
  
  -CPU always changing between two weapons
  -CPU always covering and getting back up
  -CPU running around in circle
  -CPU in cover against 
 a wall but despite this fact his legs continues to move forward as if he wanted to pass threw the 
 wall
  
  While this is the bad points it can still actually be pretty fun to watch 
  
  well I guess this covers gears 2 while the game is definitely a good shooter I think that the story 
 needs way more revising and that making the ending a promise for a sequel (you know those endings 
 that aren't really endings, like the one in the 1st gears where after you defeat Raam and after 
 the lightmass bomb explode you see some Reaver riding locusts while the queen plots to take over) 
 just doesn't help
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The singleplayer starts off great unfortunately it ends horribly wrong. Everything is wonderful 
 except when you get to the last boss and realize how easy it is to defeat. The story can be heart 
 wrenching and stays intense otherwise.
  
  In addition to the singleplayer modes Gears of War 2 also ships with "Horde Mode". In this multiplayer 
 co-op mode you and up to four friends have to fight off increasingly harder waves of enemies. This 
 mode is highly enjoyable, and if you have xbox live friends make sure you manage to finish all 
 the 50 waves. 
  
  That leaves the multiplayer the last in this review. The multiplayer in general is really broken 
 and a letdown. In order to find a game, you must sit in a matchmaking system which doesn't pick 
 a game for you really fast. Then when you do get placed inside a multiplayer game latency issues 
 are really prevalent no matter how good your connection is. Starting the game without any weapons 
 is becoming increasingly common anymore.
  
  Weapons in the multiplayer are also broken. Smoke/frag grenades have a radius that is way too wide, 
 the poison grenade damages through walls, the boomshot has too many rounds, the chainsaw is really 
 overpowered, the shotgun is practically worthless, and if you aren't playing with a bunch of friends 
 you usually get matched up with individuals who have no idea how to play the game.
  
  To top it all off, Epic decided to charge consumers for an additional map-pack ($10) before even 
 fixing the actual game they released.
  
  In conclusion, Gears of War 2 appears to have been rushed to release, the broken multiplayer Cliffy 
 B promised to erase is still present, and the hindrances present in the multiplayer ruin the fun 
 factor. However, the graphics are gorgeous, the singleplayer plot is great up until the end, and 
 if you have a good amount of friends you'll be sure to enjoy horde mode and some multiplayer until 
 it gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher71592
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Epic games did an amazing job with their second installment of gears of war. First of all there 
 are four different difficulties so any shooter fan should have no problem playing this game. The 
 weapons in this game are awesome and very satisfying. They give you a powerful feeling as you blow 
 away locust after locust and the fact that you have a chainsaw at the end of your beloved lancer 
 to shred anyone in half that gets too close is a nice touch as well. The solo campaign takes about 
 10ish hours to complete and it's one that you can actually enjoy each and every time you play it. 
 The game also features a co-op campaign mode that you can play online with someone or on a split 
 screen with a friend. The graphics are amazing and the cut scenes in the campaign modes are phenomenal. 
 Though the campaign modes are great, the best thing about this game is the online multiplayer games. 
 Take on hordes of locusts with some friends or try to kill, capture and defend each other in some 
 of the different online modes. All in all, this is an amazing game and one that you can play every 
 day and never get tired off. One of the best games of the year so if you haven't already, you must 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  The Cogs are back. Gears Of War 2 is a great game as it is improved over the first Gears. the A. I. 
 is much better then the first game as your team mate Dom does not die much at all in this one. 
 graphics are top notch, controls are a little better and the the addition of Horde makes it worth 
 while. the story is great but will leave you a little flat in the end. the new multiplayer modes 
 are nice and the maps are even nicer. the addition of Horde is what makes Gears Or War 2 so much 
 fun, up to 5 people can join to together to take on 50 waves of various enemies from the game and 
 each level gets harder till you reach the end of the 10 stage. then it starts over but the enemies 
 get tougher and get additional bonuses making Horde even more fun. what hurts the game a little 
 is the story at the end. i felt the game could have ended on a better note, but Epic has said that 
 there will be a Gears Of War 3. the addition map packs from the first game are nice and there is 
 some new DLC out, but i feel the new DLC map packs are a little over priced and should have been 
 free. the camera is much better and really doesn't hinder you at all. some bugs are there, like 
 glitched enemies and glitched deaths making not a so perfect game. Gears Of War 2 is a great game, 
 but the story could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the blockbuster sequel to the original Gears of War which came out in 2006. In 
 Gears of War 2, the story continues and puts you in into more epic battles against the locust. 
 
  
  What came in a huge surprise is that the game came with a chunk of new content and even more than 
 the original set out. It was indeed pleasing to see this. 
  
  The game features new characters, weapons, maps, modes and options. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  It is 
 hard to say this but Gears of War 2 has changed the formula of playing the game, if you are 100% 
 used to the original gears then get your fork and knife cause this one will take time to get used 
 to. What made it quite disappointing in terms with gameplay is that the weapons has been altered, 
 yes it is a good thing too but it makes it a lot more difficult to control with certain weapons 
 like the shotgun for example, it has been downgraded and bullet time has been slowed down which 
 is a petty. 
  
  Sniping has been made easier but now has a different feel to it which also will take time to get 
 used to, blind fires are apparent to be a lot harder to get making the game almost endless to learn. 
 
  
  The new Unreal Engine 3 update has upgraded the game pretty well. It's now nice seeing bits of 
 debris flying off walls when shot.
  
  There are tons of new maps, modes and characters to choose from, the game has made to be more specific 
 and advance now. 
  
  Nice to have stopping power, which really balances things out in combat now. 
  
  Graphics: 
 
  The graphics are slightly improved. You may notice better lighting, improved shadows, increased 
 textures. The graphics does matter now days in next gen games, and this game has lived up it's 
 expectations with visuals. Everything in the game is just been updated, which is just outstanding. 
 
  
  Online and multiplayer: 
  Some aspects of online and multiplayer are good and bad.
  
  Good: 
  - More modes to choose from
  - Now the battles are 5v5 
  - Horde is just insanely 
 good
  - Ranking are now tracked on players
  - Votes and party system
  - In-game invite and player tracker system
  - Matchmaking system seems fun 
  
  Bad: 
  - 
 Online guest are unable to play with players online any more unless if they set the party to private 
 and invite players themselves. 
  - Matchmaking takes far to long to search and find
  - Occasionally lag found in matchmaking games which spoils experience for players
  - Crashes 
 and game freeze may occur at some point online
  - Bugs and glitches 
  - Matchmaking replaces servers disabling players to create custom matches any more. 
  - Online 
 indeed can get incredibly frustrating and may switch players going on the original gears of war. 
 
  
  There is much more to discover in Gears of War 2, like new unlockable content system and collectibles 
 (which replace cog tags from the original) . The game is even linked to the original game like to 
 unlock Carmine you must have the achievement from the original gears of war, which increases replay 
 value. 
  
  Overall this game is defiantly worth to get due to it's high popularity and superior gameplay value. 
 If you are an original gears of war hardcore fan there is no reason not to play this, it can attract 
 many people, some people may say this game is disappointing but it is only opinions end of the 
 day. Keep your thoughts to game to yourself and let yourself decide if you like it or not. There 
 is no point renting the game because you would easily get addicted to the pure extremeness of the 
 game. There is still a chance Epic could fix all the bad, who knows... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is an outstanding game. From the breathtaking graphics and visuals to the killer 
 storyline and intense gameplay, it is simply one of the best games ever made. Epic just never seems 
 to run out of genius. I always though that the idea of our world being invaded from within, from 
 right under our feet, was unique and unprecedented. The whole "earth (or Sera in this case) being 
 invaded by aliens from outer space" storyline has been used so much that it's almost cliche now. 
 This is a new, fresh take on the invasion story, and I like it. Like Marcus said, Always the 
 shyt closest to home that hits you the hardest." 
  
  Anyway, now for the details. Gears 2, while at it's core is the same great game as Gears 1, has 
 been improved in many ways. The graphics have been sharpened and the lighting enhanced, the close 
 quarters combat has been vastly improved (there are many more ways of exploiting and executing your 
 opponents this go around) , there are several new weapons and some of the old ones have new gameplay 
 mechanics, the scale of the game has been enlarged (size of the environments and number of locust) , 
 the cover system has been polished, and the multiplayer has been overhauled with new game modes 
 and improvements to old ones. Gears 1 was such a smash hit, you can imagine how good this one will 
 do considering the fact that they took the award winning formula from the first game and made it 
 better. Do I smell another game of the year award? I have to say that this is my favorite game 
 on the 360, along with it's predecessor of course, and I would highly recommend it to any shooter 
 fan. Happy chainsaw deuling everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I have always fought with the idea of what gears of war 1 was, and I developed a great analogy 
 for it, gears of war 1 was batman begins, and gears of war 2 is the dark knight, so lets began.
 
  
  
  
  INTRO:
  
  Gears of war 2 takes place a few months down the line past gears of war 1, the lightmass bomb crippled 
 the locust but only for them to become stronger and more violent, bringing new threats and of course 
 my personal favorite NEW WEAPONS OF WAR!
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  We can all agree that the unreal engine can create gorgeous graphics if put in the hands of the 
 best, and epic has yet again amazed with the outstanding visuals. They have indeed beefed up the 
 unreal engine by enhancing and fully taking advantage of what it means to present great graphics. 
 The colors stand out more, and this time we are given giant vistas with many actions going on screen 
 and many more enemies coming at you creating the true sense of a full war scale war. Each of the 
 characters have been beefed as you are fully able to see emotion and details from the enemies to 
 the stars.
  
  SOUND:
  
  This is war game which means a whole whole lot of BOOMS EXPLOSIONS! and most of all gunfire and 
 just frantic action. This time, a whole lot of chatter, and explosions that are not done by you 
 are done on screen, with many enemies and the new voice work is solid. What I do enjoy is how every 
 characters voice actor is back which creates the tension from the first game. So if you have surround 
 sound your ears will be tickled with creamy goodness.
  
  STORY:
  
  The story for gears is more epic, no pun intended but bringing in the new writer , shows that epic 
 is not fracking with us. The story is more brought out, longer, deeper, answers some questions 
 while creating more. This is what a sequel is all about in terms of story, scope, and the longevity 
 of this new
  game. The story starts out with a great intro, which you have to see for yourself but where the 
 story goes from there is a huge attack on the locust since humanity has itself in a corner and 
 its time to break out and kick some locust butt. But what I won't spoil, is a few little twists 
 of what ensues for goverment cover ups, new twists and old enemies that arise.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  Now this is where gears of war 1 was a hit or miss with the players, especially 
 with this writer, which I felt it was broken and easily able to get past few as actual greatness. 
 Well this time instead of 4 man squads it is now 5 man elements which makes for a great formal 
 firefight the only problem is that it leaves 1 as a bait. Now other things things equal, we are 
 given a great mode simply known as horde, what makes this great is your element of teammates takes 
 down wave after wave of locust, and it gets tougher and tougher, now this makes for a great way 
 to develop teamwork. This is simply hands down fun, and it would be also if it was taken to a few 
 other first person shooters, such as halo, and call of duty 4!
  
  Now the matchmaking takes the idea of halo 3's matchmaking and evolves it. What this means is that 
 you pick your mode from start, and then PICK YOUR map, and this makes for a great way and my favorite 
 style of matchmaking.
  
  What keeps multiplayer from being better is how long it takes to matchmake and this comes after 
 the so called patch, it still has trouble and is often dropped from games or loses the connection 
 to the host. 
  
  CLOSING
  
  Overall this is a great great sequel and the story steps it up and really brings out what I love 
 in sequels, just a overall better gameplay and story experience since they learned from the wrongs 
 and made it right. So pick up gears of war and be prepared for a great gameplay experience from 
 beginning to end.
  
  NOTE* Your girlfriend may really enjoy the Dom story due to the fact that he will hold at nothing 
 but to find his wife, oh and my girlfriend had a few sad moments from this game as did I, also 
 I hear from so many people that they nearly cried from a lot of moments in this game. Which also 
 helped to bring out the score. The story is so great I love it really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  The Locus horde, a group of butt ugly monsters, threatens all of humanity, and it's up to the COGS, 
 a group of big muscle bound men with guns and deep voices, to stop their invasion. The Locust have 
 been terrorizing humanity and sinking cities everyday. Now it's time to put a stop to it. Jacinto, 
 mankind's last hope for survival, is being targeted by the Locust. If the city falls, all of human 
 race will fall as well. Join Marcus Fenix, Dom Santiago, and the rest of their squad as they fight 
 for survival against the never ending assault of the Locust Horde. Yeah, I know what you're saying 
 right now, "Man this game sounds EPIC!" and you know what, you're correct, well of sort of. Gears 
 of War 2 focuses more on the story than its predecessor, but does it mean that the in-game plot 
 is any good? Well not necessarily. Now I'm not saying that the in-game plot was bad, I'm just saying 
 that the in-game plot was.. well.. dull. I just didn't feel a connection with the characters, and 
 their losses, maybe it's just me I don't know. Seeing a muscular guy on screen crying over a dead 
 partner's corpse is as bad as it seems; they show no emotion, and when they do it looks plain terrible.
 
  
  Gears of War 2 is a third person tactical shooter. In the game your gun is your best friend, and 
 the in-game cover system is your girlfriend, wow that's sounded awkward. The Locust are ruthless 
 and will do everything they can to murder you. Being quick on your feet, taking shots carefully, 
 and hiding behind cover are keys to success in every skirmish. The in-game combat is smooth and 
 works perfectly. Shooting enemies is as easy as milking a cow, but shooting enemies while trying 
 to cover your own butt can be a difficult challenge. But then again, that's where the fun comes 
 from within the game. The single player campaign (also can be played cooperatively) is freakin' 
 epic. If a game allows you to fight inside a freakishly ugly, enormous, and deformed worm then 
 I believe that game deserves to be called "EPIC". There are also a variety of multiplayer options 
 where you and your friends can compete with, or against each other in a bloody frenzy of awesomeness. 
 (huh? What did I just say?) The most noteworthy multiplayer option is a little game mode I like 
 to call HORDE. This game mode sends 50 waves of blood craving Locusts at you where you and your 
 friends have to do one thing to win, SURVIVE. Being attacked from all directions, getting your 
 gun jammed, being low on ammo, and watching your friends being taken down one by one, are some 
 of those adrenaline rushes you can't get anywhere else but in Horde. 
  
  GOW 2 is gorgeous and beautiful. The game utilizes the Unreal Engine 3 and pushes its prowess to 
 a whole new other level. I wasn't sure if I was playing a game or watching a movie; the in-game 
 graphics blew my head off, literally. Everything from the level design to the character/monster 
 artwork were superb. If you're looking for a visual feast well this is the game to play. Your eyes 
 will be satisfied and full. (Hashanaha I made a pun, I think.)
  
  The sound design was also phenomenal. You can just hear all the battle cries of the Locust as they 
 approach your proximity, you can hear all the guns being fired across the battlefield, you can 
 hear your teammates desperate pleas for help, my ears were bleeding gum drop of joy. The in-game 
 music was well done, and I could tell that Epic Games put a lot of time in orchestrating some of 
 the music within the game. The in-game voice acting, well, it wasn't all that great. Almost all 
 the characters lacked emotion, or any feeling for that matter. But that's a little blemish compared 
 to what the whole game has to offer. 
  
  Overall: Gears of War 2 is a game of EPIC proportions. It has so much to offer from its solid/intense 
 gameplay to its outstanding graphical display, this is one game you don't want to miss out on. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Gears_COD
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2. I got Gears 2 the day after it was released. I played through the entire campaign 
 in one sitting, right when i got home from buying it. I absolutely loved it. It was all I was hoping 
 for in a sequel. I loved Gears of War so I was hoping Gears 2 would be just as good. It surpassed 
 my expectations. It was absolutely amazing, a 10 out of 10. The campaign was so much fun and it 
 followed up the first one very nicely. The action was amazing and the graphics blew me away. I 
 liked the campaign of this one even better then the first one. Then I have to mention Horde Mode. 
 It maybe the funnest multiplayer mode of any game I have ever played. It's so intense and so much 
 fun to play. Me and a friend of mine play Horde for at least a couple of hours everytime we hang 
 out. This game is definantley in my top 5 favorite games of all time, along with the first Gears 
 of War and the 3 Halo games. I can't say enough about how great this game is. I really hope they 
 make a Gears of War 3!!!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoag
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Now before i start i want to say i loved Gears of War 1. With that out of the way, Gears of War 
 2 is a complete disaster. From the moment i popped it into my 360 Elite to when i popped it back 
 out after a couple hours of campaign and a few games of multiplayer. I already sold it back to 
 GameStop. Epic should change their company name to Epic Fail because they sure did drop the ball 
 on this game. 
  
  Where do i even start? I guess i'll start with the campaign. It's decent, just a Gears of War 1 
 rehash, nothing more. Definitely forgettable. The dialogue is completely childish and immature 
 this time around throughout the entire game. Dom does nothing but [...] all game, it gets really 
 old after about the first mission. It just feels so clunky and thrown off. 
  
  Now onto my favorite mode and what kills the game for me, Multiplayer. What the heck was Cliffy 
 B smoking when he made this game? The multiplayer is a sheer disaster. Instead of being able to 
 chose what type of game mode you want to play you have to vote now. You can't even choose your 
 team. It's like Halo 3 gone wrong. It's just bad. The shotgun, which was the best weapon and most 
 fun in Gears of War 1 has been completely dumbed down and is now one of the weakest weapons in 
 the game. This game caters to all the Gears of War 1 cry babies that sucked at the game. If you 
 were a lancer noob from Gears of War 1 this game will probably be right down your alley. 
  
  Don't buy this game, don't even rent it. Save your money, Gears 2 is just a rehash of the first 
 game that hasn't improved at all. 
  r2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtrim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the 1st one but it will get done. This game had me from the intro and i will purchase 
 both of them and fight on. I couldn't believe the way this game had me working to complete every 
 mission and keeep wanting to play it even though I finished it. I going back now tryin to collect 
 everything you were supposed to collect. Nobody told me this game would be this fun! If this doesnt 
 make the game of the year list, somebody should be fired. Every aspect of this game has instant 
 classic on it and I will endorse it wholeheartedly (I don't wanna give back to my friend who let 
 me borrow it) . This game is off the chain can I get another one to complete the project. The creators 
 of this game deserve several awards for this one. I got all my friends trying to cop this game 
 because i just keep ranting & raving about it. If you want instant entertainment, this is the 1 
 for you, trust me, my friends that don't have a 360 are at the house trying to play mine to get 
 a tate of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is no doubt an amazing addition to the successful shooting saga. You still play 
 as Marcus Fenix along with his buddy COG soldiers Dom, Baird, and Cole. Most of the graphics and 
 gameplay are the same, but the sequel still adds some perks of its own. One of the things that 
 has changed is the weapons. Many new additions such as the flamethrower, grenades, and side arms 
 make this a really fun game to play. Another great thing about this game is the awesome campaign. 
 All of the events that occur in the story will always keep you wondering what will happen next. 
 Along with new weapons and ways to play, new things such as enemies and vehicles totally diversify 
 the many ways to play this magnificent shooter.
  
  Along with the campaign, the multiplayer is very good as well. With new multiplayer maps and modes, 
 such as the horde mode, playing online is definitely a treat. Although the multiplayer is addictive, 
 it still has one problem. That problem is connecting to Xbox Live. Connecting, finding teammates, and 
 finding opponents can be quite a hassle and can be a drag to wait for sometimes. Although it's 
 a long wait, when you do play the multiplayer, you will never want to stop. A great storyline and 
 new multiplayer makes Gears of War 2 a great sequel to the popular and successful shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustBinFairy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well firstly I feel like I am completely satisfied with my purchase and would definitely recommend 
 it to a person who likes a good run for their money. This game has not only wonderful graphics, 
 sound effects and an adventurous game play but it also sucks you in and makes you feel like you 
 could go on for hours. Honestly this game has beaten almost every game I have played so far and 
 definately is the best one I have played on the xbox.
  
  I think anyone who is disappointed with this game has impossible standards or are just not into 
 to this game genre. The reason I didn't give it a 10 was because it's good but I believe they can 
 always do better and I don't like the fact that you can only hold four weapons at a time altough 
 thats not a huge let down I can get over that flaw. But other than that it's a wonderful game and 
 a great choice for a christmas gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikmaq360gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is game of the year so much fun, online and offline. Horde mode is amazing, and 
 so much fun. Online, there is so many types of games. An amazing campaign following the first one, 
 maybe even leading to a third one. I bought this game the day it came out, and still play it. Out 
 of all the games that i have, this is for sure my favorite game that there is, and that I have. 
 It is one of the best shooters, I have ever played. It won "Best Shooter of the Year" at "Spike!'s 
 Video Game Awards", which makes shooter game fans want to play it even more. The 5-on-5 online 
 gameplay makes it better then in the first game. With 11 new executions, and a lot more blood and 
 gore, those horror movie lovers will love this game.
  
  The new main boss; Skorge, is one of the coolest bosses in a video game. But the two boss fights 
 with Skorge are really bad. The first one, all you are doing is having chainsaw duels with him, 
 dodging pillars he tries to drop on you, and fight tickers. The second fight, when you are on a 
 Reaver, and he has, what I think is a giant Reaver, is better, but still bad. Having to do the 
 same thing twice, gets boring. First fighting him while your trying to get out of the cave, and 
 again when your trying to get back to Jacinto. You must do the same thing twice, which is kinda 
 boring.
  
  Besides that fight with Skorge, Gears of War 2, is one of the best games ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackbeard269
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  The game is headed in the right direction just wish they would have added more things do to in 
 the game. The multi player mod is about the same as it was before with little tweaks here and there 
 from the first release. Its kinda like the EA sports and the Madden series. They only tweak a little 
 of the game instead of standing back and changing things that would benefit the game for the players 
 instead of the pockets of the game makers. 
  
  They really screwed up on the Multi player part with the adding of the auto search for players. 
 We had to wait about 10 minutes to get a online game going after stopping and re-starting the server. 
 Why would they mess with something that was not broken in the first Gears Of Wars? The Online part 
 has slowed down the game play compared to the first Gears of Wars. Adding things like the Ghost 
 Camera was a wast of gaming space that could have been used for something better. Maybe add so 
 new features in the game itself. Overall its still a great game just wished they would have put 
 more ideas in the game play. Maybe the Game makers should start listen to the gamers and use some 
 of are ideas to make better games. What we gamers see now in games is a fast release of a game 
 that has about 1 day of game play then on the shelf to collect dust. If they start thinking about 
 how really great to make a game and stop thinking about how deep they can make their pockets games 
 would be a hit like they once was. In the market of consoles and handhelds its all about money 
 and not about making a great product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_sektor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  I think Epic games should make the great series of Gears of war. like TV series... Its graphic 
 is so amazing (specially in the aliens cave levels)
  Beautiful colors... Great illumination... This game has so many realistic elements... Motion blur 
 is a prefect advantage for any game specially for this one... Characters and objects textures are 
 pretty delicate (as usual..!) specially that giant creature in the water.. In my opinion, The Greatest 
 advantage for this game is a motion of the cameras and it feels like it's a documentary Game and 
 I love it.. It makes you think the Camera is on somebody's shoulder...!! It is so realistic... 
 The materials are so realistic.. Killing the flying giant alien is my favorite level... The ending 
 title was the Great Idea.. I love Kevin Lanning's work and that was amazing when I saw his message 
 to his girls... 
  However I Finished this game just in 4 days... I think the story length is pretty short.. I'm not 
 sure.. maybe Its length is OK...
  That's not a problem though.. I can play it over and over...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game. If you loved Gears 1, you will love Gears 2, but if you didn't 
 like the first, you won't like this one either. Gears 2 does everything that Gears 1 did but in 
 a better way. The game has some epic set pieces but what this game suffers from is the same thing 
 that halo 3 suffers from. Overhyped. Hype that was blown out of proportions. The reason why Gears 
 1 was such a hit was because people were expecting a great game and they got that. With Gears 2 
 people were expecting the Greatest game of all time, which is not the case, its a great game which 
 was overhyped to death. The story is one example. It is a good serviceable story, but how it was 
 hyped was beyond recognition. The gameplay is perfect, the weapons are great. The graphics are 
 great. It is the best looking game on 360. Although its not as mind blowing as Gears 1 was but 
 again there is a limit to which you can push graphics. The enemy AI hasn't improved that much. 
 I felt the game was a bit easier compared to first gears. The arsenal in Gears 2 is simply the 
 best on any shooter including resistance 2. The weaponry is simply a joy to use. The ending was 
 a big let down for me. Campaign mode is good and branching paths make sure you have to play this 
 game twice.
  The multiplayer includes bot support which is pretty good. The Horde mode is addictive, I am not 
 a big multiplayer fan so I can't really comment on that.
  For me Gears 2 is a great game. Infact it was the only exclusive apart from Fable 2 that was worth 
 buying this year on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC8911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  Well the new gears its definitely a very good game to play but after you get the campaign done 
 on insane and do horde about 500 times until your sick of it. The multiplayer lacks the fun factor 
 (except horde and co-op) of the last one Epic has ruined multiplayer smoke granades always puting 
 you on your ass and the only two guns that you can properly use are the boomshot and lancer because 
 of the great lag that comes with multiplayer making it impossible to hit people with the sniper 
 or other long range weapons. Before you enter a match it really does take to long to even find 
 your team to play with sometimes its quick but most of the time it takes 15 to 30 mins to find 
 a game i hope it gets fixed because I really want to play the game online.
  Grapics are one of the best grapics i have ever seen put into a game. Campaign is great best campaign 
 I have played in a long time. If only the multiplayer was as good that is the only downfall
  
  So I have to give it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  First off lets talk about how it doesn't have that much new stuff. Here's pretty much a list of 
 what's new this time around.
  
  1. It dose have a more interesting story then the first, but dose keep the cheezy but action pact 
 cut scenes.
  
  2. Much better graphics! But still suffer's badly from texture pop in's and some slow downs wen 
 theres allot of explosions. 
  
  3. A new match making system that is a improvement to the first one by far! But still has some 
 problems because some people cant connect to a host so some times it will throw you in a game with 
 less them ten people.
  
  4. More cool guns! And a new "Boom Shield".
  
  5. More ways to kill people like meet shields, beet downs, chainsaw duels and cool new animation 
 kills with your guns.
  
  6. New campaignvehicles! That i must say are vary cool but vary easy.
  
  7. Stopping power.
 
  
  8. New maps.
  
  9. There is no more god mod in killing animations.
  
  10. People like to say that the cover system is better but i don't see any difference AT ALL?
 
  
  And thats pretty much it. 
  
  The really problems i have with this game thou, are somethings in the multi-player that sometimes 
 work fine but other time seems like just a WHAT?! moment. Like stopping power, it always works 
 wen people try to run at you but wen people are walking toured you with the chainsaw sometimes 
 they get knocked back wen you shoot them point blank with the shot gun and some times they "jump" 
 in to the chainsaw animation. They also had a problem with this shot gun thing, wen your not aiming 
 the shot gun and not i a certain proximity of the host, your shot gun shells will hit the ground. 
 I think they have fixed this problem thou but the faked they shipped the game with that problem 
 is ridiculous. Some times it also seems like the game cant decide wen to down some one! I have 
 run in to thing like hitting someone the shooting them point blank with the shot gun ( with an 
 active reload ) , then the person terning around and some how by luck get a perfect shot to kill 
 me in one hit. Some times the games online gets so frustrating and leaves you wondering "How did 
 that just happen?" If they had something like the death play back in Call of Duty 4 and 5 i probably 
 wouldn't see it as much of a problem.
  
  The campaign however is nearly perfect! I had no problems with it except the ending, it was cinematic 
 but easy. Oh, and its only around 9 hours long on the hardcore difficulty, and it would be shorter 
 on the easer ones.
  Thats about it. It comes down to this, should you buy this game, first you should ask you self 
 a couple of questions.
  1. Do you like Shooters?
  2. Did you like Gears of War?
  3. Are you a Xbox 360 fan boy?
  4. Do you like good competitive multi-player?
  If you answered 
 yes to just one of these questions then, YOU SHOULD NOT MIS THIS GAME! Or you could you just wait 
 for the 3rd one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  It took me about a month, but I finally went and bought Gears 2 last Friday. I shouldn't have waited 
 so long. I played the entire campaign co-op with a friend on Hardcore, which to my surprise was 
 easy. My friend, not so much. Graphically, everything has been more polished and refined. There 
 is definitely more color in Gears 2 than in the first, and that was really my only gripe about 
 the first. The updated cover system is great, and use of hostages/meatshields is something that 
 definitely should've been in the first. 
  
  The story was actually more than I expected, and the Dom thing threw me for a complete loop. The 
 new weapons worked well (flamethrower was nice) , but it just seems like nothing is better than 
 the boomshot/lancer combo to get the job done. The multi-player I've enjoyed somewhat, but at times 
 do have difficulty finding matches, but I'm patient, so whatever. The horde mode is addictive and 
 is really becoming my favorite mode on the game. All in all, the game is sick in every aspect and 
 a MUST HAVE for ANY Xbox360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Simply put Gears of War 2 is awesome. The Good: a story that made me care about the characters, 
 an Innovative cover system, great frame rate even with fifty enemies on screen, weapons that act 
 like real weapons, horde mode: where you fend of wave after wave of increasingly difficult locusts, 
 lots of multiplayer maps, achievement progress checker, free downloadable maps, and collectibles. 
 The bad: bugs that take away some fun, no team deathmatch, messed up ranking system and a lame 
 driving mission. But don't let the negative discourage you, there is lots of fun to be had in Gears 
 of War 2. 9.5 out of 10  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_demon_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay let's just get this out of the way and then I can try and be a little more objective. Gears 
 of War 2 is singularly the most impressive game I have played all year. It's true that it kinda 
 feels like the familiar pair of old slippers everybody owns with its comforting fit and the hole 
 in the side that occasionally annoys you but not enough to make you throw them out, remember the 
 original's annoying sticking to the wrong wall in cover glitch, its still there. Gears of War 2 
 feels less like a sequel and more like an improved expansion on the original and that's not a bad 
 thing surely. 
  
  
  
  It is a welcome return to Marcus Fenix and the Locust horde and the more things have changed the 
 more things have stayed the same to coin a phrase of sorts. Once again it's the humans' struggle 
 against the Locust. The Lightmass bomb you dropped at the end the last game (you did finish the 
 first game didn't you and not give up on the train?) didn't achieve its objective of finishing 
 off the Locust. They have regrouped and got a little aggrieved over your genocidal effort and now 
 with new weapons, new monsters or more of the familiar monsters they bring their city sinking skills 
 to bear on the last human stronghold of Jacinto.
  
  
  
  As a third person shooter Gears 2 is without parallel for gameplay and jaw dropping cinematic moments. 
 The ham fisted dialogue is still very much apparent and it still attempts to weave a story around 
 what is essentially a game designed to thrill with immense and huge action piecesset pieces. In 
 reality I could care less about the story as long as I can shoot the Locust scum but its there 
 and it does connect with the gamer at an appropriate emotional level continuing the story line 
 started in the original. And the story does flesh out the main characters a bit more which is okay 
 but inevitably I realise I don't care a great deal as long as I survive to fight another day.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  GOW2 takes some of the great things that GOW did and adds gloss and story. In the process it loses 
 some of the punch.
  
  Still a great play in campaign, it feels a bit over the top now with the monsters and plot points. 
 
  
  And this may be age of the platform, but the art direction and graphic presentation are strong 
 they do not feel as groundbreaking. 
  
  While I appreciate a great story (and this storyline is OK) , I prefer to play through plot points. 
 Many of the big plot points have long cut scenes to take you through the dynamics triggered by 
 a less consequential play point. Whenever I come across this in a game I always feel like it is 
 a way to work round the development time to create the gameplay it would take.
  
  While GOW always had a comic book action feel, this chapter feels a little off tone to me. GOW 
 built a suspense and a goth claustrophobia fighting to defend terra firma. This time we go below 
 the surface, but somehow lose that same feeling.
  
  There are some truly fun and legendary moments in this one but the desire to give me every type 
 of beast/vehicle to ride or battle from or inside takes a turn more towards an action/adventure 
 shooter than the Unreal powered actioner I was ready for. 
  
  All that being said, I am still looking for the next chapter and see how they dial back in the 
 serious shooter elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great example of what a Sequel to any game should look like. Bigger, Better 
 and more hard core. 
  
  The new Graphics engine they used in this game allows the developers to add more locusts and bigger 
 enemies to the screen without loosing any performance on the Box. They used this new technology 
 to their advantage as you now don't only have to fight the locusts, boomers and krill, but now 
 you are facing off with Buroks (large trollish creatures with mega guns) , Krakens and a variety 
 of larger monsters.
  
  The story line takes you deep inside the Locust city called the Nexus. A creepy yet pretty place 
 underground. You need to sing the city above to destroy the Locusts underneath. The story takes 
 a few twists thanks to Dom and his obsession with finding his Wife. 
  
  The Game is quite long and just starts to annoy you when it finishes at last. The last boss you 
 fight I did find a little easy, there were bigger challenges throughout the game.
  
  They did however add a few cool things to the game. In stead of having just one stage where you 
 drive around in your car blasting krill, you now also drive a Tank, Reavers and a Burok. How cool 
 is that?
  
  Sound and Acting is awesome, just as in the first one. The Graphics was outstanding again. The 
 Game Play and Controls were easy to grasp. All and all, a must have for xBox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike653
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 the graphics were good even when its not on a hd t. v but the game was too short 
 and the flame thrower wasnt that good but the morters are awsome. when u chainsaw locust or mutens, yes 
 u dont just v. s locust it looks way better then gears of war one and two people can chainsaw one 
 locust or mutantat the same time u get a new rookie he dousnt shoot that well but if your down 
 he always heals youhe is the rook in gears of war ones brother but he dies two i think gears of 
 war is a great game and one of the best i have ever played. but the online gears of war 2 isnt 
 that great because i think they cocentrated more on the game than online witch is good because 
 i ussely get bored of online ecsept for call of duty 4 modern warfare and call of duty 5 world 
 at war so 
  
  buy this  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 is probally the best game i have played on the 360. The reason its better then the 
 first one is the epic scope of the game, you feel like your a bigger conflict then the first. there 
 are new weapons, new emines (sorry, i cant spell well) and there is more emotion and thats what 
 this game twice as better then.
  
  Delta squad is back and there still kicking locust butt. problem is that the locust are sinking 
 cities and you have to stop them from doing this and sinking jacinto. While Dom is looking for 
 his wife he still is kicking butt but his main focus is finding her adding more emotion to the 
 story. The story is actually better then the first. 
  
  There are many changes to the overall experince like chainsaw duels which is when the players duel 
 with there lancers. there are also new executions like punch a dude till he's terminated, you can 
 turn your sniper rifle and hit the enemy with the butt, plus the curb stom is back except you flip 
 the enemy on his back and samsh his face which is probaly the most painful thing ever. You can also 
 grab enemys and use them as meatshields or break there neck.
  
  There are also some new weapons like a flame thrower and some new pistols. there are also moucher 
 that is a chain gun which is awesome and can destroy anyone in a single shot or the mortor which 
 is harder to use but will destroy enemys very quickly.
  
  the mutiplayer is something that will be played on LIVE for long time. There is submission which 
 is capture the flag where you take a standard and take it to your base. There is also guardian 
 where you have to protect the leader and everyone will respawn but if the leader dies, you CAN'T 
 respawn.
  
  The gameplay is much better than the first. The cover system has lots of improvments to it and 
 overall its much better.
  
  The graphics are better then the first. It uses the unreal engine 3 (which is Awesome) and everything 
 looks more realistic. there is still texture pop in but thats minor
  
  In the end Gears of war 2 is awesome and if you have an 360 get gears of war 2 and you'll see everything 
 that makes the 360 great. So go get Gears of war 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was a great success, its stellar graphics and outstanding game-play made 
 for one of the best shooters out for the 360. Gears fans should not worry as Gears 2 is a great 
 shooter in its own right.
  
  Gears 2 is still the pop in, pop out of cover game-play you know and love, but it has had some 
 changes. Diving into cover just feels better now, the turns and rolls can be interrupted and the 
 controls are much more responsive.
  
  The sound design is great, with radio chatter and the screams of your fellow gears will make you 
 feel like your in a warzone (although some of the voice work is cheesy, mainly from cole, in a 
 gears kind of way) . The graphics are wonderful, with excellent lighting and textures. The only 
 thing i saw was at the beginning of a match the textures take like 5 seconds to load, but this 
 is not a big problem at all, and you wont really care about it. And the framerate never bogged 
 down.
  
  There are a few more weapons in Gears 2, the scorcher is a flame-thrower, the mulcher is a heavy 
 turret gun, and of corse you got the old fashioned mortar. There are small changes to your old 
 arsenal to, the lancer now has laser sights, and the hammerburst is now semi-automatic instead 
 of burstfire.
  
  The story is mainly focused on Dom looking for his wife. Personally i think it's executed perfectly 
 and one cutscene gives me goosebumps, you'll know which one when you see it.
  
  You drive/ride 3 "vehicles" in the game. The first one is the centaur, which was an ok experience, 
 but it was a little hard to drive. The reaver level is quite enjoyable, But you are rewarded for 
 making it to the end by finally riding a burmak, and you get to stomp on all the locust or simply 
 gun them down, and it is great fun.
  
  The ending boss is way too easy, you can't die, but other then that the ending is actually really 
 good. And the multiplayer is very addictive although it can take sometime to find a match. (like 
 5 minutes) .
  
  Overall this is a great game that anyone should try out. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmillard2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  If you played Gears 1 and Gears 2 right next to each other, the only difference you would notice 
 is the graphics. They have the same guns for the most part, same gameplay, any new characters in 
 the story end up dying, broken online play, and unbalanced weaponry. It is fun co-op but that's 
 about it. If you don't have live and just want a multiplayer game to play with your buddies, go 
 ahead and get it. Its good for a party play once in a while but you won't get nearly as much multiplayer 
 time as halo or COD. This game has loads of potential and i hope they do better in Gears 3. My 
 final recommendation would be to get either halo or COD 4/5 (depending on preference) . Halo has 
 such great accesibility for having multiple people online from the same console and COD has the 
 most addictive online setup out there with all the unlockables and the great xp system they have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is the same gritty bloody goodness that the original was, but still lacks the smoothness 
 needed to be truly great. The campaign is excellent with more variety than in the original and 
 still crisp graphics all around. However its obvious that Epic focused on the story more his time 
 with emotional, and occassionally corny, cut scenes not seen in Gears 1. The other major difference 
 in the story is, this time instead of being just a rag-tag group trying to survive, you get a much 
 bigger sperspective of the COG army. Basically what this means is You're actually winning. Personally 
 I liked being in the dark about the size and strength of the Army because it created a sort of 
 "on your own" feeling. That feeling is gone in gears 2 where you will often be in large battles 
 with several other soldiers. My main issue with Gears 2 is the multiplayer. Yes Horde is fun and 
 as close to 5-man co-op as you're going to get, but the other modes bring it down. There is a new 
 multiplayer experience system, sort of, that has only five ranks. I really don't understand why 
 they would have such few ranks, because it doesn't make sense how to level up either, it would 
 be so much better with a COD 4 system of halo. But my other beef is there are still hacks in the 
 game, like being able to not die from gun fire while downed, and many times the games are laggy. 
 But almost everyone will agree the worst multiplayer issue is THE LONG !@$ TIME IT TAKES TO FIND 
 A MATCH!!! It can take anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes to find a match. Also like in the original, 
 sometimes getting kills are more about luck, and the current amount of lag during a match, than 
 skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Earthsignman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I played the game on Hardcore twice before attempting Insane. This was a good idea since familiarity 
 will aid you and prevent you from dying two seconds into the checkpoint. Master active reload and 
 headshots, or don't bother. If you take out the big guys first you will often avoid having to deal 
 with nuisances like tickers. The chainsaw is a necessary tool more than a novelty like it was in 
 the first game. Master it and keep it humming during the fights to deal with wretches and sires. 
 The new weapons are pretty cool but the old standbys are still the guns of choice. Even so, learn 
 them all and do not get fixated on a gun. When Dom bleeds out, it's game over, so you have to babysit 
 as well as fight, and that can be frustrating. Vehicles and beasts are just amazing. 
  
  They do not call it Insane for nothing. However, since the bosses seem evenly distributed, and 
 are actually fun, this is a better game than the first. (Took me forever to beat Raam in Gears 
 1. ) Storyline is subordinate to the battle and graphics but not too weak. 
  
  There are glitches, so beware. Some can be obviated by backtracking and waiting for things to reload 
 or reset (but don't resort to restarting a checkpoint unless you absolutely have to) . You can get 
 stuck by the gunboat if you wander off. You can get stuck while fighting the leviathan. Keep mobile! 
 You can even get the Centaur wedged up a tree if you drive poorly. 
  
  Don't cheat or cut corners when you play Insane. Just play hard and wisely (but be aggressive more 
 than tentative) and when you complete Insane, you've earned it. Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAAVV-O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I don't really know what I expected from Gears of War 2, but what was received certainly didn't 
 disappoint.
  
  To begin with, lets look at plot. The original masterpiece of immersive gaming that is Gears of 
 War raised a good deal of questions, and then tried its utmost not to answer any of them. The sequel 
 continues this tradition, in a way that would intrigue any Metal Gear fan (Gears 2 even features 
 a post credits soundbite ala Metal Gear Solid!) The genuine story arch centers around Delta squad's 
 activities post-lightmass, and their attempts to stop the Locusts most recent evil plan, which 
 involves sinking entire cities. To add to this, Dom has been fleshed out a little, having been 
 awarded a wife by Mr Blesninski, in what I assume is an attempt to add some emotion to the proceedings. 
 Mind you, this attempt has worked, and provides some genuinely emotional scenes worthy of Hollywood 
 itself.
  
  The core gameplay will feel immediately familiar to fans of the original, whilst adding a couple 
 of nice flourishes to try to make it feel fresh and further-developed. The resi-4 over the shoulder 
 view still remains (and still works great) , and the brutal cover-fire-advance-cover mechanic prevails 
 triumphantly, despite the age of the original game that did the same thing so well two years ago. 
 The aforementioned flourishes include a shield that can be planted in the ground to create cover, 
 and the ability to take live hostages (known as meat shields) to soak up bullets that would otherwise 
 have been meant for you. 
  As well as the usual run and gun segments that the series has perfected, there are some genuinely 
 enjoyable and tense on rails scenes, as well as some interesting vehicles to pilot (I'm gonna keep 
 quiet on the specifics though, the fun lies in the surprise!)
  Weapons still feel as meaty and purposeful as ever, and also include the addition of a flamer, 
 though I still preferred the old Lancer/Longshot combo. New and interesting to use heavy weapons 
 include a devastating portable mortar, and a flesh shredding mini gun called a Mulcher, both very 
 satisfying indeed.
  The game also has the same feature as the original where you and a friend can team up either online 
 or split screen, and tackle the single player campaign co-operatively. This is probably the most 
 satisfying way to play the game. In fact, this is my current challenge - me and my Xbox Live friend, 
 Pondo, traipsing through the game on Insane difficulty. Excellent fun.
  
  The graphics are extremely good, but that is not to say a huge step forward from the Gears 1 (but 
 lets face it, that still looks damn fine two years down the road) . Whilst there are still some 
 issues with textures loading slowly, this is forgivable when you see the level of detail the levels 
 possess. Besides, this effect only lasts for around ten seconds tops at the beginning of each level, 
 after which things resume their normal, smooth frame-rated standards. 
  
  The sound is accomplished, if not amazing. The guns are gutsy in all the right places, and the 
 ambient music is all there, but I can't help but feel a little uninspired by it. Perhaps its the 
 genre being a little difficult to create genuinely unique sound for, or perhaps I've just been 
 sonically spoilt by the likes of Dead Space and Bioshock, but I never felt like the sound design 
 was very notable.
  
  Now, I am not an online deathmatch kind of guy, so I haven't delved into that side of things, but 
 one thing I must mention is Horde mode. Horde involves you and up to four friends taking on fifty 
 waves of increasingly numerous and deadly opponents, in a bid to survive as a team. This is an 
 ingenious mode, and a natural extension of the already excellent online multiplayer. I have probably 
 heard more "war stories" from friends concerning Horde than any other online mode I've encountered.
 
  
  Ok, time for me to explain the 8.5. This is a very good game, and I believe it is also an essential 
 purchase for anyone with even the most remote interest in action orientated gaming. The reason 
 I felt it doesn't deserve the coveted 9 or above is simple - it is not one of the "great" games. 
 A great game is original - a trendsetter that blows all other games before it out of the water. 
 Think GTA3, Resident Evil 1 & 4, Gran Turismo, Gears of War 1, Metal Gear Solid, Final Fantasy 
 VII etc. These were all not only genre defining games, but also genre re-defining games. They changed 
 the formula for gaming, and moved goalposts for developers. Gears of War 2, whist enthralling, 
 polished, and immaculately executed, does not re-define any genres. It is merely an excellent sequel 
 to a great game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awalt27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is just a must have for the Xbox 360. Its simple as that. The game continues to raise the 
 bar for graphics, and it has for sure proven itself better than Halo 3 and 2. 
  
  Great graphics, outstanding gameplay, and a good story, makes Gears 2 an instant classic. One thing 
 that I noticed about the game was that they didn't really make too many improvements.
  
  The graphics didn't really have the mind-blowing effect as the first one, because we were already 
 expecting good graphics. As far as gameplay goes, they added maybe 4 things that a player may wanna 
 try. The meat shields, the Horde mode, new vehicles, and new ways to execute someone. This is just 
 my personal opinion, but i thought Epic could' ve taken this game farther.
  
  Overall, your really going to love this game. And it kind of has that cliff hanging effect that 
 Halo 2 gave you, which I think is a good thing.
  To sum it up, This game is bad ---. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wetsandman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 1 is by far, one of the xbox 360's best games to date. With only 2 years since the 
 first installment, epic studios has already released the sequel. With only 2 years since the first 
 one, this new game feels rushed and slapped together. Everything is the same except for new characters 
 and guns. You play most of the game in the underground which gets old and boring fast. The plot 
 was not very "epic." Once you beat the game, you will say to yourself "that's it?" The game leaves 
 way to many holes on the story which obviously means they will come out with a third game. The 
 multiplayer has a few new game types which are alright and thats only if you can actually connect 
 to a game. Their servers are terrible, no surprise. Horde mode is the only fun thing about this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss251
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if it's just me, but there's something therapeutic about chainsawing your enemy in 
 half. Gears of War 2 gameplay hasn't changed much, then again why should it. But there are a lot 
 of new weapons. From the boom-shield to the mulcher, there are plenty of new ways to shred your 
 enemies into pieces. Mulitiplayer has gotten a couple of new additions itself. In the new wing 
 man mode you are split up into teams of two for an all out war epic, it's loads of fun. Lets move 
 on to the campagin mode. Filled with more weapons and bigger boss battles, the scale of this game 
 is simply awesome. I can't believe I almost forgot my favorite new mode, horde mode. This new mode 
 pits up to five players against 50 waves of progressively harder enemies. All and all this game 
 kicks major ass. If you're fans of the first gears, this one is a must buy; I am not kidding either, 
 it really is that addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshaver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  
  So I play a lot of games, I really do. I've played more games this year than I ever have (hence, 
 www. shave-reviews. com) and I am going to say it... Gears of War 2 has to be my favorite game of 
 2008. Maybe, just maybe it'll get passed by Fallout 3 but that's unlikely considering I doubt I 
 have the patience to endure the 100 hour battle.
  
  GOW2 continues almost immediately after the first game ended... my apologies in advance (actually 
 for all my reviews) if I'm not 100% in line with what the story REALLY is. Remember, these entries 
 are my take and I tell it how I see it. I have ADD and my dogs are usually harassing me while I 
 play games so the reality is my take on the story is probably more along the lines of how you will 
 interpret it as well. 
  
  Everything is pretty much how you remember it and some of it is much better:
  
  1. Cover System 
 (i. e. mash the 'A' button) - check... and it actually works this time - look mom, no skating! 
 
  
  2. Way Cool Weapons - check... only the Mortar is 'new' but that's OK by me. I have to say, every 
 game should learn from GOW2's grenade tossin' system. I can't STAND running like an idiot in Halo 
 3 lobbing grenades like a fruitcake and hoping they land anywhere near where I wanted them to. 
 Oh, and THANK YOU EPIC for giving me lots and lots of ammo. Everywhere. All the time. Always. I 
 don't want to be strategic in a game like this. I want to kill stuff lots. Oh ya, and the flamethrower 
 rocks. Thanks again, Epic, for making a butt-kicker of a weapon out of one no other game studio 
 has managed to NOT suck in the past. 
  
  3. Dudes - Big. Badd-ass. Dudes. I'm pretty sure our main cast is on the juice. Positive actually. 
 They are huge and their blood, I'm sure, has been replaced with testosterone. They talk about sacks 
 and balls and say f*ck a lot. They yell at each other and make fun of everything. These, my friends, 
 are heroes. If I was pretty sure I was gonna die on every single mission I was sent on after an 
 alien infestation, I would want to be Marcus or Dom. Maybe Marcus cuz he sounds like he's taking 
 a dump every time he talks and Dom is still looking for his wife and cries a lot. Wife = not a 
 priority when you're being shot at by Locusts from 48 different angles. You're not much good to 
 her (if she's alive) if you're crying on the battlefield. If I were a locust, you'd be my first 
 target just to shut you up. 
  
  4. Enemies - Lots and lots of them. Epic did an outstanding job of mixing it up. I have to admit 
 I was a little hesitant to get GOW2 after killing probably 17 billion aliens in Resistance, Resistance 
 2, Dead Space and Fallout 3 (all of which I've played in the last 2 months) but GOW2 supervised 
 me. Locusts - in many different outfits and helmets (that don't seem to have eye-holes which is 
 odd) , Reavers, Boomers, Grinders, Brumacks, Tickers and the mandatory little spider-thingies all 
 alien games throw in just to piss you off. The enemies are cool. Really, really cool. 
  
  5. Multiplayer - it's there and kicks ass. Horde is probably the best multiplayer option ever conceived. 
 You basically go in with a team of 5 and just survive. That's all. This is outstanding for casual 
 online players like me who simply don't want to get shredded by pre-pubescent racist future sociopaths. 
 I have to admit 'Meatflag' (where an actual player is the flag in capture the flag) is pretty damn 
 near the coolest thing as well. Is it odd that I want to be the Meatflag? 
  
  Creative/Graphics:
  
  This game looks amazing. I mean the kind of game I wish all games would 
 be and probably makes your Xbox cry on the inside. I feel as though the last few alien-shoot-em-ups 
 I've played took about 3 levels to get into the stride... like the creative team actually figured 
 out on the 3rd level that they were developing on a next-generation system. GOW2 is HOT right out 
 of the gates. Character models are great and the attention to detail is what really stands out. 
 Oddly enough, even the lip syncing is decent (pet peeve of mine in all other games) . One of my 
 favorite things about the characters is the simple fact that the guns you are carrying at the time 
 are actually visible and hung on the back of your character. They don't disappear into some magic 
 pocket that, apparently, all the other heroes seem to have sewn into their war-suits.
  
  
  The environments are phenomenal and it's great to see Epic mix it up. A hospital, a sunken 
 city, a level where apparently everything is on fire and you're giant muscles and testosterone 
 have somehow rendered you impervious to asphyxiation from the fumes, some the standard GOW underground 
 with some cool twists and... uh... the inside of a giant worm?! And then a boss battle inside the 
 mouth of another giant organism? Epic, waddup?! It's like your running through a giant, infected 
 vaginal canal. Yes, I said THAT because that's what we're all thinking. Besides the point, all 
 the levels are extremely varied and they switch locales right before you get bored. Oh, and nothing 
 looks like the inside of an alien ship, thank goodness.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  And this is where GOW2 takes the cake. Everything is enjoyable. It's like Epic actually took the 
 time to finish the game, kicked back and had a few beers/rye/vodka, returned to the game and 'objectively' 
 asked the same WTF questions you and I would during gameplay. Oh, and then either fixed them or 
 acknowledged it in the dialogue during the game. Well done.
  
  GOW2 is candy... Blood Candy (I'm trademarking that term, buddy) . The characters, story, enemies, 
 guns, dialogue and environments are over the top in every imaginable way. The color palettes, the 
 settings and the style. This game truly is... EPIC (I had to...) . I love it. It's like being immersed 
 in a comic book. A comic book that can shoot guns and has real boobs on the cover. It's what a 
 game should be - surreal and balls-out FUN. Critics can complain until the end of time about the 
 fact it's over-the-top but, people, it's a game. I'd rather play through a comic book than an academy 
 award nominee, know what I'm sayin'?
  
  The voice acting is what it needs to be (did you know Marcus Fenix is BENDER? Now go back and play 
 the game and see how it felt to feel like me when I first found that out) . The sense of humor is 
 great and I simply can't applaud Epic enough for making jabs in-game at the same stuff I would 
 ask myself as player. Prime example:
  
  New useless young guy in your squad: "What are those glowing fruits?" (or something to that effect)
 
  
  Marcus: "How the hell should I know? What do I look like, a f*cking botanist?"
  
  Or in another situation the obvious question of why 'we' don't carry flashlights in dark places 
 is asked... and responded to with a very matter-of-factly response. Classic.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  In case you haven't figured it out, I love GOW2. And Epic Games. And I'm not 
 even getting paid to say this. This game is going to be my game of the year unless Fallout 3 or 
 Prince of Persia surprise me. If your  give 
 you sh*t for playing video games too much and you're only allowed 12-15 hours of gameplay for the 
 rest of 2008, GOW2's single player (or co-op campaign) should be how you invest that time. You 
 will not be disappointed. Unless you're a PS3 fanboy and then you can just secretly be envious 
 and cry and whine and swear for no other reason other than the fact that they're too cheap to go 
 buy the second system.
  
  Now excuse me while I go wait for 25 minutes for multiplayer to find me a game since 1.5 million 
 people are crashing Epic's servers at any given moment. It's OK, though, it's worth it :)
  
  Check out www. shave-reviews. com for more of my useless reviews.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMADxDOGx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  There is a big sosial differens in gears of war 2 compared whit it's prequel, i just can't say 
 the rite word for it, only discription...
  
  This game has a very improved sosial dimension static , the first cutscene just make it happen 
 , two bad ass veterans let a rook joining there team ... perfect , then there's tay coming up to 
 join whit huge arms ,armor, bad ass tatoos and pearcings... then you got a huge guy called "COLE" 
 (for the one who played the first game allrady know him ...) that guy is just ............... BAD 
 ASS in all senses , he kan headshot a guy whit 1 bullet just whit an assault rifle, cut 2 layerd 
 beton walls whit a saw and sing karaoke about mothers stiicked to "Censorship"... like the statick 
 says he's in the top 3 of best characters of 2008.
  
  Afkors after all those positive emotion, kick ass weapons whit the just .... bad ass-sest charactars 
 you can have, one of the best enviroments and weather selection like deadly rain and the huge "inside" 
 of a giant worm... 
  There is also alot of sadness in this game - this is just a need to have a rite balans for a good 
 game. You got alot of sacrefise ,past emotion , famuly problems ,frendly  
 , injustice , and alot of blood whit fire mixed whit the sequal of the first storyline that goes 
 farther into the deapest of the underground to stop it ones and for all ... 
  
  like i sed , this game is just a sequal to the first one, whit some new sharacters ,weapons, enemies 
 , improved visuals , fysics, and sosial dimension, gameplay stays outstandig good like past time 
 just like the multiplayer. Afterall ,the sequel has a lower rating than the first game , but don't 
 bother ,this game will shurely achieve a top rating in the mankinde history... what way not only 
 i call , "concrete BAD ASS-NES" . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringinDaRain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Hardcore gears of war fans, get ready to throw your controller. This game is GREAT and worth anyone 
 time. It is, for the gamer that is hardcore, or the gamer that is knew. It backs up all. But the 
 hardcore gamers, and the ones whom play online are gonna be pissed. Especially if you played the 
 first.
  
  The story is horrible, but the game play and weapons make up for it. The chainsaw has been fixed, 
 the bullet stoppage is a great add, my poor sniper, awww, its changed, motar and mulcher {flame 
 thrower} are a great add. The maps are decent, and they brought back some favoirtes, like canals 
 and gridlock. But, there are so many errors.. The game still has to be smoothed out, lot of errors, 
 for example: You always dont do what you want, like when you down someone by mele, you dont wanna 
 do that execution, you wanna meat shield him..... But you do it anyway. When you hit A, you can 
 fly over things in to no mans land, and thats not what you wanted. There are some UNIVERSAL lag 
 problems, and matchmaking doesnt work that good, and the rank system is stupid,,, But it is very 
 fun.. And thats what games are made for, there is nothing better then getting some friends and 
 having a curbstomping good time.
  
  TO BREAK IT DOWN TO PROS AND CONS
  PROS
  very fun, just plain fun
  very intuitive
  chainsaws... may i saw more
  story is simple and 
 sweet
  very fun for co-op
  can be very tactical, but doesn't give up simplicity
  easy to pick up the sticks and rock
  
  CONS
  NEEDS PATCHES NOW {EPIC*}
  can get frustrating
 
  matchmaking needs to be fixed
  old schoolers can destory the newbies
  
  
  
  
  I still play both gears,
  look me up
  SnipaliciousCBS
  come and get dome rocked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spam_spot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is what shooters should be. Control is so natural after a while it becomes second nature. 
 All the functionality is where you think it should be. Graphics are first rate. Despite all the 
 eye candy, there is no performance issue or glitches with controls to hamper the gameplay here. 
 All smooth as butter in 1080p glory.
  Gears of war was good, but Gears of War 2 is better because it tried very hard to reduce all the 
 hassles of the first game. I didn't quite like the Berserker battle, or having to drive a silly 
 car with an UV light to shoot crazy bats or walking on wooden floor board portions of the first 
 Gears of War game, but the second one, I liked every second of the gameplay. Vehicle controls ahve 
 been marked improved, all the boss fights are fun, challenging but not tedious or boring.
  I have not tried the Horde mode of play yet, but it sounds every entertaining, and others have 
 talked about how fun it is. 
  Just the story mode so far for me, but that's more than enough for me to recommend this game to 
 anyone who owns a X-box 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger0694
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is by far one of the best games that I have every played. I went to the midnight 
 release of it with a couple of friends, we played in the tournament, and then at 12:01 we got our 
 games and went home. I was the third person to get it in my town. I beat it in about a day, then 
 I beat horde in about a weak. After about a day or two of the game I new it was a Classic. The 
 AI's are smart, but not too hard. Horde is so much fun too, playing with five other friends on 
 Gears of War that night was the most fun I ever had. The campaign is amazing the Storyline is AWESOME. 
 The whole concept of sinking the city was cool to me. The multiplayer was also crazy fun. The new 
 maps, the golden hammerburst, and the golden lancer were all amazing. The chainsaw duels I have 
 to say is one of the top features of the game. If you want to know how to get 10 easy wins al you 
 do is get your friend to play with you and scrape a pencil over the B button it will give you an 
 instant win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tullistyler
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is an astounding achievement on every front and has raised the bar for what makes 
 a great videogame.
  
  Just when you thought it was time to give your Lancer chainsaw-bayoneted gun a rest, the Locust 
 have returned in force. I leave you to discover the story for yourself but it's phenomenal, once 
 again centering around the soldiers in Delta Squad of the COG army. While the narrative of defeating 
 the Locust before they can destroy humanity's last vestige of hope for a future rages in the background, 
 the story focuses on Marcus Fenix and Dom Santiago, particularly on Dom's search for his beloved 
 wife. The characters are as believable and engaging as characters come in any form of entertainment. 
 The story, while left virtually as open as the original Gears of War, is an epic mix of action, 
 suspense and horror that will immerse gamers and leave them in awe. My only critique is that Baird 
 and Cole weren't as involved as in the original. 
  
  The presentation is similar to the first game but stepped up on every level to make it more epic 
 in scale. From the intricate menus, sweeping soundtrack, bombastic visual effects, inspired and 
 elaborately detailed art design of characters and environments, and certainly the scope of each 
 level, the game is drenched in action and drama. The game essentially lets you control the actors 
 of the most high-powered summer blockbuster movie you can imagine. 
  
  The gameplay is virtually the same as its predecessor but in no way is that a detriment thanks 
 to the array of minor critiques to sharpen it. Characters stick to the cover you intend with greater 
 ease and the gunplay is faster but more accurate. The battles are greatly improved due to the greater 
 variety of enemies and ways to take them on. The combat featured in the first game, while awesome, 
 was fairly linear. There was only one way through the Locust. But in Gears 2 there is much greater 
 variety in the level design, types of enemies and the ways that they will attack you. It will be 
 different each time you play through, a trait once exclusive to games like Halo. At first I was 
 surprised to see certain trademarks from the gameplay in Gears 1 missing from its sequel, but the 
 more I played I found myself glad that this game took on a new identity and didn't merely regurgitate 
 the same situations from the original like Berserkers and the Krill. There are new, innovative 
 mechanics to be enjoyed that are far more epic than those found in the first game. The new weapons 
 also add great new dimensions to the game; even the classics play like they're new. The shotgun, 
 for example, was practically worthless in the first game unless you were within melee attack distance 
 of your opponent. In Gears 2 it has much longer range and you can see the buckshot spread impacting 
 whatever Locust grub is unfortunate enough to be standing in your way. From the grisly displays 
 of gore when you snipe or blast a foe with your shotgun to temporarily downing them only to curb 
 stomp them or use them as a meat shield, it is incredibly satisfying to absolutely destroy the 
 Locust. This is in large part because of the story, but from a mere visceral standpoint I promise 
 you'll never get tired of using that chainsaw, baby.
  
  The multiplayer is also a huge step up from the first game with a multitude of new options for 
 Xbox Live play. The new maps are much improved. Perhaps the best feature is the Horde mode in which 
 the game sends wave after wave of Locust at you, growing harder each time. It's a great way to 
 waste time and have fun with up to five friends. 
  
  Simply put, Gears of War 2 is the most epic videogame I've ever played and the most immersed into 
 interactive entertainment I've ever been. Gears of War 1 was amazing but its sequel takes everything 
 that made it great to an entirely new level. It's a complete package that will leave your jaw dropped 
 to the floor and craving more. Fortunately, Gears 2 is one of the very few games whose campaign 
 yields high replay value. You'll be wanting to play this game over and over again. I suspect Gears 
 of War 2 will be the game by which the Xbox 360 is remembered and celebrated years after the system's 
 run is over. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynam3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great sequel to the game setting after the events of the first where hope is 
 dying for humanity, The horde is conquering Jacinto, humanities last fort. Theirs only one thing 
 to do, Attack!!!
  
  The story for gears 2 overshadows the first with this deep story, every person who has this game 
 will love the story and be motivated to win the war. The soundtrack is fantastic which also motivates 
 you
  
  The Gameplay is really well done and fixes systems in the first gears and makes it smooth and comfortable 
 like the cover system. All missions will be fun to play thanks to the variety of weapons like the 
 newly added weapons like the gorganite pistol, heavy mortar and the mulcher. There is even new 
 cover like picking up bodies and the portable shield which is a smart new addition. The graphics 
 are amazing with the special theme "destroyed beauty" but the frame rate can be annoying. The multiplayer 
 is great with normal matchmaking and horde mode which will have you playing for a long time.
  
  I highly recommend this game to every 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanmulhern123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  this was the most amazing game i have played the 1st gears was good but this is headpoping i think 
 this is the best game i own and i love hoard the best game of 2008. i will be playing this for 
 years to come it should make christmas no.1 and i love the new characters Tai is the bomb and the 
 weapon updates are amazing. I love how in this game there are some info on the characters personal 
 life (Maria santiago) i was upset about the first gears lack of character info. but this is a must 
 buy this christmas anyone who dose not buy this game is missing out on one great experence i am 
 sure this game has a couple of glitchs and bugs but i have not came across any myself. And i have 
 made a few forums on gears of war. So anyone who likes shoot and someones head comes off this is 
 a game for you. And has a great story line and very easy to follow. So i am well and truely telling 
 you this is a must buy please have a go of it yourself.
  
  thanx for reading from ryan mulhern
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarTorn409
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2. A clearly phenominal game on paper. The story is compelling, eventhough it does 
 leave you with far more questions than answers, surely opening a possible oppertunity for Gear 
 of War 3 if EPIC desires I am sure. Online Multi-player (ON PAPER) is vastly improved from the 
 three (I am sorry 4, post-expansion update) game modes last time of which most people only played 
 2 of them seriously (execution and warzone) . Also game play itself seemingly runs smoother for 
 the most part with less lag and less emphasis on the shotgun. A person can no longer have a shotgun 
 battle without aiming at least once and "spearing" or "two-pieceing" is a lot less common. The 
 game's intoduction of new weapons changes the game playing style as well. A player can no longer 
 run into a situation or battle with no thought process other than "I'm gonna blow him away with 
 the shotgun." a la the first Gears of War. A few deaths from grenades stuck on walls or from a 
 player backing up with a flamethrower, will make one realize pretty quickly that this game play 
 is not the same as Gears 1. 
  People who complain about Gears 2 often complain about the wait time to get into a ranked game 
 because the have adapted the "Halo multiplayer set-up" in Gears 2. First, the wait is NOT that 
 long. Secondly the wait time varies with the amount of people in your party. I think this is a 
 positive because it is statsitically true that the people that play by themsleves quit more often 
 than those who do not. I believe this is EPIC's attempt to combat quitting. Most people that play 
 Gears, know other people that play Gears, so it's really not that big of a deal. Remember this 
 is a team game, there are plenty of other games out there where you can play by yourself. 
  The biggest problem with Gears 2 is the glitching during online multiplayer. The first Gears of 
 War had some serious online issues with players glitching. While not every online game is a glitchfest 
 in Gears 2; it is far too frequent. There are rumors of players having the ability to be invisible 
 and glitch with the bomshield so that they can't be kiled from the front. (I have personally seen 
 the latter of the two with a few other glitches) It is saddening because it turns many people off 
 and I hope EPIC fixes it. (If you are curious, I have a blog on this topic of glitching.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Here is why the game is good. SINGLE PLAYER. The single player on normal and above is somewhat.... SOMEWHAT 
 challenging. You all know this. Anyone who has played the game knows the single player is fun. 
 Is it challenging? Not really. Maybe on insane but thats as far as it goes. 
  
  Here is why it simply DOES NOT live up to the hype.
  
  Multiplayer keeps people coming back 
 for more. Example: COD4. We all know this. 
  
  The multiplayer for this game could have been fun. It is when you are host or are on the host's 
 team. As far as Mr. Cliffy B. He is full of B......... S. The host advantage is in fact WORSE. If 
 you can believe that WORSE. When you are host expect a 2000-3000 point game. EASY! When you are 
 not host expect 200-400 points and a hell of a lot of screaming.
  
  The "patch" patched NOTHING. Maybe you connect to a group faster, but not consistantly. 
  
 
  Why can COD4 have minimal host advantage and these guys who make 60 million on release weekend 
 can't find a way to fix the problem? One answer..... GIMME YOUR MONEY. Microsoft nickel and diming 
 you to death.
  
  Here is the kicker. Try and sell this game. Anyone who knows about the free 5 maps included will 
 figure out that if you buy a used copy you won't be able to get the "free maps". That is until 
 they are released on XBL for you to buy again. 
  
  P2P is garbage and players on the 360 are getting a glimpse of the future. Slow connections, laggy 
 play, and BS host advantage.
  
  This all being said..... multiplayer can be fun, and it will be. FOR NOW. As soon as games like 
 killzone 2 become commonplace on the PS3, 360 IS DONE AND OVER.
  
  Being a former fanboy I am happy to see the beginning of the DEMISE.... the DEMISE of the 360. With 
 its 70%+ failure rate (ive sent mine back THREE TIMES) its laggy P2P, and MS's nickel and dime 
 you to death policy.... its only a matter of time Bill. And I cant wait for that time. What a joke. 
 70 bucks for lag and anger.
  
  PS3..... and your 7 or 8 (what ever it is) cell processors, bluetooth, blue ray, integrated wifi 
 and huge hard drive...... WITH DEDICATED SERVERS..... HERE I COME BABY..... HERE I COME
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanhd83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  GOW 2 does not disappoint for it is a near perfect expansion from the game that shipped 2 years 
 ago...
  
  Having said that, no matter how great a game it is there were some disappointing moments that I 
 wish I could forget: namely the lame last boss, and in my opinion a complete let down of an ending. 
 Although GOW 2 is obviously the midway point in the trilogy the ending lacked both "spice", flair 
 and tension. In fact it was very boring in my book as there was nothing that got me hyped-up or 
 even satisfied. People always say that Halo 2's cliffhanger ending was lame but I sorely disagree. 
 Halo 2's ending was cinematic and climatic in nature. It got me psyched up and longing to "finish 
 the fight". GOW 2 doesn't have anything close in that nature. Unlike the ending of 1 which had 
 that creepy, unnerving, and extremely exciting revelation at the end GOW 2 lacks any of that. And 
 the recording that you hear at the end of the credits does not in any shape or form remedy that, 
 In fact I felt that it was a tacky way of trying to diffuse the disappointment that some gamers 
 would feel. In fact by its very nature it does feel like something of an afterthought that was 
 taped on just before the game shipped due to some disappointing pre-shipping reviews (not saying 
 that is the case only that is what it felt like to me)
  
  Okkkk enough of that already! So why the heck did I rate it 9.5 you say?? I just got what I think 
 has to be the biggest regrets I felt after finishing the campaign mode, although some small one's 
 exist that will be answered in 3 (Dizzy I'm looking at you baby!) off my chest as far as the rest 
 of the game is concerned it is a masterpiece. From the graphics, to the beautiful score, and wonderfully 
 deeper story thanks to some terrific screenwriters (The Dom/Maria angle, and the meatier characters 
 are just 2 examples of many) to the amazing new weapons and gamer modes (HORDE ROCKS!) GOW 2 is 
 a wonderful piece of art that any action gamer would sorely be missing out on if (s) he didn't play 
 it. Along with the amazing novel Aspho Fields, it has been a phenomenal year for Gearheads and 
 I look forward to the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondi123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Man has made many wonders in its time upon this Earth. The great pyramid at Giza, stonehenge, Statue 
 of Zeus at Olympia and so on. Their have also been great inventions like the computer and electricity. 
 I have now found a new wonder to join the glorius ranks of those wonders. Its name: Gears of War 
 2. 
  
  Gears 2 is a magnificent game. Probably the best 3rd person shooter and one of the best games of 
 2008. Everything that Gears 1 did that could have been done better has now been done better. The 
 combat, the graphics have all improved alot. Graphics wise the version of unreal engine 3 in Gears 
 1 could not put brumacks in to fight. Only PC gamers got that with their more powerful machines. 
 But the engine has now been improved in Gears 2 and it can now have multiple Brumacks in one part 
 of a level.
  
  Gears 2 also has new weapons like flamethrowers and portable chainguns (Mulchers) . Also new types 
 of locust but one of the great (but annoying) locust got left out of Gears 2, The Beserker. The 
 berserker really annoyed me in Gears 1 but now i miss it since it has gone. Anyway, some of the 
 new locust are strange, like the tickers which are small little things that have explosives stuck 
 on their backs which explode when they get shot or come near you. The reavers can now actually 
 land and attack you but aren't that much of a worry.
  
  There are more executions now. In gears of war 1 there was just the curb stomp but now you can 
 also hit them with your gun or turn them over and hit the crap out of them. But the coolest type 
 of execution (well not really execution) is the meatshield execution. When they are down and dieing 
 you can pick them up and use them as a shield from bullets. But this means you can only shoot with 
 the pistol. 
  
  Add all of the great stuff together and you have a brilliant game. Well done Epic, you've outdone 
 yourself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobler8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I've ever played, It almost matches Call Of Duty 4, THis game 
 would be totally worth it even if it costed $80. The guns, the opponents, almost everything!!! 
 Only one thing is wrong, I say. That would be the cover system, They said that they would make 
 the cover system EZer. I seem to get stuck on cover more often than in Gears of War 1. But that 
 only one flaw, otherwise this game is AWESOME!!!!!!!!! Here's a hint, on the last heart of the 
 Rift Worm, don't take too long otherwise you'll drown in the blood, if you do get downed, then 
 you can pretty much just restart from the last check point. I would recomend to do it on co-op, 
 other wise the game is imposible, but other than that, the co-op is way longer and better than the 
 first Gears of War. Good Hord Hunting!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Story : Surprise Surprise, it's humans versus aliens! Or mutants, or some kind of grotesque monster 
 that happens to speak English and have mastery over human guns. This new game's plot elements include 
 one squadmate's missing wife, a city that is supposedly humanity's last refuge, another enemy leader 
 whom ranks above the enemy you killed in the first game that you mistook for the leader of the 
 group of monsters you thought you rendered extinct in the first game, and a plot twist that feels 
 a bit too blatantly ripped out of the Halo games. There are a handful of groan-inducing elements 
 too, such as the cowardly teammate whose voicework would've fit in perfectly in an episode of Scooby 
 Doo, and the preachy, bizarre computer AI character that's trying really hard to be mimic the artificial 
 intelligence characters from Portal and Halo, but the story as a whole suffices without being too 
 offensive. For what its worth, despite being the middle chapter of a planned trilogy, the game 
 doesn't end on a cheap cliffhanger like oh so many other games seem to be nowadays, and protagonist 
 Marcus Felix and his main squadmates from the first game, once reunited, are appealing enough to 
 give the otherwise dull world some personality. I guess to sum it up, as good as a game about four 
 guys single-handedly gunning down an army of enemies can get.
  
  The storyline is the weakest link of Gears of War 2, or at least the link that's the least-thickest 
 in a twenty-ton chain strong enough to imprison Godzilla. This game is a beast alright. This is 
 your big-budget game equivalent of a summer blockbuster, with all of the cutting edge graphic technologies, 
 physics engines, sweeping orchestral musical scores and end-of-humanity themes that you normally 
 equate with high profile shooting games. It's the proverbial pissing contest, where all the major 
 game companies (or at least the ones that made PC games back when making big-budget PC games was 
 a profitable business) compete to make the prettiest shooter of them all. However, Gears of War 
 2 is also a smart beast, one that knows that there's more to a game than a press release bragging 
 about how many enemies you can fit on-screen or how this game is the first to feature "meat physics."
 
  
  In this regard, it bears mention that single player campaign (which can be played co-operatively 
 with a buddy, online or off) , is particularly strong. Unlike the Halo games, or any number of other 
 major shooters, you never feel like you're merely walking from one corridor to another, fighting 
 one respawning wave of enemies after another. Rather, the game does a surprisingly strong job of 
 throwing one unique scenario after another, all the while finding small and subtle ways to mix 
 up the standard gunfights. Considering how the core gameplay mechanics consist of hiding behind 
 something, poking your head out and shooting back, it's amazing how this never actually gets old. 
 There's a potent variety of enemies to hack up with your chainsaw-gun Lancer, and a healthy variety 
 of weapons to use in the event that your Lancer runs out of ammo. Just be sure to never drop that 
 Lancer, ever, or even toy with the idea, or else you are going to either run into a wall that needs 
 to be chainsawed-down or enemies that, after the first game, have learned about the tactical advantage 
 of guns with chainsaw bayonets and intend to use them on you.
  
  Throw in plenty of cinematic moments (usually consisting of something blowing up) and you have 
 a story mode that extends well beyond the typical "showcase of things you can do in multiplayer" 
 campaign that most shooters feature, though the game does introduce its share of new features. 
 Gears of War 2 doesn't reinvent the formula of the first game, but elaborates on it enough to make 
 going back to the first game an awkward experience. Like in multiplayer, an ally can revive you 
 should you approach near-death, and the enemies can do the same, throwing you in some tense situations 
 where you'll be crawling, begging for help, and developing a new appreciation for Dom. There are 
 vehicle sequences that don't feel tacked on, Halo 3's utility weapons like the giant chaingun, 
 chainsaw duels and a litany of other new features that you'll barely notice but appreciate once 
 you see them. The game doesn't rewrite the formula of the first Gears, but being as there has been 
 a surprisingly low number of games trying to rip off Gears of War, there's nothing about this game 
 that feels stale, other than the concept of muscular men in giant, armoured suits shooting down 
 monster invaders.
  
  Speaking of trends, Gears of War 2 does follow what appears to be an emerging new trend in gaming; 
 the multiplayer mode where people mindlessly battle waves of respawning enemies. Horde mode actually 
 works out to be a pretty fun diversion, to tell the truth. Granted, I could just be saying that 
 because of all the multiplayer modes, this is the one that's the easiest to start up a session 
 with.
  
  The game borrows its matchmaking concept from Halo 2 and 3, where you choose what style of gameplay 
 type you play through and the game looks for allies and opponents of similar skill level. However, 
 the matchmaking in Gears 2 is surprisingly slow, and I often found myself just sitting there, waiting 
 for minutes on end as a game kept looking for an opponent group, only to stop because a member 
 of my group left in frustration and thus needed to be replaced. Now, once you actually start a 
 game, then the game starts to pick up. While the entire multiplayer game is team-based and you 
 don't necessarily need good allies to thrive, you will feel it if your opponent's team is a more 
 well-oiled machine.
  
  The game's matchmaking seems to prefer committed gamers looking to spend all-nighters bulking their 
 ranking and trying to unlock the game's obscenely demanding achievements than someone who wants 
 to play a game for a few minutes. You can't leave a game unless you boot out of Gears of War 2 
 or turn off the system, and likewise, people can't hop into a game in progress; if you want to 
 play, you're going to wait for the matchmaker to find ten other players and you guys are going 
 to play together, whether your team is good or not. I know that people who quit games because they're 
 losing are hated by all, but I'm not one to play a multiplayer session for hours on end, and there's 
 this thing called real life that'll sometimes call me and interrupt my gameplay session. Do the 
 developers at Epic know about this life thing?
  
  But that said, Gears of War 2 is visceral, exciting, enjoyable, a shooter that finds a way to stand 
 out from the crowd. If the multiplayer process was a bit more gentle and B. Carmine wasn't so much 
 of a tool then I'd feel a bit more inclined to rate the game a little higher, but I doubt either 
 of which will keep the 15-28 year old male demographic away from thinking that this is the greatest 
 game ever made, or at least until Gears 3 or the next big shooter comes out. I'll attest to being 
 a jaded snob that needs a bit more than bleeding-edge graphics to get excited about a shooting 
 game, but at least Gears of War 2 does just enough for me to not label it as another flash in the 
 pan.
  
  Pros : In the absence of having something less rational to say here, I'll go so far as to claim 
 that this one game's campaign is better than the combined Halo trilogy.
  
  Cons : As visually impressive as the final sequence is, it's far too easy for my tastes. Call me 
 old-school, but I like it when a final boss puts up the toughest fight out of all the obstacles 
 the player has faced in the game, not the easiest.
  
  4 stars
  
  Okay, the game does leave a few loose ends, and there's a bit of a cliffhanger after the credits, 
 but you can practically guess how it'll all unfold in the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Mustang
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  this game was alot of fun but it looks exacly the same as the last gears its new stuff does not 
 make it different seriuosly thats was what an expansion all about SAME GAME NEW STUFF and it plays 
 and feels the same way
  i finished it in 2 days and i dont really like its multiplayer so it only offered me entertainment 
 for only 2 days and they made the game easier than before because my team mates can revive me without 
 multiplayer they made the campagin too easy
  and it didnt answer the questions from the last gears and i dont think i will be be surprised when 
 i know the answers in the third gears because the game's story is plotless its not like if they 
 keep the answers til the end then its plots gona be groundbreaking
  all my compalins about is because its the same and the story but after all this game was alot of 
 fun and i finished it in 2 days because i couldnt stop playing it
  and i am happy because there is a chainsaw duel and chainsaw somebody from behind is really nice 
 but that should have ben done since last game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onslaught10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the gruesome greatness of Gears of War, Gears of War 2 is plenty of fun for you and 
 your friends. I have had this game since the release date and I'm still having a great time with 
 it. Knowing that this game will continue to be extremely fun for maybe even years from now makes 
 me feel good about my $60. What makes this sequel so much better than the first is the great story, 
 the all new multiplayer, and how much more fun you will have compared to the first.
  
  First of all, the story to this game is extremely fun to play from beginning to end, whether by 
 yourself or with a friend. You play as Marcus Fenix and are accompanied by loyal friend Dom, which 
 is who you or your buddy will play as if you decide to do co-op. In the second Gears you learn 
 that the locust are back to try and destroy the human race, once again. Even though that may sound 
 boring to you people who have beaten the first Gears, like myself, it's really not. I had a great 
 time playing through the second campaign both by myself and with a friend of mine, so trust me 
 this games story mode is very fun and you will find yourself loving it within the first act.
  
  The second part of Gears of War 2 that makes this game worth your $60 is the multiplayer. I, 
 myself was very happy to see how the new multiplayer was set-up because I wasn't expecting too 
 much of a change from the first. First of all, the multiplayer is set up very similar to Halo 3's 
 online party system, which makes playing with your friends' very fun and easy, a great improvement 
 from the first. Another added feature that really surprised me was the all new ranking system, 
 which goes by pretty much if you win and what place you come in on your team, in my opinion this 
 ranking system sucks and needs to be fixed, but to be honest I'm just happy they decided to add 
 a ranking system to the game. A few new game modes for multiplayer were also added to the mix, 
 a new type of capture the flag mode is the most noticeable, but instead of capturing a flag you 
 have to capture a human with a shotgun in hand, some added updates were made to the older game 
 types too. The new Horde mode is a blast, you and up to four people can team up as the COG to fight 
 wave after wave of horde, after every ten waves the horde grow stronger and is harder to kill and 
 with 50 different waves I'm sure this will keep you and your friends very entertained.
  
  Finally, the third reason you should buy Gears of War 2 is the fact that this game beats its prequel 
 in almost every way. I wasn't too thrilled with these new games that came out around the time of 
 Gears release, they really disappointed me, and I thought Gears of War 2 would do the same. I was 
 wrong, this game is so much better than the first, the graphics have been improved, and with some 
 added weapons, an all new multiplayer and new combat executions this game makes for an awesome 
 sequel. Of course there are a few minor things that need to be fixed and can easily be done with 
 a patch, first the ranking system like I said before. The matchmaking takes way too long sometimes, 
 the shotgun needs to be fixed and the cover system feels like it should be updated too.
  
  Overall I would give this game a 10 because it is, and will continue to be fun a long time from 
 now, I know people who hated the prequel and absolutely love Gears of War 2, if that says anything. 
 Although there are a few things that need to be updated, this shouldn't prevent you and your friends 
 from having a great time with the game. This is one of the best and most fun games I've ever played 
 and would recommend it to anyone that enjoys shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game to play. Plain and simply put its fun. The game play is good overall 
 and is sharp. The action is fast paced. The graphics are great. Everything looks real. The sound 
 quality is superb. The value and replay value of this game is good. The controlls are sharp and 
 precise. The story is great. The combat is very good. Lots of blood and gore. Stomping a locust's 
 head in is awesome.
  I give 7 out of 10 for the gameplay. Good gameplay. Fast paced action as I said. 8.5 out of 10 
 for the graphics. Very great graphics. 9 out of 10 for the sound. The voice acting is superb, the 
 sound effects are great, and the music is good. 7 out of 10 for the value and reply value. good 
 replay value. 8.5 out of 10 for the tilt. The controlls are very great. 8 out of 10 for the story. 
 Great strory. 7.5 out of 10 for the combat. Very good combat. Overall I give 8 out of 10 for this 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassinsmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game is really good a classical and also a great sequal this is just the best game out the 
 mutiplayer is amazing and also the campaign is second to none. the only thing i was let down by 
 is tall pretty characters but still amazing i really encourage you to buy it it is a game for the 
 ages and also if you wnt to get the full multiplayer SPECIAL EDITION VERSION where you get the 
 golden lancer. the amout of weapons you can get is great the best weapon in my opinion the scorcher. 
 with all the new features you can only hope for a third game on the next generation console
  great game almost perfect. i honestly do love this game and thats why im taking my time to inform 
 you to buy it . its just one of the best games youll ever play espiciaqlly with the new capture 
 the flags ad the new grenadeswhich you will find a treat the graphics are amazing in hd look life 
 like its surreal how good this game is. I think its better than halo 3.
  assasinsmaster over and out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  And I repeat... without doubt... 
  
  This last months have been a parade of good titles in the 360... GTA IV, Saints Row 2, Fallout 
 3, Fable 2, Dead Space... and then some more. All of these games have been good or great, but GOW2 
 distinguishes itself from the crowd because a solid story, clear objectives and just old fashioned 
 plain fun.
  
  What can I say, give me a game where I get to shoot enemies, get inside a worm, ride a Reaver, 
 kill more baddies, and then ride a Brumak and now I can die happy...
  
  The only reason I'm giving GOW2 a 9.5 instead of a 10 is because (at least playing it in hardcore) 
 there are some parts where it becomes too much difficult to the point that you need to reload from 
 the last checkpoint a couple of dozens times... but eventually you will succeed and things get 
 fun again.
  
  If you liked GOW, then you will absolutely love GOW2... 
  
  If you are thinking about what game you should get for Xmas... don't think it twice... get this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  1. Story progresses at great rate and in perfect timing with the action. 
  
  2. Weapons and fighting mechanic is amazing
  
  3. Environment is rich and very detailed
 
  
  4. Gives a sense of being a part of some epic story
  
  The Bad
  
  Vehicles could have been better, but a minor blemish on a great game.
  
  
  ~ Just finished 
 GOW2 and played about 10 hours of online play and this is a true masterpiece in the Xbox world. 
 The story is captivating and the environments are stunning. The story is subtle and doesnt interrupt 
 the main part of the game... THE ACTION!
  
  Weapons and enemy AI are terrific (if you play on the appropriate level) and the environments provide 
 plenty of strategic manuevers. 
  
  The only blemish has to be the vehicle controls, which are spotty at best. However, since you only 
 use them about 3 times, its a minor blemish on one of the best games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I never played the first Gears, for two simple reasons. No 360 and a crappy computer. Now, I have 
 a 360 and naturally I want to see what all the fuzz is about with Gears 2. It is... an unbelievably 
 awesome experience from beginning to end. If you have a 360, you got to have this game, if you 
 don't have a 360, get one and then the game. The whole game can be described by one word: "EPIC". 
 Because it's just that, and you'll have a hell of a time killing Locust after Locust after Locust 
 in massive battles. What I really liked was that you don't have to go it alone, there's always 
 somebody else around to assist you. The multiplayer includes a co-op campaign, and as you know, 
 co-op is almost always a good thing.
  
  If I have one criticism it's that it's rather short and ends quite anticlimactic. Yes, I know it's 
 supposed to be a trilogy, but come on, give me something at the end. But okay, fine, gonna make 
 Gears 3 even better I guess. Also, the vehicle section was kinda lame. The voiceacting is fantastic. 
 With John DiMaggio, Nolan North and Michael Gough all contributing their vocal talents.
  
  It's a no-brainer really, if you like shooters you got to have this game. Is it the best game of 
 the year? I don't quite think so, but there have been so many awesome games out this year. Either 
 way, Gears 2 is an amazing game. Oh, did I mention it's completely EPIC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxter220
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  gears of war is one of my favorite game ever but gears of war 1 was a little better but buy it 
 buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Looking back to Gears 1 this game just stomps all over it.
  
  The storyline continues where the COG are shriveled down to their last city Jacinto. The COG are 
 on the attack and drilling their way into the locust fronts. The game ends here and its amazing.
 
  
  The graphics are just as incredible as the first Gears but nothing special.
  
  Replay value is tip top because despite no internet connection you can play with bots in any game 
 mode which is very entertaining.
  
  I cant really think of anything bad about this game except the little lag in multi player but not 
 always.
  
  Be sure to turn off your mic during the multi player though because the community is just awful 
 and very hateful and just scream and talk bad about others all the time and for this reason alone 
 prevents me from giving this game a perfect score.
  
  The controls work fine and the gameplay is smooth as silk so be sure to pick this game brand new 
 so you can get your hands on some exclusive content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullflower
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Improves on everything which made the first game great. Combat has been refined and is more tighter 
 in feel. The on-rail sections are good for the most part. Boss battles, yet again, are very good 
 to look at, but are over before you know it. At least there's more of them this time. The weapons 
 have a much more meatier feel to them, especially the Hammerburst rifle.
  
  The new additions to the weapon roster are well done - the Boom shield is pure superbness. The 
 game once again shines while in co-op play. Because the gameplay is nice and tight, playing through 
 the story with a friend is one of life's little guilty pleasures - fun will be had by all. You'll 
 need a mate if you're wanting to complete the game on Insane mode, heh. I was abit underwhelmed 
 by the anticlimactic ending. But it was one hell of a ride to get there. 
  
  Rating - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokolasio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is a fantastic game that makes you want more and more blood and meet, It has fantastic 
 graphisc and a lot of way's to kill sombody that in gow didn't have .If you want a game were you 
 can kill sombody totally awesome and brutal this game is for you. This Game is perfect for all people 
 who likes to see blood in games .
  The wepons are totally difrent than befor they are a lot more fun i think , the tree difrent graneds 
 are also very cool.
  The Lancer is one of the coolest because you can use the chainsaw for evrithing .
  The spikes 
 granades are funny because they blow up, yea bow up thats a lot mor funnyer, you can meak it also 
 in the gow .
  But you can't put a granade on the wall in gow so thats also the cool of gow2.
  Another thing 
 thats cool are the shield and finishes that you can do with the bodys of your enemys in gow you 
 only can crush the face of your enemy with your feet in gow2 you can make a lot more .
  I thing this is the best game that i have play.
  So see ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devver
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I know this review is late but I am going to do my best to review Gears of War 2.
  
  Gears of War 1 was a great xbox 360 game when it came out in 2006 and expectations were raised 
 when it was announced and when I got my hands on Gears of War 2 I was satisfied.
  
  Graphics: To me the graphics look superb just like GoW1 in fact they look pretty much the same!
 
  
  Sound: The sound is a instrumental so you won't hear any opera singing like in the Halo series. 
 I liked it for the most part but there was something that took me out of the game, just when a 
 battle starts you can hear the music turning hardcore and then when the battle stops the music 
 ends and you can hear a little guitar riff which takes out some off the surprise when you can hear 
 when a battle starts and stops.
  
  Gameplay: Probably the best part of GoW 2 is Horde mode which sets you and four other off your 
 friend (or random people) against 50 waves of the Locust getting harder every wave. Then there's 
 the multiplayer which is your same old capture the flag (expect the flag is a hobo with a shotgun) , 
 there's your team deathmatch and you get the rest. The singleplayer traveling through a linear 
 path sometimes coming through a fight and theres a story... the storys good but it leaves more 
 questions to be answered then answered questions setting it up for a Gears of War 3.
  
  Overall the game is excellent with a problem coming up once and a while and definite spot for maybe 
 winning the Game of the Year award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markuspunker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  How do you define "yanky-fied"? well, to put it simply, the game has a more patriotic-yank-up crap 
 that the original did not. we learn more about the characters than the original but thats not exactly 
 a good thing. in the original we did not know of much about the characters and now i think about 
 it, that was a good thing. its just you, your squad, a gnarly lancer rifle and some butt ugly locust 
 wanting to rip you to shreds. its very dark and more horrofying than the new GOW. in this addition, 
 we have members of the squad missing family, a new carmine who is just as much of an idiot as his 
 dead bro with added "yes sir no sir would you like me to kiss your ass sir!?" who is "fighting 
 for humanity" and a chap who gives out a speech about patriotism and your typical war mongering 
 malarky. Im just glad fenix and a few others dont give a hoot about anything else than kicking 
 some ass. he does have the added patriot trash in him but it doesnt warp his mind. thats the only 
 part that spoils it for me, because the original was more aggressive and dark, and i got a feel 
 of isolation compared to the sequel.
  
  thats just the worse part over.
  
  the good: well....... it really does show that the developers put alot of effort into a game and 
 they should be proud of it. this game offers a bigger, better arsenal of weapons than the original 
 and the combat has alot more to offer too, so it reinvents the combat system in GOW with added 
 oomph!
  
  as for graphics, well, this is a very good looking game and the developers show it off with more 
 rural and lush enviroments. the game looks good enough to eat, if i may say so. and instead of 
 having abondoned ford transit vans like the original ( i found this abit odd for a future sci-fi 
 game set on a fictional planet ) we get more detail in the vehicles sorrounding us.
  
  and more new enemies make raam and corpsers look tame little monsters, we have some crazy chap 
 with a chainsaw stick thing (cant quite make out what he is) and a big locust with a giant gun 
 mounted on his back does make them very fearful enemies which you will of course face in the game, 
 and the combat is tense. enemy AI is improved and does show that the locust have a brain to say 
 the least, so you wont have to worry about them just walking up to you with open arms saying "any 
 chance you could stand still while i just blast you with this shotgun mate?" 
  
  this is overall a fun and exciting game that has been worht the wait, with new multiplayer features 
 and improved combat, i wonder what the chances are for another sequel and what new features will 
 be brought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was one of the Xbox 360's best games. When it came ut in 2006, it raised the bar in 
 so many different ways. Even when the PC version came out in 2007 it was still an awesome game. 
 All of this does not change in Gears of War 2. Like I said up above, Gears of War 2 is a good example 
 of how a sequel should be done. Though it does not raise the bar to the next level, it hits the 
 bar that the first Gears made, and raises it a bit higher.
  
  The story in Gears of War 2 goes like this. It takes place a few months later from where the first 
 Gears of war ended. Marcus Fenix and his buddy Dom are back to take the fight to the locusts. THe 
 locusts have found ways to sink entire cities under ground, so you as Marcus Fenix takes part in 
 a mission where the humans send COG soldiers underground to fight against the locusts. The story 
 is a lot better than the first Gears of War, but leaves to many questions unanswered in the end. 
 I don't want to tell you much about these questions, because, that will ruin the story for anyone 
 that has not yet played it. Let's just say that the story is improved from the first Gears of War.
 
  
  The gameplay in Gears of War 2 is identical to the first. You take cover, and then peek around 
 cover to shoot at your enemies. A few new things have been added, like the ability to use other 
 guys as meat shields. There are a few new curb stomps, like taking you gun and just smashing the 
 enemy with it, or beating their face down into the ground. One thing I absolutely hated about the 
 campaign is all the defend this mission, which normally sticks you on a turret. I don't mind them 
 if there are only a few of them, but I thought there were a bit to many in this game. In one scene 
 you have to defend a communication device from a bunch of reavers. Of course you have to get on 
 a turret and gun them down, but this part got me so angry, because, I had to play it like 10 times, 
 that I almost broke my TV. This had to be one of my only complaints with the gameplay.
  
  There are a few new weapons like the burst pistol, and some of the weapons have been redesigned 
 like the burst rifle, which has been change to a single shot gun. The weapons feel good and control 
 a lot smoother than in the first one.
  
  There are new enemies like the blood hounds, and the tickers, which are these little bugs with 
 mines on their backs. The new enemies are really cool, and there are also some new bosses as well.
 
  
  The graphics in Gears of War 2 look awesome. Unlike in the first Gears of War where most of the 
 environments are a bunch of destroyed cities, Gears of War 2 has more organic like environments. 
 The new environments look amazing, and you can pick out a lot of details in everything. The character 
 models and weapon models look good to. Vehicles and everything also look really good. When things 
 blow up, that also looks awesome, and it normally sends debris everywhere.
  
  The sound in Gears of War 2 has improved a lot since the first Gears of War. Voice acting id a 
 little bit better, though some of the voices still sound like cave men. The biggest improvement 
 is the weapons sounds. The lancer in the first Gears did not sound anything like a machine gun, 
 but more like some sci fi sounding thing. In Gears of War 2, it actually sounds like a machine 
 gun.
  When things blow up or come crashing down, you hear the ground rumble a bit and the building crumble. 
 Over all the sound is really good.
  
  The single player can take about 10 hours to beat, but it is fun to go back through co op, aor 
 if you don't want to do that, then you can play the multi player. THe multi player is the biggest 
 improvement in Gears of War 2. In the first Gears, the multi player was good, but not even close 
 to other games like Call of Duty. Gears of War 2 takes everything good about the first Gears, and 
 adds a lot more content to it. One new mode is horde mode, where four players try to hold off 50 
 waves of locusts. This new mode is fun and addictive. There is also a bot mode, so if you want 
 to practice, you can do that without even going online. Some of the new modes are Wingman, Guardian, 
 king of the hill ( which was in the PC version of the first Gears) and many more. All tof these 
 new modes are a lot of fun to play, and I personally like the map selection a lot better than in 
 the first Gears of War. There is a rank system, but that does not do much, like you do not unlock 
 like any new guns or stuff, But the multi player is still awesome. One thing I did not like was 
 the match making system, which is a lot like Halo 3. I never liked the match making system in Halo 
 3, and I still don't like it in Gears of War 2. In my opinion, it takes to long to get a match 
 going. Not to mention, a lot of people like to leave right when the match has begun, so the teams 
 are uneven, and the system does not go out and try to find more players. It makes me wonder, if 
 you are going to borrow things from a games multi player match making system, then why not borrow 
 from a game like Call of Duty 4 where you don't have to constantly find new people ever match, 
 and when people leave, the game goes out to find more people. Over all Gears of War 2 has awesome 
 multi player.
  
  Gears of War 2 is an awesome games, that defiantly proves ot be an awesome game, and a rightful 
 sequel to the first Gears of War, and is one of the best games to come out this year! If you like 
 the first Gears of War, then Gears of War 2 is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggyfriedrhys
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Gears 2 is an amazing game but the fact that it has been hyped to the point of extinction ruins 
 it. its not the old game in so many ways you can no longer pop shot the sniping to slow the headshot 
 system is terrible the only reason the ign and gamespot has given this such a good score is because 
 its scared of the fanboys.
  Although ive given it bad points there are a lot of good points.
  This is one of the only games 
 that i play that makes me feel like im doing damage to the enemis such a s halo 3 were you feel 
 like your doing no damage at all.
  Also the new game modes are brilliant.
  The campaighn is tyhe only thing that dosent anoy me as it is well thought out a cliff hanger and 
 beautifull graphics.
  
  
  All in all ive given this a 7 because although it pisses you off its addicting as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier354
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is fantastic game and I am going to review it based on its changes since gears of 
 war 1.
  
  Campaign (8.75/10) -If you have played the gow 1 campaign you know that it was very stratigically 
 based and had an excellent and compelling story. For those of you who enjoyed the gow 1 campaign, 
 you will not like this as much. While, the campaign is more action packed, and is much longer, 
 the story was not as interesting and for some reason got a little boring by the end of it. And 
 on insane, while it may not be that difficult most of the time, when you fight against people on 
 troikas it is pretty much a one hit kill (same with meleeing) . With all of that said, it is still 
 a lot of fun most of the time. 
  
  Multiplayer (9.75/10) -The multiplayer in this game is ridiculous. It is 100x as good as gears of 
 war one's mp. Now with 5v5 action and the new party system, multiplayer is truly insane. There 
 are several mp modes to choose from so even if you do not like the elimination based ones, territories 
 based modes are fun as well. The maps in this game have improved as well. Out of all of the new 
 maps created I enjoy every single one. The multiplayer is now very strategic rather than about 
 skill which creates more balanced games. Smoke grenades now explode and knock ppl to the floor, 
 frag grenades are even more explosive, and the new spike aka "poison" grenades create great diversions 
 and block off pathways to allow quick escapes. Another added feature to the mp is making grenades 
 stick to walls. Grenades are like proximity mines pretty much. You can plant them on the ground 
 or on a wall and when ppl walk by them they are knocked to the ground by smokes, poisoned by spike 
 grenades, or blown up by frags. Grenades and the torque bow dominate gow now rather than the sniper. 
 Now with the sniper it is harder to down ppl but easier to head shot them. Executions are now important!!! 
 If you down some1 u can pick them up and use them as a meatshield which is a life saver in this 
 game. One problem is that a lot of people stink at this game and a lot of the time i feel like 
 i am a one man team. The only other problem is waiting for a game is exhausting as sometimes it 
 finds matches instantly and at others you can wait 5 mins or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohogger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is immersive and fun. The multiplayer is better than the original. The graphics 
 rate up along side halo 3 as well, but a big chunk of the story is still left out of the campaign. 
 The game still does not explain why Marcus was in prison, or why he had a trial. The dialogue is 
 improved, but still, as Game Informer would put it, "straight out of a third grader's notebook." 
 But not to say that that ruins the whole game. The action is still as intense as it was in the 
 original, and the improved weapons make gameplay even better. And the chainsaw duels impress. Even 
 though Scourge isn't as tough as General Raam (and yes, Raam could kick his ass) he is still a 
 cool adversary. The added characters to the campaign are cool, but pretty much all of them die 
 at the end. Epic did succeed in making the chacters more emotional, but a little to an extreme, 
 so expect to see Dom a little teary eyed (the wuss!) . This is an excellent game, and if you don't 
 have it, I suggest you get it. Keep it up Epic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okassar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Story mode=haven't seen anything like that for a long time, online multiplayer=new weapons, proximity 
 grenade sticking changes strategy in a very good way (sometimes I feel like a swat team member trying 
 to figure how to get into a mine'd area:) ) , I love the "changing environment" maps, especially Avalanche, it's 
 really cool how there's an avalanche that owns everyone that isn't in shelter and ALSO covers the 
 place in snow so that you can get on top and access weapons you weren't able to access before ---very 
 unique, the cover system just never gets old, this game is forever unique because of that, and the 
 multiplayer is correspondingly better due to that system, you really feel like you matter in Gears 
 2 online, it's 5 on 5 and you have 1 life in the main modes, if you die, that's a real let down, unlike 
 in most other games where if you die people don't even care or pay attention, that spurs teamwork 
 and motivation,... all that good stuff, Gears 2 matches are more intense than any other game matches 
 I've been in, I can just go on and on about how the online multiplayer is amazing. People who say 
 otherwise tend to be obvious Sony fanboys OR people who just get ripped apart every round and get 
 mad because they can't respawn and they are pretty much useless ---100% their fault:) And for almost 
 the same reason, getting a kill feels so good. ----hmmm.... last thing, horde mode is amazing and addictive, it's 
 a true challenge and shows how good EPIC is with AI. Gamespot definitely underrated Gears 2, but 
 I can say that for like 6 other games it rated recently, I don't know, maybe they feel they need 
 to be a bit more harsh nowadays -.- Anyway, I'll be playing this game for a LOOONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodGrunger
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  We all remember the day Gears of War 1 released. It was break-through and was a bloody, chainsawing, 
 kryll orgy that we will never forget. Gears of War 2 brings these elements back in a healthy, crisp 
 fashion. The only gripe I have about the game is that gone are the bleak and morbid color setting 
 that one could adjust on the previous game.
  
  The Multiplayer only suffers from not being able to play split-screen online with a guest. Other 
 than those, this game is the best shooter to date on the 360. 
  
  Although Gears of War 2 has some bad textures, (floors) they are quickly overlooked by the viscious 
 and new enemies that appear.
  Horde Mode was absolutely genious, in that players are pitted against waves and waves of enemies 
 on your multiplayer map of choice. And the new 5 v 5 gameplay makes online games even more epic 
 and suspenseful. 
  
  If you're a mainstreamed, pot head, newbie to video game and/or 12 years old, play your Halo 3. 
 But if you want a grungy, gritty, white-knuckle action-packed tactical shooter with intense blood 
 and gore/suspense and with original looking enemies- then BUY GEARS OF WAR 2!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is far beyond amazing. A bit better than Gears of War. Better graphics and better 
 improvements. The campaign is fun, really fun. Lot's of Locusts to kill. I purposely go right in 
 front of them and chainsaw them, like chopping meat! It's addictive! When I first got Gears of 
 War 2, I thought it would be boring and crappy. But I was wrong. My favourite mission was entering 
 the giant worm's body and slicing its arteries and swimming in this Blood Pool! It was so gory 
 and bloody! I love it! And Horde Mode, is amazing. Me and my friend reached up to wave 10. The 
 Flame- Boomers are retarded. Gears of War 2 is like Halo 3, like the Brutes are something close 
 to the Locusts, except the Brutes are more violent, but the Locusts are stronger than the Brutes! 
 But Halo3 and Gears of War 2 are both awesome. I hope there will be Gears of War 3 which will be 
 very awesome! And Gears of War 2 deserved a 10. But to me it does. LoL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skudd78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Gears was a good game in everyones mind. It had it's epic storyline, new creatures, weapons and 
 players which is all great and all but the only reasons i didn't give this game a 10/10 is because 
 of the bull crap online play, in which you spend more time in the waiting lobby than in the game. 
 I mean, really, who ingenious idea was it to go, "hey guys, lets, instead of keeping the gears 
 1 online way lets change it to a new way" I mean it was a good idea besides the fact he mentioned 
 probably 2-3 months before they start handing them out. my other problem is lags. sometimes when 
 I'm doing a co-op campaign, i either start floating on cover or it says "loading" for like 15 seconds 
 which is all the locust need to kill me. But besides those i have enjoyed gears, like the bots 
 and love the "meatsheild" idea and the meatflag. I'm happy you can play with bots and with other 
 people at the same time, which most new games have forgotten about and i hope that in the third 
 one, when you do Horde, you will add in berserkers and other giant enemies as you go up higher 
 in the levels instead of them just getting stronger. 
  
  So thank you Epic Games for an epic game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GokuLive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  After a major disappointment with Far Cry 2 (horrid IMO) , I was a bit gun shy on buying another 
 pricy game that might fail to deliver. GOW2 made me forget the FC2 debacle and delivered one of 
 the most enjoyable rides on XBOX that I've had. 
  
  It excels in nearly every material category for single player and multi-player modes. The storyline, 
 gameplay, action, pace, graphics, sound, weapons ... you name it. In fact, the story is so well 
 done that my wife actually got into it. She would watch me play and claimed it was like watching 
 a movie. 
  
  The game is totally immersive and sucks you in much like the Call of Duty series. It also has a 
 good mix of new features to differentiate it from G1. New attack/finish moves. New weapons. Tons 
 of new wild beasts to fly or ride. New environments. And the levels ... WOW! I thought G1 had beautiful 
 levels until I saw these.
  
  Well worth the $$$. Awesome, intense action from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Gears of War 1 two years ago I was amazed at what a great game it was. I played that 
 game for over a year and then I found out about Gears of War 2. I got really excited and I got 
 the game within a week of its release. I was extremely disappointed. 
  The very first thing I did was play campaign. It was great and all, but it was very scripted and 
 I didn't get any variety. Then came the worst part of the game. The online multiplayer.
  I really can't say much about the multiplayer itself but only because I can never play it. I try 
 to search for a game for over 15 minutes and I can't find one. I wasted so much time sitting down 
 waiting for a game to load. I thought Halo 3 was slow and that only took about 5 minutes. To this 
 date, I haven't played a single online matchmaking game. The only part of online that works is 
 Horde, but that gets really boring after a while.
  When Call of Duty World at War came out, I was extremely happy because I could throw Gears of War 
 2 away. This game is only good for campaign and Horde. The online multiplayer which made the first 
 game so good is completely ruined. Also the shotgun is really bad in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  
  I loved the first Gears of War and was looking forward to Gears of War 2 and was planning on really 
 diving in and checking out the multiplayer. First off this should have been 4 person co-op campaign, 
 Halo 3 set the bar and Gears 2 should have followed their lead. I also purchased the game new for 
 the code for the maps you will never see for purchase later on, only to find that multiplayer is 
 totally screwed. So far of the games I have gotten into either most of my team or the other sides 
 team has left and how much fun is that? Trying to hunt down one guy competing with 4 other guys 
 to kill one sucker without the sense to drop out of the match or getting raped as the only one 
 left is no fun at all! Or I sit there for 10 - 15 minutes watching the game say (looking for players) , 
 then (looking for matches) and back and forth... I've read all up on what they say, to invite a 
 friend or have a full party, well? I have no friends with this game so my commitment to this game 
 is a couple matches a night and that is all! I have no problems with Halo 3 and other multiplayer 
 games so what is the deal, where is the play testing to stress test this problem? Really they need 
 to fix this, you wonder why Halo 3 is back on top this week is because Gears 2 matchmaking sucks 
 soooo bad. Really Gears 2 should have been on top at least for a few months topping Halo 3 and 
 COD4 easily. But some of the good is I liked the campaign and had fun playing it co-op with friends. 
 Thought Hardcore would have been a little more challenging but oh well... I hate to say that once 
 I am done playing the campaign this is probably gonna be traded back for another game. Really a 
 shame, thought this was gonna be one of my keepers along side other multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ERoBB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Oh memories of skipping school, getting drunk with my brother, and playing Gears of War online 
 for hours upon hours upon hours. The game itself was great. Hectic, but with 4 on 4 is was tight 
 and focused. Plus, once you die, you and all the other losers jump into a party chat where you 
 all watch the remaining players duke it out, and comment on how you'd have handeled the situation.
 
  
  But alas in time since about a year ago, I've been without my brother's XBOX 360. Now I have my 
 PS3, which I believe to be the superior piece of hardware; its without Microsofts awesome library 
 of games, and the vastly superior XBOX Live. Sure PSN is free, but I believe you get what you pay 
 for. That 14.99 per month shows, and is really worth it.
  
  I finally got some face time with Gears 2, and wow. The core gameplay remains the same, albeit 
 refined, tightened, and polished. The shooting is better, more guns including a FLAMETHROWER! Cover 
 is smoother as well. 
  
  The campaign is your gritty, macho, steroid ridden toughness that is to be expected, and its glorious. 
 But this time, be ready for some story and a splash of emotion. A surprising and welcome addition. 
 I even teared up at a scene once you get to the torture chambers. So be ready for a little depth 
 this go round. The plot continues to dangle keywords at you, as in the first, without fully explaining 
 them. So it still seems like theres a deep story, you're just out of the loop. Which I dont mind 
 in such a fast-paced shooter.
  
  I personally like the pacing; which seems to be a gripe for some. You ride massive tank-like COG 
 vehicles, pilot a Brumak, and split between your team to fight in a parallel path. Everything handles 
 well, and doesnt get boring. Especially in co-op.
  
  But the bulk of your playtime will be split between Horde and basic Multiplayer. Both amazing. 
 Horde is a similar mode to Nazi Zombies. You team up with 3 partners to fight waves of increasingly 
 powerful enemies. Good fun.
  
  But I was again surprised by the frantic, heart pounding multiplayer. I realized through this, 
 that I no longer enjoy Call of Duty: World at War online. I simply kill time with that. And after 
 playing this, I can't go back. its that innovative and fun. Play one mode of Wingman and try not 
 to die with excitement as you and your wingman try to crouch run across a street as the Hammer 
 of Dawn beams down behind you.
  
  Play this game; even if you're a PS3 fanboy, like me. This has nothing to do with factions of a 
 fanboy flame war. This is just a trancendently awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valens185
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 has everything a hardcore gamer needs. This game has a very well made storyline 
 along with a great online experience. Its also very hard to label anything bad about this game, 
 well they fixed up the glitches from the original GOW game which proves that they worked hard towards 
 making the online game play amazing. The campaign is great but they need to fix the online play 
 which they said that they would fix but they should've fixed it before it was sent out thru America. 
 So I guess that's the only downside to this game. Also the upside is the sounds, game play, decent 
 amount of maps, good story-line and this game has great achievements that will make the average 
 gamer want to get them all. The multiplayer is what everyone wanted but since it is terrible at 
 the moment I suppose that we will have to wait until it is fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogames5000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  gears of war 2 is the best of its series its has awesome ,gameplay graphics, and awesome sound 
 system. For most games stories pretty much dull and has no point. Also the characters in the game 
 and the way they interact with the story is great . It offers excellent online play and the more 
 you go through the game the better and more interesting. At the end the conclusion is this game 
 is awesome and you have to buy it! oh and Marcus Fenix is always fun to play with. for all you 
 gears fan boys who've been looking forward to this game since hell i do not know how long you're 
 going to like what you're gonna get cause Epic have definitely outdone themselves this time. Hope 
 you liked the review its my first ever so you might not like it but for sure you will enjoy gears 
 of war  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiukguy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna have to disagree with the gamestop review, the strongest point of GOW2 is definitely its 
 campaign, not its multiplayer. While Horde is cool, the multiplayer is very flawed and compared 
 to the two other most popular shooters for 360 (COD4, Halo3) , it just doesn't even come close. 
 Firstly, the ranking system is horrid and has no logic, being based off of team wins and odds of 
 your team winning, especially when 90% of the time the player searcher tends to pick the must uneven 
 teams imaginable. I have probably played 30 plus matches (which is a lot when they each last 15-20 
 minutes usually) and only in 5 of those were there not terribly lopsided teams to the point where 
 you could be amazing and have impact. To make it worse, one team will tend to have much less lag, 
 and in a game like GOW2 where if you miss your first shot/chainsaw attack you die, it makes for 
 an overwhelmingly frustrating experience. I believe there are only 6 ranks as well, so there's 
 little replayability as opposed to how Halo and COD4 have both mastered their respective systems. 
 Also, the Meatflag version of CTF is terrible... what were they thinking? Horde is really fun though, 
 the only really fun aspect of GOW2.
  
  Now to the goods. Graphics are amazing, although I will say as a personal taste, I thought it was 
 a downgrade from GOW1. Artistically speaking, the melancholic and metallic environment painted 
 with utterly pale hues really reflected the story they were trying to tell, here, there is no connection, 
 they just use realistic colors, which is a flaw for me. 
  The campaign is really good, and near flawless. I disagree again with gamespot here, SPOILER the 
 Intestinal Fortitude level where you are in the worm and other levels like where you fight Skorge 
 on the Reavers as well as the bosses add great interactive and different experiences. I also enjoyed 
 the new variety of enemies with the large boomers, maulers, and reavers, as well as the Tickers. 
 These experiences gave gamespot a bad taste in the mouth because apparently they don't enjoy variety 
 or a scene where they are just shooting the same grunts over and over again... Anyways, a lot of 
 people are similarly upset with the story of GOW2 as they are with Halo2, but I will say, where 
 Halo2's story didn't have any kind of point, GOW2 does big time and is setting up for an epic GOW3. 
 I think that when people have completed the trilogy they will come back and realize how good GOW2 
 and its story were. Not to mention, this is a ploy from epic to get people to play their game. 
 Otherwise, campaign play is much similar to GOW1 minus those terribly annoying bats but its the 
 variety that makes it better, graphics and engine aside.
  
  All in all, Campaign is 10/10 and Mutliplayer is 6/10, saved only by Horde. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EuroMafia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the first blockbuster title for the Xbox 360, Gears of War 2 continues the tale of 
 the war between the humans of the Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) , and the dreaded Locust 
 Horde. Struck hard by the Lightmass Bomb explosion from the end of the first game, the Locust Horde 
 have regrouped and launched a huge attack against the last human stronghold of Jacinto. With their 
 backs pushed to the wall, the leadership of the COG, one Chairman Richard Prescott, issues a full 
 assault to the home of the Locust's in an effort to end the war once and for all. Marcus Fenix 
 and Dom Santiago of Delta Squad return to Jacinto in time to jump into battle when the Locust starts 
 attacking. The first game was panned for having a story told in a rather shallow way. Gears of 
 War 2 changes that.
  
  The tone of the second game is different from this first. The first Gears was about a small unit 
 of soldiers trying to complete a desperate act with almost impossible odds. Gears of War 2 is about 
 the humans taking the offensive every step of the way. The conflicts that you face are part of 
 a larger battle going on, as the massive military force of the COG is scratching and clawing for 
 survival. You will be joined by several Gears, new and old, to help Marcus and Dom. Augustus Cole 
 and Damon Baird from the first game will be joined by Benjamin Carmine, the rookie brother of Anthony 
 Carmine from the first game, Tai Kaliso, a giant of a man that is an old war buddy of Marcus form 
 before E-Day, and Dizzy Wallin, driver of the rig "Betty". Also making the return is Anya Stroud, 
 the connection between Delta Squad and COG Command, and Col. Hoffman, the leader of the military 
 forces of the COG, now much more trusting of Marcus and the rest of Delta. While the offensive 
 against the Locust is the primary story driver, we learn early about Dom trying to find his missing 
 wife, falling short lead after lead in catching up with her.
  
  The core of the game remains the same, with some fun new additions. You experience the game through 
 an over the shoulder third person prospective. The left stick moves your character around while 
 the right stick aims your weapon in the default. Being a massive bulk of a soldier, Marcus does 
 not turn on a dime, especially when running. It is not uncommon that you hit the wall face first 
 when running if you try to just use the left stick to move around. A combination of both sticks 
 needs to be used to successfully navigate the game without frustrating yourself when trying to 
 navigate a corner.
  
  The shooting mechanic remains the same from the first, following the premise of "If it ain't broke, 
 why fix it". The Left Trigger aims your weapon, while the Right Trigger fires it. The Right Bumper 
 is your reload, and active reload button. You can also still duck run by holding down the A button. 
 As with the first game, you can hold four different weapons, using the directional pad to select. 
 The primary weapon through the game is your Lancer assault rifle with its chainsaw bayonet. The 
 bulk of the weaponry is from the first Gears, with some additions in the form of a new submachine 
 pistol of Locust creation and a gas grenade that slowly drains health and blocks your vision. The 
 grenade mechanic is still the same, but now you can plant them on a wall, turning it into a proximity 
 mine. There are also three large guns that can be picked up and used, but with a negative in the 
 form that you move much slower and cannot run. The flamethrower spews a stream of napalm, the mortar 
 cannon lets you unleash a long range barrage of explosive projectiles that are very powerful, and 
 the Grinder chain gun unleashed a large amount of ordinance, but can fall prey to overheating.
 
  
  The Active Reload feature has received an upgrade. As in the first game, when you reload a weapon 
 if you hit the reload button at the right time, you received a damage bonus and a faster reload. 
 If you missed the mark on the reload bar, your gun jammed and it takes longer to load your ammo. 
 In Gears 2 this remains the same, but the reload bar has a second, much smaller area that if you 
 hit, you receive an even larger damage bonus, making every weapon in your arsenal incredibly deadly.
 
  
  Firefights, for the most part, are handled the same from the first game. Engage your enemies, find 
 cover, kill him, and rinse and repeat. The A button is still your primary cover button, pressing 
 it puts you behind the nearest thing that is solid. Peaking around corners and hitting the Left 
 Trigger lets you shoot from behind cover, while just hitting the Left Trigger button lets you blind 
 fire. You can move from cover to cover by pressing the A button from the ends of your cover, which 
 is needed much more now that a lot of your cover can, and will, get destroyed as it takes weapon 
 fire. Unless it is made of metal, it can and will break eventually.
  
  A new wrinkle to firefights is the addition of something your squad from the first game had that 
 you did not, the ability to get rescued. If a teammate of yours is taken down, they will crawl 
 towards you for help, which pressing the X button near them does. If you get knocked down by gunfire, 
 you can crawl along the ground, going faster by pressing A, and get revived if you make it to one 
 of your squad mates. You still will die if you take an explosive shot directly, or crushed by something 
 really big, but bullet fire will not kill you straight out. If you have no squad mates still on 
 their feet, then it is game over. If you take more fire while crawling on the ground, or do not 
 make it to your squad mates in time, you will die. The new wrinkle adds a level of teamwork with 
 the AI that the first game felt it was missing, and does not make the game any easier.
  
  Level design is a mix of the same, with a little bit of the new. The majority of the game will 
 be taking place in the underground Hollows of the Locust home, and features the same jaw dropping 
 tunnels from the first game. There will be times that your squad will have to split up, and now 
 the two paths are much more important. One path will usually be responsible with providing cover 
 for the other group. Not every level is about running and shooting, as there are levels that require 
 more thinking to navigate. It definitely changes the pace of the game and offers some of the more 
 memorable moments. Through your game, you will also be traveling via vehicle, both standard and 
 a little strange. These vehicle sections range from driving, to rail shooting sequences, and they 
 are plenty and welcomed, as some of the game's largest battles surround these moments. There is 
 also a large amount of collectables to find through your travels. In addition to the COG tags are 
 newspaper clippings, journal entries, and other strange oddities. Each collectable has a little 
 story attached to it, and give good insight to the current and previous war. Everything collected 
 can be viewed in the War Journal from the main menu, plus what you are missing from every level.
 
  
  The Locust Horde itself has added a few new tricks. Battles in the beginning of the game start 
 out to how Gears 1 was, but as you progress, you will run into larger groups of enemies. Drones 
 will now try to charge your position while the larger Horde tear through you cover with giant weapons. 
 Horde will use air support and long range weapons to flush you out with Brumak encounters not uncommon. 
 The game's main antagonist, a chainsaw staff wielding Predator look-alike, is a much more chilling 
 villain then General RAAM was, and the Locust Queen's message of genocide always filling the air.
 
  
  The first Gears set the bar high for the 360 graphically, and is still one of the best looking 
 games on the system. While up close Gears 2 looks similar to a little bit better, the scale is 
 what has vastly improved. In the background there always seem to be something going on, from collapsing 
 buildings to massive fleets of helicopters in flight. The underground levels are a glow with oceans 
 of Immulsion, with massive waterfalls adorning the walls. There are times when it looks like you 
 can see for miles, and there is some sort of activity going on in your view. The weather effects 
 are some of the best seen, with torrential rain, blinding snowstorms, and deadly hail a visual 
 feast. A nice little addition is the on screen cues of achievement progression.
  
  In the end Gears of War 2 exceeds in almost every aspect compared to the first game. Shooter fans 
 should give this a try (if you haven't already) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2, brings a whole new adventure to the series. with a massive world, better graphics, 
 better physics and all new modes.
  But, all the awesome-ness, doesn't come without it's drawbacks.
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  . Whole 
 new experience
  . Massive world makes you really feel like you're fighting in a real world.
  . Improved graphics, 
 from whole new lighting textures to make things more realistic. More graphical detail in faces, 
 environments and weapons.
  . Better physics in both water objects and players. 
  . Great story line, that makes you crave for MOAR
  . Whole new modes for multiplayer such as, 
 horde, where you fight 50 endless waves of the locust horde, Wingman, where it's every 2 man team 
 for themselves, submission, *known as meatflag* which is a Gears of War version of capture the 
 flag. and many more.
  . No Xbox LIVE? don't fear, for there is a new feature where you can play against, and with BOTS, 
 and with the choice to up there intelligance, and difficulty by selecting the campaign difficulties. 
 casual, normal, hardcore and insane.
  . Harder than ever before. Though Gears 1 was hard? Well, on the new gears. the bar has been raised 
 up a knotch to make it even harder, for those who crave for a challenge.
  . Chainsaw duels...... Nuff said
  . Being able to choose seperate difficulties for campaign, brings 
 a refreshing **sigh** of relief.
  . And last but not least, crawling. if you thought that once you get downed, that's it? well. now 
 you can crawl to a friend OR a. i to pick you up
  
  
  THE BAD
  
  . Chainsaws are a bit too over powered, for example. I could be shooting a locust *or player* with 
 a shotgun or flame thrower, and they'd still be able to chainsaw me without getting knocked back.
 
  . Smoke grenades knock down friendly players, even yourself.
  . The shotgun seems a little weaker than i remember, and seems a little slow.
  . Campaign mode 
 raises more questions than answers.
  . Multiplayer set up is quite aweful. from lag to not being able to choose your match, or map.
 
  . Yet again, campaign mode is quite short. With it's traditional, 5 acts.
  . DOM DENIES YOU FROM DRESING UP AS A THERON GUARD  : [
  . Hardly delivers an emotional story 
 line, and killing off Benjamin Carmine to me was a huge mistake.
  . Can become quite tedious at times.
  Still no 4 player co-op story mode
  . Still some graphical 
 flaws that need to be improved, the water still looks quite bad, although the physics are quite 
 impressive, it still LOOKS bad.
  Along with the fact that Doms face still looks like he's taken a trip down PS lane.
  . Boss battles 
 seem a bit stail, and i find myself not impressed with the lack of them, and the challenge. You'd 
 expect by now boss battles will big bigger, harder and the boss actually does something different 
 instead of repeating itself over and over.
  . WHERE THE HELL ARE THE KRYLL AND THE BERSERKER!!!!!!!.
  
  
  
  
  
  But, it's not a 
 bad game. I can honestly say that i'm glad a bought it, and it's definatly worth buying, but it's 
 taken the best parts of Gears 1, and brought some bad things into Gears 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 picks up the story six months after the end of the first game. The Locust are so 
 powerful that they can sink entire cities from below, that Jacinto might fall, it's down to Marcus 
 and Dominic to take the fight to the Locust. This sheds some light on the characters and the universe, 
 and though it ultimately uncovers more questions than it answers.
  
  The gameplay in Gears 2 is fundamentally the same as the original game, but with some changes. 
 The cover system has been honed so that you cling more accurately to surfaces, and the weapons 
 have received subtle alterations than before. The revival system has also been tweaked considerably. 
 Not only can your AI teammates heal you if you're injured, but now you can also tap A to crawl 
 toward them more quickly when you're injured. This makes the game a lot fairer in terms of difficulty 
 and allows for some heart-pounding moments as you race to your teammates to avoid a fatal curb-stomping 
 from the opposition. 
  
  (SPOILER) The game has alot of twists and turns, for instance, The Locust are fighting themselves, 
 but they are different there are infected with a gas. Maria is found by Dom, but there's a surprise. 
 As well as how the Locust are torturing and capturing people, which they never did before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slong
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Any game for the 360 that comes out with single-machine co-op instantly has my attention. I don't 
 mind the online co-op, but I have more fun sitting around in the living room with my buddies and 
 bull****ing while we play games than I do playing them online. Something about the "real human 
 connection."
  
  The Gears story campaign just doesn't have it. The gameplay is ok, but the cut-scenes are universally 
 "jarring" as they take you out of the gameplay. Story elements are introduced, willy-nilly, but 
 never really "used" in the story. Even unlocking or finding different items that expand on the 
 story doesn't really fill in the holes. Overall, the story could have had several more hours of 
 actual gameplay associated with it... minus the cut-scenes, please... and it would have been great 
 because there would've been more depth to the game.
  
  The actual combat was fun... again, as long as you don't include the cut-scenes which had AWFUL 
 combat restrictions... but were often too limited. The final 45 minutes of the game was also rather 
 like one long cut-scene. It got to the point where I didn't bother fighting. The game was on auto-pilot 
 and I was going to win, regardless.
  
  Overall, a great start with a poor finish. Not recommended.
  
  Sj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromeonacar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  ah gears of war 2 it seams only yesterday that i was playing gears 1 with my friend and learning 
 that chain saw + enemies chest = lots of fun and 4 million sales. when gears of war 2 came out 
 me and all my friends all pre orded it and wen it came out we all connected to live and played 
 co op ah so many swere words over the mic. than after about the fith hour i relised that this game 
 is just plain brilliant. the story, the game play, the characters and of course the chainsawing 
 this game is just liek the first game but only better in every way. the single player campain goes 
 for a hell of alot longer and is really fun with the taticallity about it and the difference in 
 levals. but the multiplayer is what takes the cake gears of war 2 multiplayer is what people stay 
 up to 5 in the morning playing the game for. it is one of the best multiplayer games to date and 
 takes what was good from the first game and makes it a million times better. the best bit of multiplayer 
 is first hord and second the difference in game types. first if the hord this is were you face 
 off agains wave after wave of increasingly stronger enemies you do this with 4 friends which makes 
 it all the better this is one of the most strongest points of multiplayer because it adds somethign 
 new apart from the continious pvp of all the other games. the second is the different types of 
 games these are the usualy types ( capture the flag /death match) but the game creators has gone 
 one step furter to all game types and made them gears of war unique which is just brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the scond release of GoW and its double packed with all the action you need.
  
  Tremendous enviroments, that ll leave your mouth wide open; incredible enemy AI; awesome action-movie 
 live adventure; and much more will make you beg on your knees to play this game.
  
  The story is about marcus fenix , an experienced soldier, that must fight along with his fellow 
 partners (delta squad) against the Locoust hordes that threathen human kind from above the ground.
 
  Your mission is very simple, kill every moving object across your "epic" trip into their creepy 
 castle and drown them into hell.
  
  The problem is that locoust army are destroying entire cities and thats quite a big deal. 
  
 
  The graphics are amazing, unreal 3 engine has been improved a lot, it has been given a nice doze 
 of life. With more organic-like effects (such as water effects, enviroment damage and blood splashes) .
 
  
  Action never stops and youll thank god you have the Lancer rifle with you almost all the time. 
 Just like the flashlight in doom 3 ;) .
  
  As fot the music and sound, well it ll help A LOT to inmerse you into the weird Locoust world.
 
  
  The game has been packed with interesting new play modes, such as the Horde mode where you ll face 
 hordes and hordes of enemies respawing at your back trying to kick your butt. And it can also be 
 played in multiplayer mode. As well as the campain which can be played in Coop (lan or online) .
 
  
  In other words, this game is the evolution of gears of war 1 which was anyway a great game. 
 
  
  Think about a good thing, now double it. Thats what GoW2 is. If your asking "should i really buy 
 this game?" i would say "are you joking? you should ve bought it way long ago :S "
  
  Awesome game, every Xboxer MUST MUST have.
  
  PD: i gave it a 9.5 becaouse it may become a 
 bit repetitve, i mean, you get cover, shoot, get cover, walk, get cover, shoot ... but thats not 
 a big deal anyways. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 makes a great sequel to the epic shooter of 2006. It improves the way the game and 
 environment looks, and the way the AI reacts in the game which makes this game so realistic. You 
 play as Marcus Fenix who further fights the locust, as known in Gears 1. He countinues to fight 
 through his way until a rook (Benjamin Carmine) gets into his squad. He eventually trains him, 
 and countinue to further fight the locust. But this is not just another ordinary locust fight, 
 2 bosses appear in the game, which will gladly entertain you throughout the game.
  
  The Good things about this game:
  * Awesome modes especially horde will please people who like 
 to fight together against the locust
  * Great emotion effect- Dom loses Maria
  * Improved Sound Effects - Chainsaws, Gun Shots sound different dramatically
  * Graphics look 
 more realistic and more colourful than the first
  * Longer, yet more enjoyable exprience
  
  The Bad things about this game:
  * Could've added a 4 player coop campaign 
  * Could've 
 added more maps 
  
  Just a few minor problems about this game, if updated could possibly be a perfect game. I recommend 
 anyone who likes 3rd person shooters, or even shooters in general fulfilled with an awesome storyline. 
 Gear of War 2 will be waiting for you to pick it up at Best buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKAATHE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is a very sick game. I'm currently boarding at school but when I come home Gears 
 2 all that I play. I beat the campaign in around 10 hours when it takes 9 to 12 hours to beat. 
 It took me from 8-4, and then 12-2 to beat it in the first 24 hours that I got it. After campaign 
 I got to the online part. But the campaign was fantastic. The levels were hard to follow at first 
 but I eventually got the storyline. I hated how they killed off Tai but I guess it was necessary. 
 I thought Maria was a zombie or something at first but then I realized she was dead. The game play 
 (like the first) was unique and the best cover system out for the xbox360. The campaign was full 
 and it had everything a game should have. A snow level, a tank level, a lava level, etc. There 
 was suspense in many parts. I also noticed some bugs like at the Sires level I didn't know where 
 to go and looked everywhere. Then I restarted the level and saw that jack didn't rip the door he 
 was supposed to rip and he didn't proceed the last time. I love the reloading system and I always 
 get the active because I'm "just that awesome". The characters have the same sort of cheap dialogue 
 there was in the 1st one and there is still a lot of texture fading. The online was like the first 
 one but it takes a lot more tactics this time around and there are numerous different executions 
 and ways to die. You can die of poison grenades, flamethrowers, and even proximity mines which 
 are grenades tagged on walls. One gripe is that smoke grenade go off and you rag doll even after 
 you walk into smoke that which a grenade just went off. You get up and immediately get exploded 
 into meat chunks by a shotgun. Another thing I don't like about things is that if you normally 
 get lag you are going to have a rough time with shotgunning and when it is really laggy, your **** 
 All you can do it take your chainsaw (NOOBISH I KNOW) and go all out. Speaking of the Chainsaw 
 I am surprised that they made the chainsaw even more noobish by making it so it takes more bullets 
 to bring the chainsaw down and you can just run up and chainsaw someone in half even though you 
 shot them with a shotgun or a couple pistol rounds. I thought the gorgon burst pistol would be 
 good and powerful but it takes a couple of bursts to down someone and by the time your ready to 
 shoot your next burst, your target has rolled into cover. The lancer is weak and is nooby with 
 the chainsaw and almost every non-noob uses the hammerburst. You can unlock characters by beating 
 campaign and doing things in the first gears. There are new modes and the older mode still exist 
 or have been remastered along with some new ones. Horde is a fun new mode and it is really fun 
 to play with guests and online friends. If you can make it to 50, I congratulate you I've gotten 
 to 42 so far but I'll make it. The maps are well made and the remade the old ones and they basically 
 have overgrown grass and older textures. Except for river where everything has been frozen over 
 and it is snowing. The maps are new and intricate and well designed except for some of the spawn 
 for some of the modes you can re spawn in. We were playing guardian and all of a sudden a guy comes 
 out of nowhere and shotguns me and i knew that he had spawned behind me and killed me as soon as 
 he spawned. Overall I give the game a 9.5/10 and I believe the reviews should have the same. The 
 game wants you took keep playing to know what happens in campaign which is really good and the 
 online is so fun you won't want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Wolf_86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  From the start to the finish on campaign, from Horde wave 1 through 50, to the multiplayer system, 
 GEARS OF WAR 2 is a PURE MASTERPIECE.
  
  Granted, we ALL wanted SERVERS rather than player hosts, but I will admit that EPIC definitely 
 got rid of a lot of the lag, or atleast the HORRIBLE lag that was in Gears 1.
  
  The campaign seriously sucked me in right from the start. I think it was right when the "Assault" 
 chapter started that I got goosebumps on my neck.
  
  The characters are DEEPER now and actually mattered to me. In Gears 1, it seemed like whenever 
 a new character came into the squad, I could care less whether they died in combat. Now, the characters 
 actually show that THEY DO MATTER and that I will miss them if something bad were to happen to 
 one of them.
  
  Kinda wanted a little bit more info on the Locust though. Felt like we got gypped on that one.
 
  Yes, I am glad that Gears 3 is in production, but just a little snip-it of info on where/how the 
 Locust came to be would have been great.
  
  Favorite line from the game:
  "Well I wouldn't see snipers too well now would I?"
  Play Gears 1 and you'll understand why.
 
  
  EPIC did such an amazing job on the story with how they would set you up for one thing, and then 
 slap you in the face just to throw something totally different and screwed up right in your lap.
 
  
  GREAT JOB "EPIC GAMES"!!!
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Now 
 for some negative remarks...
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  WE ARE 
 IN A DESPERATE NEED FOR A TITLE UPDATE!!!
  HERE IS WHY:
  
  *When a host quits, why not assign a new one so the match doesn't end?
  *FIX THE BOOM SHIELD 
 GLITCH!!!!!!!! (Using random weps in place of pistol)
  *Why does the "What's Up?" invite friends that are OFFLINE? (they're starting to get extremely 
 annoyed)
  *What's up with the wretches crawling on invisible ceilings?
  *Crab-Walking is back, WTF?
  *How is a meat-shield less vulnerable to chainsaws than a metal 
 boomshield?
  *Guys are able to shoot grenades out of shotguns (super gay glitch)
  *Smoke grenade gets you through the lasers on Security. WTF?
  *Why not let us invite friends 
 twice through "what's up?"?
  *The guy with less lag always wins the chainsaw duels
  *CHAINSAWS ARE UNSTOPPABLE NOW!
  *The shotgun sounds unrealistic and really dumb.
  
  
  
 By changing just 2 of these problems would be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemariens22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 picks up 6 months of where the end of the first game left the locust horde are back 
 and this time they have the power to sink entire citys! the humans are on the back foot struggling 
 for survival with there citys being sunk the humans last resort is the city jacinto the only city 
 that cant be out rightly be sunk as it was built on a island of concrete and iron. you once again 
 reprise your role as marcus fenix and join up again with delta squad i. e dom the cole train baird 
 hoffman and a few new faces such as tai a mauri warrior who is very spiritual dizzy a red neck/cowboy 
 and chairman prescott the ruleing body of the cog forces and carmine is back too the thing that 
 made the first gears of war great was the inovated gameplay the cover system and the weapons and 
 im glad to say nothing much has changed the inovating cover system is back with a few minor tweaks 
 that make it feel refreshed and the great gameplay is still there with some new additions such 
 as the ability to stick greanades on walls and use them like trip mines chainsaws are back hell 
 yeah i here u say? well it gets better this time u can have dules with the locust horde even thow 
 its a very simple technique of just hitting the b button as quick as u can until u win its still 
 satisfieing winning one of these duels and cutting your oppisition in half also your squad mates 
 have the ability to heal u now when u go down all u have to do is call of help and they will come 
 find u and heal u they also call for help and crawl to you when they go down and to make the game 
 more competitive the locust horde do the same which leads me to tell you about finishing moves 
 yes the curb stomp is back but now there are more finishers bye simply hitting the b y or x buttons 
 u can either finish them off with your weapon or mount them and pound there head in ufc style or 
 bye hitting the a button u pick them up and use them as a meat sheild wich is awsome! also there 
 are a variety of new locust to fight rangeing from the small walking bombs called the tickers to 
 the man sized locust preist which has the ability to bring dead locust back to life to the bigger 
 boomers with there new weapons to the massive worms yes worms! that u have to fight to the awsome 
 fear enducing brumaks! which play a big part later in the game. gears 2 also brings a variety of 
 new weapons the the game such as the flame thrower which u can blind fire! to the new greanades 
 such as the smoke greanade wich knocks the locust of there feet and leaves them dazed to the ink 
 bomb which is more like a poison bomd killing anyone who dares to stay in its radius to the boomers 
 new weapons such as the grinder which is a mini gun to the new boomer guns and the boomer with 
 the mace and sheild which u can use as deployable cover after taking it from him once you kill 
 him from long range and pleanty more new weapons for you to discover the gears 2 storyline is much 
 more in depth and compeling than the other u have of course the main storyline of the locust horde 
 trying to finish of humanity and trying to find a way to sink jacinto and humanity trying to find 
 a way to stop them and of course kill them of but its gears underlying stories which make it compeling 
 such as the personal quest for dom to find his wife who went missing when the locust showed up 
 on e day u really feel doms frustration as time after time his leads on where his wife may be go 
 unanswerd and he gets more and more frustrated also pay attention to the gears when they speak 
 cause some clues of what they locust might actually be and some rumors on the origins of the horde 
 pop up from time to time gears also has a few new multiplayer features the big one being horde 
 mode where u and up to 4 others can take on wave after wave of locuts with each wave bringing new 
 and more dangerous locuts for you to fight and also a twist on capture the flag where the flag 
 is a human and he doesnt like anyone and tries to kill anyone who comes near him u have to capture 
 him and drag him to your area and hold him there to win the match there are few down points to 
 gears 2 but there are there namely the freindly ai tends to put it self in stupid situations leaving 
 it up to you to rescue them which can get frustrating it would be nice to see some more colour 
 in the game literally! and there can be some lag and some tiny glitches like being stuck on boxes 
 in mid air and unable to move leading to your death! and the lack of four player co op is annoying 
 two but all in all gears 2 is a massive game massive sprawling battles where u can be fighting 
 hundreds of locusts at a time! massive creatures to fight and massive fun to be had especially 
 with a freind in co op gears of war 2 is a must bye for any fan of the first and anyone with a 
 xbox 360 9 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJ-SLiiCks
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  A very fun and addicting game to play the first time around, its lack substance and story make 
 it very hard to play the game again. The addition of new battle tactics, new weapons, accessories, 
 and ultimately  ways to kill and enemy  make the game much better than its predecessor. Possible 
 the greatest addition to Gears of War 2 is the always epic chain saw battles. Now if you and your 
 enemy fire up you chainsaw bayonets and try to cut each other up at the same time, you now go through 
 a chain saw battle. Taping "B" with rapid succession leads to winning the battle and killing your 
 enemy.
  Throughout the game you go through some amazingly epic battle sequences that are second no other 
 game in the "stop and pop" genre. However, battles are horrifically easy to go through once you 
 have an idea of what to do. After dying once on each level, your second try should go by pretty 
 easily if you play it smart. One of the most enjoyable parts in the game would be driving/ ridding 
 on any of the vehicles present in the game, or picking up special weapons like a mortar launcher 
 or a turret gun. The turret gun was especially fun for me to use. I liked its unique way of firing 
 and just how powerful it was, but that was also it only down fall. When given the mortar launcher, 
 enemies go down as easily as ever making it incredibly easy to rid an area of enemies, however, 
 when you don't use the mortar launcher, or run out of ammo to quickly the battles can seem impossible. 
 
  From the introduction to just before the climax the storyline was completely amazing. The lack 
 of a good climax is the game's greatest downfall. The storyline has defiantly advanced from Gears 
 of War's boring story line and has added emotion, drama, and an attempt at a relieving ending. 
 You play as Marcus Fenix again only this time you are going into the locust's home and trying to 
 destroy them at the source. The horrible, yet not so predictable, ending can leave you with nothing 
 but an over whelming feeling of disappointment and will leave you saying "damn, how could such 
 a great game end so horribly?"
  Overall, the game was a fun experience but not worth all of its hype. It is definitely a game all 
 true gamers should play, considering the play it when its retail price drop down. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Maitomies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a few months before it's release and it was definitely worth 
 the wait. The game has certainly improved since GOW1 and the graphics is just stunning. 
  
  Game play was also great giving the feeling that you must know what happens next. There's a good 
 depth in the characters and the game's story. From the start to the end, the story holds strong 
 keeping your attention and not becoming bored halfway though. The story continues from GOW1 with 
 humans fighting the Locust Horde for the survival of humanity. And for those who haven't played 
 GOW1 this game gives you a short insight into what happened so you won't feel left behind. Controlling 
 the characters, although a bit different from the average FPS, is easy and works well.
  
  What really sells this game is it's graphics. At the moment, i think this game has one of the best 
 graphics on Xbox 360 or even PS3. The scenery and background is quiet detailed and clear cut. The 
 closer textures are exceptionally detailed and clear.
  
  Online multiplayer is also great giving some new features and games. One new feature is the 'Horde' 
 game, were you and 4 other friends are faced up against the Locust Horde waves. Every wave gets 
 harder and delivers more challenges as your team progresses. There is up to 50 waves which give 
 you hours of fun. 
  
  All in all, i gave this game 9.5. 
  
  If you enjoyed GOW1 then get this game, if you haven't tried GOW i would recommend getting this 
 game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 continues humanities struggle with the Locust Horde, and it does so brilliantly. 
 Not wanting to spoil anything, the story for the game is fantastic, its indepth and enthralling 
 keeping you hooked until the end of the game, and still leavs you wanting more. As with the last 
 game, the gameplay is what sets this game apart. The controls work amazingly well with virtually 
 no flaws whatsoever. The weapons as usual are fantastic to play with, with the Lancer chainsaw 
 again taking the cake. However new weapons such as the Mulcher make a welcome addition to the game. 
 One of the best new additions to the game is the Horde feature. Up to 5 friends (over xbox live, 
 otherwise just 2) go up against 50 waves of Locust enemies. Waves 1-10, 11-20 etc seem to be very 
 similar. However at the beginning of each next set of waves, the Locust horde gets increased health, 
 accuracy and ammunition. Horde can lead to hours of fun and is challenging in many ways. In the 
 end Gears of War 2 comes out as one of the greatest games out currently, and I have no doubt it 
 will stay there for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafay48
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the wait for the huge series. I am not a big fan of Microsoft, but this game 
 has turned my mind around, it has changed the way of gaming, and every action fan have to get this 
 game, if you don't, you miss out big. Even if you are not a gears fan Marcus and Dom will entertain 
 you what ever you do in the game.
  
  The graphics are the only let down, we all thought they would have been better, but they are good 
 enough. The vehicles are the main issue, there are 1 or 2 levels that are vehicle levels and they 
 are really fun. The story is really good, because Marcus and Dom, both have reasons to kill the 
 locus, Marcus-for the pride of his country, and Dom- because his family was taken away by them.
 
  
  Overall, everything about Gears of war 2 is awesome, especially the game play, so that's why i 
 give this gave a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsmtnbiker
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is amazing. The graphics are superb, gameplay is fun, exciting, and fresh, and the 
 multiplayer options are superior to other games. If you love, hate, or don't even know what a third 
 person shooter is like, buy this game. It is time well spent and It will change your life. : ) 
 The campaign lasts a long time too if you observe all the different features the game has to offer 
 and is one that will be fun to play over and over. The multiplayer is a blast with all of the different 
 options and Horde mode is a blast. If you can get your friends to play online with you too, it 
 is even cooler and will keep you entertained for days upon days. The weapons are much better than 
 Halo's in my opinion and I truly just enjoyed the style of game that Gears of War is. 10/10, 5 
 stars, A++++, perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Though I have played Gears 1, I am not a serious Gears fan. I personally do not favor their multiplayer 
 game types too much. However, Gears 1 is still a great game nonetheless. Same as Gears 2, its a 
 great game, and a great sequel, because it kept its goods and bads. For those Gears fans, im pretty 
 sure you can endure these bads or you dont even consider those bad, so Gears 2 is your must-buy. 
 But for non Gears fans, like me, we have to consider more.
  
  Gears 2 campaign is pretty long, especially if you play it on higher difficulties. Its story is 
 also engrossing, I think its a lot better than Gears 1 story. Though Gears 2 has pretty good improvements 
 on the campaign, its scenes are very alike to Gears 1. There are ruined cities, dark tunnels, tank 
 actions, abandoned facilities with Wrenches to freak you out on a heavily raining night... but 
 the good thing is Gears 2 does have some new scenes, new vehicles, so its not to be blamed, they 
 are both developed by EPIC anyway, its not strange to be similar.
  
  Gears 2 also introduced some new guns, mostly are not primary weapons though. A downed can now 
 crawl in directions. You can also take a downed enemy as a meatshield, but you can only use pistol 
 and walk while holding the hostage. Chainsaw standoff is screaming fun. Sticking the grenades on 
 walls or on enemies can create some WTF and BS kills. On the multiplayer, Gears 2 introduced some 
 great new game types, like Submission, King of the Hill, Wingman, and also Horde. Horde is fun, 
 but it still has its flaws. 5 players try to stop 50 waves of Locust AIs. Each 10 waves, the AI 
 doubles in health, damage and whatnot. There is no respawn during each waves, but if u die, u will 
 respawn in the next wave if ur teammates survived, but if no one survived, game over. So it could 
 be really really tough when it gets to higher level of waves, and most importantly, its really 
 time consuming. It may take few hours to finish 50 waves, therefore if u r playing on xbox live 
 with other random people, chances r they gonna leave probably just within 10 waves. So ur best 
 bet is to have friends playing along with.
  
  Goods:
  Superb graphics, seriously... its SUPERB
  Good story with good cinematic scenes
  Good start
 
  Fun boss fights
  For a sequel, EPIC still done a GREAT job
  Satisfying new multiplayer game types
  Humorous dialogues and intriguing characters
  Great 
 original soundtrack
  Great voice acting
  Allow splitscreen playing on XBOX LIVE, if you have 2 gold live accounts
  
  Bads:
  Even after 
 the 3rd Title Update,
  bugs, glitches, lag issues still exist occasionally
  host advantage, this could get really bad sometimes...
  matchmaking could take long...
  matchmaking 
 could make some really unbalanced teams...
  
  Its an awesome game. I like Gears 2 a lot better than the first one. But you have to play it, see 
 if its your type, then decide if you can endure. Have fun chainsawing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  After playing the heck out of the original, I was eager to play the sequel. No other game had been 
 more hyped in my mind than Gears of War 2. This was THE game of the year for me. I know that probably 
 was not the best idea but I just wanted to let you readers know before continuing. 
  
  The campaign experience in Gears of War 2 is far superior than the original. The characters were 
 and still are likeable but they have such more depth to them in this one. You get to know more 
 about Marcus and Dom even though other characters still do not get the backstory they deserve - 
 yeah I'm talking about you Baird and Cole. The campaign is not the longest but it knows when to 
 end. Theres no point in the game where I sat there hoping the game would end or even not end. The 
 story concluded nicely and there was even a post-credit additional ending to make sure that we 
 all know the sequel is on the way. Overall, the single player campaign is a must play. Theres some 
 nice twists in it and some awesome scenes that eventually lead to a satisfying and well-developed 
 ending. Also just to know..... people saying they are disappointed with the final boss being too 
 easy... I wouldnt even consider it a final boss because it took 10 seconds to kill but thats no 
 problem because the final level (the demo at E3) is so awesome.
  
  Moving on to the multiplayer. Gears of War gave me a multiplayer experience that I have not felt 
 since the original Perfect Dark for N64. It was fun, there was tons of strategy involved, there 
 was communication and most importantly it was relatively balanced - host and active sniping were 
 two big problems. All Epic had to do in my opinion was to fix the hosting (which they didnt) and 
 the active sniping (which they did) and add some new maps. Unfortunately, Epic decided to add a 
 bunch of gimmicky and overpowered weapons that hurt the gameplay. The flamethrower is way overpowered. 
 If its on you for 2 seconds your pretty much dead. The mortar and the machine gun are more annoying 
 than overpowered. They are big guns that just feel out of place. The biggest problem tho is the 
 wall grenades and the flash grenades. Putting grenades on the wall is terrible. Its not strategic 
 because people put them in the same spots in most levels. They are an annoyance that never go away. 
 The flash grenades are also incredibly annoying because everyone gets one and if one hits near 
 you you are downed for 5 seconds which makes it an easy kill.
  
  Gears 2 does add a few awesome things tho. Horde is fun and challenging even though I wish there 
 was an achievement for doing all 50 Waves on Insane which would be incredibly challenging. Playing 
 with 4 other players is your best bet and its just a blast. Dozens of enemies coming at you all 
 at once is brilliant. Wingman is also a blast. Well at most times its a blast, sometimes it can 
 be very frustrating. The Guardian mode is also so fun if you are a team of 5 and your facing a 
 good team of 5. When your team doesnt talk or when the other team sucks its just no fun but when 
 you have two talented teams going at it, Guardian is probably my favourite gametype. Tweaking the 
 Assassination mode was a great job on Epic's part.
  
  The maps are all hit or miss in my eyes. The 5 returning maps are all look exceptional and they 
 are 5 of the better maps in the original. Tyro, Canals, and Subway are 3 of my favourite maps that 
 are still very enjoyable. Maps like River, Hail, and Avalanche are the better ones in my opinion. 
 The other ones just feel too small and are not much fun.
  
  The biggest problem in the game is the chainsawing. When a chainsawer is coming towards you and 
 you shoot them, it usually does not stun them. Hopefully Epic fixes this but I found it to be a 
 huge problem. Also, the shotgun is not very effective. Its hit or miss but usually does not kill 
 people in one shot when they are close.
  
  The graphics in the game is stunning. Playing it in both on a non-HD Tv and a 1080p TV you can 
 tell that the game looks stunning. The details are amazing and the game is probably one of the 
 most beautiful I have ever played.
  
  The sound is also awesome. The voice acting is top notch and the original soundtrack has some nice 
 orchestrated music. There will be no personal problems here, the sound was very well done.
  
  Overall, people who loved the original Gears may not enjoy the changes in this game. I, unfortunately, 
 am one of those people. I'm sure there will be others who enjoy the changes and also loved the 
 game. The game is still addicting and still very fun but I personally expected more. The single 
 player campaign is fun as ever. Coop is still awesome. Multiplayer has its fair share of problems 
 but those are opinionated. Even though there are problems, I'll still be playing this game for 
 months to come
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostofDanzig
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  In a claim that has now been quoted and re-quoted by almost every reviewer covering the subject, 
 Cliff Belinski's major claim for the sequel to the original Gears was that it was to be 'Bigger, 
 Better, and more Badass'. Far be it from me to claim that, perhaps for the sake of some quirky 
 alliteration, this statement may contain a degree of hyperbole. After all, they wouldn't lie to 
 us, would they? We must all know by now that game developers would rather shift less units and 
 have every one of the reduced number of people that actually do buy their game be utterly satisfied, 
 because at least promises weren't made that couldn't be kept, don't we?
  Do we ****
  Ok, let's deconstruct, shall we?
  Gears of war is, I suppose, 'Bigger' than it's predecessor. 
 Ok, so the campaign is shorter, easier, and has less replay value that the original thanks to set 
 pieces that, whilst admittedly spectacular the first time round, really start to grind my gears 
 (he he ) when forced to repeat them on the harder difficulties, and the online death matches take 
 so long to get on that you'll probably get infinitely bored with even the idea of waiting about 
 ten minutes just to get shotgunned into tiny pieces within the first four seconds of play that 
 you'll stop bothering after a few days; and Horde, an excellent idea in theory, is ruined in practise 
 by the fact that the majority of the Live community are more interested in racking up kills than 
 actually working together. But hey! It has to bigger! Just look at all those pop-ups! The online 
 community and the majority of consumers aren't idiots, you know!
  Before I get on to 'Better', am I the only one a little bemused by the concept of a game being 
 'Badass?'. What exactly does a game have to do to meet this criteria? Does it have to, after being 
 pre-ordered, turn up two days late on a motorcycle, in levi's and a leather jacket, smoking and 
 spitting at passing pensioners? Because if that's the case, I might start pre-ordering, just for 
 the spectacle. The blood in this game looks like jam. Jam is not badass. So, I suppose, from a 
 purely technical standpoint, GOW2 is better than the original, a lot of little alterations have 
 been made here and there, and whilst not a great deal is immediately noticeable, the minor graphics 
 and physics tweaks to add up to an altogether more immersive experience. The story is also better 
 this time round, at least adding a few bumps onto predominately two dimensional characters. But 
 for me, nothing seemed to gel in quite the same way the original did. The spectacular set pieces 
 just weren't all that fun to play, and I never really found myself settling down to some solid 
 action because the game kept introducing new features to me and so almost every part of the game 
 felt constructed for a purpose, and thus inorganic.
  So all in all, rent the thing, cane it in about eight hours, and bring it back to the store a day 
 early, demanding some free popcorn for the insult. Gears of war two is good, but not so good you 
 won't be looking for something better to do a couple of days after you get it home.
  
  Like this review? Read more at  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnd_421
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This Game was good EPIC have improved many things but forgot the story... EPIC did a bad end it 
 is like the didn't got time to complete it it is just wrong . The first GOW got class .
  
  +
  + Graphic
  + You can turn when you run
  + New weapons
  + New Characters
  + Better 
 multiplayer
  + Horde is playable
  + You slow down if you getting hit
  + New story
  + New executions
  
  -
  - The story sucks
  
  Score:
  
  Graphic: 9/10
  Sound: 7/10
 
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Addicting: 6/10
  Holding: 7/10
  
  Final Thougst:
  
  Now when you completed the game you now it is gonna be a third game. Hope the improve the story 
 and keep working with new weapons, executions, character and maps.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hickamie14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  "Bigger, better, and more badass", those are the words spoken by Epic games' Cliff Bleszinski when 
 describing what Gears of War 2 will be. Since that day fans of the series have wanted to know if 
 Gears of War 2 really is "bigger, better, and more badass". I'm here to say yes, it is.
  
  The story in Gears of War 2 is much improved from the original. The plot will take a few twists 
 and turns in the 9-11 campaign and adds more substance and emotion to the Gears universe- a la 
 Dom's search for his wife. While the single-player is fun and intense it does have a few down points 
 such as the final mission in act 2 and the disappointing final boss fight. The entire game supports 
 two player co-op, both over Xbox LIVE and via split-screen. The co-op is the best way to play Gears 
 2 adding drop-in drop-out co-op and the ability for each player to select his/her own difficulty. 
 
  
  Graphically Gears of War 2 is a stone cold fox. Epic has expanded the color pallet and has added 
 great new weather and water effects. The characters look better than ever which only makes it more 
 enjoyable when the phenomenal gore engine kicks in. For the most part the sound is top of the line, 
 unfortunately some of the sounds from far away get lost in the action and the character dialogue 
 can be pretty cheesy.
  
  The multi-player has been revamped and outfitted with an all new match-making and rank systems. 
 Unfortunately, the match-making can be cumbersome and the rank system is nothing to write home 
 about. There are also some inexcusable lag issues and the return of glitching outside of some of 
 the multi-player maps. However, when you do get into a good match the game-play is absolutely superb. 
 The addition of new weapons like the mortar and flame thrower is excellent, and the level design 
 is fairly good. The addition of game types such as Submission, Wingman, and Guardian provide some 
 good alternatives to Warzone and are a blast to play. The biggest problem by far is the inexcusable 
 lag issues; seven out of ten games I played had some sort of lag that hampered the game and a few 
 times I quit in order to escape the ludicrous lag. The lag is made even worse by the fact that 
 Matchmaking can take quite a while to find a match-not being able to quit unless you exit to the 
 Dashboard hurts too. All these issues begs the question, why no BETA Epic? If you can find a way 
 to overcome the lag (which I doubt) you're in for fantastic game-play and an outstanding multi-player 
 component. 
  
  The best addition in Gears of War 2 is Horde mode. In this mode you and four friends take on 50 
 waves of Locust on any of the ten multi-player maps. This feature is executed beautifully and will 
 have you wishing every game had this feature-and like the co-op there is virtually no lag. Gears 
 of War 2 is worth owning just for Horde and co-op alone. 
  
  ~~~~Story: 8.8~~~~~~Game-play: 9.8~~~~~~Lasting Appeal: 9.6~~~~ 
  
  THE GOOD: New matchmaking 
 system | Best cover system in gaming | Longer Campaign | Fantastic Visuals | Great tactical multi-player 
 | Horde.
  
  THE BAD: Matchmaking has some problems | Competitive multi-player has serious lag issues | The 
 'war journal' is hard to read. 
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERALL: 9.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
  This is definitely not just Gears of War 1.5, this is the reason you bought your 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  GEARS OF WAR 2
  
  It has been 2 years since the original Gears of War chainsawed its way onto the Xbox 360 and defined 
 that system as a force to behold. With its gritty art style, over-the-top cartoon action and distinct 
 3rd person cover to cover shooting mechanic, the first installment of Gears had sudden impact. 
 It was a shooter unlike anything seen on consoles before  much the first Halo was for the original 
 Microsoft machine years earlier. Gears of War surpassed all expectations, arrived with little fanfare 
 and subsequently became a critical and player favorite for the holiday season of '06 and beyond. 
 All of that has changed with the sequel.
  
  Few games have been given the hype, expectations, resources and budget as the inevitable follow-up. 
 Gears of War 2 has been arguably the most anticipated sequel of the year. Just look at the oversized 
 boots of its characters and you'll see that it has some very big shoes to fill. The challenge of 
 any sequel is to take what worked well in the first, improve on problematic areas, and offer gamers 
 a new experience. The 2nd chapter in what will be a trilogy needs to be similar enough to be cohesive, 
 yet different enough to show players things they've never seen before. The fine balance of new 
 and old was clearly a main focus for the development team at Epic. The result is nothing short 
 of another masterpiece. 
  
  Gameplay: Its obvious that Gears 2 would pick up right were #1 left off  both in terms of storyline 
 and in control. Epic wisely followed the age-old advice: if it ain't broke don't fix it. For the 
 most part GOW2 behaves just like you would expect. If you've played the first game, and i'm guessing 
 you have, then moving around and firing weapons will be familiar. The typical analogue combination 
 of move-left look-right is in tact. What makes Gears standout is just how heavy and powerful everything 
 feels as you execute your moves. Characters thunder up to hug walls and makeshift cover like industrial 
 sized magnets. Sticking and moving along a jaded row of rubble and occasionally popping up to fire 
 a few rounds from your machine gun takes a little getting used to, but soon becomes a mainstay 
 function through your GOW2 tenure. Diving and rolling, switching weapons, opening doors, arching 
 grenades and reloading are virtually unchanged. The active reload has been slightly improved, whereas 
 some weapons like the new flamethrower are given added range when perfectly executed. There are 
 plenty of other new weapons to compliment the already phenomenal arsenal establish in the first 
 game. The incredibly powerful, yet cumbersome chaingun is a lot of fun. As is the mortar which 
 propels a rain of fire down over the enemy. Both weapons greatly inhibit your dexterity and speed, 
 but make up for it with their sheer caliber. The chainsaw-bayoneted machine gun lancer is once 
 again the main weapon in the game and has been given an added function. Chainsaw duels are not 
 uncommon with likeminded saw-happy foes. Tapping "B" faster than your opponent will win you the 
 duel and consequently turn your sorry enemy into spare parts. New and gruesome executions amplify 
 the controversial gore even more in Gears 2. The custom curb stomp has been supplemented with a 
 couple of new partners like the neck break and the shield smash. Handling a down-but-not-out enemy 
 as a meat shield while wielding a magnum powered handgun is just plain cool. If there is anything 
 to be said about the shooting in GOW2 is that it feels a bit more responsive and powerful this 
 time around. Bullets trails are much easier to see which makes aiming a little easier than before.
 
  
  Ducking and moving in and out of cover does become an issue at times. In furious firefights it 
 can be hard to execute the specific maneuver you want when in close proximity to cover elements 
 like walls and boulders. Instead of rolling away from enemy fire, or exiting cover to make a mad 
 dash roadie run your character sometimes intuitively sticks to his surroundings as if he's covered 
 in glue. It can also be difficult to aim weapons from certain angles under cover. Having to pop 
 out of cover to reposition and pop back in so your gun will shoot in the direction you want happens 
 from time to time. These are very small blemishes on an otherwise tight and rewarding 3rd person 
 shooter.
  
  One area from Gears 1 that needed improvement was its online multiplayer, which had a thin offering 
 of game modes. The sequel has been pumped up considerably. It's now possible to have 5 on 5 team 
 deathmatches in a variety of ways: Meatflag (capture the meatshield and return him to your base) , 
 Wingman (up to 5 strategic teams of 2) , and Guardian (respawning ability hinges on keeping your 
 team's guardian alive) accompany the staple Warzone matchtype. The highlight of online multiplayer 
 is clearly the new Horde mode, in which you and 4 other players will face wave after wave of increasingly 
 difficult AI enemies. Not enough praise can be said about how enjoyable, intense and addictive 
 this survival mode becomes. With a greater variety of enemy types  each with very discernable 
 tactics and silhouettes, Gears 2 online (and offline) will push players to handle dynamic situations 
 in creative ways. 
  
  The campaign has also been injected with more steroids than Marcus Fenix's bulging lats. From a 
 gameplay perspective it follows the same basic routine as the original campaign, where you and 
 your squad mates will advance through stages of the enemy's stronghold  popping in and out of 
 cover and working together. Gamers might be disappointed that the early idea of 4 player online 
 campaign didn't make it to the final product, but 2 player co-op campaign is back. Most of the 
 adventure will be fought on foot. This is where the game performs and feels best. However Gears 
 2 stumbles a bit in sequences in which your team must use a variety of vehicles. There are 2 or 
 3 sequences that offer loose and frustrating vehicular gameplay, where pattern memorization and 
 repetitive uninspired drive and shoot mechanics will make you wish you were back on foot. The good 
 news is that these portions of the game don't last too long. There is a greater emphasis on story 
 and character development in this chapter. This helps draw players into the gravity of the situation 
 more than it did in the first game, but some of the emotional content does feel somewhat out of 
 place for a game filled with chainsaw wielding muscle heads. 
  
  Ultimately the gameplay in Gears of War 2 in an upscale in the variety of modes, weapons and executable 
 moves. It doesn't really depart that much from the feel and strategy in #1. The shooting is a bit 
 better and most of the gameplay advancements improve the experience. With a few small "sticky" 
 cover issues and frustrating vehicle missions GOW2 is not as tight and polished a shooter as a 
 game like Call of Duty 4, but still a very enjoyable one. 
  Gameplay = 9/10.
  
  Graphics: As the current generation of consoles reaches it maturity, it's nice to see that developers 
 are now taking full advantage of the available processing power. In a word Gears of War 2 looks 
 incredible. It doesn't depart from the fundamental aesthetic of the original, but it does take 
 liberties with very inspired level design. Sprawling forested vistas, burning decayed cities and 
 claustrophobic caves are just a few of the epically scaled battlefields you'll call home. The fantastic 
 sci-fi, cartoonish art style paints each and every environment in the game with intricate detail, 
 resulting in some jaw dropping moments. One of which is the gruesome belly of a giant worm that 
 drips with ooze and pulses with blood-filled veins. This is a truly remarkable and original feat 
 of inspired design and execution. It doesn't hurt that it pays homage to the grandfather of all 
 shooters: Contra.
  
  What makes Gears of War standout is the impeccable detail and care given to every inch of its massive 
 world. Little things like ground mist in a humid room, rolling waves on a violent lake and raindrops 
 cascading down pains of glass are the polish that pushes this game into the echelon it resides. 
 The designers have done an admiral job making each environment look and feel different enough from 
 one another to keep the game fresh as the plot develops. The character models are improved with 
 greater facial expressions, clothing textures and armor design. To see how far the sequel has advanced 
 all you need to do is load up the multiplayer levels ported from the first game into the 2nd. 
 
  
  There are a few issues with load times of textures. You'll notice the details in the facing of 
 walls popping in as you move around. Other times your character will not behave appropriately with 
 his surroundings. Leaping over a pile of sandbags for example will sometimes result in your character 
 sitting up in mid air. Thankfully this is does not happen often. The level design is also a lot 
 better in the campaign than it is in the multiplayer levels. Perhaps its because there is more 
 going on in the campaign. Some of the multiplayer maps feel a little stagnant in comparison.
  
  GOW2 is a great looking game that beefs up the detail and broadens the scale with more grand 
 landscapes. It keeps close ties with the first game while giving gamers some new technical achievements 
 expected in a sequel of this magnitude. 
  Graphics = 9.5/10.
  
  Sound: The sound plays an important part as a supporting cast member in Gears 2. For as good as 
 the visuals are, the sound is that intangible element that keeps players immersed in he experience. 
 Audibly, GOW2 echoes the sounds heard in the original. The sound effects are full-blow high-impact 
 adrenaline rushes that will rock you in your seat. Explosions and gunfire vibrate and rumble with 
 pounding realism. The sound of razor hail pounding the ground is deafening. Grinding metal on metal 
 during a chainsaw face-off shrieks with the best of horror films. The sound design is just as overtop 
 as the art. Voice acting is superb. The dialogue between characters during cut scenes is wonderfully 
 over the top and badass. The gruff testosterone-ridden lines and curses fit the bill perfectly. 
 
  
  The soundtrack is a fine extension from the previous installment. Cues range from creepy to catastrophic 
 and never let down the appropriate intensity of a sequence. The haunting signature theme is present 
 and accounted for right from the menu bringing you quickly back into the GOW universe. There aren't 
 many leaps forward that take Gears of War 2's sound to the next level, but it perfectly compliments 
 the stick-with-what-works mentality that resonates through the rest of the game. Sound = 9/10.
 
  
  Presentation: Menus have been nicely revamped. Navigating the options is a lot easier than it was 
 before. A new button called "What's Up" will quickly reveal what your friends are doing and allow 
 you to join or create online matches with ease. The new "vote" map selection feature is a great 
 way to allow your party to decide where they want to play. Checking out your achievements and unlockables 
 is also very simple. A new free-roaming camera feature in multiplayer games is an excellent way 
 for fallen teammates to see all the action from any angle, and offer strategic support for the 
 remainder of a match. Being able to take pictures of the action to upload online is excellent and 
 easy.
  
  There is no random map selection/rotation in Horde mode. Players lineup in the same map repeatedly 
 - wave after wave, and this can get stale. Of course you have the option to exit back to the lobby 
 and choose another map, but having an automatic rotation like in other online modes would have 
 been a nice addition. Incorporating some sort of upgrading system into multiplayer might have also 
 been a good idea. Such a feature as it exists in other franchises really gives online some long 
 legs  not that Gears of War 2's are short by any means. 
  Presentation = 9/10.
  
  Overall: Epic Games has risen to the occasion and produced a game that lives up to the high expectations 
 established in the first Gears. Two years of anticipation and lofty dreams is not an easy order 
 to fill. While Gears of War 2 is not the best technical nor the wealthiest featured online shooter 
 out there, it is perhaps one of the most enjoyable all around packages. It looks incredible. It 
 does just enough to elevate the drama and action to the next level as well accomplish what any 
 2nd part of a trilogy should  the promise of more excellent action to come. 
  Final rating = 9.3/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavey_gravey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I want to start this review my stating that I am a huge fan of Gears of War. The first game was 
 the reason that I purchased my 360 and I haven't looked back since, I have played the campaign 
 over and over again and most of the people on my friends list have come from playing Player matches 
 on the multiplayer.
  
  Now, on to my review of the second instalment in what I am assuming will be a series.
  
  The 
 game dynamics are much the same as the first game, and anyone who has played that will be familiar 
 with the control system, however the graphics are much improved (even though they were fantastic 
 in the first one) , and there is actually a semblance of a story, albeit largely incidental. The 
 game feels much bigger than the first game, the environments are larger, the vehicles are larger, 
 even the characters look larger. 
  
  The campaign builds slowly from a relatively sedate start to an action packed final few chapters. 
 Towards the end of the campaign I felt that I was playing the lead role in the biggest action movie 
 ever made. There are thrilling chases through trees, precarious navigation of tanks over ice, and 
 endless gun fights with new enemies, all delivered with overblown gusto. The part where you have 
 to *spoiler* literally cut yourself out of a giant worm is one of the most hilarious moments in 
 my gaming history. In short, I think the campaign is fantastic, much improved on the first one, 
 it is packed to the brim with action and the added element of a side story with Dom helps to move 
 it along nicely.
  
  Now, on to the multiplayer! As I said earlier, most of my friends list has come from playing Gears1 
 so I was looking forward to playing the multiplayer on this game with said friends. I am left slightly 
 disappointed though. Don't get me wrong  the multiplayer is fantastic when you get a game, but 
 that is the problem  WHEN you get a game. I really like some of the new game modes, Horde is exciting 
 and encourages team playing, I love the new Submission game where you have to take a human flag 
 to a particular point in the map before the other team does, and I enjoy Guardian as well. Wingman, 
 although fun with friends is fatally flawed on ranked matches as all you get is a line of people 
 queuing to kill whoever is in front of them.
  
  The ranked matches or public matches take forever to get in to and when I do, they are invariably 
 full of lag and unplayable, unless I am fortunate enough to land in a game where the majority of 
 players are from the UK (which is where I am) . There is nothing more frustrating than having your 
 chainsaw go straight through a player with no effect and then a second or two later find yourself 
 dead with no idea how it happened. But it is the private matches which have left me the most disappointed, 
 these games can only be played by people on each other's friends lists, they cannot be searched 
 by someone who just wants to play a more social game than the public matches so I am not meeting 
 new people online to play with. The lobby system is irritating as well in that you cannot cycle 
 maps at all and after each game of multiplayer you are transported back to the lobby again to choose 
 another map, why you can't just keep playing on a map rotation like the first game bewilders me.
 
  
  In short, this game is fantastic, however the edge has been taken off it for me because of the 
 restrictions on the multiplayer. Unless the private matches are opened up and become searchable 
 for other players then I fear that this game may well dwindle out for me over time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colemn13Sniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  My brother & I beat the original GOW so we had to get 2nd. I was afraid that it might be a disappointment, 
 but we absolutely loved it. Granted their are some parts that will piss you off, it is utterly 
 worth it. The story line is great as is the first, and the gore is awesome as always. The chainsaw 
 duel is new and it's a really cool element to the game... just be careful with it. All in all, 
 it's an incredible game the will really immerse you once you begin the campaign. It plays very 
 well and looks good doing it. It's not all that hard, and yet not so easy. And it's just an awesome 
 ongoing stor that we've come to love from Gears of War. I go to college and come home on the weekends, 
 and that's what i looked forward to every week that we played it. Pick it up! You will not be disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Yet again Gears of War returns with stunning visuals, gameplay, and all out fun. A few months ago 
 Marcus Fenix helped detonate the lightmass bomb in the Locust Hollow. As they grow desperate they 
 attack the last human stronghold of Jacinto. You, as Marcus Fenix, and your loyal buddies, Ben 
 Carmine (brother of Anthony in Gears of War 1) , Dom, Tai, Cole, and Baird; head underground to 
 fight the locust on their turf. An emotional side story also follows the characters that makes 
 the game much more interesting. But unfortunately the bosses are extremely boring and lame, all 
 following a pattern of find the trick and do it three times. 
  
  Many great additions have arrived to the Gears of War series such as the new weapons, characters, 
 Horde mode, new locust monsters, and a much-improved multiplayer. The mortar and the mounted machine 
 gun that I cant quite remember were pretty good fun. The Locust cyclopses, kantuses, and tickers 
 are some of the new grubs you get to blow the heads off of. They keep a little bit of the repetiveness 
 out of the game. Also the new execution moves are a bit of variety. Beating your best buddies face 
 off with the back of your sniper rifle is actually pretty fun. Horde is also very fun fighting 
 the mass of enemies with a small COG force is tons of entertainment for quite sometime. The brutality 
 of this game is the best thing ever. You can break their back with your gun, beat their face off, 
 chainsaw them, blow their head off, its just awesome. 
  
  This game is very very entertaining and fun. If you dont have it go to your local game store and 
 buy it. The interesting story is very well written and the new additions keep the game fun. The 
 difficulty can be changed according to your skill level so dont be afraid if you tend to be on 
 the slow side when it comes to your reflexes at shooting things, or if your trying to play with 
 your girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIJuggaNottII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start. Well, I'll start buy saying that Gears of War 2 has won my Game of 
 the Year vote. Why? It brings what all games "should", and thats something for everybody. By everybody 
 I'm speaking about guys like Me that enjoy the single player story and gameplay. Guys that like 
 Online multiplayer, guys that like co'op campain.... and most of all, guys that like VALUE for the 
 games that they just paid $60.00 on. 
  
  The story is miles better than the previous Gears, and Epic did a good job of NOT shoving a great 
 deal of information down your throat getting in the way of the flow of the game. They drop bits 
 and peices here and there that give you that little bit that you DO need to keep you connected 
 to the characters and the overall plot of the game. The gameplay is not a total overhaul..... but 
 it didnt need a total overhaul, they added to a game that was already GREAT for its gameplay. The 
 additions that they did add were all welcome additions. Stuff like being able to do different moves 
 to finish off a downed enemy ( I totally love that) , pick up enemies and use them as human/locust 
 *meatsheilds, and even the ability to crawl towards cover/or to your teamates when your downed 
 and bleeding out. 
  
  The graphics are outstanding, dont get me wrong... I can understand someone whos just not into fantasy 
 and prefer "true to life" like graphics like Drakes. This is something totally different, the art 
 style is beautiful.... even for a person who does not like fantasy has to admit the beauty in the 
 art. They had a great deal of WOW moments during the game and overall I was Impressed with the 
 graphics after seeing the likes of MGS4. 
  
  Back to the multiplayer modes. Guys like me, sometimes I dont want to play with a bunch of experts 
 that trash talk all night long. Epic did us the unthinkable, the provided bots for the sacrafice.... so 
 you can basically set up the same types of modes that they provide online with BOTs in the place 
 of real players. How sweet is that. Thats fantastic in my opinion, so now you can enjoy everything 
 that the game has to offer with or without someone in your ear, or Pwning you. LOL.....
  
  To end My review, Gears of War 2 is a tremendous game for anyone who loves games that are Heavy 
 on action, lite on story and dramatics (although you do have a few moments that I wont spoil for 
 you) , and plentiful with features and modes. Tremendous value and replay ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The 2 flaws:
  
  1-slow match finding system when playing alone online.
  
  For some reason, trying to find a mulitplayer match online by yourself takes a long time-sometimes 
 10 or more minutes. Who has time for that? If you have a team of 5 with you, it takes as little 
 as 2 seconds. Not sure why this is, but hope Epic fixes this problem
  
  2-you can not take 2 people on 1 xbox online. 
  
  In Gears 1, you could take a friend with 
 you on non ranked matches online and play together from the same xbox. I never did it, but had 
 the chance to in Gears 2. Low and behold, I found they removed this feature. The friend I was with 
 said it was probably a move made purposefully, spurred on by Microsoft. For whatever reason, it 
 was removed and missed. I also could not play with a friend because he was playing with his nephew 
 during a holiday. that sucked too. Maybe it wasn't a popular feature. Who knows. But I don't see 
 why the first gears had it, while the second didn't. The game is supposed to be bigger, badder, 
 and more bad@$$. Quoting George Costanza "It's the first one!"
  
  The single player is very good. Epic did not stray from the formula. Duck and cover works better 
 than ever. The new hammerburst is a great weapon. The shotgun is not as powerful-thank goodness 
 and the flamethrower is fantastic! The best part of the new game is the ability to plant your grenades. 
 It adds so much to multiplayer.
  
  When functioning, multiplayer is absolutely amazing and much better than the first gears. I find 
 the new maps all a blast. The terrain is more varied, the weapons change every other match, the 
 sniper isn't a cheap weapon anymore-no more down with 1 shot of the sniper. The large weapons like 
 the gatling gun and mortar are brilliant. The shield is fun to run around with, but not as much 
 fun as the meat shield, where you can pick up a downed enemy and use him as a shield. Very good 
 move when you are the only one left against 2 or more opponents. 
  
  Overall a fantastic game single or multiplayer (if you don't mind waiting for a match) . I'd recommend 
 partying up as soon as you could with other people online. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin, lets do the bad first.
  
  Was Gears of War better than the first ... yes, but not by much. The story expanded a little but 
 not much. The overall story with the in fighting with the Locust was done very badly. Also the 
 story about the Abandoned Research Lab led no where and was pretty pointless, except a little about 
 Gears of War 3 which I'm sure will be coming out in a couple of years. Also the climax of the game 
 was anti-climatic. The game was a little easy and short for me.
  
  Now I don't want you to think I hated the game. No I really liked it. First the graphics were excellent. 
 The game play was also great. I like how you have to think in battle or you'll die. The story about 
 Dominic's wife Maria was well done and was the only story in the game I really paid attention to. 
 I also like how Marcus's character has grown and how he has grown close to Anya. The rest of the 
 characters were great also from Cole to Carmine. The last thing was the ending which I did love 
 and after the credits you also get another hit of Gears of War 3.
  
  Overall Gears of War 2 is a very good if not great game, but it lacks depth to be a excellent or 
 a classic game on the level of Metal Gear Solid games, Fallout 3, Mass Effect and others on that 
 level. Still this game is worth playing, just don't be surprised if you'll a little let down after 
 it's over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  I'll start this review off by saying flat out that the game is fun.
  
  But...
  
  First of all the game is crazy glitchy. For example, I played the entire game on co-op with a buddy 
 and during one of the boss stages that take place in a river, the constant bobbing up and down 
 of the boat the Marcus and Dom have to fight from, and then all the subsequent shifting of the 
 characters, kept causing us to get stuck in random spots or physical objects leaving us quite vulnerable 
 to get splatterred. There were many other random buggy experiences throughout the game.
  
  It's one thing to defeat a boss enemy, it's an entirely other thing to fight the software. It took 
 us a few extra times to get past that boss stage, basically by figuring out to never take cover.
 
  
  Second let's talk about the plot. I don't want to spoil the game for you but by the end of the 
 game you've purposely accomplished what the Locust Horde wanted to do, just with different reasoning. 
 Throughout the storyline they introduce concepts like torture and infighting within the Locust 
 Horde, but never resolve them. 
  
  Are you seriously telling me that with all the super smart people who were involved in developing 
 this game nobody could come up with a coherent and compelling story?
  
  They did a fine job of developing the characters I suppose, but ultimately you don't really care, 
 you just want to blast the bad guys, which again is an experience Gears of War 2 accomplishes hands 
 down.
  
  The first half of the game was really easy, and we played on Hardcore level. No boss was any kind 
 of a serious challenge. My buddy and I have zero interest in playing the story again on Insane, 
 what would be the point besides achievement points?
  
  Also the climax of the game is a total letdown in terms of challenge.
  
  New weapons and enemies 
 are a lot of fun.
  
  New vehicles are fun.
  
  Horde multiplayer level is serious fun.
  
  Overall -- FUN, but ultimately it's like they already 
 decided to make a Gears 3 and had no idea what they wanted to accomplish in the story for part 
 2. This game does not achieve what the first Gears did, it merely rehashes it with a new paint 
 job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  gears of war 2 is ah video game sequel from epic games its been 2 years after gears of war on 360 
 ok the game takes place right after the lightmass bomb now delta sqaud has ah new fater now cites 
 are now sinking thanks to the locust horde now delta sqaud needs to find the locust strong hole 
 and destroy them once and for all but then later dom is looking for his missing wife the game is 
 ten times better then gears of war the multiplayer inculdes bots and xbox live but theres ah couple 
 bugs and glitches that ruin the games fun even though its ah great game but if only the ending 
 wouldint been ah huge joke in the first place sometimes later on you will be doing chainsaw duels 
 and there new excuetions then gears of war did like from using the shotgun like ah golf club and 
 using the sniper rifle like ah sledgehammer or using the pistol to wack sometimes enemys still 
 feel bit weak but the voice-acting is great with top-notch writing and some interisting moments 
 but it sometimes feels weak thanks to its story but however the game is ah soild platformer above 
 all i give gears of war 2.
  
  9.5 out of 10
  
  The Good: great voice-acting cool graphics and gameplay soild soundtrack some cool multiplayer.
 
  
  The Bad: the ending is ah huge joke dissapointing online play thanks to its bugs and glitches in 
 some parts.
  
  The Ugly: nah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is the sequel to the 2006 smash hit which was the biggest selling game of that Christmas. 
 In Gears Of War 2 you play as the protagonist Marcus Fenix, sided with the COG Alliance in a war 
 against an invading, sub-terranean army comprised of creatures called The Locusts. The game is 
 a Third Person Shooter, although It controls like an FPS. The story is alot more compelling than 
 the predecessor, as Epic have hired a write to do the story this time around, resulting, in a compelling, 
 dramatic, and often cinematic experience.
  
  The graphics are more of the same in this game, apart from enhanced water physics and remember 
 that weird meat cube? Even that makes an appearance. Many people are seeing Gears 2 as more of 
 an expansion pack, a Gears 1.5 is you will, but anyone who has played the game would tell you different. 
 It has an engaging story, great multiplayer, Horde mode is great, and Co-Op is brilliant as ever, 
 especially on Insane.
  
  This is a definite pick up, but I recommend that you play through the original first.
  
  Thanks 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raqueem
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  My only advice is to start playing on the hardcore difficulty because you don't want this game 
 to be over.
  
  Take the time to really fight and use tactics to see how the A. I. adapts every time to the strategy 
 you are using.
  
  Great enemies, great weapons, great gameplay and a story to finish it all. You can not want more 
 than this of a game!
  
  And then I'll write this just to get the 100 words so I can post this review.. and a few more words, 
 yes. Oh lord it still wants more. And more. And then I'll write this just to get the 100 words so 
 I can post this review.. and a few more words, yes. Oh lord it still wants more. And more. And then 
 I'll write this just to get the 100 words so I can post this review.. and a few more words, yes. 
 Oh lord it still wants more. And more. And then I'll write this just to get the 100 words so I can 
 post this review.. and a few more words, yes. Oh lord it still wants more. And more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great follow up to gears 1. There's no doubt the all the elements of the first 
 game that make it so enjoyable is back. Fast pace gun play, cover system, rail-shooting segments 
 and an upgraded story makes it a game to remember. Nevertheless, it appears the general consensus 
 is that the cover system is improved; I must disagree. Often I am stuck and the game fail to recognize 
 what is it that I aim for, which makes it all the more frustrating because the game IS about the 
 cover. On my second play-through, there are just too many graphic glitches and problem with event-trigger 
 to make me wonder what is it that makes the game feels incomplete. Having said all that, the game 
 is still a thrill, many instances you feel like you are part of something epic and tide-changing 
 events. Multi-player is great but then again, I just wish it's single player game is stronger. 
 Good game, improved? Not so sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 , the sequel to the smash hit, developed by Epic Games, is finally upon us. This 
 time, you're taking the fight to the Locust underground. The game starts up 6 months after the 
 first and the Humans are on their last leg, as the Locusts are sinking their cities and are forced 
 to fall back to their last remaining city, Jacinto. In a last ditch effort, Marcus Fenix and Dominic 
 Santiago along with the rest of their COG allies take the fight to the Locusts. The storyline is 
 a lot darker than the first and provides more background on some of the characters, but, raises 
 a lot more questions.
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed much since the first, however, there are some notable differences with 
 this sequel. The first thing you'll probably notice is that there have been some alterations to 
 the weapons to make them more balanced. Your AI teammates can now revive you when you're downed 
 in combat and you can tap the A button to crawl away from your enemies, looking to introduce you 
 to the pavement. You'll also slow down when shot, thus, making it harder to roll approach enemies 
 with close range weapons.
  Even though you'll find yourself using the Lancer the most, there has been a nice amount of weapons 
 thrown into the mix such as a flamethrower and the Boltok Pistol, which fires a burst of bullets. 
 There's also the addition of heavy weapons. They slow you down and keep you from roadie running 
 but deliver a painful punch to your enemies. The Chain gun is great for providing covering fun 
 and delivers a quick death at close range, where as the mortar brings death from above with a barrage 
 of explosives. Grenades can now be planted on surfaces and used as proximity mines and the new 
 grenade releases poisonous gas. Smoke grenades will now knock players down as well.
  Tired of curb-stomping? There are now 4 ways to execute opponent. X performs a curb-stomp, B is 
 a quick smack in the head which may vary depending on your gun, Y flips your enemy on his back 
 and then delivers a quick flurry of punches to the face, and finally, A lets you use you opponent 
 as a shield. They can die protecting you, or you can snap their neck.
  If two players come at each other with their chain saws revved, they'll enter a chainsaw duel. 
 The winner is decided by the one who taps B the fastest.
  These additions make combat more gritty and overall, more satisfying.
  
  Gears 2 has sought 
 a change of scenery. No longer will you traverse through abandoned cities and ruins. You'll spend 
 most of your time in underground caverns, however, you will spend some time on the surface. You'll 
 even come across enemies so big they can't be killed from the outside. There are more vehicle sections 
 and can be somewhat frustrating but they don't stop you from enjoying the game. The usual, take 
 cover and shoot gameplay still takes over a majority of the single player campaign and provides 
 a fun enjoyable experience. The first Gears was a fantastic looking game and Gears of War 2 maintains 
 that look. The new capabilities Unreal Engine will give you more memorable moments. Gears 2 also 
 sounds terrific and provides excellent voice acting to make a beautiful cinematic effect.
  
  Along with Annex, Assassination, Warzone, Execution and King of the Hill, which appeared in 
 the PC version, there are 4 new multiplayer modes, Submission, Guardian, and Wingman. These new 
 game modes add a little more to Gears 2's online life and the host benefits are still in the game 
 but have been lessened and making things more fair.
  The last new mode is Horde, which pits five players against wave after wave of Locusts. If a player 
 survives an entire round, those that died during that round will respawn and is very rewarding 
 to play with friends and others willing to work as a team.
  Gears 2 has also included bots in all modes except for Horde. The bots are surprising good at acting 
 like human players and provide good practice.
  There's 10 maps, plus 5 maps remastered maps for download. Some maps are areas from the campaign 
 and also have an environmental hazards of some sort that can change the way you play in map drastically.
 
  
  Gears of War 2, although similar in terms of gameplay to it's predecessor, is a step up from it. 
 The storyline is darker, and the new environments will add up to an enjoyable ride. The new additions 
 and tweaks that have been made will keep you coming back for more. Gears of War 2 is a game that 
 no one should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cahallmxj
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The light mass bomb has been delivered. The bomb was supposed to send the locust on the run. Instead 
 it has made them more (desperate?) aggressive and they are pressing ever closer to the last remaining 
 human stronghold, Jacinto. Enter Delta squad fresh from delivering the Light Mass bomb to the Locust 
 base, Marcus Fenix and his friend Dom where hoping for a little R&R (in Dom's case more time to 
 hunt for his missing wife) , instead they get stuck with training Delta's newest recruit. Things 
 quickly go from bad to worse as the training exercise turns into a trial by fire as the locust 
 launch a surprise attack on Jacinto and have to be chased out by the COG army. This attack prompts 
 COG command to launch a counter attack while they still have the upper hand in the aftermath of 
 the light mass bomb. Guess which squad gets to be the tip of the spear..
  -------
  I liked this game when it was being the game I wanted to play. Which was the tactical game where 
 the player has to make good use of cover to take out the opposing locust forces. The first game 
 did a good job of this and generally made sure that the player had to use a little bit of strategy 
 to pick off the opposing force so that the player could move forward foot by hard earned foot until 
 the enemy could be flanked and eliminated. This game does that too. when its not making me want 
 to throw the controller across the room because the developers for some reason decided that they 
 would make just about every other act some kind of rail shooter or puzzle level. Yes I get this 
 was done for co-op and this is probably fun if you have someone to play through the whole game 
 with either on your couch or online. But if like me, you are unable to do this (I play late at 
 night) for whatever reason, then you will be stuck with the semi bright AI that tends to get confused 
 with the simple things like heal fallen comrades, stay in cover and generally be more of a help 
 than a hindrance. Other than some design decisions that I disagree with the game does move along 
 at a pretty good clip and made me want to keep playing. The story is standard video game but, I 
 guess the developer is trying to get on the Halo bus by making it deeper and more complicated (emphasis 
 on complicated) . If you've read a lot of Sci-Fi then you can sort of fill in the blanks yourself. 
 Other than that it probably is better to wait for the next game or read the GOW books that are 
 coming out to make it make sense. Online multiplayer (what I played of it) is fun and is an improvement 
 over the original. Besides the Co-op through the story and the standard multiplayer modes there 
 is a new mode called horde which requires players to fend off an ever increasing wave of enemies. 
 Last but not least in the eyes of many (myself not included) the graphics are great, the characters 
 don't fall into the uncanny valley and stuff blows up real good. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who liked the first one, those that like to play through games in co-op and those that like 
 sci-fi based action/adventure tactical shooters. M. a. c
  Graphics: Great. No uncanny valley, semi destructible cover. Stuff blows up good.
  Story: Its 
 like reading book 3 in a 5 book series. You'll get why they are doing what they are doing, but 
 your not real sure how the got there. Kinda like the first game, it just moves the game along so 
 you can shoot more stuff.
  Game Play: When the game wasn't breaking up the flow with annoying puzzle levels or rail shooters 
 it did a good job of making me want to keep playing to the end. My only other complaint is that 
 sometimes it is not exactly obvious where your supposed to go. If I am wandering around for five 
 minutes a nice arrow or hey stupid over here would be nice. 
  Camera/Controls: Worked good for me. No cameral issues. No throw the controller across the room 
 moments. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blarg_blarg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I have literally had the 7th of November marked on my calendar since the day it was announced. 
 I fell in love with Gears of War shortly after the first time I eviscerated a member of the Locust 
 Horde with my Lancer Chainsaw Bayonet. Gears 2 provided everything that I anticipated and hoped 
 for: More depth in the plot of the game, amazing graphics with the Unreal Engine, enhanced capabilities 
 in the co-op mode, increased difficulty of game play on Insane mode, new features such as the chainsaw 
 duel and walltagging with the grenades, and not to mention a fantastic new class of weapons. The 
 one thing that I am utterly disappointed in is the online gameplay. Epic Games went out of their 
 way to ensure that there would be a plethora of options for the online gamer: Co-Op play, traditional 
 old-school Warzone, Execution and Annex, newly introduced Submission (capture the meatflag) , King 
 of the Hill, Wingman, the highly anticipated Wingman, and I would be remiss if I failed to mention 
 the brilliant induction of the Horde mode. Where they fell short was in the design of the matchmaking 
 procedure. I have spent several nights attempting to join rooms and found myself waiting for up 
 to 5-10 minutes before backing out of the lobby and trying it all over again. Another fault that 
 I find annoying is that once you are done playing a match you are automatically booted back to 
 the match-finding lobby. Whereas in Gears 1 you could find yourself competing with the same 4 opponents 
 for hours on end. I've always been a proponent of the adage "If it's not broke, don't fix it." 
 Whatever they were trying to do in an effort to enhance the online experience has severely backfired. 
 I only hope that they are fully aware of these deficiencies and are in the process of repairing 
 them so that loyal gamers such as myself can continue to enjoy the landmark release of this brilliant 
 franchise game. Until then I guess I will just resort to playing Horde with my friends in a private 
 room, since the public mode is just too much of a hassle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeXXChidori
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I loved it, I don't know any other way to put it. The story line was amazing! not to mention the 
 speech that the Leader gave at the start. This game was much better than the first, the tied up 
 the loose ends from the first and even gave the fans more "driving" capabilities. I will say that 
 the game had more drama than I expected and it kind of took away from the feel of the Gears franchise 
 but in some ways it gave it a good twist. The new weapons that where introduced in Gears 2 where 
 all very original I really like the new Grenades and the Mulcher machine gun. Another great twist 
 was at the very end after the credits even after the, "no animals where harmed in the making of 
 this game... well except for the monkey dog things". It seems that Epic games has maybe set up for 
 another installment in the Gears Franchise? could be and I can't wait to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gflemm15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Today, I just got Gears of War 2. I was working on projects until I got this urge to try it out. 
 It may be one of the best games ever created. It is very different from the first Gears of War. 
 It is a lot more fun, And how the hell did they get the graphics to look that good?! I mean, the 
 first Gears of War had better graphics then any other game besides Oblivion. Gears of War 2 managed 
 to pull off every thing detailed and very well designed. I probably have never liked a game this 
 much before I played the Left 4 Dead demo. Although the game is perfect, I do not recommend it 
 for anyone younger than 13. There is large amounts of blood and gore. There is a little bit of 
 language here and their though. If you want a perfect game with incredible everything (saying that 
 very enthusiastically! I am serious...) I would suggest this game. It has the best co-op around 
 too. The Internet connection is a lot better then the first Gears of War. I will say it again, 
 this game is the best game I have ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Actual score: 9.2
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, this is Gears of War. A blood soaked third person shooter filled to the brim 
 with highly addictive, explosive, fast-paced game play. "How," many would say, "can it get any 
 better?"
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with the Gears of War story, let me briefly fill you in. Humans have 
 been at war for our entire existence and the humans on the planet Sera are no exception. Little 
 did they know that an evil lurked beneath them the entire time. One day, the Locust horde struck, 
 a hellish mass of soldiers with deadly weaponry and even deadlier beasts. The Coalition of Gears, 
 one of the factions on the planet, united together to try and fight off this nemesis. However, 
 they were unsuccessful and continually were pushed back, further and further. The COG government 
 became so desperate that the leaders pardoned former prisoners and enlisted the sick and elderly 
 to fight in their ranks. Marcus Fenix, a supposed traitor, was among the pardoned. He and his friend 
 Dominic Santiago, along with the incredibly entertaining Delta Squad consisting of Augustus "Cole 
 Train" Cole and Damon Baird, went on to defeat the Locust horde.
  
  Or, so they thought. In fact, the Locust returned, even more powerful than before. Now, these fiends 
 are sinking, yes SINKING, cities and Jacinto is the last refuge for humanity. So now, the Gears 
 are tired of playing defense and must launch a desperate assault on the Locust hive.
  
  Epic amplified the storyline for Gears 2, adding more scenes of emotion and really pushing to get 
 the player to feel a sense of dread for the humans. For the most part, they did it miraculously. 
 The ever increasing effort by Dom to find his missing wife grows as the story continues, ever building 
 the intensity as Dom loses patience with the world and himself. Even the plight of the entire human 
 race takes on a new emotional standard.
  
  This reason may be because of the intense action of Gears 2. The battles you and your squad face 
 can only be described in one way: EPIC. Whether it be Marcus and Dom traveling aboard a massive 
 drilling rig, fending off hordes and hordes of Locust, or a variety of other fascinating sequences 
 (that would spoil the game) , Gears 2 never fails to please in this aspect. However, your teammate 
 AI leaves something to be desired. Much like the first game, these soldiers seem only capable of 
 being a distraction. Sure, Delta Squad may take down a few enemies here and there, but for the 
 most part, do not expect your flanks to be covered. And STILL, your allies cannot revive you if 
 you go down. The game simply ends and you must restart from the next checkpoint. The enemy AI seems 
 to have gotten a slight upgrade, as they flank and charge more aggressively than before. While 
 this is a welcome addition, the enemy AI still sits behind cover even if you shoot at an open portion 
 of their body. They make no effort to move to another spot in cover.
  
  Speaking of cover, many objects in the game now degrade under fire. This minor addition really 
 increases the difficulty of the entire game, as concrete barricades slowly wear away under heavy 
 fire and wooden boxes shatter from explosions. It adds a new tactical depth to the entirety of 
 the game. Even the new weapons add a dynamic level to the gameplay, from the portable Boom Shield 
 (think of a riot shield that can be planted into the ground) to the Gorgon Pistol (a burst fire 
 pistol) , each brings a different set of tactics into play. And did I mention chainsaw duels? If 
 you and your opponent both bring your chainsaw bayonets to bear that the same time, you enter into 
 a chainsaw duel. Here's a hint: mash the "B" button as fast as you can.
  
  Some other notable additions include better graphics, enhanced sound, and several new multiplayer 
 aspects. To begin, the graphics look better than ever. New colors pour through the screen, accenting 
 lush forests, golden sunsets, or dark corridors. Explosions look great and every weapon and character 
 features unique and wonderful detail. When I popped Gears into my disk tray and loaded up the campaign, 
 I first noticed the new sounds. The Lancer assault rifle sounds like a true beast of a weapon, 
 the Locust hiss and growl as devilish monsters should, and ambient noise still sounds great. If 
 any gamer has an HD TV, this game should be playing on it. Right now.
  
  Now, if Gears' multiplayer was great, this game's multiplayer is simply excellent. Besides being 
 expanded to handle 10 players instead of 8, new game modes really bring out the fun in Gears 2. 
 Warzone and Annex are still available to play on Gears 2 online. But new modes, such as Wingman, 
 where you and a partner compete against four other teams of two for domination, or Guardian, which 
 is a modified version of Assassination from the first game. New executions really make the game 
 that much more intense and players can now take downed enemies to use as meat-shields (a. k. a. human 
 shields) .
  
  Gears 2 still has Online and Offline co-op, where you and a partner can go through the entire campaign 
 together as Marcus and Dom. Epic even added the ability to adjust difficulty levels for each player. 
 For example, the individual playing as Dom can play the campaign on Insane (if he or she has unlocked 
 it) and the individual playing as Marcus and set theirs on Hardcore. It's a wonderful new way to 
 play with your friends without making the game too hard for one person. The difficulties feel just 
 right, as Epic added a new difficulty, titled "Normal." And as a warning to you all, Insane is 
 just that. Prepare for the fight of your life.
  
  However, one of the most welcome additions is Horde mode, where you and four other friends can 
 take on 50 waves of ever more difficult Locust soldiers.
  
  While Gears 2 answers some questions from the first game, it leaves too many open. Obviously, a 
 sequel is in order, but that does not mean the public could not have received some clearer answers 
 on certain subjects. The vehicle sequences are more numerous and, while not as annoying as the 
 first Gears' driving level, still take patience to complete.
  
  With a highly competitive multiplayer, addictive, rip-roaring combat, an emotional story, and brand 
 new additions, Gears of War 2 delivers to the public and stands as an excellent sequel to the first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is an amazing, intense, emotional and breath-taking adventure without a doubt. It 
 might not be everybody's cup of tea, but for those who love FPS shooters and fans of the original 
 Gears of War; this is a treat you cannot miss.
  
  In Gears 2, the story continues around 6 months after the last game, you still play as the bad-ass 
 soldier Marcus Fenix and of course in co-op, Dominic Santiago who are in the squad known as Delta. 
 Just as Marcus and the gang think everything's cooled down since the last encounter with the Locust 
 horde, they are very wrong, the Locust have become stronger and more aggressive than ever before. 
 So what's Delta squad's mission? Destroy the Locust of course! Drive those scums back to where 
 they came from and destroy every last one. Dominic, however, has his own personal mission along 
 with his main mission, to find his missing wife, Maria. With the help from his best friend Marcus, 
 will he find her? And will this long lasting war ever end?
  
  So as you might already know, you play the whole game through Marcus's perspective, or if you play 
 via co-op whether it is Xbox Live or Split-Screen, the other player will play as Dominic. Gears 
 2's gameplay style hasn't really changed in the sense of the shooting and the cover system, the 
 button layout is still more or less the same; 'A' to get into cover, 'Right Trigger' to shoot, 
 but many tweaks have been made to the game. Some of the tweaks are easy to spot if you've played 
 Gears 1 for long enough, but some you might not ever notice but they will help you. One of the 
 tweaks with the sniper rifle, that know stops the it from becoming the almighty weapon, is that 
 it no longer takes an active reloaded bullet to down an opponent. It now takes 2, which gives the 
 poor guy a chance to hide before the sniper finishes him off. 
  In addition to these tweaks, Epic has kindly and cleverly put some new execution moves and abilities 
 into the game. If you get downed, while bleeding out you can slowly crawl about out of the way 
 of the gunfire and maybe toward a team-mate of yours so you can be quickly revived. You can know 
 go into a chainsaw battle, if you and an opponent both come at each other with the lancer's chainsaw, 
 which requires you to rapidly tap 'B' to win. Grenades can now be tagged to walls and other obstacles 
 to create a type of proximity explosion. And one of my favourite new abilities, the new execution 
 system which means that you can either do the classic curb stomp, take your opponent as a human 
 shield, a simple crack on the head by pressing B, or if you really want to show off, the Y button 
 which makes your character beat the opponent in the face, or if for example you have a sniper or 
 a torque bow equipped, a cool gruesome execution using those weapons.
  
  Speaking of weapons, some new ones have been added to the game, some of which make the game that 
 bit more gruesome. The scorcher, a flame thrower, fits in perfectly with this game, it burns enemies 
 to a crisp and to hear that unlucky guy screaming as he's being burned alive... it's just a typical 
 Gears of War weapon, the more the gore, the better the war. The Locust weapon called 'Gorgon' is 
 a burst fire pistol which is rather powerful but a slow reload. A new grenade called the 'Ink Grenade' 
 is very poisonous and gases anyone who's in its radius. The 'Boomshield' is as you might have guessed, 
 a shield that if you hold down 'L' is used with a pistol to obviously be used as extra cover, or 
 if you press 'A', you can stick the shield in the ground to use as cover.
  
  There are many more tweaks and abilities that are new to Gears 2, such as the 'drop in, drop out' 
 feature for the split-screen co-op and the fact that smoke grenades now explode that knocks players 
 off their feet but luckily doesn't do any damage... otherwise it wouldn't really be a smoke grenade 
 would it? It'd be a smokeplosion grenade! But once you've completed the Campaign, what else are 
 you going to go on to? Of course, the multiplayer!
  
  With the new weapons and upgrades to the gameplay of Gears 2, what are you expecting the multiplayer 
 to be? I can give you one word; Brilliant. If you're a hardcore gamer when it comes to the multiplayer 
 side of games, this is a real essential! With 10 new maps, 5 re-mastered maps from the 1st Gears, 
 new characters and game modes; Gears of War 2's multiplayer is as good as it gets. The new multiplayer 
 modes include; Wingman, Submission, Guardian and Horde. Guardian is basically an update from 'Assassination' 
 from Gears 1, basically, in order to kill off your opponents; you must first kill their leader... 
 same goes for them. Submission is like Capture the Flag but with an AI controlled stranded guy 
 (beware, he knows how to shoot!) . Wingman is a very cool mode and perhaps one of my favourites, 
 here you're split up into teams of two and you must take out every other team, there are 5 teams 
 altogether, the team that reaches the point limit wins the match... simple. Finally, Horde, a mode 
 that makes up for the 4 player co-op we were hoping for in the Campaign, this time it's 5 player 
 co-op on any multiplayer map and you must take out hordes of AI controlled Locust, from Tickers 
 to Boomers and from Wretches to Thereon Guards, how long can you survive?
  
  Now in Gears 1, it was rather boring to play against you and a friend if you were wanting a 2 player 
 split-screen match because... well there were only 2 of you! In Gears 2, you can add bots, challenging 
 bots at that! The bots do basically everything you'd expect a Live player to do including reviving 
 their team-mates, and doing some serious execution moves to their enemies... oh and just a warning, 
 try to be careful on a sniper match against these bots when their difficulty is 'Insane', they 
 know how to pop a few heads. The bots can be put into every game mode except 'Horde'.
  
  So that's all I can think of to tell you about the amazing Gears of War 2, for those of you who 
 don't understand the fuss of the 1st one, you've got to give this a go, it's not worth missing. 
 Gears 2 offers everything you could wish for and more, another 360 classic.
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is an awesome game like its first entry title. The game has better graphics and 
 better variety of multiplayer option. This games controls are slightly better than the original 
 but not by much. I still get stuck on walls and obstacles around me and it does get frustrating. 
 New weapons have been added to make gameplay different than before. The grinder and flam thrower 
 and two main weapons that makes the game play totally different. Horde mode is great co op play 
 that adds alot of game time trying to get to wave 50 and its challenging. 
  
  There's alot to see in Gears 2. The enemy scripts seem to be improved making it difficult to pull 
 off a run an gun. Also turret guns seem a little weaker than it should. On normal difficulty it 
 is difficult to take down boomers with it. The game has its flaws with AI controlled teammates 
 running into hostile fire on insane getting killed alot and having to repeat the mission over. 
 
  
  The game does have a variety of options. It worth buying and playing through.. don't expect a boss 
 fight like RAAM at the end of the campaign.. because you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddiwidddi94
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this amazing game. it is an amzing game and probably the greatest game on 
 a main console and with amazinbg graphics better than the old one. 
  
  Let me tell you the story of this Gears of War game. The game is a carry on of the first one of 
 course which started with Marcus Pheonix in prison because he took his whole army to save his father 
 and the battle was lost. But it all started on Emergence day when the locust hordes attacked every 
 single major city on Sera. Well Gears of War 2 is about the COG army going to raise a fully blown 
 attack on the locust in there own home but they find out that a giant worm called the rift worm 
 that is sinking cities. Marcus, Dom, Baird, Cole and B. Carmine get sucked into the worm while trying 
 to get out the ilima sink hole. Carmine doesn't make it and gets killed but the others have to 
 destroy it and they go for the heart. In the end there are three hearts and you have to cut the 
 arteries around it and make it bleed to death. Marcus and Dom go to the locusts main home city 
 called nexus and they fight the new locust leader Skorge while the locust queen gets away. You 
 fight and kill Skorge while fighting him on a Reaver. The final assault is to sink Jacinto the 
 main city on Sera and let all the sea water sink into the locust hollow. I can't tell you anymore 
 or it will spoil the game.
  
  Well let me tell you the best features of GOW2. The main feature is obviously the graphics, they 
 are the most amazing graphics on a main console as I told you earlier. But the movement as i told 
 you in my Gears of War review are amazing moving from cover to cover and diveing to evade the locust 
 shots.
  
  I love both the Gears of War games and there has been tip offs that they will be a third one, and 
 by the ending of the game that is very possible. Thanks for reading. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  let me say that Gears of War 2 is an amazing game. The graphics are more crispier than the original, 
 we have new weapons like the flame thrower, this time around we have a story about love (Dom searching 
 for maria) new characters, you can even ride the enemies vehicles and lots of stuff to do. Now 
 we to search for items that put the story together like the tags in the first game
  
  I have to say the if gears of war 2 did not have that story that immerses you in a world different 
 than the first game this time around we have drama, love, hopes and dreams wrath up in a package. 
 Awesome cut scenes and voice acting makes it worth a play through on one or more difficulties. 
 
  
  this time around we have horde mode is a nice addition and gives a fresh look to the game. Imagine 
 your self playing the nasty locust wave after wave is satisfying but difficult. 
  
  I have bought the gears of war 2 limited edition and its a nice purchase its worth your money. 
 This game has been made for people in mind that wants to be immersed in a world that tries to survive 
 of extinction and it makes you feel like if you are in a movie. I highly recommended and if you 
 have a PS3 what are you waiting for to buy a 360 to play the game ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Mortars. Miniguns. Smoke Grenades... some of the new weapons you come across. Tickers. Brumaks. 
 Rockworms... some of the new enemies you'll face. And a new Carmine joins the action!
  
  I'll admit, when I've been playing this game for over several hours and enjoying the ton of stuff 
 they threw into the mix, I still have to think of what bad things this game has. Yes, it still 
 has some gaps that aren't filled. Yes, it has some limitations as the first one did. But its still 
 great. The multiplayer's as vibrant as ever, including the new Horde mode. 5 (yes, 5 players now) 
 players hunker down in a map and fend off wave after wave of Locust. I tried it briefly and its 
 been an intense experience, better played with friends.
  
  And one thing the game has that makes it easier on the Live-deprived 360 owners and the moderately 
 skilled player is that most of the achievements can be attained purely by playing it offline (an 
 estimated 800/1000 can be achieved offline, I believe) . This game is still one of the big releases 
 of 2008, and it IS one of the best games I've played in a while that isn't an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjohnson15
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  the sequel to gears was one that every xbox fan was creaming over.
  but on it's release, the game got mixed reviews for different aspects of the game. and here's my 
 review
  
  The campaign was absolutely mind blowing; gore, drama, death, and a great story left you wanting 
 more and wanting more of the story to unfold. but this brings me to my first point; the length 
 of the game. the game is surprisingly short. but with this is the sheer massiveness of the world 
 of sera, and the great cut scenes and voiceacting make it worth a play through on one or more difficulties.
 
  
  Multiplayer is a concern of mine though. the new system of finding team-mates, then the other team 
 just doesn't work. People just want to get thrown in into a game like gears one or call of duty 
 MWF and start shooting. but with this new system, you are left waiting for about 5 minutes for 
 team mates that sometimes leave, leaving you another 5 minutes for new teammates.
  the whole multiplayer aspect has a whole new feel, which doesn't work to gears 2's advantage. they 
 shold've stuck to the gears 1 system of online play.
  saying that, Hoarde just changes everything.
  i'm sure you've heard a lot about it and a lot 
 of people bigging it up, and they're right, hoarde is competitive as well as co-operative, giving 
 you a whole new way to play wiht your friends. Hoarde is what makes gears of war 2 great.
  without hoarde, hears 2 would be good for it's campaign alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shipangi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  if you've ever played the original gears, the reason it was so good is because of the flying bullets, 
 swat style maneuvering, insane close-combat executions and of coarse, the CHAINSAW.
  This i like to call thewar effect"
  
  In Gears2 , epic expanded on it adding great new features 
 and refined maps, making them 'destructible' and realistic. 
  
  The story is as they say it is. its downright emotional and action packed thriller at the same 
 time. its like mixing 'doom 3' and 'my little pony' with the works. if you know what i mean.
  
  The monsters are massive. you get a chance to destroy about 10 giant brumaks and ride one in 
 the campaign, but thats not all, they have creatures that are 1000x bigger than the brumak lol, 
 and giant 'atlantis' looking fish.
  
  i really love the cheesy talk from the COG, it makes you feel like a winner in some way but i like 
 it.
  FINALLY the multiplayer. the matchmaking system is totally unique. unlike cod and halo games who 
 copied off each others MP, "EPIC games" created a new matchmaking which makes MP games easier to 
 play. 
  
  
  
  gears of war 2 is truly a masterpiece, its a solid game with a few glitches but its worth it. on 
 my personal review i would rate it a (9.7/10) masterpiece.
  
  if you havnt yet played this game, i suggest you buy it and try it out for yourself. 100% worth 
 it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hitman360-
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay I'll start with the graphics. Well we all know how good the graphics were in the original 
 Gears of war game, don't we? The graphics in Gears 2 are better than that. I didn't think it'd 
 be possible but it is.
  
  The audio was great as well. In the previous game and this one explosions sounded like explosions, 
 gun fire sounded like gun fire etc, etc. 
  
  The environment was also spectacular. You can throw a grenade and everything blows up and gets 
 destroyed. Chunks of rock from your cover even get blown away. 
  
  The story was okay. The main story line was really good but if you pay attention all the characters (especially 
 Dom) have their own little story line. They don't tell you enough about these though. 
  
  Anyway, The best thing about this game I think is the weapons. The Original Gears didn't have enough 
 weapons! This one though has tons of them. More machine guns, more assualt rifles, more pistols 
 and more types of grenades. You even get a shield!
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 came out with high anticipation and it somewhat did not disappoint, even though 
 it has some flaws. The story is really really really good but at some points it seemed very boring 
 and tiring just looking at the screen, but thats either just me or that I was playing for a very 
 long time. The flamethrower is also a good weapon to be added into the game along with the others. 
 The fast tapping action to chainsaw someone who tried to chainsaw you at the same time was also 
 a great idea incorporated into the new Gears. 
  
  The multiplayer, however, is where I am going to point out some flaws. First of all, when you are 
 new to the game and have no ranking yet for Xbox Live matches, it takes forever (literally like 
 7-15) just to find a match to play in without a player in your party, sometimes even with. The 
 voting in the player lobbies before a match (if you ever get into the lobby) is a good idea but 
 sometimes it just sucks when you don't want to play a certain match on a certain stage. When you 
 finally get into the multiplayer though, it is still that great Gears of War action everybody has 
 been awaiting. 
  
  In the end, Gears of War 2 has a great single/co-op story mode and sweet mulitplayer, even though 
 there are some problems getting into that multiplayer experience.
  
  Robert's Score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishop60
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  ight peoplz this game is DA BOMB... ok first off lemmie tell u about the graphics, these graphics 
 are much better than the first 1, its more detailed and polished and it loooks soo much better.. 
 The gameplay.. omg it is so good u see bullets fire everywere, nd killing locust has never been 
 better, and when i first starting playing gow2 i knowtest the gameplay was different in a better 
 wayy than gow1.. its waaay mor fun than the first, and the online is fanominalllll.. they just 
 patched up the lookin for groups on xbox live so u can find a match much faster than b4.. it is 
 so freekin fun to play with ur friends, nd even better to play with ur friends is horde mode!!!!! 
 omg iv spent ours playing this with buddys and it never gets old.. so guyz if u read this i couldnt 
 type in everything i wanted to cuz it wood take 4 ever but trust me if ur smart u wood def get 
 this game TRUST ME ITS WORTH YOUR EVERY PENNY... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: private666ryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  amazing, brilliant, outstanding
  the stuff about Dom looking for his wife is sad and touching but not that great, it takes away 
 from what is really happening.
  the new guns are great, the new locust are amazing and well thought out. The new maps are better 
 then in Gears 1
  but the flash map pack maps are horrible
  they just feel different and look so different then in Gears 1
  the campaign was awesome
  the 
 story was great
  it didn't answer to many questions it just made tons of new ones
  the graphics are amazing, they blow you away at times
  the sound quality is great
  the voice 
 acting is good might be great but i dont know lol
  reminds me of gears of war 1 in many ways and improves in many ways but in the multiplayer it has 
 seemed to take a step back to some degree
  its like gears of war 1 is halo 1 and gears 2 is halo 2
  there all great games but the original 
 was way better
  i no its not a fair comparing gears 2 to halo 2 because gears 2 is much better then halo 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Review was posted now, because of the patch that came in recently. Let's just say I havn't been 
 on the forums or made a review for this long because of Gears2; so let that give you one good reason. 
 
  
  Sticking to the tradition and giving more variety to the spice of death in this game is worth a 
 9.0 a little bit far from flawless, and deserves a X Box Achievement and possible my "3 Gold Rings".
 
  
  Newly introduced characters arn't too corney, and fit in perfectly; voice acting, responses, part 
 of the whole story was carefully and correctly well done. The story also introduces A LOT of new 
 questions that will make you wait for Gears of war 3, so most likely if you finished Gears2, you 
 want Gears3 already coming out.
  
  Gears is full of genius idea's, and as bad as you thought the locust was in Gears1, it makes it 
 genius of how bad they are in Gears2 because when it comes to idea's with what the Gears universe 
 has, it's hard to come up with things like that.
  
  The new guns are also another thumbs up; the scortcher is a genius idea, and it's fair, the Mulcher 
 and Mauler can be unfair at times, especially in multiplayer, but other then that, it's fine.
 
  
  When it comes to flaw's; it's mainly multiplayer. 
  The only thing you can complain about is single player is if you get glitchy other then that, multiplayer 
 bugs are the flaw; but that's little to say.
  
  Multiplayer CAN be frustrating, and the bugs and glitches are still around, same with the host 
 thing which REALLY needs to be fixed. Sometimes you can be blowen away in one shot with the Ghashnr 
 shotgun, which is really frustrating because one sunday thats how i was dieing all day.
  
  But other than that, it's worth your money; don't bother getting limited edition though, you get 
 free codes for the golden lancer now.
  
  ----------
  
  THE GOOD:
  Cole Train
  New Weapons & Characters
  Story mode improved a lot
  Full of surprises and twists.
  No more 
 RAAM.
  New Multiplayer Modes
  Cole Train rocking the mic in the queen's palace.
  
  THE BAD:
  Host disadvantages,
  May seem unfair
  Everyone's mashing on THE B BUTTON!
  Glitches 
 & Bugs
  
  THE UGLY:
  Skorge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namlooc20
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  So I'm not a Gears fan at all. To be completely honest, I hated Gears of War because of the whole, 
 third person, shotgun multi-player. There was no strategy to the multi-player in Gears 1. However, 
 in Gears 2 they expand on the cover system and mulitplayer experience. I haven't had time in all 
 the different modes available but I know that the deathmatch modes are pretty amazing compared 
 to the gears one. Weapons are more balanced and headshots actually matter. The one thing I thought 
 was the best experience from Gears 2, Horde mode. I love this gametype so much. it honestly helps 
 with teamwork. So yeah, brief opinion by me.
  
  I give it about 9/10 due to some minor glitches with the cover mode. Not a game for people under 
 17 for any parents who read this. Gallons of blood. Tons of bad language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfmannn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game kicks major ass. Never played the first one but wow, now I'm thinking about what I missed 
 out on.
  
  Buy it - now!
  
  cinematics make you feel like you are part of a movie - it's almost surreal.
  
  weapons and 
 targeting can be a little suspect but I like the realism with the way the guns have kick back and 
 move you off target. It makes for a more challenging game and makes you work a little hardr for 
 it.
  
  Have had a little trouble in trying to get into cover mode. I guess the controls are a bit tempermental, 
 so it is probably just player error on my part.
  
  I think some of the plot or story points hit some dead ends at times and some are left unresolved. 
 But overall I think this is an amazing game.
  
  You should absolutely go out and buy it immediately. I don't think you need to rent this one in 
 order to make a decision, you can bypass Blockbuster and just go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game that hasn't already been said? The campaign is amazing, the graphics 
 are beautiful, the cover system is superb and everything in single player is so perfect it brings 
 tears to your eyes. Multiplayer brings tears to your eyes for a whole different reason though. 
 The matchmaking times are extremely long sometimes taking up to 15 minutes to find a game, which 
 is ridiculous because matches of Warzone only last about 5 to 10 min. There has been an update 
 to fix the matchmaking times, but it was a rushed update and in order to make matchmaking faster 
 they eliminated region filters so now matches are laggy. For now the multiplayer is deeply flawed 
 but I know that it will be fixed within 6 months, just like the previous Gears of War so there 
 is nothing to worry about when buying this game, you just have to wait a while to get the full 
 multiplayer experience. Everything else in the game is beautifully done and Horde is an insane 
 experience with your friends which you will keep coming back to. This game is a highly recommended 
 buy, just not yet, give it a few months to work the kinks out and you won't be disappointed. Also 
 I gave the game a 9 even with the current flaws because I KNOW that they will be fixed. With the 
 current flaws in multiplayer though I would give the game an 8.5 for now. Still a pretty good score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trainhoboVEGAS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is made as an epic masterpiece from the creators who made the Unreal series. Everything 
 in the game is beautiful; graphics, game play and also very high replay values when they start 
 playing a mini game known as horde which you get to fend off wave after wave. I would recommend 
 this game if people are truly the fan of it. Most likely ever since the Halo series was one of 
 the main attraction stating gears of war stolen their idea. Not really at all, even when millions 
 of people who enjoyed it? Gears of war 1 and 2 pretty much made the Halo and Doom series a very 
 huge push over. Which some people really thought of that. And now the outcome of this game is that 
 it came out perfectly as it is. Most people can't resist anticipating video games which are also 
 best selling. Like Halo for instance except for Halo 3 which is a little bit overrated, but fun. 
 If most people thinks that best selling games like Gears of war, Grand theft auto 4 , assassins 
 creed are very overrated? Then those people are highly ignorant on their opinion who has no idea 
 what they're talking about. How can it be overrated if it was only 40,000 reviews when Halo 3 is 
 actually has 506,000,000,00 reviews. Would not people consider that overrated? If people are too 
 stupid to talk, then they should not talk at all leaving comments that are very pointless. Some 
 games can be overrated, but not all of them. Neither Grand theft auto 4 or Gears of war is one 
 of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears_of_halo13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is a game you will never want to put down, from horde mode to the immersive campaign. If you 
 don't know what the Horde mode I am talking about is, it is a mode where you face 50 waves of Locust 
 (the enemies) . After each wave you succeed at, the next wave will be a little harder, until it 
 gets to the point where you will probably be yelling "HOLY CRAP". Anyways, the campaign has a great 
 storyline and ending. The game starts out 6 months after the first one. You won't be in many of 
 those crumpling cities, but more outdoors, like mountains, and you will also be going underground 
 to where the Locust live a lot. They have also introduced some more varieties of Locust, from the 
 Ticker, which is basically a suicide bomber Locust, to the Royal Guards, which are an upgrade to 
 the Theron Guards. They also introduced a ton more types of the Boomers (the really dumb and slow, 
 but big and strong Locust) , like the Grinder, which uses a heavy machine gun called the mulcher, 
 to the Butcher, which is a Boomer that uses a big butcher knife to attack you. The game does say 
 a lot of cuss words and is extremely bloody (it's Gears of War, what do you expect) , but if you 
 don't want your kids to see or hear that stuff, you can turn off the strong language and blood. 
 I hope that this review has been helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvuxboix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War. Amazing game. Now the sequel's out. Will it live up to its promises?
  
  Let me warn you by saying this game is very addictive. With an immersive single-player experience 
 and the ability to play with and against bots, even without the online (which I must say, is quite 
 amazing as well) , you'll still be hooked for months, even years to come (that is, if Gears 3 doesn't 
 come out) . Now then, onto the ACTUAL review (no more gawking)
  
  Graphics first. The game looks very similar to the first. That's what makes it amazing. Even though 
 it looks similar, there are some minor tweaks that make the graphics amazing as ever. Also, there's 
 blood splashing everywhere. And tiny bits of people after you destroy them. In hi-def. With supreme 
 awesome whipped on.
  
  Sound? The music sets a very nice tone, with a dramatic orchestra during intense battle sequences, 
 and some eerie tones when exploring lonely, desolate areas. Don't forget, the guns sound awesome 
 too (but who cares about how guns sound) . Dialogue is a nice touch as well, with lifelike characters 
 giving lifelike speech that seems to fit the situation (i. e. when you jam your gun: "GODDAMN SON 
 OF A B***H") .
  
  Gameplay has nice tidbits. The ol' tactics (take cover, shoot guy in face, take gun from guy) are 
 still as useful as ever, but now, there's many more things such as chainsaw duels (KSHHHHH) , the 
 ability to make grenades proximity mines, an exploding/stunning smoke grenade, some new weapons... 
 all of this will definitely let you have some fun!
  
  Re-playability is quite long, with a long single player campaign and 41 collectibles to find, that'll 
 keep you busy. Also, there's the multiplayer. 5 man teams square off in fights to the death in 
 7 different game modes with 10 maps to choose from. And that's available online OR single player. 
 Just go to training grounds, crank up the bots to insane (get ready to be pwned along the way) , 
 and have fun!
  
  I've covered the basics, now it's time for you to go out and try it. As you can see, I gave Gears 
 of War 2 a 10. It deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge gears of war fan. The first one had very difficult achievements that made the game 
 very personal to the player. Just knowing that you had to get 100 kills with a certain weapon shows 
 the variety of adaptation that a player had to go through to become good. The connection was the 
 main problem and that was with Host. But it also really depended on distance too. Let's face it 
 in the U. S. you won't have a good connection to other countries. This game made some fine adjustments. 
 Let me start. 
  
  
  Gears of War 2 toned down the sniper. It is almost as if downs don't happen anymore with it. Players 
 either get headshots or damage the enemy. Now, the other weapons. The shotgun in my opinion is 
 horrible. Why make the most used weapon so bad? The lancer is above all cheap. They made it to 
 the point where it makes the person invincible unless someone else chainsawed the user. The shotgun 
 really does nothing. In Gears 1, if you shot someone in the back they'd at least get downed. This 
 one, you shoot em in the back once they barely get damaged. What was going through the creators 
 minds? The scorcher and proximity grenades is a nice touch. But proximity smoke grenades? Come 
 on, I personally think it makes the game ten times as annoying because everyone starts with them. 
 If you picked them up i think that would be fair but in territories, everything gets so frustrating 
 because the smoke grenades never end. 
  
  I think the story is better, even though I haven't beat it all. The unlockable feature is very 
 cool. I like the idea of unlocking characters. Good Job Epic! 
  
  Horde is sweet. The whole co-op experience makes you and your friends all get along rather than 
 having people mad. You work together and it is a great addition to the Gears series. 
  
  
  But overall, the online multiplayer is horrible. I played gears one because the multiplayer 
 was so intense and satisfying. Fighting lag made the person have to become very good. Even though 
 preactives ruined that but in this game I feel like the shotgun is useless and the lancer is the 
 way to go which to me is a very poor assumption that Epic made. Other weapons like the boom got 
 toned down a bit too and they gave you an extra bullet, which is sort of stupid. It makes sense 
 to have less and do more damage, they are rockets for Christs sake!
  
  
  I gave it a 9 because the multiplayer needs a lot of work. It takes forever to find matches because 
 it tries to even out the players skills but at times when you have five people it is still slow. 
 They need to fix these issues otherwise I may go back to gears one. The levels they brought back 
 were decent except tyro. I wish they brought back Process. But really, the new levels aren't too 
 great and they need to get rid of the Mortar and Mulchur and make it in certain game modes, even 
 though they can be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok. First of all, the game is great, really. It has great Multiplayer and a great Campaign and 
 can be very fun and addicting. So let's start this off...
  
  Campagain ~ 
  
  ~ Much better then it's predeccesor. Better and deeper story. Inproved mechanics in general and 
 alot longer.
  
  Multiplayer ~ 
  
  ~ Still that great Multplayer you liked in the first game. Fast and Intence. There were a couple 
 of changes through transaction.
  
  1. Chainsaw Duals. They are alot of fun, if your a spaz.
  
  2. New weapons. Some are fun, Scorchers 
 sweet, Mortar is kind of cheap.
  
  3. Old weapons. Hammer of Dawn is more powerfull, There is now stopping power. So don't try to 
 be SuperMan anymore. Shotguns aren't so great anymore. Good or Bad? You decide.
  
  4. Some good maps, you can also download some old ones like Gridlock and Mansion for free with 
 your purchase, so everythings cool.
  
  Problems ~
  
  ~ The problems I truley have with Gears of War 2 are that the game still glitches like crazy. Don't 
 forget the lag as well. People can still glitch certain weapons and be cheap as well.
  
  During Multiplayer you're bound to get very frustrated.
  
  Overall ~ 
  
  ~ Overall the 
 game is fun and I recommened it you any Gears of War fans and newcomers. It's not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom9610
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  A Deeper Plot then the first makes this game VERY enjoyable. The online multiplayer is incredible 
 and the graphics put this game near the top of the all time best shooters list. Party system and 
 skill-based online matchmaking make the online player in this game one of the best online shooters. 
 Definitely buy this game and build your skills with the new weapons (yes, including the chainsaws) 
 There is no doubt the gears of war 2 single player gameplay sets the mood for the entire game. A 
 great thing about this game is just the little details in the graphics, they make the game look 
 very good on the HD TV's. Gears of War 2 continues to push deep, immersive storytelling in video 
 games to greater heights. With Plenty of Add-ons and plenty of extras: This is the best Shooter 
 of 2008. Gears of War 2 is a must buy for the Xbox 360 this Christmas! Go out and buy it now!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is Gears of War.
  I mean they really couldn't do much different with this franchise. Why change a winning formula? 
 The first game lacked color, the game play remained the same from beginning to end, strategy never 
 changed, and the storyline was secondary.
  Part 2 sees more of the same. Yet somehow the game is still exceedingly good and action packed. 
 
  With the exception of the Centaur stage the entire game is a masterpiece. Somehow you never get 
 tired of ducking behind the next available piece of rock to cover your head from getting blown 
 off. The graphics are better though marginally so. The highly touted 'lots of people on screen' 
 technology pops up from time to time but it really adds nothing to the gameplay. The new guns are 
 tons of fun (how I love the muclher and the mortar) . Boss battles are easy and pattern based. The 
 rides are fun. the Brumark is a fun thrilling ride and you really get the sense you are riding 
 a true war machine. 
  The storyline isn't much better and sees you going underground back up and under again as if the 
 writers were creating it as they went along. Dom and his wife. nice touch.. very Hollywood, Carmine's 
 death came straight from Starship Troopers and they ate a rock coming up with the Riftworm (that 
 was pretty lame) the human looking queen.. sheesh. Anyway be honest you are not playing this game 
 for the storyline; you are here to kill grubs.
  Multiplayer is awesome and folks are always online!
  Over all good game and since I gave the 
 last one a 9, I'll give this one 9 since it is the same game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 without a doubt is one of the best games of the year. It does a great job on improving 
 faults in the first one while still managing to create new and fun modes and game mechanics. One 
 thing that this game does to improve over its predecessor that makes the game fun is the emphasis 
 it has more on story. Now don't get me wrong it still isn't a great story but its miles better 
 than the first one's. It also does a great job of implementing seamless drop in and out co op in 
 campaign. The controls of course are as tight as ever and everything about the game is still just 
 as solid as the first game. Now on the multiplayer front they added a feature where you're able 
 to party up with friends and search for matches with them. This however is bitter sweet because 
 while you are able to play with friends it takes forever to find a match and if you have an odd 
 number of players it can take upwards of 10 minutes to find a single match. Multiplayer gameplay 
 wise its still as tight as ever with the exception of the toned down shotgun and amped up chainsaw. 
 Since they added the stopping power it is much harder to rush opponents so now there is more emphasis 
 on cover based shooting. This is great except for the fact they did this at the expense of the 
 shotgun. Not only is it weaker now but its is much less accurate. Another gripe is the level of 
 easiness anyone is able to chainsaw now, there is absolutely no way to stun them when they are 
 close other than dueling them which is working very nicely. Also one other broken mechanic they've 
 added in the game is the addition of concussive grenades and the ability to tag them to walls. 
 This is a broken feature that leads to a 10 second downing or unconsciousness that lets the enemy 
 come up and kill you before you can get up. Despite these cons gears 2 succeeds on all its other 
 new additions for example the addition of their new game modes are extremely fun and will keep 
 you playing forever especially horde mode which works flawlessly. The new weapons all work well 
 especially in multiplayer and there seem to be no problems with them or their power. Lastly one 
 of the most useful features is that they added an in game achievement tracker so you know exactly 
 how close or far you are from getting an achievement. Once again though despite these few problems 
 gears 2 succeeds on so many other fronts and maintaining its winning core gameplay that the game 
 is still magnificently solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantiscool10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- Amazing. Up there rivaling Crysis. I havent seen anything better on the 360 yet. Epic 
 really pushed the limits with this one.
  
  Sound- Also awesome. Everything from the voice acting to the weapon sounds to the music is great. 
 Especially the original score, which is really awesome because Im kind of a music nerd.
  
  Gameplay- Its really different from most other games out there, with all the cool weapons and active 
 reloads and stuff. It does have a bit of a steep learning curve, though. Online multiplayer has 
 improved a crapload from all the host crap in Gears 1. The only weird thing is the controls on 
 one of the vehicle sections are a bit weird.
  
  Summary- Has it all. It has the goriest level you have ever played, the funniest cutscene you ever 
 watched, and the craziest end level you have ever played (well maybe not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefedov
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I played the story mode on hardcore first, and now I'm playing on insane. This game is ridiculously 
 addictive, i don't think the multilayer will ever get boring. All the game modes are pretty awesome, 
 except for stupid annex, i just hate that **** on a personal level. But otherwise i am still playing 
 with buddies and kicking ass. And the chapters on insane difficulty take twice as long to beat. 
 Mainly because all the enemies are shooting at you and your bullets are marshmallows compared to 
 theirs. But this keeps it challenging. Hardcore was easy to finish, and you can get most of the 
 achievements by just completing every act. Comparing this to the first one; this game has a lot 
 more features and extra ****. Gears 2 has proximity mines, new weapons, new enemies, new game modes 
 like horde. Some enemies are missing though, but you wont care once your one chapter in. Still 
 an awesome game, great for competitive game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobo290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10- Maybe even better than the first......
  
  Sound: 9.0/10- Nice voice acting, each weapon has a very distinctive sound.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 10/10- OMG, this is where it shines! Fun offline/online cop-op, a total of 8 multiplayer modes! 
 And a matchmaking system where you can go as a party! Very diverse! HORDE!!!
  
  New features include "stopping power" where you can slow down enemires by shooting them. Horde 
 mode where you survive wave after wave of locust with up to 5 people, New weapons such as the Mortar 
 and Gorgon pistol. Matchmaking system which I mentioned earlier. New execution moves. (which is 
 my favorite) AND SUICDE BOMBER!!!!
  
  One thing I didn't like was that EPIC kind of dumbed down the game for newcomers.....
  It's a 
 lot easier to chainsaw people, it's easier to get achievements for this game, the 2-piece is lot 
 used more frequently. But nevertheless still an awesome game......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXl_IMoRTaL_lXx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Alright. Gears 2. Just like Cliffy B. said. Bigger. Better. And more Badass. It's overall a must 
 play if you like these little disk things called videogames. Even Gears 1 was an amazing title, 
 and this has obviously improved in many categories including, campaign being longer, more immersive 
 and touching, tougher AI, deeper online play, upgrades in graphics, more brutal executions and 
 game mechanics, and the 5 player co-op Horde mode. Overall, Gears 2 is just a great package. Although, 
 I must admit there are mistakes to be fixed, certain aggrevations in online play, lag and pretty 
 aweful vehicle levels, however, EPIC is sure to patch up the online problems... and as for the 
 vehicle levels, I say EPIC should just drop them in Gears 3. So, yeah, go pick this title up, and 
 if you don't have a 360, this game may be the reason why you go pick one up. 
  FOR THE HORDE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Unlike a PC a console is always staying the same as technology advances a developer has to make 
 do with the same hardware until they bring an all new machine and that brings me onto the xbox 
 360 this is a powerful machine and this series is all about visuals epic battles so its good that 
 EPIC did not dissapoint in making gears 2 because its without doubt a great sequel and one of the 
 best 360 games period.
  
  Single player
  
  Cliff said that gears 2 would be a deeper darker game but would have a love story with dom looking 
 for his wife so its basically two story lines at once through the whole game and the question people 
 will be asking does it work? Well yes actually it does gears 2 is not going to make you weep but 
 it will make you feel for the characters at times and as a lot of people will know its not easy 
 making a bad ass game with emotion but epic have done it pretty well and thats an achievement itself. 
 The single player takes 9-11 hours depending on how fast you go thorugh you should have it done 
 possibly in seven or eight hours but the good news is this game does not have a short single player 
 but a decent length.
  
  Co-op 2 players
  
  Gears of war 2 works just fine with 2 players a lot of people seem to demand 4 player co-op like 
 halo 3 but as the team will tell you 2 players fit just nicely.
  
  Horde mode
  
  Horde mode is where 5 players survive up to 50 waves of locust and you have the casual mode all 
 the way up to the tv bashing Insane but this is a mode where you must work as a team or else you 
 will constantly fail because this gears you need a lot of bullets to bring down boomers and that 
 is what makes horde so dam good on highwaves you need to run for more ammo if your camping in day 
 one so it becomes exciting as you go through the waves and you get a nice achievement if you get 
 to wave 50.
  
  Achievements in gears of war 2
  
  The previous gears was no easy game you really had a lot of restrictions so bad i ended up with 
 190/1250 but im not a point whore so you know but onto the achievements they are in one word "fantastic" 
 you can basically get them anyway in any mode they are not that hard so now i have 620/1000 a good 
 amount but i still need to do insane for the big 150GS.
  
  Multiplayer 10 v 10
  
  Excellent as always no shotgun rushers more balanced except for the awful matchmaking which i hear 
 is slightly better but overall just classic gears of war with screenshot mode where you can take 
 pics of anything you see when dead its great.
  
  Pros
  
  Bigger
  
  Better
  
  More bad ass
  
  Cons
  
  slow matchmaking
  
  VERDICT
  
  Bigger better more bad ass 
 is what my verdict is people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlanticRock
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  If you never played the original Gears of War, story-wise you won't be missing much. But the online 
 multiplayer is where it's going to get rough for those who haven't played the game before. The 
 mechanics for vets are easy to jump into and tweak to get around tight spots using some "tricks". 
 Newcomers will have a rough time getting adjusting to the wall-hump that happens everyonce in awhile, 
 so it'll take a few tries on a couple easy maps to get used to the fighting system.
  
  The online multiplayer matchmaking is somewhat better than the originals, where in the first game 
 you'd have to host your own game or search for a ranked match. In Gears 2, they follow in Halo 
 3's footsteps where you can have your own party of friends (up to 5 depending on the game mode) 
 and search for an opposing team. The problem with the matchmaking is that if you have 4 members 
 and start the search you'll be looking for a lone member for a long time since with the NXE everyone 
 now already has 5-man-teams.
  
  The weapons have changed power-wise from the first game. The shotgun is still brutal in close combat, 
 but it can't stop the all-powered: Lancer. In Gears 2 the creators thought it'd be fun to add chainsaw 
 duels and give people a fighting chance to stop the chainsaw from cutting you in half... but what 
 they didn't do is work out how to stop a chainsaw with any other guns, because you can shoot a 
 opponent with any gun but end up getting chainsawed, it's a big problem for me.
  
  The sound, graphics, and overall presentation is great and I haven't run into any bugs during single 
 player or multiplayer. The game is awesome if you like 3rd person shooters and the story is real 
 fun. Keep the kids away if you don't want to expose them to the violence and swearing that is rampant 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganon92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is larger in scale than its predecessor. Often throughout the game you'll come across 
 larger conflicts involving more CoG soldiers than just your normal squad, like you'd expect from 
 the original. You'll find that there will be more enemies to fight in each set piece, however the 
 numbers are not hugely more than you'd expect from the first game. There are however scenes where 
 you'll see hordes of locust. You'll be able to kill these enemies (which helps considering the 
 100,000 kills required for the 'Seriously 2.0' achievement) , although they won't fight back and 
 will always be at least a few hundred metres away from you. 
  
  The game introduces quite a few new weapons from the first. Including the Gorgon pistol, the Flamer, 
 the Mulcher (a minigun) and a shield (similar in use to those in R6 Vegas) ; to name a few. There 
 are new executions, including the new use of the Y button, which will either result in you punching 
 your downed enemy in the face until they die, or an execution exclusive to the weapon you have 
 at hand. For instance, with the sniper rifle, your character will use it as a sledgehammer and 
 whack the enemy in the back of the head with it. 
  These new elements improve the gameplay as well as making the game feel that bit more 'badass'.
 
  
  The graphics are improved over the first game, especially the character models and their facial 
 animations. The improvements are not hugely drastic, however. The difference between GoW and GoW2 
 is similar to that of the difference between GRAW and GRAW 2, or R6 Vegas and R6 Vegas 2.
  
  Playing the game with friends is the way to go. It makes the game at least twice as fun as 
 it would be alternatively. This includes playing the Campaign Co-op, Online versus multiplayer, 
 or the new Horde mode. Horde mode is good fun and adds a lot more playability to the game, as you 
 face more and more enemies, getting stronger after every few rounds. Again, this is best played 
 with friends, primarily because it is impossible to get much farther than wave 10 alone, even on 
 casual difficulty. 
  
  All in all, this gave is a good choice if you're looking for a game that is good with friends and 
 will give you some good game time for a few months.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Entertaining single player that satisfied my Gears cravings and yet left me hyped for Gears 3.
 
  
  There is a lot to love in Gears 2, but it would be hard to detail that out without having a lot 
 of spoilers in the review. There are some things to get annoyed with also, but again to detail 
 them out would be spoiler.
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful. Not so much in the character models, so when you first start 
 to play the training mission you may not be impressed. However, once you get into the full blown 
 game there are lots of large vistas and nice colors. Lots of eye candy.
  
  The sound, Voice: As solid as the first game. Yes it's over the top cheese, but that is how it's 
 supposed to be and it's done well. Also, it's not all cheese, in fact, there were a number of times 
 (even something as simple as a gun jam) where the characters say exactly what I was thinking.
 
  
  The sound: Music: When I noticed it, it seemed appropriate and added to the atmosphere.
  
  Blood: Um I added this category. If you like blood you will like this game. I mean really like 
 this game I mean you are swimming in it in this game. The game is very, very bloody. It also has 
 an intense a mature themed scene that goes beyond blood that most parents would likely not be happy 
 with. Lucky this is a mature rated game and no self respecting parent will be buying this game 
 for their kids, so no worries. Though I am surprised I haven't heard more people throw a fit about 
 it. I guess that's the power of "its going to be a movie". Doesn't bother me, but I felt it was 
 worth a mention.
  
  Game play: The stop and pop game play is back and as fun as ever. There is some unnecessary vehicle 
 sections which bring the game play down a bit. well except the last one, that was just cool and 
 the one boss fight seems to ignore the need for cover but it was still entertaining. There are 
 sections in this game where it's clear Epic wanted to show something off (and they do have a lot 
 to show off) but IMHO they made it work into the story nicely. New additions like the flamethrower, 
 mortar and mobile chaingun are great fun and the Hammer of Dawn was actually quite useful in more 
 then just scripted events. 
  
  Story: I liked it. The Dom thing was, to me, powerful and the rest has left me wanting to see more 
 of the story (hopefully in Gears 3 and/or Gears 4 not just the movie) .
  
  In the end most of the annoying sections of the game were quite short (except one) and the game 
 was compelling enough that I never really found a "stopping point" to go walk the dog and eat, 
 sleep and such. Every battle seemed like the final, climatic battle and that's what you expect 
 out of a game like Gears. (also, I think this game does a better job then Gears one in living up 
 to the Strange World commercial from the first game. If you remember that commercial you will get 
 to a point in this game that should make you say "coooolll" actually there are a lot of those 
 points but I think you will know which one I mean) .
  
  Anyway, I would easily recommend this at full price, and that's without even thinking multiplayer.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Despite its obvious ending, there's no denying that Gears of War reset the bar for what we, as 
 a gaming society, expect out of a good console-based third-person shooter. More specifically, Gears 
 of War was made a classic due to its incredible audiovisual presentation, great cover system and 
 solid online. While the sequel doesn't change the winning formula, it introduces new environments, 
 enemies and weapons that refine what its predecessor accomplished. The 10-hour campaign is highly 
 entertaining with epic confrontations and emotional moments. The multiplayer offers four new modes 
 and supports up to ten players instead of eight. These factors blend together to make one fantastic 
 package that no action fan should miss out on.
  
  The story in Gears of War 2 picks up six months after the ending of the first one. The Locust survived 
 the Lightmass Bomb and are now sinking entire cities from below. The humans are becoming even more 
 desperate now due to a disease called rust lung. Jacinto, the humans' last safe city, is now in 
 danger, and it's up to Marcus Fenix and Dominic Santiago to take the fight to the Locust. Survival 
 is the key plot in the story, but there's also death, love and family mixed in with the grand plot. 
 And while it ultimately ends up leaving you with more questions than answers, the game has a much 
 more engaging story than its predecessor. 
  
  The gameplay is nearly the same as the first game, but anyone who's played it should notice some 
 new refinements. The cover system makes you cling to objects more accurately and the weapons are 
 more balanced than before. The revival system has been considerably altered. Your teammates can 
 now revive you when you play the campaign, and you'll also be able to crawl towards them by repeatedly 
 tapping A. If you happen to be holding a grenade when downed, you can blow a foe up with if he's 
 next to you. These changes make the difficulty seem a lot fairer and create many exciting moments 
 where you crawl to your teammates before the enemy kills you.
  
  While the lancer still remains your go-to weapon for the campaign, there are some new weapons that 
 have been added. New to the series is the flamethrower, which is excellent for close-quarter combat. 
 There are also some heavier weapons that prevent you from roadie running but make up for it with 
 their impressive firepower. The mulcher is a high-caliber that can cut through large enemies within 
 a matter of seconds, and the mortar rains explosives down on your enemies. The grenades have also 
 been improved; you can stick them to walls to use as proximity mines, there's one that delivers 
 a cloud of poisonous gas, and the smoke grenade features an after-blast that knocks players to 
 the ground.
  
  Gears of War was one of-if not-the most violent game [s] to come out in 2006, and its sequel takes 
 it to an even higher level. You'll now have four ways to kill an enemy, all of which are on the 
 joypad. X will perform the classic curb stomp, B delivers a melee attack to the back of the head, 
 Y flips your enemy over to repeatedly punch him to death, and A allows you to grab downed enemies 
 to use as meat shields, granting you some cover until they get shot dead, or until you decide to 
 break his neck. If you ready a chainsaw from behind an enemy, it will saw upward, and if two players 
 ready their chainsaws, the duo enter a duel that's one by the person who can tap the B button faster. 
 These new additions make the already satisfying melee combat even better.
  
  Gears of War 2 features different environments than its predecessor. The first game featured devastated 
 cities and crumpling monuments, but the majority of your time will be spent in outdoor spaces and 
 underground caverns. You'll also notice some new enemies, and the reappearance of old ones, except 
 for the Berserker and Kryll. There are different types of Boomers, ranging from ones that have 
 flamethrowers or boomshields, which act a lot like a meat shield. Some enemies you'll encounter 
 are so huge that you'll have to go inside them to kill them. There are also vehicle sections, and 
 although they can be a bit annoying, they are short and infrequent.
  
  While the lack of a four-player co-op campaign mode is a definite disappointment, the two-player 
 co-op features drop-in support and independent difficulty levels. The competitive multiplayer is 
 engaging, fun and flat-out more addicting than before. Warzone, Execution, Annex and Assassination 
 are still here, along with King of the Hill, being introduced in the PC version. There are three 
 new multiplayer modes called Wingman, Submission and Guardian. Submission is like Capture the Flag, 
 except the flag is a civilian, which you have to down and carry to a checkpoint using the meat 
 shield option. The civilian also has a gun and is hostile to anyone that comes toward him, adding 
 a good twist to the mode. Guardian is exactly like Assassination; keep the team leader alive and 
 everyone can respawn, but if he dies, that privilege is done. Wingman has five teams of two players 
 in each, and team has to work together to stay alive, much like Army of Two. These modes may sound 
 familiar, but they fit perfectly into the Gears of War 2 multiplayer and add tons of longevity 
 to it. The advantages of being the host are reduced, making the match fairer.
  
  The last multiplayer mode is Horde, and it's the most addicting mode of them all. Five COG soldiers 
 take on fifty waves of Locust attacks, and each wave gets harder with larger enemies. As long as 
 one player stays alive at the end of each wave, the game keeps progressing. There are five different 
 training missions for multiplayer with bot players to help novices get a feel for the multiplayer. 
 You can also have bot players for any mode except Horde.
  
  There are ten multiplayer maps in total, plus a code to download five reasserted ones from the 
 previous game. Most of the maps are inspired by the campaign locations, but environmental effects 
 change some maps as you're playing. For example, the map Hail features razor-sharp rain that eventually 
 kills anyone left out in the open. Also, Avalanche gets completely transformed when a snowstorm 
 hits, and it instantly kills anyone in the open. These effects aren't featured in every multiplayer 
 map and mode, but they do add more excitement to the otherwise typical game modes.
  
  Gears of War was undoubtedly the best-looking game to come out in 2006. The sequel raises the bar 
 again, featuring gorgeous environments and character models. The visuals also offer walls that 
 crumple under gunfire and, at one point, several dozen enemies on screen at once. It's hard to 
 say if the audio is even better than the visuals, since the voice acting, great weapon effects 
 and an incredible cinematic soundtrack, but there's no question that the two work extremely well 
 together.
  
  Gears of War 2 feels a lot like its predecessor, but the new environments, enemies, weapons, gameplay 
 tweaks and multiplayer modes make it seem like a dramatically different and bigger game. The co-op 
 options, weapons and melee attacks make for an epic single player experience that you'll want to 
 complete numerous times, and the multiplayer modes add loads of longevity. It all comes together 
 to form an outstanding package that is most definitely one of the year's best. 
  
  Final Score - 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  
  The highly anticipated Gears of War 2 has arrived and it delivers. Marcus Fenix and the COG army 
 are back to blast, blow up, and chainsaw the locust. With new weapons, grenades, and 11 unique 
 and gruesome executions that will never grow old. The campaign is phenomenal, with outstanding 
 voice acting, dialogue, and non-stop action. The boss fights are mind-boggling and will leave you 
 amazed. Moreover, a new mode called horde has been added. where you battle waves after waves of 
 locust alone or online with friends. The multiplayer features many modes, including, wingman, elimination 
 (warzone, execution, Guardian) , territories (annex, king of the hill, and submission) , people's 
 choice (vote for any mode) , and if you enter the code that was given, you will receive the flashback 
 maps, which allows you to play favorite maps from the first Gears of War, such as Gridlock. At 
 first, if you did not play Gears before, you will probably be horrible online, but after a short 
 time you will be a great competitor. Also, there are many characters to choose from for online 
 play, some which need to be unlocked through the campaign. Not to forget, the drop-in drop-out 
 Co-op mode, which supports up to 5 players. Overall, Gears of War 2 is personally one of my favorite 
 games of all time and thankfully it did not disappoint. With only two minor problems in my experience, 
 being the difficulty controlling vehicles and the time it takes to gather a online match. Other 
 than that, sit back and enjoy the amazing visuals and the non-stop-blood-thirsty gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  First let me just say, that if you have never played GEARS, you MUST play GEARS1 before you play 
 GEARS2 to ensure the storyline has the power Epic has worked so hard on. Also make sure you let 
 the Credits run to the very end on GEARS2 ............. it will reveal something that will make 
 go ........... WOW!! I need to know whats going to happen!
  
  My Brother and I have played through the Original GEARS twice and set aside the entire opening 
 weekend for GEAR2, we simply couldn't stop until we finished (its approx 15+ hours, longer than 
 the original) , the game BLEW US AWAY!! It is an improvement on the original in every possible way 
 and at the same time stays true to the character of the original (and the first GEARS was AWESOME!) , 
 a Perfect sequel. 
  
  If you can play both GEARS games Co-op locally, it just enhances the experience like the Gamespot 
 review says to have someone there to turn to and say OMG I've never seen anything like that.
  
  This game will move you on every level and afterwards you will constantly think about how AMAZING 
 IT IS .......... I WANT TO PLAY IT AGAIN!
  
  EPIC games ........... THANK YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supppergamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game should be game of the year... i played the first gears and the campaign for Gears of War 
 2 is soooo much better. Another great thing is you can do the campaign with other online players 
 which i do enjoy... i love playing with all my friends. You can also fight wave of locuses with 
 5 other people, it is a great experience to do, that is wear u can really try out your skills in 
 these new weapons. That is actually a great thing... some of these new weapons are great.. like 
 the flamethrower which is one of my favorites. This game defiantly made me better at first person 
 shooters. The only bad thing about this game is the online play, the setup is pretty bad, and the 
 thing that still sucks is the chainsaws on the lancers, there are difficult to fight with but now 
 u can do a chainsaw duel but i still give this game a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Gears has what every gears fan wanted..... more gears. Gears returns with more of everything. The 
 enemies are more varied as are the environments and weapons. Gears 2 addresses the few problems 
 that gears 1 had. ONE, gears had those annoying kryll, gears 2 dosen't. TWO, more varied environments. 
 And THREE gears 1 was SHORT!!!!!! gears two is still short, but not as short.
  Gears returns with all of what is expected of gears by now. Amazing sound, controls, gameplay and 
 atmosphere. But not all is fixed or perfected in gears. The "A" button doing pretty much everything 
 is still problematic at times, but has been fixed for the most part. Gears 2 is longer, about 2 
 hours longer, but that still is about only 8 hours long (average length for a shooter) but I expected 
 more. Also gears 1 is more memerable. You will have a blast playing gears offline as well as online 
 but as online stands it is broken. As they have upped the anti from 8 players online to 10 and 
 has been improved across the board and will be played by gears lovers for a long time to come if 
 they fix the huge quantity of issues. You will have an amazing experience with gears 2 and will 
 get enough bang for your buck, but the single player feels like they traded quality for quantity 
 to a small extent, it is two hours longer than gears 1 but gears 1 was more memerable overall. 
 I still remember amazing moments from gears 1 like the train level at the end or the berserker 
 chasing you though the halls (berserker is gone) and gears 2 may have those moments but they arn't 
 as mind blowing as those in gears 1 were. Gears 2 is larger in scale but not on impact, as many 
 of the huge moments make you feel dwarfed. Like on the level where you are riding those huge @$$ 
 vehicles (I think they are called elephants) and planes are being shot down and bullets are flying 
 everywhere and things are exploding everywhere which is cool, but you feel like your standing there 
 with your little lancer and arn't making much of a difference as you would make it though that 
 sequence if you tried you best to kill as many locust as you can or if you just stood there the 
 sequence would end the same way, making what you do feel like too small of an impact on what happens 
 to you and your team. Story is made out to be a big part of the game but is actually realy terrible, 
 voice acting is terrible (as it was in the first game) and the story itself makes less sense than 
 final fantasy series story does. The story dosen't add anything to the experience and actualy detracts 
 from it. You realy won't care what happens to maria and what does happen is very expected. Gears 
 2 is on some fronts a disappointment, but the core experience is amazingly fun and should be played 
 by everyone with an Xbox but it dosn't make as big of an impact as gears 1 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurf_55
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over; the sequel to one of the most successful Xbox 360 titles and winner of 
 numerous Game of the year Awards has returned with 100% more badassery. Epic has taken everything 
 that made the original game so good, injected it with 300 gallons of awesome-sauce and crafted 
 one of the best games to be released this year, and even perhaps of all time.
  
  The story starts after the Lightmass bomb was dropped shortly after Marcus and Dom conquered the 
 evil RAAM. Humanity was saved and all is well. Well that's not entirely accurate. The bomb didn't 
 exactly do its job. Instead of wiping out the remaining Locusts, it pissed them off. So they decide 
 to start sinking cities on Sera. The only city left standing is Jacinto whose foundation is thick 
 enough to keep the Locust at bay, but not for long. The Locust are poised to finish off humanity 
 and sink Jacinto. But it won't come easy as they have to deal with Marcus, Dom and the rest of 
 Delta Squad as they serve as humanity's last hope.
  
  
  
  
  Epic Games made Gears 2 more of an impact than the first in that they have created a deeper and 
 more involved story. In the first game, we saw four main characters (Fenix, Dom, Cole and Baird) 
 in which we didn't really "care" for (read: if something happened to them, oh well) . This time 
 the story revolves around Marcus and Dom although there are three new characters thrown into the 
 war. While the story keeps the focus on our two heroes, Epic did a wonderful job on giving the 
 new characters meaningful roles that enhance the story and drama of Gears 2.
  
  One of the major differences from the last game is that the story plays a bigger role. Characters 
 are more emotional, there is more detail on the Locusts and where they came from (we even get to 
 see the dreaded Queen) and there are new story threads that open up. Some of which are wrapped 
 up at the conclusion of the game, while some questions are still left unanswered.
  
  There are two different focuses of the story: the first, and most palpable, is the struggle of 
 Delta and the rest of the COGS to finish the fight and eliminate the Locust threat. The other is 
 Dom's search for his missing wife, Maria. This is where the emotion kicks into high gear. The way 
 Dom's story is told and progresses is amazing. But the thing that stands out besides the way it 
 is written is the voice acting. This game has some of the best voice acting in a video game. It 
 is done incredibly well. So well that I was almost driven to tears during a certain part midway 
 through the game. You will feel for Dom and company as the game goes on. There's not too many games 
 out there that make you care about the characters, and even if you don't care about the story or 
 characters in video games, you will at the end of this game. And if you find yourself not caring 
 about Dom's situation, then it is entirely possible that you have no soul.
  
  But it's not only the story that makes Gears 2 an incredible game, it's also the action. It takes 
 the action from the original game and multiples it by ten. Players are fighting a huge war and 
 the action makes you feel the importance of everything you do. The battles are damn near epic in 
 scale and enemies that made a brief appearance in the first Gears play a much bigger role this 
 time around. Remember running from the Brumak in the first game? Well, after completing Gears 2, 
 you will have fought and killed at least ten of them. And the Corpser? He was easy to beat in the 
 first Gears. Just wait until you have to face three of them. At the same time! There are also a 
 couple of new baddies you will face. And the sheer number of enemies onscreen at once is insane. 
 There are several occasions where Epic has managed to fit more than fifty enemies onscreen at once, 
 and it never drops a frame.
  
  
  
  
  This sequel also does a great job keeping things pretty fresh. There's not only your run and gun 
 levels, but also driving levels each with a different vehicle to maneuver. My personal favorite 
 is the vehicle you get to drive towards the end of the game. The environments are also much more 
 varied this time around. There is an ice level, a couple of water levels, underground levels (of 
 course) and even a level where you have to perform heart surgery (you'll understand that when you 
 get to the level I'm talking about) . The color in Gears 2 goes leaps and bounds over the first 
 game. The visuals aren't as bland and we actually get to see the sun a couple of times.
  
  The controls in Gears 2 haven't strayed too much from the first one. You tap the A button to perform 
 'roadie run' as well as getting into cover. It also serves as a new feature. When you get shot 
 a lot (to the point of near death) you are down but not out. In the first Gears, when you were 
 down but, all you could do is tap the A button to keep you from bleeding out and hope that someone 
 saves you. This time, instead of waiting around, you can crawl to your partners so they can help 
 you. When you go down, tap the A button to crawl towards your team mate so they can help you to 
 your feet. The Locust can now also crawl to safety. It's quite satisfying to see a crippled Locust 
 crawl in a pathetic manner to try and get help only to get their head crushed under your feet. 
 There are also new weapons and new finishing moves to eradicate the Locust baddies. You now have 
 different options to play around with when you get an enemy down and crawling. The biggest is to 
 use them as meat shields. When they are crawling, go up to them and hit the A button. You will 
 pick up the pathetic grunt and hold them in front of you so they will absorb their buddy's bullets. 
 While you have them as a shield you can also choose to end their suffering early by hitting the 
 X button. This will snap their neck. There are also some new, rather big, gun additions. So, besides 
 the Boomer rocket launcher, you can get a heavy mount machine gun, a flame thrower and, my favorite, 
 a gun that shots out mortar rounds. 
  
  In addition to some new weaponry, there are some new covers to duck behind as well. Together, there 
 are three types and all are mobile. The first is the Rockworm. This is a worm that eats glowing 
 fruit and cannot be hurt by any kind of gunfire. Although it doesn't to anything when it is shot 
 (i. e. attack) , be careful not to go near its mouth... it will kill you in one bite. The next kind 
 of cover new to Gears is the Boomshield. You get this by killing the Boomer who carries it (in 
 all there are three different types of Boomers: Rocket, Chain gun and Shielded) . Once equipped, 
 you will be protected form gunfire, but make sure you angle it right. The beautiful thing about 
 the Boomshield is that you can put it down anywhere and duck behind it. So if there is nothing 
 to hide behind and you are under intense fire, use the Boomshield. Place it down by hitting the 
 A button and this will serve as cover until you can find better protection. The final kind is cover 
 that can be brought up or taken down by hitting switches. This kind of cover comes into play about 
 three quarters of the way into the game.
  
  There are also some small things that make Gears 2 what it is. Instead of just using your chainsaw 
 to tear Locusts into pieces, you now can use it on certain places in the world's environment. And 
 there are a few instances when you are faced with two different paths to go down, but this time 
 you don't have to use the LT or RT to decide. Although choosing your path with the LT or RT moments 
 are still in Gears 2, just not as often. But more often than not, you will just choose a path by 
 walking down the one you want. 
  
  The graphics are a huge leap from the first game. Everything just looks amazing. From the water 
 to the destroyed city of Jacinto, there just is no better looking game out there. And the best 
 part is that there are no frame rate problems, even when there is a ton of things going on onscreen. 
 However, there are some texture loading issues, but these mainly happen at the beginning of the 
 multiplayer matches when everything is loading in. 
  
  
  
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, man does Epic deliver an amazing experience. The co-op campaign is the 
 same as last game, but this time around each player can set their own difficulty level. Now this 
 doesn't make the enemies tougher, it just changes how much damage you give and take. And, at times, 
 I prefer to play with another human player. Because all too often, when playing single player, 
 when I was down and not out, I would crawl to my partner only to die at his feet because he wouldn't 
 help me. Also, it seemed like no matter how much my partner AI would shoot at enemies, if he didn't 
 kill them they would run right past him and come after me like my partner wasn't even there. But 
 that's nothing new... that happened in the first game as well. 
  
  But let's get back to the multiplayer. It is so much bigger and better than the original. There 
 are 15 total maps (10 original and 5 remade from the first game) and there are 8 game modes. Warzone 
 - COGs vs. Locusts. Guardian - one member form each team is selected as a leader and the goal is 
 to keep the leader alive as long as possible. Wingman - up to five two-player teams compete against 
 each other until one team reaches a set amount of points, but the only way to kill an opposing 
 team member is at close range or with a one-shot kill. Submission - in this twist on capture the 
 flag, players must down a stranded character, capture him as an enemy shield, and carry him inside 
 a ring located on the map. Execution - this is similar to Warzone but instead of dying after you 
 are knocked down and bleed out, you automatically revive. The only way to kill an opposing team 
 member is at close range or with a one shot kill. Annex - players win by retaining control over 
 fixed capture locations long enough to collect a winning amount of points. King of the Hill - similar 
 to Annex but to keep collecting points after a capture, at least one player must remain within 
 the location to defend it. Players killed while defending a capture location can't respawn. Horde 
 - up to five players join together to fight against waves of Locusts, each wave getting tougher 
 as you progress. 
  
  If you find yourself getting completely owned in multiplayer, well you now have a couple options 
 to help improve your skills. The first is you can complete in five training modes that will teach 
 you the basics of online play. The second thing you can do is start a private match and play with 
 bots. This is probably your best bet to sharpen your online playing skills as the bots are no joke. 
 They will hand you your ass on more than one occasion. But that's a good thing. That way you learn 
 form your mistakes, get better and hand some human players their asses.
  
  As you can see, Epic put a lot more attention to the multiplayer with Gears 2. They also added 
 a photo mode. After you have died in a multiplayer match, you can view the battlefield in various 
 ways. And when you get to a view you like (perhaps of a Locust about to get his head squished) 
 you can snap a photo. You can then upload the photos to www. gearsofwar. com.
  
  Gears of War 2 does everything you wanted the original to do and then some. I have never been so 
 hooked on a game. I couldn't put it away until I beat it. I just couldn't get enough of the intense 
 action, the beautiful visuals and I especially couldn't get enough of the story. Well written and 
 well acted, Gears 2 will have you playing the campaign over and over again. And the multiplayer 
 is, in a word, awesome. I couldn't ask for anything more in a game. If you won a 360 and loved 
 the first one, well, this is a no-brainer. Buy Gears 2. If you have a 360 and didn't care about 
 the first game, Gears 2 could be the first game to actually change your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charliejames4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2. Wow. First of all, the new modes. You could make a game of just Horde and I would 
 still play it! Horde, which pits you against wave after wave of merciless Locust, is an amazing 
 addition and very addicting. The multiplayer has gone through an upgrade, and now runs just as 
 smooth as Halo 3s. The online play still rewards playing smart and taking cover, but now feels 
 smoother, and doesnt punish you as hard for charging in. The bots, which you can now add to games 
 for more people and set the difficulty on, are another fine addition, allowing you and your two 
 friends to play with no other players, and still have a full game. And then the campaign. Wow. 
 It's not just the action and slickness of the Campaign, and the co-op campaign, but the powerful 
 story driving it. Although it doesn't tie up all the loose ends, which both irritated me and allowed 
 me to truly hope for a Gears 3, it adds a lot of detail, emotion, and info to the story. Great 
 boss battles (think Skorge) , huge battles, and great characters drive this campaign to the top 
 on my list. With a great new wave of weapons, including the new heavy weapons that i now worship, 
 vehicles, characters, maps, and features (as well as a nice touch of old features) , Gears of War 
 2 is, in my book, not only the must own shooter of this year, but the must have shooter of the 
 Xbox 360 itself. Basically, if you don't own this yet, go buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnerp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  GoW 2 is one of the best third person shooters out there. It has great graphics great sound, awesome 
 action and enormous battles. Not to mention the all new weapons and game modes and in even more 
 beefed up campaign. Campaign mode is great with a longer play time and more action also more vehicles 
 and even new enemies such as the ticker and necromancer. Multi-player is great too one of the all 
 new game modes is Horde where you and up to 9 other people try to survive endless waves of enemys 
 and each wave gets harder. Another new element in the game is the Achievement tracker where during 
 any game mode if you do something that might add up to an Achievement like killing an enemy with 
 a new weapon a box with appear on the side of the screen to tell \you how much more of those yo 
 need to do before you get the Achievement. The boss battles are great and at some points in the 
 game you we see thousands of Locust at one time. Overall I think the game is fantastic and I hope 
 you will like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: URSpaztic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  First is first. I believe that video games are meant to take you to places that you could only 
 dream of, fictional places. Gears of War 2 throws you to a war- oriented fantasy. You must obviously 
 know that Gears takes place in in the future in someplace in the world. The Locust are back and 
 are more angrier than ever, almost winning the war with the humans. I have to say, the story just 
 fulfills your curiosity. It's great how everyone fights the war for different reasons. Dom fights 
 for his wife, while Marcus fights from liberation. The areas are huge and very detailed. The music 
 goes very well with the action. The graphics are phenomenal. The multilayer plays nice with others, 
 and the online play is just great. This game is worth more than your money's worth. This is a great 
 collection to your Xbox games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage_7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  So to start off this review this game is everything I wanted it to be. With its amazing story mode. 
 The story will take about 8-10 hours depending on your difficulty. This story is filled with amazingly 
 detailed characters. This story can be cheesy at times but makes up with its big amount of drama 
 and deepness that make Gears of War's story amazing. Now onto Horde this new feature lets you play 
 with up to 5 friends killing up to 50 waves of ongoing Locust. Now this is a great feature though 
 it can get repetitive at times. It stands out with its difficulty and Teamwork elements. Now on 
 to the Multiplayer. This is a great online experience though is overshadowed at times because of 
 its few problems. My main problem with it is when bullets don't register when fired directly at 
 someone. This really is a pain when someone is knocked down and you fire 3 shells into them point 
 blank an they just don't die but when they get back up they will just take one shot to you an your 
 dead. A new cool feature that makes its way into Gears 2 is Chainsaw duels. Now this is a great 
 way to fight it out chainsaw style. Though it is annoying when fighting a person with a modded 
 controller.
  This game was everything I wanted it to be even though there are some problems don't let them overshadow 
 this great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKarma5g
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  This should have been the second coming for an online shooter instead its a major letdown. I mean 
 Gears 1 set the new online shooter standard wtf happened?! characters look cartoony like some other 
 guy said in a review, I had to lower my color adjustment on my T. V. to kinda make it less colorful. 
 This is like the Phantam Menace of the Gears of war . Too bright and shiny . Its like they took 
 a step back and sideways, chainsaws are cheap suck you in all the time , lag worse than ever , 
 can't ever get into a match , when you do and it super lags you can't quit the game because they 
 disabled that in this one. Its too bad to some of the multyplayer characters are badass. I waited 
 for this game man and hopefully about 10 patches will fix this chaotic online mess. Summed up perfectly 
 ... Gears 1 online tight , gears 2 a chaotic mess theres tons more i won't get into . Until its 
 fixed i give it a 5 . Must have been the economy to get this out . They knew they'd make a ton 
 of $ an hey they can just update it later or maybe no1 will buy gears 3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaD4060
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  When I play this game, a rush just comes through, and then, it's total chaos. Gun shots, chainsaws, 
 and screams of B. Carmine. It's action packed, and the correctly difficult Campaign Mode defines 
 what a true Campaign should be. Blood and Gore? You got it. One head shot, and, boom! Blood just 
 squirts out of the enemy's head.
  
  And you can bet, that the Multi-Player is just tremendous. The matchmaking system is kinda like 
 Halo 3's and the Horde can keep you playing for hours with your friends. This game IS the greatest 
 I've played on the XBOX 360 since Halo 3. Just a masterpiece.
  
  The Lancer, just perfect. Master Cheif and Marcus Fenix are the true XBOX 360 emblems, this game 
 just certainly is perfect in my eyes. The matchmaking system can make you wait a long time, but 
 you have your friends playing, you can just do a private match. So, if you're thinking of picking 
 this game up, GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I'm not one to say things just to draw attention to myself but i feel obligated as a gamer and 
 as a consumer to voice my opinion here. I can honestly say after a few weeks of playing Gears of 
 War 2, i've been to the puppet show and i've seen the strings. One word to describe this game, 
 "Inconsistent". The single player goes from one impressive vista to the next with mildly memorable 
 firefights in between. Basically it's the whole 30 seconds of action sandwiched between 1-5 minutes 
 of traveling formula at work here. but that is where the consistency ends with this game. The writing 
 is engaging one minutes and makes you cringe at how cheesy it is the next. I really think that 
 had the voice actors been given a better context for their work it may have come off better. Other 
 inconsistencies that affect all 3rd Person Shooters such as shots being blocked by the environment 
 and corners that appear to not be in the way at the time of firing also hamper the experience. 
 Probably the biggest letdown is the Multiplayer. Where do i begin? The matcmaking takes forever 
 due to the fact it prioritizes matching a team of 5 rather than populating a room of 10 and then 
 making teams from that. Lag is still present and makes the already stiff character movement that 
 much more cumbersome. Hit detection is an issue too because of the lag and mind you i'm playing 
 with an 8 Mbps connection and my Xbox's IP address setup in my router's DMZ. Bottomline, multiplayer 
 is borderline broken. When there were no lag issues, multiplayer is hampered by either balance 
 issues or poor design choices. Currently, chainsaws are superpowerful where they can suck you in 
 from 5 feet away and take nearly no time to rev. Grenade tagging is awful because the respawn timer 
 on grenades has been way shortened making the game a virual minefield in which you have no time 
 to react once you stumble upon one of these "proximity mines" (again due to lag) . Smoke grenades 
 are now the biggest pain in the ass. It's cool they knock you down if you get too close but getting 
 back up is a roll of the dice. God forbid you get knocked over on some uneven map geometry because 
 the match will be over by the time you regain your footing. Another strange design choice is the 
 way the menu options for exiting the game are disabled when playing public xbox live matches (aka 
 ranked matches) . It seems like an idiotic solution to a unsolvable problem. By disabling the menu 
 option to quit, it leads you to think that Epic believed people where accidentally quiting matches 
 in Gears of War 1. People will quit for any number of reasons. Poor connection, the game is over 
 and their team has lost even though the match hasn't officially ended yet, or maybe they're just 
 sore losers. In any case, disabling the menu option to quit makes the developer look naive and 
 stupid because people will quit regardless of how they need to do it. If quiting is a concern, 
 penalize their rank, add a bot in to replace them, or make it to where people can join mid match 
 ala Call of Duty. In short, people need to know about these things because they're important when 
 investing $60 to play a game that doesn't work half the time. I was (and still am) and huge fan 
 of Gears of War and had high hopes that the sequel would fix the problems it had but it seems to 
 have just created more problems than it solved. Hopefully this game will be supported well in the 
 form of patches and updates but even that's unacceptable to fix things that should've been fixed 
 before people invested their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solderofwar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  What happened epic? I think the sh*t hit the fan and landed on the keyboards and f*cked up the 
 coding or something. Best parts of game is the Campain and every gun besides shotty. Campain was 
 emotional, funny, and epic. Liked the ending after hours of fighting a nice and easy kill. But 
 i honestly didn't buy it for campain. I bought it for multiplayer. Gears1 online was fun, bloody 
 and even. But gears2 has a ****load of unfairness parts. For one wtf happened to the shotty, i 
 mean i can shoot someone from 20 feet away w/ 3 shots and put em down. but when im a foot away 
 it takes 2 to blow em away. that ant fun. Thats y gears1 was so fun, all about run and gun. another 
 thing how come if i get flashed my body goes to the floor and takes 10 seconds to get up, unless 
 i was leaning on a wall. thats were i glitch and take 5 extra seconds to climb up the wall while 
 being shot at. theres so many other things that i cant even member, like the lag in every room. 
 and how chainsaws glitch everything out. for some reason if u got a chainsaw it works as a shied 
 when fired at point blank. im gona have to make a video. then when im done ill **** on the cd and 
 throw it away cause i could care less bout the seriously2.0 achievment. its not gona happen for 
 me. i enjoy campain and horde as much as the next guy but that much. only hope is a Major Update 
 fixing all these problems, i would then give it a ten. or i would give it a ten if the took gears 
 1 online and made it a complete copy over gears of war 2 online. 
  
  2 other notices
  it seems more cartoonie than gory and realistic
  
  maps suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallisey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, the singleplayer is one of the best singleplayer games available at the moment. 
 It has everything - story, graphics, superb voice acting, brilliant weapons, and overall it leaves 
 you satisfied.
  
  But then I got on to the multiplayer; and was I in for a shock.
  
  I bought the special edition of the game, so I have the Gold Lancer, but it was quite possibly 
 one of the most pointless decisions I have recently made, as multiplayer simply does not work.
 
  
  It can take between 10 minutes to AN HOUR to find a game, and if you then join and do poorly, you 
 are just left feeling totally let down.
  
  If Epic were to sort out the multiplayer, which I really hope that they do, then this game would 
 almost certainly get a 10 from me. The reason? Multiplayer is a collosal part of gaming these days 
 - I rarely buy a game that doesnt have multiplayer on it. Multiplayer gives games vastly improved 
 replayability.
  
  Anyway, heres to hoping that Epic can sort out the problems and pronto - to allow this game to 
 be the true great it has the potential to be.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  When the first GOW came out it was HUGE, now it is even bigger, the story kicks off exactly where 
 the first one left, the game has you meeting new charecters along the way. The game design is great 
 it is more detailed with texture, and the enviroments are finally able to be destroyed. You can 
 blow holes in walls and so forth.
  The games story mainly features on two different cases, one is Dom trying to find his wife Maria, 
 I wont get into any detail what happens but I will tell you it is surprising, the second part is, 
 of course, you guessed it delta squad is trying to stop the locust horde once again.
  The game is fun to play, you can ride brumaks, and reavers, and you can also ride in the centaur, 
 which is a cool vehicle. 
  The multiplayer is great, one thing that's new is there are new weapons you can mess around with 
 that can deliver mass chaos on everybody, which is FUN, the spectator camera is cool, it allows 
 you to switch between players and what they are doing. You can also grab people and use them as 
 shields, or stick a grenade to your enemys body and watch him blow up, or get into a chainsaw duel 
 with another opponent. You can also collect collectables in the game, similer to the first one.
 
  Overall the game is great, the story is good, but also it leaves you feeling kind of empty, sort 
 of like they rushed through the game. Go out and buy the game and release a load of chaos.
  P. S.: Watch the credits to the ending, dont touch any buttons and at the end of the credits you 
 will hear Marcus' dad talking, listen to what he has to say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marine493
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- The best ive ever seen on a xbox 360 game. the walls break apart as bullets tear everything 
 around to pieces. explosions are awesome and the enviornment detail is like no other. 10
  
  Gameplay/Controls- Same controls as first. cover system is exactly the same. people who played 
 the first gears can jump right in. i have still had instances where instead of jumping away from 
 a enemy a go over the wall toward him, but not often. 9
  
  Multiplayer- Awesome. great to play with friends. my only complaint is that they added a matchmaking 
 system like halo. only it takes forever to find a game. im sure thy will patch it soon though. 
 9
  
  Other stuff- Epic did a good job of making it more tactical in the sense that it isnt an all out 
 shotgun battle every multiplayer game. (altough that still happens alot. It encourages you to find 
 different weapons. figure out a way to flank your enemy instead of rush him with a shotty. multiplayer 
 is all about communication.
  
  9.5 overall
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamcyto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Marcus Fenix is back and is still fighting against the oncoming Locust Horde on the planet Sera. 
 Even after attempting to eradicate the Locust with orbital satellite lasers from the sky, the humans 
 still find themselves outnumbered and slowly being surrounded. The Locust are destroying cities 
 and have forced the last of the humans to gather in and defend the fortified city Jacinto.
  
  The player takes the role of Marcus Fenix in this game and fights to save humanity against 
 the Locust. The game starts out with Marcus Fenix, who is still in Delta Squad, with his friend, 
 Dom, who is still searching for his wife, Maria. Together, the reunite with some old and new friends 
 to make their last stand against the Locust by bringing the war underground where the Locust live.
 
  
  The single-player experience is like a roller coaster ride. Unlike the first Gears of War game, 
 Gears of War 2 focuses more on the characters. GOW2 shows that our valiant human soldiers aren't 
 so tough. They aren't just robots trained to kill, but are humans with emotions and dreams. The 
 story is good and is very immersive. It's really fun to play with a friend in Co-op, especially 
 on Insane Difficulty. Even though the AI is pretty good, Dom and your soldier friends can get in 
 the way and take up your cover. By having a friend, you can switch between the roles of being bait 
 and laugh and cry when one of you is downed in battle.
  
  The graphics in Gears of War 2 are impressive. Even though the graphics are pretty much the same 
 as the graphics on the original Gears of War that came out in 2006, it is on par or even better 
 than the graphics of many games.
  
  The multi-player experience is a blast. With the new weapons such as the Mulcher, a minigun, and 
 shield, there is a lot more variety and strategy in the battles. GOW2's multiplayer allows more 
 mayhem by having 10, not 8, players in each game. In the original Gears of War, the shotgun was 
 the main weapon of choice because every other gun was too weak to take down any enemy. The developers 
 have solved this problem by decreasing the damage done by the shotgun and prevented people from 
 rushing and rolling toward people with it by having people who are being shot at be pushed backward. 
 Since the Lancer Assault Rifle is the famous symbol of the game, it has been given better range 
 and damage, prompting people to use it more and chainsaw people to bits. Instead of being stationary 
 when downed, a player can crawl away from the heat of battle to their comrades to be revived. 
 
  
  The Horde mode that is new to Gears of War 2 is a great addition. You and up to 4 other players 
 have to survive 50 waves of all sorts of baddies in this mode. It's very addictive and very hard 
 to reach Level 50, though. Some people have kind of cheated by blocking off paths by planting shields 
 in strategic places, but that kind of kills the fun. With the different executions you can perform 
 on downed enemies (which you can do in singleplayer and multiplayer games) , it makes you squeal 
 in delight. Well, it made me sick. Luckily, you can turn off the gore.
  
  There were some glitches in the game that got me frustrated, especially in singleplayer. During 
 the vehicle part of the game, it was a little bit hard to control the tank, but it shouldn't be 
 a problem for most players. Another problem occurred when taking cover behind objects and then 
 chainsawing bad guys. Right after chainsawing some bad guy, you might find yourself levitating 
 in the air and unable to move, which killed me multiple times during in the same battle in one 
 part of the game. Lag may or may not be a problem for most people depending on where you live and 
 what connection you have. In the first Gears of War, I played and played horribly because of my 
 crappy connection. A way you can test how good your connection is with the other players during 
 multiplayer is by shooting with your pistol at a wall and see how long the delay was before the 
 bullet hit the wall. 
  
  Gears of War 2 is a must buy if you bought the first Gears of War. If you played through the first 
 Gears of War, you are rewarded in this game with characters that you can use in multiplayer. Gears 
 of War 2 also comes with a code you can use to download 5 multiplayer maps that were popular in 
 the original game. With new guns, new faces, and new gameplay, Gears of War 2 was definitely worth 
 the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztg360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  this game was better then the original in almost every way. Its graphics (and obviously this one 
 was made more recently so they are going to be better.) Its weapons do just enough damage so that 
 your enemies don't go down too fast but they also won't drop you easily either (and this is playing 
 on hardcore diffuculty.) The new multiplayer game modes are all around good such as the creative 
 new submission (capture the flag with a twist) . Horde which is good by yourself but awesome when 
 playing with somebody else. And the chainsaw is back and just as good as ever along with some cool 
 new executions. This game ties up some questions from the first one but then it makes a ton of 
 new ones that will keep you guessing. With the addition of bots to multiplayer it gave offline 
 people the chance to play just as much as online people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vader1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Simply a massive destruction of weapons and giz-mos... The blood spill is totally cool, especially 
 when you takedown the enemy with the lancer chainsaw...
  About the story... well, it's ok... but i'm really looking forward for the third game to figure 
 out what happens to Locust Queen... : )
  Absolutely excelent gameplay... we could just play as the human character... but we get a chance 
 to ride on a Centaur, Reaver, and even the brutal brumak...
  The multiplayer mode is quite entertaing as well, we can choose any character or map from the game...
 
   
 xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo 
 xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo xoxo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsaint13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  My favorite games sequel just came out i have waited in he rain slept outside and didnt eat enything 
 for two whole days to get this game and its finally here!!! If you liked Gears of War 1 you will 
 go gah gah over this one its like instant classic in a bag! The new exacutions are just wow. The 
 story goes even deeper and even though a little hard to follow it gets a A plus on my list. The 
 cover system is once again flawless just like the first game the new weopons are very satsisfying 
 like a flamethrower and a automatic pistol the shooting is very much more realstic now. Also chainsaw 
 hoars are about gone now that you have a fair chance to enter a duel still get anyyoing but not 
 enyware near as bad as number 1 the shotgun battles are gone... Tear but most likely for the better. 
 The online is sumtimes laggy but its not to hard to find a good game the new game modes are cool 
 i really like being able to kick locust face in with up to 5 of my freinds on horde. The sound 
 track is just more dramtic and cooler the the first. over all a kicka$$ game GET IT OR DIE!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llamabarn360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game for Xbox 360 I have ever played. It has an amazing 10 player online experience. 
 The campaign is GREAT it is very immersive. They have some great new levels and awesome new weapons 
 good for kicking locust @$$. GoW2 is Indescribable. If you aren't going to buy you HAVE to at least 
 play it.
  
  GGGGG OOOOOO WWW WWW
  G OO OO WWW W WWW
  G GG OO OO WWW W W WWW
  G G OOOOOO WWW WWW
  GGG
  
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME 
 GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE 
 THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE 
 THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME
  I LOVE THIS GAME GEARS OF WAR IS AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro_Impulse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 exceeded my expectations exceptionally. Laughing I remember thinking in the last 
 GOW, whenever I could not afford Xbox Live, that I wished I could play some execution or other 
 multiplayer games with and against bots. With that feature added to the game, now gamers who cannot 
 always play online can always enjoy those game modes, or even if you have a friend over playing 
 splitscreen or some friends in a private match, you can fill in the slots with a few bots and have 
 a full game! Also, the horde mode is an impressive addition to the Gears of War experience. Sometimes 
 I wish I could fill in a few player slots with a some bots, but it's not entirely important.
  
  The gameplay in GOW2 has been tweaked since GOW1 in every way it should have been. Adding more 
 executions and the new meat sheild move made shooting at the knee's more tempting! Also, crawling 
 when shot down makes it much more fun and gives the player a little more hope for survival, not 
 to mention actually keeps your attention on the game instead of checking your email when you go 
 down on a knee! One of my favorite tweaks (in gameplay) is the bullet effect on locusts and players. 
 Now, you can make them stumble and make it harder for them to retaliate while you inch closer for 
 a good shot with the shotgun or a chainsaw to the chest! I've also noticed that the Lancer and 
 the shotgun both are slightly more accurate, which excites me! Also impressing, I've notice that 
 the graphics are slightly sharper, (if it's even possible!) which gives the game an even better 
 feel than it's predecessor.
  
  In the light of these compliments I've made about the game, I am about to make some ugly remarks 
 about it as well. Although, I will have you know; The opinions stated in this paragraph does not 
 reflect my opinion about the entire game, only the campaign. The campaign on GOW2 was extremely 
 disappointing to me. I found myself saying, "Okay, lets get this crap over with so I can get to 
 the action." However, it never came... I said this over and over again until about the middle of 
 act 4. I found that the campaign was packed with minibosses and puzzle-like levels that made you 
 think action was just around the corner; which was a thought that would betray you every time. 
 Regaurdless of the boring gameplay that the campaign delivers, the storyline, graphics, and fear 
 that it brought was plenty enough to keep it interesting. I just simply will not turn to the campaign 
 mode when I feel like tearing through waves of locusts as I did for GOW1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omar_cp
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Fun Fun Fun! The most inmersive game with great visuals and sound, great multiplayer & campaign, 
 worth the wait!! 
  
  Worth the wait! GOTY, great multiplayer with great variations, the best way making a sequel. just 
 the most entertaining and addictive game i ever played. Good history, you want more and more even 
 if you finished the game you will want to play more and that is when a game worth the cost and 
 the wait. Maybe the history has flaws... but everybody is expecting the third game and i hope that 
 strands will be solved, the characters involve you like any other game never do.
  
  The upgrades in this game fit exactly what the people want, excelent variety of finishing moves, 
 more weapons, new vehicles to ride, the people of EPIC made improvements of the first GoW in every 
 aspect... what can i say??? GOTY!!
  
  Jump in and BARE YOUR TEETH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateeS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best ever made it just gets me wondering if there will ever be a gears 
 3.... its a possibility cause at the end of the game for all who beat it well the locust queen never 
 died and scorge never died as well he just fell off the reaver that gets us all excited too see 
 if there will ever be a gears 3 i can't say yeah but all we can do is hope that unreal comes up 
 with another suprise that will get us all hyped up just like the day gears 2 came out, i was just 
 wondering if they could top gears of war but i don't think thats possible well it could be possible 
 but thats only for future determination i played gears of war 1 and gears of war 2 i truly think 
 its better than halo its tougher and more of a matured game than halo even thou halo 3 is a good 
 game but who said that they would play halo forever i mean come on there coming out with two other 
 halo games i mean why is that gears is good enough for me im more addicted to gears than halo thats 
 my theory and thats the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  this is the best game you coud ever play with you couldn play any thing alse like this game the 
 game of the year 2008 game is the best of the best the genaral of the games come does any body 
 care about any other game chil up the graphics the charecters the moves evry thing is better this 
 game its better than the first gears more exiting amaizing game it is /////////////// ////////////// 
 ////////////// /////////////// ////////////////// //////////////// ///////////// /////////////////// 
 /////////////////// ///////////////// //////////////// ////////////////// //////////// ///////// 
 /////////////// ///////////////// ////////////// //////////////// /////////////// ///////////// 
 /////////// /////////////// /////////////// /////////////// /////////////// ///////////// //////////////// 
 //////////// //////// ///////////// //////////// ///////////// //////// /////// /////// ///////// 
 /////// /////// /////// /////// //////// /////// /////// //// /////// /////// /////// ///// //// 
 ////// ////// /////// ///////// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakemartin89oi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  ******Spoilers***** in # 8
  This game is so almost perfect that I will only point out the flaws
  1) Last Boss Battle was 
 pathetic
  2) A few elements of the cover system are still buggy
  3) Classic Gears bugs are still in Multiplayer
  4) Occasional shenanigans from AI on both sides
 
  5) Dom, Baird and Cole appearing mid cut scene after being 100 yards away pre-cutscene
  6) Corny voice acting
  7) Entire third act made me sick
  8) ******Spoiler****** The last commentary 
 felt like it was completely forced onto Epic by Microsoft and did not make any sense as Marcus 
 saw Adam Fenix die before Gears of war started
  My no means is this game hampered drastically by these spoilers. This game is a strong contender 
 for GOTY and is clearly the best 360 exclusive on the market. Certain things need to be added to 
 Gears of War 3 to make it a perfect game. Dom's intelligence is good when needed, but lacks in 
 between battles. To sum this game up. Bigger, Better and More Badass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  First off Gears of War 2 rocks and was totally worth the 2 year wait and is worth every cent you 
 paid for it. I has much better graphic than the first and alot better sound. You can hear and see 
 the difference just by firing the lancer onto a plain wall. The story is also much better, being 
 more complex as in making more sense telling it to you better and having alot more subplots like 
 finding Dom's wife. Who knew that this game would actually have a 5 start storyline.
  
  So gears does alot of thing s great games do right. Right when you put the disk into your Xbox, 
 you relly fell like your part of the story and really have some type of liking for the characters. 
 Unlik other games each main and some side characters have a unique personality. Each of their personalities 
 really goes along nicely with the game for various reasons.
  
  When you start the campaign right off the bat you'll see an improvement in graphics and some people 
 might not think this, but there is actually much better sound effects in this game not the mention 
 the terrific voice acting. From anything to a sound of a lancer firing or shooting to the sound 
 of a locost kantus sreaming at you.
  
  In this game Epic focused on adding new modes and developing the story. They added a mode called 
 horde which is best played with friend's, but any other mode that isn't campaign has bots. Now 
 these bots are actually smart especially if you put their difficulty on insane. There are a few 
 gliches like a few animation or movement bugs. Obviously this is a game that has a very high reputation 
 for online multiplayer so if you dont have a friend to play the campain with or horde your missing 
 alot, but there are bots that wil keep you happy for a long time. 
  
  There will always be small problems with games like vehicle controls, but this isn't a racing game 
 it's a shooter and we should be happy they actually added decenty vehicles in this game not like 
 the first where all you get to drive is a junker that can't fire and move at the same time.
  
  I would have given this game a 9.9 because there were very small problems and issues, but gamespot 
 dosn't let you give 9.9's so i can't really give it a 10 , but it's still a very good game that 
 you need to buy. It is one of the jugernauts in gaming and is definetly a candidate for game of 
 the year. You need to buy this it will be worth all the money and you'll get more than you were 
 expecting i sure did, and im not dissapointed. Can't wait for Gears of War 3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesameer94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Here is a overview of Gears of War 2. I apologize fore any spelling errors. 
  
  Story and Characters- The first Gears of War didn't really do much to involve the player in the 
 story but Gears of War 2 does an excellent job with the story, even though it leaves a lot of openings. 
 The characters and their voices went well with the game as some really tough guys. 8.5/10
  
  Graphics- The first Gears of War blew me away with the amazing graphics. This game looks even 
 better and there are almost no frame rate drops or texture pop-ins. This game looks amazing! 10/10
 
  
  Sound- The sound doesn't blow me away but it is still very good and very satisfying. The sound 
 of the chainsaw ripping through Locust flesh sounds just as great as ever. Like I said before, 
 the voice acting is great and there aren't a lot of lines that absolutely make me cringe away in 
 disgust. 9/10
  
  Multiplayer- I actually haven't tried out the multiplayer features enough to have experienced each 
 and every single mode with other players but I have played with bots and they do a very nice job 
 in simulating actual players. When playing with actual people, I didn't suffer any lag at all except 
 once so I didn't really find anything wrong. It's very fun and addicting. Horde mode is also incredibly 
 addicting but much harder than expected. Even on Casual, I had lots of trouble making it to the 
 7th wave. But it is very fun with 5 player co-op. 9.5/10
  
  Campaign Co-op- You might be thinking that this belongs in multiplayer but this feature belongs 
 in its own category. The co-op in this game is excellent and very rewarding. You can even play 
 on different difficulty levels so you don't have to argue with your friend on what difficulty you 
 have to play on. In splitscreen, the graphics are toned down, but they still look excellent and 
 there are no visible graphical errors. All in all, it is simply a finisher to an almost perfect 
 game. 10/10
  
  This finishes my review. In my closing comments, I have to say that this is the best game I have 
 ever played and it is a must buy for everyone who is interested in sci-fi shooters. My only real 
 complaint is that there are some open story plotlines that really draw away from Epic's promise 
 of a great story.
  WARNING-CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS!!!
  For example, how does the Locust Queen know Adam Fenix? What happened to Dizzy? The list goes on. 
 However, I am very satisfied with this game and I will probably never get tired of this game until 
 GOW 3 comes out. 
  
  Final Score- 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Okay i have a lot to say about this game so im gonna make this short. First off the story its better 
 but still a little drawn and not explained enough there are two main stories the first one is the 
 normal locust Marcus and cog thing like the original then theres doms story with maria which these 
 stories work best in coop like usual the only problem with the story i see is the way they get 
 rid of doms in like act 4 not explaining anymore. The graphics have seen a definite upgrade from 
 the lighting to the colors and such theres just a lot more to them than in gow1. There are more 
 problems with that instead of texture popping like in the first game now it is texture smearing 
 and it happens a lot while it does not get in the way it is noticeable. The sound is great capturing 
 the moments when needed and it works well like in the first game. The gamplay has seen to many 
 upgrades lol first off now chainsaws are decided by a button mash with the b button and then the 
 weapons have been upgraded like the new scorcher flamethrower 
  which is great then the shotgun is different there is stopping power smoke grenades knock people 
 down a new upgraded cover system a new hammer burst a poison grenade and just everything and everything 
 is new and improved. After all that there is even so many more executions other than the curb stomp 
 i prefer the beating the people one where u just beat the crap out of them ts awesome but anyway 
 yea everything in that is great its all solid. Now the mp is big featuring 7 game types the kofth 
 from the pc gow1 a new wingman mode which is basically teams of 2 people going up against each 
 other then theres submission which is basically a ctf variant except the flag is a ai controlled 
 player which u knock down and bring him to your score zone then there is the biggest one which 
 is horde basically 50 hordes of locust then every 10 hordes they get a boost lol try that by yourself 
 on insane umm yeah well anyway its very fun and addicting. And now the thing is that i have to 
 say i hate the new matchmaking system i hate its just like the long waits on halo and is terrible 
 while u can play private matches its not as great as it should be and most of the servers lag like 
 hell im serious its terrible next thing is i have noticed tons of glitches and bugs and finally 
 yes thats basically everything except the ai gets messed up sometimes and now there is a way to 
 redeem everything and that is because they added bots which helps a lot they are very fun to play 
 with to especially when there kicking your ass on insane with snipe lol but yes its awesome and 
 now i have to say rent it first or buy it if u want u decide but i had some really messed up times 
 fix things epic lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wulfric37
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  The online play is good, but there is occasionally a lot of lag. The ranking system sucks, it is 
 based on the amount of games won to determine your true skill. A lot of people who play are TERRIBLE 
 so you are often placed on teams that are really bad so your rank tends to go down. filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler. The game is worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaqqaz713
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Shotgun to face! Shotgun to face! another Shotgun to face! Active reload Shotgun to face! Opponent 
 shotguns me and i die! 
  The lagg online is amazing this lag is so awesome if you are looking for a game amazing lag this 
 is your game. When you are host you are god and when you are not host you are dirt. You can't win 
 in this game against the lag unless you are actually God. Seriously the only times i have ever 
 won a match online (and dont say im bad i am good!) is when i can take a thousand bullets and not 
 die but that almost never happens. The online was ok in the first Gears now it is worse. I can 
 shotgun someone rewing their chainsaw twice then i get chainsawed but when i rew mine and im shot 
 i put it down. 
  The story is ok but is very repeatitive and i find myself just running around doingthe same old 
 stuff. Horde was pretty fun and i think it is a good asset to the game as well as the bots. with 
 all that i would give it a 6/10 but i am just to big of a gears fan so i was planning to give it 
 a 7.5 until i thought about MLG.
  In MLG for this game you will put up all your knowledge skill and tactics to not die and kill the 
 other team but unfortunetly sniper shots to head wont work to kill the opponent and neither will 
 my chainsaw. Also ppl will just camp with their proximity mines like in COD4 so that will really 
 suk. 
  I think this games deserves a 7/10 czu it sucks but i still love you Gears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LXRUBI1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i am a Huge fan for GOW the 1st one. But GOW2 just let me down, theres multiple reasons why. 
 I will only go threw a few though. First every 60 secs theres a cinimatic cut sean, witch bugs 
 me cuz im ready to kill some Locust then i have to watch them go up a ladder? i cant make him do 
 that myself or somthing happens to happen 1 min at a time, although i hate this i also kinda like 
 it because it focuses more on the story witch i love btw. 2nd the gameplay is like "been there 
 done that" its pretty much the same, so you can count that bad if you want. 3rd some of the enemys 
 are lame they just swing at you then die, not even putting up a fight.4th somhow gears has seem 
 to lose its edge, and when i say this i mean its flare its zing its bow! its just not the same. 
 5th im the type of person who likes somewhat of a happy ending but damn, every new character you 
 encounter dies! I **** hated that fact, sure its kinda cool but really, why everynew person. The 
 new guy dies, the smart big guy with the tats offs himself, Doms wife dies witch was half of the 
 story so i was pissed. l They changed to much for it to be the same old gears. The multiplayer is 
 a step in the right direction though, thats the only reason why id buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panzerwuss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Sign up under Gears of War 1 was easy and took about 15 seconds to be on and playing.
  
  Tonight I waited 15 minutes to get in a match in Gears of War 2 and never got on. I only play multiplayer 
 G O W 2.
  What used to be an easy system has been ruined. Unlike G o W 1, you never know what map you will 
 be on since everyone has a vote. Unlike G o W 1, you never know what game you will be playing on 
 since everyone has a vote.
  
  Then there is the "match making." Where did that idea come from ---it is very lame. My guess is 
 that this is what is slowing the whole thing down so much.
  
  Please, please fix this. It should be relatively easy to fix G o W 2.
  
  I find myself not 
 wanting to try signing on to G o W 2 because I know I will be sitting there waiting to be in a 
 game for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rKn3sSnIp3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2, in many persons' opinions is the most anticipated game of 2008. It definitely lives up 
 to the hype, and gives some more. If there was a game that could have gratuitous blood, gore, action, 
 and still carry a great story line, this is it. The game picks up well after the events of Gears 
 of War, and you quickly learn that your efforts with the Lightmass Bomb were a failure and that 
 the Locust Heart was located elsewhere (not a spoiler, otherwise there would be no game) . You quickly 
 get sucked into the story line and the action, and you'll quickly finding yourself screaming profanity 
 and daring your downed enemies to get back up along the player-favorite character, Augustus Cole 
 as he fights and lightens up the game for those of us who are stuck playing as Marcus Fenix and 
 Dom Santiago.
  
  The multiplayer is amazing too. Whether you're privately playing over a system link or just on 
 your Xbox with a friend engaging the AI bots in any of the gametypes except the Horde, or if you 
 do grab some buddies and hunker down to confront the Horde, there is plenty of fun all around.
 
  
  The Horde is easily the hardest part of the game. I have not met anyone yet who can beat it on 
 their own. At best you'll get the Achievement for the first ten levels, but shortly after that 
 you will regret your decision. Even on Casual, the last few levels feel just short of unbeatable 
 if you don't have five experienced players and a definite strategy. My advice: get a torque bow, 
 several boomshields, and mulchers/mortars.
  
  The online multiplayer still has many of its old quirks, especially the infamous Host Shotgun, 
 which allows the host to kill others with greater ease during shotgun duels and dodge the shotgun 
 spread much more easily. Regardless, I still find that the shotgun is stereotypical of many modern 
 games these days, notably Halo 3 where you're screwed if you have any lag at all, and your shotty 
 just happens to be your best friend in Gears.
  
  Overall, Gears 2 is a very pleasing experience that will keep you coming back for more as you seek 
 earning your 100,000 kills for the Seriously 2.0 Achievement. Bring a friend, or four friends, 
 and always remember that explosives are your friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  In my time spent gaming, it's good to know that there are some games where I don't even have to 
 track progress, read previews and impressions and wait for reviews to see if I'll enjoy them. They 
 are givens, sure bets and they come around every once in a while. Gears of War 2 is one of these 
 games and it's a proper sequel that improves on the original in every single way.
  
  Gears of War one looked great for its time but when I went over it with a fine toothed comb and 
 actually stopped to look at the scenery, I found a lot of objects like trees, debris and just environment 
 objects made to spruce up visuals were pretty flat looking. In motion the game looked fine but 
 when you stopped to actually admire something, you find that everything isn't as it seems, the 
 game is faster than the eye. For the most part Gears of War 2 fixes this minor gripe by constantly 
 changing the environment and things located in the backgrounds. Gone are the same couch and coffee 
 table that everyone in GoW 1 had and hello to a beautiful tour through Gear's world.
  
  The improvements just don't apply to minor details either, all models generally look better and 
 on top of that, the game decides to throw more foes on the screen at once. Battles actually look 
 like huge battles when the skies are full of choppers and mortars, the ground is full of Brumaks, 
 grunts and giant rigs. Most of the stuff is scripted but it's beautiful and chaotic none the less.
 
  
  So with improved graphics, quantity and quality there's just one small gripe in the graphics department 
 and that is some collision detection issues. It seems easier this time around for Marcus and crew 
 to get stuck to objects or impeded by debris. It's really a small complaint but it can be the cause 
 of a needless death and a reload.
  
  The crew from the original game returns and shares the spotlight with some newcomers that fit right 
 in with the rest of them. The same people that complained about the original's characters are more 
 than likely going to have the similar complaints about this game. Gears of war 2 does display more 
 emotional variety from its cast's bad attitude but a few touching scenes probable won't win over 
 new people. Luckily I'm not in that crowd and found the cast of character's fitting for the story 
 which means that the empathy they display in this game is much more profound to me. Two scenes 
 in particular came as a shock to me and I found them great. Other than that all the banter the 
 rest of us loved is still here.
  
  One thing when compared to the original is often that changes in gameplay, namely vehicle parts 
 or parts of the game where characters split off were usually a bit of downtime from all the action 
 preceding that point. Gears of War 2 forgoes ever letting up when it comes to action. Usually everything 
 you do, no matter if you get there on foot, vehicle or creature, you are going to be assaulted 
 and killing things. There is simply very little downtime in GoW 2 and it makes it a white knuckled 
 experience throughout. I'm surprised they don't have killing minigames during cut scenesMaybe 
 they're saving that for Gear of War 2.
  
  Speaking of minigames I do have to complain about the one boss fight that is a cross between running 
 like a pansy, hiding like a child and then QTE's. Yes QTE's are cinematic but they are simply not 
 satisfying in anyway. I've never looked back at a QTE at a defeated enemy and thought "Yeah take 
 THAT! You like how I rapidly pressed a pattern of buttons after failing it the first 4 times and 
 got you? Don't you you little %^&*%?". sorry developers, it's a let down each and every time.
 
  
  Speaking of killing, the combat and most of the weapons remain unchanged in Gears of War 2, what 
 they did add is a new pistol, a flamethrower, a poison grenade, an option to leave a grenade like 
 a proximity mine, a minigun and a mortar gun. I have to say that every single one of these new 
 weapons are a perfect add on to this game. The minigun and mortar are simply devastating, the poison 
 grenade flushes pesky campers out from hiding and the flamethrower turns grubs nice and crispy. 
 On top of that there a about 4 or five new enemies that some of those don't rely on stop and pop 
 AI which ends up spicing up the gunplay a bit. When you're dodging locusts on mounts, or little 
 mobile time bombs, it tends to ensure you're a little more mobile than popping in and out of cover.
 
  
  The story adds on to where the original left off but also brings up a question or two for every 
 question it answered. Although it kind of left me wondering about quite a few different things, 
 it's not that much of a cliff hanger ending. It ends up being more like the ending on one of the 
 first two Lord of the Ring movies. In that the game itself is a complete campaign but is apart 
 of a much larger story arch.
  
  And to top this all of the co-op is just as good as it ever was especially when you throw in horde 
 mode and get four of your friends with you while you're bombarded by wave after wave of locust 
 enemies.
  
  So in the end Gears of War 2 was a great game I didn't have to pay attention to while it was being 
 made, it's one of those games that if you like the first one, you know it's going to raise the 
 bar a bit the second time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin4128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  The controls are the same as the last game so it is really easy for you to pick up the controller 
 and Start playing. The enemy AI has definatly improved from the first one. The are actually working 
 together and will team up on you. Even at the lowest difficulty, you will find some form of a challenge 
 to it. Not only has the enemy AI gotten better, the friendly AI has improved too. They are actually 
 participating in the action: shock:. 
  
  After the minimal disaster story of the first game, the story actually was a good one. The story 
 of Gears of War 2 continues a few months after Gears of War. The Locust have returned and they 
 can sink cities now rather then just pop out of their little emergence holes. It takes a humoris 
 approach at looking into the mind of one of the Gears, Dom. Dom's wife has gone missing and through 
 out the game and Dom tries to find her, adding a new emotional depth to the game that the first 
 didn't have. While this is happening new questions emerge about the Locust's intentions and the 
 whole game takes off from there
  
  For me multiplayer is what makes this game perfect, their are various different game modes to play 
 including Wingman, which is basically you and a partner vs another person and a partner vs another 
 person and a partner etc etc. But there is one problem for me with multiplayer if you dont have 
 anyone to play with you get bots to play with, and if you die, you have a minuscule chance of winning 
 that round. They will look at an enemy and not shoot or just stand around in the open and just 
 wait to be killed. That of course is a small thing and nothing to really worry about. 
  
  Another new mode introduced is Horde which is excellent. Horde is a lot of fun with friends and 
 private horde matches can last forever... Horde is basically is just a arcade mode where 50 waves 
 of enemies come after you. The first 10 waves are unique and after that it just repeats the same 
 10 in a cycle but with different perks to that cycle every time. The game is very challenging even 
 on casual and people will be coming back to it again to try to beat it on Veteran just to get a 
 spot on that leaderboard. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pridex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the online... The weapons don't play like they do in the campaign 
  
  It sucks. Everything is lag or delayed on purpose. Example, having to wait a half second to climb 
 over/up barriers. If you tap the "A" button too fast you just jump off not over unlike the first 
 gears.
  
  WEAPONS.... 
  
  Shotgun: Yup they destroyed the shot gun. It's a nerf gun. I understand what they were trying to 
 do with how you use it but its worthless now. When you quick aim and shoot like you did in there 
 first gears it doesn't shoot. A second later as your running away it goes off.
  
  Torque bow: Have to use this weapon to see how bad it is in MP. Nothing like the first gears. If 
 you shoot it, it might go off. You shoot it at someone and you know you missed them but somehow 
 you killed them. Totally inaccurate un like the Bow in the first gears where you can hit an elbow 
 on a sniper. Got to say the head shots are pretty cool though.
  
  Chainsaw: You cant stop it. Its the new shotgun.
  
  Grenades and Boom-shot: The radius of these 
 weapons are much larger and cause instant death no more downing which kind of makes these BS weapons 
 at some points.
  
  Flamer: Not much leeway with its accuracy. You pretty much have to be right on target.
  
  Sniper: 
 I like what they did with it. If the MP wasn't laggy it would be a great improvement.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  In general and easiest way to sum up the multi-player is that it plays and almost 
 feels like a typical MP-FPS but you get shot 3 times not 1 time and you die. Match making turned 
 into a flop if your one of those people that liked joining random rooms and playing with those 
 people for a while. Now you have to party up or you will have to search for teammates after every 
 match. Gears one MP was fun. You could actually be good with the power weapons if you tried. Gears 
 2 they just leveled the playing field for people that don't play that much. The online feels blan 
 very little replay value after a while. I was let down. They just needed to fix what needed to 
 be fixed but changing the the whole way gears MP was is how epic fixes problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNiT3M4REx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Sir Cliffy B promised gamers everywhere a game that would work out all of the kinks of the first 
 Gears, and above all, make the game more badass. The good people at Epic has certainly lived up 
 to that promise and then some. 
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  The control scheme is the same as the last game so it is really easy for you to pick up the controller 
 and begin playing. The enemy AI has definatly improved from the first one. The are actually working 
 together and will team up on you. Even at the lowest difficulty, you will find some form of a challenge 
 in it. Not only has the enemy AI gotten better, the friendly AI has improved too. They are actually 
 participating in the action. My only gripe, however, is during multiplayer. If your like me and 
 have no friends, you have bots to play with, and if you die, you have a small chance of winning 
 the round. They will look at an enemy and not shoot. That of course is a small little thing and 
 nothing to really worry about.
  
  -STORY-
  After the minimal disaster story of the first game, the story actually was a good one. It takes 
 a humistic approach at looking into the mind of one of the Gears, Dom, who is looking for his lost 
 wife Maria. While this was good and all, there were many questions that I had at the end of the 
 game, which was promised that loose ends would be tied up. That said, the story is immersive, and 
 you will get to know the men of Delta Squad, as well as the Locust Hoarde all throughout the game.
 
  
  -SOUND/PRESENTATION-
  The sound has always been a good addition to the Gears Series. The music, weapons, characters, 
 all have their own unique sound. Apart from the sound, the graphics were amazing as well. Getting 
 rid of the black, dark look of the first one was a great difference. On the day I bought the game, 
 I played Gears 1 right before playing Gears 2, and boy was there a difference. The water physics 
 were amazing, the lighting was better, and everything seemed more colorful than ever. Apart from 
 some instances of the texture not being loaded, (it takes like 5 seconds for the details to pop 
 up) , this was an amazing presented game.
  
  -MULTIPLAYER-
  This is one of the weaker parts of the game. Sure, the multiplayer has many incredible moments 
 of hard core action, but it could do better. It takes forever to load into maps, and it just seems 
 like the last game but with some different maps. Their take on CtF is a good one I'll give them 
 that, but it just wasnt up to the expectations they set for themselves. Hoarde mode on the other 
 hand is absolutly incredible, I absolutly loved this mode and play it constantly.
  
  -FINAL THOUGHTS-
  Epic promised us a badass game, it came up BADASS X10. If you liked the first 
 game, even if you love the shooting genre in general, BUY THIS GAME.
  
  FINAL 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buttmangun451
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I played on the 360. The multiplayer is really fun, it is better 
 than the first Gears multiplayer. It also has grea t campian. I would recommend this game to anyone, 
 especially anyone who likes any kind of shooting games. hsjkshja SAJHDJHSAD sajhbssad sajhsabsa 
 sadjhsbab sadashjsad asdjhasdJHSDgsad asdJHASDGjsahgsda sdahjkshjasgsda jhgghjsahgjdsahsd jhasdgsadjhgsd 
 sdajhgsadjhsdaGV BSADjkgsadjhasdg sdakj the the the game is really the best game i have ever played 
 ksaghkjhqegd akjchbdhx sdkjgdkhjwd dqwkjghdekjgh weqdjhgdekjhqweh SAHJVDSJHSA sadhbDJHASD jhbsa 
 Co-op is really good to . it is really fun to get in chain saw duals to. to win you have to be 
 able to push the a button faster than your opponent. jsidnaKjd sahkaSHBNKHSA SADBNASKJNB ASKHBASKJ 
 SABDASK NAkjldxn kasndjA kajsbndkjn assdkjsbnkAB D askjhdbkhsa Kdjnaskjds aSADKLJNDSA kj sadsdakjs 
 ksdah asdkiasdhj SDSAJK DSSDKJ SDSKADJ ASDKJASD DK ASDKNAS D ASJKD ASDKJ DSADSKJN SDAKJS SADKN 
 DSAKJN DSAKSDANJ SDAKASDJ DSAKJSAD SDAKJSAD ASDKJASD KAJSD DASKASDJDAS KSDAJ . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I got the first one and it was way hyped.. Now with this one it is dead on with the hype.. sure 
 the story and characters could have been expressed better but hey, Gears one had less story and 
 character. *****Spoiler***** ( no original people really die but charaters in the 2nd do like Tai, 
 Maria, Rook, Cowboy, others but anyways*****Spoiler OVER**** its a great game, new coversystem, 
 better graphics more bad guys to plant your bullets in, and the new Hord mutiplayer is great. even 
 if you dont have online they hook you up with bots, yes, bots not even halo dose that!! there is 
 a crapload of amazing moments in this game as well as at least one hour more campain play as the 
 first. and you get alot more achivements if you are a gamerscore finatic. anyone that gives this 
 a bad review dosent oviously apreshiate games like these or maybe they just suck at games, YEAH 
 IM CALLIN YOU OUT GOW2 HATERS!! definitly worth your time and money.. more then the first one... Weres 
 the Mulcher!!!!! check out my profile and lets play online!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamb303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  So the long awaited Gears Of War 2 has arrived, but is it worth the wait? Simply Yes, Gears 2 improves 
 on everything that made Gears 1 such an amazing game. The campaign mode is worth buying the game 
 alone, You still play as Marcus Fenix with your fellow delta squad, Cole and Baird still join you 
 with new faces such as Tai, Dizzie and Anthony Carmines brother, Ben Carmine together you must 
 take the fight to the locusts, going well down underground to take the fight to the locusts you 
 will encounter strange and damn right freaky enemies on your quest to find and kill the Locust 
 queen to stop her sinking the main COG Base Jacinto. Another side plot is the one of Dom's wife, 
 Maria.
  
  Dom's wife has gone missing and through out the game Dom tries to find her, this adds a new emotional 
 depth to the game that the first didn't. 
  
  The game play is still basically the same as the first apart from gears 2 has a few new features, 
 such as a Meat Shield, where you can take the locusts as your shield once you down them And new 
 executions, for you blood thirsty lot
  
  But for me multiplayer is what makes this game perfect, their are various different game modes 
 to play including Wingman, which is basically you and a partner vs another person and a partner 
 vs another person and a partner etc etc.
  
  Overall Gears of war 2 is the definition of must buy, with an amazing story, Great new features 
 and a Outstanding multiplayer Gears 2 will keep you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a continuation of the smash hit 360 game Gears of War. Unlike the trend these 
 days though of rehashed sequels, Gears of War 2 offers the same intuitive and easy to play cover 
 and shoot controls of the first but it adds in a much larger scope and a vastly improved online 
 mode. The story has also received an overhaul this time around and the graphics are noticeably 
 better. It is clear that Epic really wanted to stay away from the 'Grayness' of the old game. Gears 
 of War 2 is easily superior to Gears of War and it is an excellent value as well considering you 
 get a massive single player component, co-op, a full online mode, and the arcade style shooting 
 action in Horde.
  
  The story of Gears of War 2 continues a few months after Gears of War. The Locust have returned 
 and they can sink cities now rather then just pop out of their little emergence holes. Meanwhile 
 as the world continues to teeter on closer to it's end, Dom is still looking for his wife Maria. 
 While all this is happening new questions emerge about the Locust's intentions and the whole game 
 takes off from there. The plot to say it without spoilers is much better then the first game. Unlike 
 the first, the plot is actually important to the game this time around and you feel a much closer 
 relationship with the characters. There are some overdone moments but other then that the story 
 stays on track and as promised can be a bit heavy at times. It's a welcome change and I really 
 enjoyed it. The game does ask a lot of questions though but it doesn't do it in a frustrating manner. 
 You know the answers will all come in Gears of War 3. It's not like Halo 2 at all where all you 
 get is 'Sir... Finishing the fight". Gears of War 2 advances well, and ends well and it manages 
 to set up a sequel without a cliffhanger. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes many of the core gameplay elements from the first remain. You still take 
 cover and you still can blindfire and peek out. Now there are new strategies though. You can set 
 up proximity mines or use one of the new heavy weapons to defeat the locust onslaught. In the first 
 game these heavy weapons would be redundant since you never really went again big enemies but in 
 Gears of War 2 you'll be seeing more reavers, brumaks, and bloodmounts then you can wave a stick 
 at. The new heavy weapons are welcome additions and they are a blast to use; especially the mortar. 
 There are also new other weapons such as the Gorgon Pistol which are welcome additions to. 
  
  Other new gameplay elements include the chainsaw duel, the meatshield, and the new execution 
 system which all add to the brutal nature of the game. They are perfect fits into the universe 
 and it's nice to see brand new executions. The Campaign as a whole is a lot more varied then in 
 the first. Without spoiling anything you won't just be advancing from city to city like in the 
 first game. You'll be going through many different locales all of which are a lot of fun and refreshing. 
 There are also a few on the rails sequences which are a lot of fun and some great driving missions. 
 The driving missions are far better then in the first and the vehicles control quite well but they 
 can be a bit loose to control at first.
  
  The Campaign is much better this time around as a whole. It feels far more epic and it has far 
 more cinematic moments. It feels like you're in a huge war and the game advances like a thrilling 
 action movie. The Campaign as a whole is easier this time around as well. On hardcore I found it 
 pretty easy, much easier then I found hardcore in the first Gears of War. There are some parts 
 though where difficulty can spike but luckily thanks to the drop in and drop out co-op you can 
 bring a buddy in to help you out. Like the first game, the co-op is excellent and not much has 
 changed. The game seems built for co-op and it's a lot more fun to play with a friend. Sadly you 
 can't have four player co-op but that is fine. It wouldn't work anyway with the way the missions 
 are structured.
  
  Another new mode introduced is Horde which is excellent. Horde is a lot of fun with good friends 
 and private horde matches can last forever... The fun is endless and it has become the most popular 
 online mode in the game. It is possibly the best new addition. With strangers it is a lot of fun 
 too but if they don't communicate it can hamper the experience. Luckily most of us have a few friends 
 on Xbox Live who are willing to jump in to play some Horde, that is the way it was intended either 
 way.
  
  All Horde basically is is just a arcade mode where 50 waves of enemies come after you. The first 
 10 waves are unique and after that it just repeats the same 10 in a cycle but with different perks 
 to that cycle of 10 every time. The game is very challenging even on casual and people will be 
 coming back to it again and again to try to beat it on Veteran just to get a spot on that leaderboard. 
 
  
  The versus mode has also been revamped. A new matchmaking system has been put into place that matches 
 people by their skill. This system is brand new at this time and at launch it was painfully slow. 
 Today, playing it was pretty good and I got into matches quite fast. The times have been getting 
 better and better and I expect this problem to disappear with time. Online is a lot of fun and 
 the new modes are great. Old favorites make a return and so do the old maps but the new maps are 
 solid and I enjoy some of the new game modes like Wingman and King of the Hill. Overall the online 
 has been improved for the better though some might lament at the nerfing of the chainsaw.
  
  Gears of War looks much better then the first one. The environments like I said are far more 
 varied and colourful and the textures all appear sharper. The art style of the game is gorgeous 
 and there are many night lighting effects. Lighting took a big leap in this game as there are many 
 neat particle effects and shadow effects created in the game. They really made a huge leap in this 
 game but to see it you gotta play it.
  
  As far as sound goes the game is much better. The lancer now sounds appropriate. Whereas in the 
 first one it sounded kind of weak, in this one it sounds more like an assault rifle. The chainsaw 
 is also higher pitched which I enjoy. The screams and gore sounds are appropriately disturbing 
 and the sound effects as a whole were improved. Voice work has also become much better but the 
 actor playing Dominic Santiago tends to overact. The Cole-Train and Baird though are as funny as 
 ever and Marcus Fenix is great. Those catchphrases never get out of my head... The score is also 
 excellent and it is quite 'epic'. It was perfect and gave the game a much more cinematic feel.
 
  
  Overall Gears of War 2 is a game anyone with an Xbox 360 should experience. It won't change anyones 
 mind concerning the series but for fans of the original this game is well worth buying. It has 
 an amazing value and the game features a far better single player campaign which is worth playing 
 through again and again. The online modes will be populated for years to come as well. Gears of 
 War 2 is a marked improvement over the original and I highly recommend it.
  
  Pros: Visually far more appealing, Artistic Design is improved, Great voice acting, Far more epic 
 campaign with a much improved storyline, Great characters, great sound effects, improved online 
 mode, same awesome co-op, For the horde?
  
  Cons: Matchmaking can be painfully slow during peak times, some visual bugs in the online mode, 
 sometimes they pick the laggiest guy in the match to be host.
  
  Overall: As Marcus would say, "Niiiiiiice" 
  
  
  January 11th 2009: The matchmaking times 
 are still painfully slow, for this reason I have downed the score to an 8.5. The games incessant 
 online glitches have also caused me to do so. Here's hoping they get fixed and Gears of War 2 can 
 go back to it's AAA status. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I could'nt be happier with this game. Story had my friend and I playing 8 hours NON-STOP. 
 Which if that's not a lot for u it is for me, I normally play, at max, 8 hours a week. Great gameplay, 
 awesome graphics, creative levels, extremely awesome co-op, and much, much more. If u don't own 
 this game u should definitely go to the store and buy it NOW. This game is more deserving of a 
 ten than GTA IV, granted that was a very good game, but rockstar took out too many fun things that 
 they had in GTA San Andreas that should've been in the new one. The only reason im not giving Gears 
 of War 2 a 10/10 is because of the ridiculous Horde wave lvl 50 on Insane and the fact that online 
 multiplayer is a little difficult to get used to. All in all, this game deserves a 9.99999999 out 
 of 10 which sadly I could only give a 9.5. GO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The only reason i spent so little time is because i just got this game and have been busy. well 
 this game is better than the orginal. the campaign takes place right after the first. It is also 
 longer then the first campaign. the campaign takes place in a lot of places, and some weird places...... SPOILER- 
 Inside somthing.... but the campaign is long and takes a couple days to beat. Insane is really tough. 
 beware the campaign is sad... and fun and good. they redid the sound like for the lancer and the 
 other guns. The graphics are good too. they added a shield you can carry but you can only use a 
 pistol while your carrying it. they also added 11 excutions. like a shogun one where you do like 
 a golf swing and kill them, and a sniper one where you swing the sniper over your head and beat 
 the person with it. they also added more multiplayer maps...... and some mutiplayer modes like submission: basicly 
 capture the flag, wingman:5 teams of 2, guardian: like vip. i give this game a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is not Gears of War 1.5, Gears 2 is a MASTERPIECE. At first I didn't think Gears 
 2 would live up to all the hype and be perfect, but damn I was wrong.
  
  Gears 2 has a much better story than the somewhat generic Gears 1, and is also more enjoyable to 
 play through. The campaign can last anywhere from 6-12 hours depending your skill and difficulty. 
 Horde is probably one of the best new features added to a sequel in a longtime. Horde has 50 Levels 
 and 4 Difficulties [like campaign] and gets tougher with each level. The best way to play horde 
 is with 3-5 Friends, because it is more fun that way, and becomes a bit competitive to be the best 
 in the round. The best thing about Gears 2 though is its multiplayer. Gears 2 has tons of different 
 maps and different multiplayer matches that are all really fun. The achievements aren't that hard 
 either besides Seriously 2.0.
  
  Gears 2 is an outstanding game, a reason to own a 360, mostly likely GOTY, and a MUST OWN FOR ALL! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  With Gears of War 1, Epic set the foundations of a massive full-scale war between the humans of 
 Sera and a vicious alien species called 'the Locust'. It introduced a band of soldiers hell bent 
 on ensuring the survival of the human race and taking out the Locust.
  
  Now, we are entering the second part of this iconic gaming series and while Gears 1 left you thinking 
 that you had destroyed the Locust horde with the lightmass bomb, you instantly find out the lightmass 
 bomb didn't work and you know face a more determined Locust horde ready to sink entire cities, 
 and the last human stronghold, Jacinto, is next.
  
  Like Cliff Bleszinski said, Gears of War 2 is definately bigger, better and more badass then it's 
 predecessor. One of the main goals of Epic's was to add a more emotional storyline. The additions 
 of new characters worked perfectly, Dizzy, Tai and B. Carmine are all welcome additions to Gears, 
 however, Epic have definitely kept the main spotlight of the main two characters, Marcus and Dom. 
 Epic have definitely succeeded it creating this emotional storyline. You also now have more of 
 an idea of what the Locust want. 
  
  Epic have also decided to add more emotion to the Locust in Gears 2. In the original, they were 
 just these aliens you shot, went down to reload, popped back up and finished off. You didn't really 
 have an idea why they were even here. In Gears 2, this is changed. You find out that the Locust 
 have been taking humans prisoners and torturing them, this gives you a sense of the vicious nature 
 of the Locust. Most of the battles are fought in the Locust home, called the Hollow. You find out 
 that the Locust are practically here for the imulsion, however, a civil war breaks out in the Locust 
 Horde between the main locust and the lambent, a form of locust that have mutated to the exposure 
 to the imulsion. This is the first hint of panic and worry you see from the Locust.
  
  The main storyline that drives Gears 2 is Dom's search for his wife. To be honest, it doesn't really 
 add much, until Dom finds his wife, processed and tortured by the Locust. it hits you, right in 
 the heart. The way Epic portrayed that was brilliant. When, Dom opens her chamber, she is wearing 
 clothes that looked like they just come out of a washing machine, she has a glow around her, then 
 Dom takes her in her arms then BANG! Marcus brings Dom back to real life and you see what state 
 Maria is really in. She has a limited amount of hair, her skin cut and dark, unable to communicate. 
 As Marcus walks away, you hear the gunshot as Dom puts his wife out of her misery and kills her. 
 It is emotional stuff. This adds to emotion because it gives you a reason to hate the Locust. 
 
  
  Another main target of Epic's was to broaden Gears' horizons. In the original, it was you and Delta 
 squad, taking on the Locust horde in narrow streets, now you feel part of a full scale war. Grinding 
 down to the Locust home with grindlifts falling around you, riding on big trucks, looking down 
 and seeing about a thousand locust. It is truly awe-inspiring.
  
  While the original Gears of War was brilliant, you couldn't help feeling disappointed. The main 
 battle was with General RAAM, who you had no idea of his nature, or where he fits in with the Locust, 
 was a big let-down. In Gears 2, the battles with generally huge things come thick and fast. For 
 example, you've just hijacked a Brumak, killed 3 other Brumaks and 2 Corpsers, now you're riding 
 a Reaver, while being chased by something that looks like it could kill a Brumak by simply breathing 
 on it. It is absolutely amazing.
  
  Another brilliant thing that Gears has, and so did the original, is the drop-in, drop-out co-op. 
 Instead of something like Halo 3, where if one person quits, it ends the whole game for everyone, 
 you can get to say, Act 3 with your buddy, he leaves, you get to Act 4, your buddy comes back online 
 you invite him back in and off you go. Its extremely simple but its brilliantly effective, and 
 just makes the game more enjoyable then it already is. It also has independent difficulty setting. 
 This basically means that if you wanna complete it on Insane and your mate aint too good. You can 
 play on Insane, while he plays on Casual, while playing co-op. Brilliant. 
  
  A bunch of new weapons, executions and new abilities have made there way to Gears 2. Instead of 
 just the average curb stomp, you can take your shotgun like a golf club and smack their head for 
 six, or you can get on top of them and just generally beat the crap out of them with your fists. 
 You can now tag walls with grenades, which adds a bit more tacticalness especially in Horde and 
 multiplayer. 
  
  Horde, is a new addition to Gears. To those that said Epic just strapped it on late in development 
 so that they could say that it had something different from Gears 1, well you were wrong. Horde 
 is extremely funny and addictive. Basically, you pick any multiplayer map and you face wave after 
 wave of Locust. There are 50 of these waves and after every 10 waves the Horde grows stronger, 
 and even if you make a promise at the beginning not to camp, you will have to eventually, trust 
 me. 'Well, I'll just get to 50 then I'll won't play it again.' Well actually you will, you will 
 want to beat wave 50 on every map and then you will want to beat your score on every map, then 
 you will want to get to wave 50 on every map without dieing, seriously addictive.
  
  Gears on Xbox LIVE is what we have come to expect from Gears on Xbox LIVE, full of a bunch of people 
 who refuse to use nothing but the chainsaw, but seriously good fun. There is no real change to 
 Gears multiplayer, however, they have bumped it up to 5 on 5, so they will be a lot more curb stompingly 
 more fun out there. They have added a multiplayer matchmaking system, very similar to that seen 
 in Halo 3. Yes, it is slow at the time of writing, but hopefully Epic will fix it. 
  
  Overall, every aspect that stopped Gears 1 from the perfect 10 has been fixed. The campaign is 
 absolutely awe-inspiring, and you will love it as soon as you drop it in your 360. Missing this 
 is a crime to your life. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkilnik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start?
  I was not at first a Gears of fan, but interests change overtime. I was itching for that lancer 
 chainsaw bayonet. When I picked up the game, I waited for my best friend to come over later so 
 we could both pick up a new game, and play it through together. We did just this, on Hardcore the 
 first time through. It was a blast. Not to mention one to save the mountain dews and slim jims 
 for the all nighter. One thing I have to say about this game is just the way it's played.. the 
 enemies are actually.... smart. Go ahead and run put there like an idiot and I'll be watching the 
 red skull pulse on your screen. One of the most outstanding things about this game - it's crapless. 
 No bull. No crap. Within six minutes of playing this game, I was like.. why would anyone play Halo? 
 And I mean that. Even online, in my experience, no crap. No bull, where you stand in awe on how 
 that guy just owned you. Anyway... if you die, there was something you could do, or it's just bad 
 luck (i. e. torque bow to the elbow) . It was a game that I felt free from bull. Let's not forget, 
 Gears 2 was a VAST upgrade from Gears 1. I tried to go back and play Gears 1, I couldn't I was 
 just used to Gears 2, the movement just seemed smoother and so did the gunfights. Now I know your 
 all wondering when I will say something about the game I did not like. 
  
  The A button. It either saved you or killed you, anyone who flipped out in front of a grenadier, 
 knows what I speak of.
  
  Is it just me or do the Locusts happen to flinch RIGHT as I pull the trigger to snipe their heads?
 
  
  And finally... why in co op mode would I want to split up from my partner. I get stuck, well wait.. 
 Cole actually did something... Baird... oh, he always let my buddy down. It was just a little annoying 
 because we could do the job together.
  
  And finally, this doesn't take away from my score... I just hated the Razor Hail. I mean, what 
 a terrible omen!
  
  
  So a 9.5 seems fair, for just a few annoyances.
  Thanks for reading!
  
  -Kilnik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wa-Ryan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  So I played through the campaign of GoW2 with my friend on co-op, "hardcore" difficulty. It was 
 extremely fun. (I haven't played the online multiplayer though) .
  
  The graphics are fantastic, the levels are varied and creative, and the whole way through you're 
 battling it out with the Locust. The gameplay rarely feels stale though as the game keeps it fresh 
 with different and unique objectives. The boss battles, while far and few between and a little 
 on the easy side, were still exciting and fun.
  
  My favourite part about this game though is the story. The interesting characters and apocalyptic 
 world make it very immersive and epic.
  
  One complaint I have is that the pure fighting portions can get a little stale, especially near 
 the end in the last couple acts when they are just piled on. This is very miniscule and something 
 fresh always comes along soon.
  
  I doubt the campaign would be as much fun alone but would still be worth playing. If you have a 
 friend and an extra controller though, co-op is definitly the way to go.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleanPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a fresh sequel to a superb game. At first, I had a hard time describing my experience 
 after completing it. The game is like none other literally, the single player campaign is phenominal 
 and gives the series a huge step forward while the multiplayer is taking small steps but still 
 in the right direction. 
  
  Gears of War 2 feels not like a mission or operation like in Gears of War 1, but instead it feels 
 like a war. The idea of attacking the Locust really complements the user into feeling their the 
 underdog, this is it. The story takes off with the Locust sinking cities and Jancinto is humanity 
 last hope. The general decides to send everyone underground to attack the Locust and stop their 
 evil plan. But the story your really rooting for is Dom trying to find his missing wife, Maria. 
 Both of them mix together perfectly with Marcus and Dom expressing emotions and dialogue I didn't 
 think was possible. As the story progresses with the characters you meet such as Tai, Dizzy, Cole, 
 Baird, and Carmine, you really start to hate the Locust and want to kill them just as badly as 
 Marcus and Dom do. 
  
  The new ideas they added were not too much to the series. They have meat shields, new gernades, 
 very little new weapons but little minor switches. Overall, they don't change much for the formula 
 on how to kill the Locust instead Epic Games made the enemies larger, bigger, faster, and stronger. 
 You will be entertained to kill the new enemies over and over again. 
  
  The multiplayer mode for Gears of War 2 will not leave anyone bored. There's tons of modes but 
 most recognizable and greatest new one, Horde. Killing off waves of enemies with 5 friends online 
 never gets old. My personal favorite is Wingman because it's the quickest to get into and it takes 
 a lot of teamwork to win. My complaints with the online mulitplayer is the matchmaking is frustrating. 
 It takes 10 minutes to join a warzone match when it shouldn't. The lag happens a little too much 
 and the skill system isn't designed for a game like gears of war 2. I still think the chainsaw 
 is a little overpowered but I feel the chainsaw battles are at least a fair way to kill someone 
 or be killed. Once it's all said and done, I hope Epic Games releases tons of downloadable content 
 like new Horde waves and maps. But overall they did a great job on mulitplayer.
  
  So go out and buy this game if you haven't already, you won't be dissappointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can play by yourself or with friends in co-op. There are some new characters like 
 this recruit named Carmine, a big guy named Tai, and a cowboy like person named Izzy. The game 
 is kinda like the first gears of war game. You start at the surface then you go down underground 
 into the locusts base then you come back to the surface but then you go back down for a little 
 more at the ending. The game is really about Dom trying to find his wife. The Delta squad team 
 is Marcus, Dom, Cole, and Baird of course. There are new stuff in the game like in one act you 
 drive this big car through a icy mountain to get to the locust base. The other new thing is chainsaw 
 duels. This new thing lets you and a enemy fight like a chainsaw sword fight when you have to smash 
 buttons to win. The last new feature is a mode called Horde mode. In this mode you versus against 
 a bunch of hordes. You can do this mode all by yourself or with a friend. 
  
  The good of the game: there is plenty of features. New characters to use in multiplayer. The gameplay 
 is amazing.
  
  The bad of the game: It is just like the first ever gears of War game.
  
  Overall this game is a pretty awesome game and if you played the first Gears of War game then 
 you should get this one becuase it is really good. I give this game a 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  It isn't normal for me to look forward to a sequel. Especially if I didn't enjoy the original until 
 right near the end of it's life. But the original Gears of War began to grow on me as the weeks 
 counted down to the arrival of it's sequel. So would this live up to my expectations, or pull a 
 Halo on me?
  
  Well, they almost got there. Almost. In fact, now I think of it, the only "Good" sequels I have 
 played in the last few years are Half-Life 2, C&C3 and Baldur's Gate 2. It might just be the fact 
 I am hughly critical now adays, and that I judge everything, but it also can leave me some gaming 
 joys. And whilst Gears 2 fortunately has a refined gameplay mechaincs, more interesting weapons, 
 longer campaign, more enemies and more deathmatch modes, it is let down by it's unwillingness to 
 move on, open ended story and a huge lack of weapon balance.
  
  The game sets off six months after the first ended and now the Locust are grasping at straws, sinking 
 cities with their own version of a "super-weapon". As fears rise that Jacinto could fall, humanity 
 relies upon a desperate counterattack to stop the momentum of the Locust forces, and destroy them 
 forever. Playing as Marcus Fenix once more, you are once more charged with humanities survival. 
 Now whilst this should seem to be an epic battle against impossible odds, the fate of humanity 
 bearing upon your shoulders, the game fails to draw you in. What could have been the games greatest 
 strength, instead becomes it's greatest of weaknesses, it may be bigger and a little better than 
 Gears of War, it certainly isn't badass...
  
  Along with the attack on the Locust hordes, Dom is searching for his missing wife, who he didn't 
 really give much of a damn about in the first game. There is also the fact that the Lightmass detonation 
 has set off a chain reaction in the immulsion, causing humans to develop a disease known as rustlung, 
 which futhers damages the dwindling population. Now, the disease pops up once, at the very beginning, 
 and Dom's wife doesn't take much preceence until near the end. In fact, I find that these actually 
 get in the way of the story and pulls it down from being quite immersive, to an almost tacky add 
 on. After all, these are meant to be the equivelent of HollyWood's hard men, not some emotionally 
 driven characters, who care more about a loved one then the fate of the very planet on which they 
 stand.
  
  Now whilst the story may be lacking, the gameplay feels mainly improved. All this talk of "moving 
 into cover just seems better" doesn't really seem true to someone like me, but the core gameply 
 is quite well performed. If it isn't broke, don't fix it, and this is an idea Gears sticks to in 
 all situations. Whilst this leads to exhilerating and dramatic set pieces, the game is unfortunately 
 too afraid to stray from it's roots. There is no real sense of randomness, each play-through is 
 exactly the same as the last, and the quite effective build up of tension in the first game has 
 completely disappeared. No more is the still moments of quietness, but just blazing gunfights. 
 And while small chunks of cover can be removed, it has no real influence on the game itself, also 
 feeling like a cheap add-on, rather than the idea of cover disintergrating under furious firing.
 
  
  Whilst the story mode itself won't draw you in, the campaign felt well developed to me, there was 
 a real feeling of needing to finish this fight, no matter the odds. By about the middle point in 
 Act Four, I couldn't put the controller down, I had to find out the fate of what would be for humanity. 
 And in the final chapter, despite the inevitable plot twist, I was still compelled, blasting my 
 way through roomfuls of Palace Guards, desperate to stop this menace. Then, it's the last room 
 and you finally face Skorge one-on-one... and this illusion is shattered. From this point on, the 
 final act just feels completely shallow and unnecessary, the game betrays the player himself, as 
 the only enemy you were looking forward to facing is ridiculously easy. From this point onwards, 
 singleplayer seems just to lose it's whole sense of purpose. The ending also feels cheap and misplaced. 
 And, what the hell with all those driving sections? And why would you raise this many questions 
 without any awnsers in sight? Ohh and another cliffhanger ending, as if we needed another.
  
  Fortunately, the multiplayer mainly makes up for the blundering of the singleplayer, with double 
 the number of multiplayer modes, of which the main three which stand out are Wingman, five teams 
 of two, King of the Hill, self explanitory, and Horde, facing waves of Locusts. These three game 
 modes seem to work best, all of which revolve entirely around teamwork to get the job done and 
 fit the fast frantic action perfectly. Unfortunately, balance issues come in a little too steeply 
 here. Whilst the heavy weapons eliminate the ability to Roadie Run, the sheer power they hold seems 
 a little unfair, as you can force your enemies into a chokehold, then drop two tonnes of explosives 
 on them. Or a barrel of high calibre bullets. And whilst the Gnasher has indeed been reduced in 
 power, it's accuracy does take the complete p*ss! You can easily down enemies with two or three 
 shots at medium range. A perfect active with the Boltok make enemies fall faster than a ton of 
 bircks. The Lancer can completely kill anyone, reducing the Hammerburst as even partly a viable 
 weapon.
  
  Personnally, I don't really care if this turns out to be the Game of the Year by all of it's fanboy 
 lovers. The overpowered weapons reduce the need of skill in multiplayer, and the overused smoke 
 grenades with concussive force make stiming of your attack irrelevant as you are pulled down time 
 and time again. Me, I will stick with true classics, Gears of War can't dream of touching Half-Life 
 in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absolutsteffe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  A solid shooter, a perfect strategy, amazing story and excellent gameplay! Ive already used 4 BIG 
 words to describe this huge game!
  And ive forgotten the best part, breathtaking graphics!
  
  Before, i was a grand 1-person shooter type of player. I hated games that made me think and 
 forced me to "go around" "study" and hide, i mean.. i just want to shoot dammit!
  Though this game will make you take it easy and play a little "Stealth", it will also make you 
 thrilled.. And the shooting part? well lets say you will se blood 90% of the time and the weapons 
 are so satisfying that when you finally get to chainsaw somebody, youl stand up and shout "YOU 
 GOT OWNED".
  The story is as i said solid, and with the grafics in the game it will blow your mind.. It could 
 as well be a movie!
  Appart from the story, the game also has a great online multilayer with al sorts of "meatflag" 
 "domination" and more.. It works smoothly and it will make you play again and again and agian and 
 ag......
  
  But there are some downsides, which makes this game a 9,5 instead of a 10.. The loading time for 
 the multilayer can take years, and if you play singleplayer story mode, your AI-controlled partner 
 sometimes will make you pissed since he hides, slows you down and stands in your way (especially 
 when you play harder difficulties) .
  
  I didnt play GOW 1, since i didnt think il like it.. 
  Lets just say Gears of war 2 totally changed 
 my mind!
  
  Buy it, play it, love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is set almost a year after the events of Gears of War 1, with the returning cast 
 of Delta Squad with a few new faces. You'll first meet Benjamin Carmine, the younger brother of 
 Anthony Carmine and Delta's new trainee. Soon after, Tai Kaliso shortly after in a Jacinto hospital, 
 and Dizzy Wallin, driving, Betty, his properly named Assault Derrick. Baird and Cole show up again 
 later to join Marcus and Dom yet again for another trip underground. The Locusts are also back... Bigger 
 and Badder! They have a Gigantic force at their disposal this time around, that, of course, is 
 up to Delta and the C. O. G. Army to strike and demolish once and for all. Chairman Prescott, the 
 leader of the C. O. G. gives his orders to his soldiers to take the fight to the Locusts. This spins 
 off into a 5 Act, several chaptered story of well-written, well-delivered Action! The campaign 
 hogs the glory for what is good in the game. Sharing this glory is the new arcade mode, Horde. 
 Waves and waves of Locusts, coming from all directions, come strong and quick. You and your four 
 other friends better be ready for the 50 groups of monsters, ranging in size and strength, come 
 chargin'! It's a lot of fun to play and can get challenging, so be on your heels. Now on to Multiplayer. 
 The award-winning, well-recepted Multiplayer of Gears of War 1 set milestones in 2006, with its 
 superb gameplay, graphics, and realistic mechanics. This has been tweaked, in many's opinions, 
 for the worst. The 5 on 5 versus matches of Gears of War 2 leave a lot to be desired. A chainsaw 
 constantly revving with nothing in the game world to stop it except your own face, rings in your 
 ear every minute your playing. As if Epic, wanting a better, more "realistic" experience, wants 
 people to make a chainsawing game. When a construction game hits the 360, people who do this, should 
 play that. Another complaint is the favorite weapon that Epic wanted to destroy is the trusty shotgun. 
 For the most part, that's the past with Gears 1. The shotgun, supposedly with its great stopping 
 power, shoots what might as well be air at your opponent. It now weak, inaccurate, and takes almost 
 nowhere near the skill and prowess it took in the first game. Aside from these somewhat major complaints, 
 the game plays well with some minor glitches and an amazing campaign. Updates, in my opinion, are 
 a rather high priority. I wouldn't say don't buy it, but Gears of War 1 is still a top Xbox 360 
 title too...
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macgyver40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 was perhaps the most anticipated sequel in the video game industry, and like the 
 first installment, gears of war 2 delivers all of the high octane and fast paced adrenaline rush 
 game play of it's predecessor. Marcus Fenix and squad are back to take the locust to school with 
 no mercy. There are some new twists added this time around, and the single player campaign is rich 
 and dynamic. The single player campaign offers many of the same weapons found in gears of war with 
 some new weapons and new ways of using some of the old weapons. The single player story is darker 
 in feel and the characters have a purpose and reason which gives the player lots of background 
 information on each character. This allows players to feel what the characters are feeling and 
 by doing so the player becomes fully immersed in the lives of these well crafted characters.
  The environment is rich in diversity bringing the player to many different types of locations. 
 These larger than life locations are brought to life with absolutely stunning and realistic graphics 
 which gives players the sense of being a small fish in a very large pond. This feeling is reinforced 
 with the use of vehicles that are enormous in scale along with certain enemies. The atmosphere 
 of the environment is taken to the next level with an amazing yet emotional use of music. The soundtrack 
 adds tension and depth to an already, amazing visual interactive environment.
  Game play is very smooth and crisp that has no awkward moments. Right from the start the player 
 feels very comfortable and very familiar with the controls for character movement and firing of 
 weapons. This is topped off with intense sound effects along with quick one liners by Marcus and 
 his squad.
  Gears of war 2 lends itself to being an amazing single player game, however it is in all of it's 
 glory with online multiplayer campaigns. The multiplayer settings will leave gamers hungry for 
 more and with campaigns such as horde, makes gears of war 2 worthy of an unbelievable and intensely 
 satisfying gaming experience.
  If you are into shooting games that are fast paced, visually stunning, and like characters that 
 have the take no prisoners attitude, then gears of war 2 will guarantee an amazing gaming experience 
 that will leave players wanting more yet a game that will leave players completely satisfied. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I bought the Gears of War (1) /Xbox package at the end of 2006. I had so much debt after I bought 
 it, my parent would give me any money to buy another game, so it was just me, my xbox and GoW. 
 I finished the campaign in 3 days, I played Hexic for a week and then I realized... Is there a 
 multyplayer mode?!
  So I went online and directly died 20 times without making a single kill, but after a week I finally 
 got the hang of it and I would play it till Halo 3 came out.
  
  Campaign and AI.
  But now, the Halo3 hype is over, and the sequel came out. 
  First I started the campaign, it 
 took me 2 days to get trough it on normal because there was so much puzzling put in it, that it 
 felt like I was playing SuperMario64 (which also took me a week to figure out how to start a mission) , 
 but the shooting and blood only got better.
  the features to make it more realistic worked out pretty well, chainsaw fights and advanced execution's 
 are sure to bring back that noisiness but exciting feeling that you got when you chainsawed somebody 
 for the first time.
  
  Tough the noobie style of your friendly I. A. does take away some of the fun, when you are playing 
 against bots they all do the same and the so called "Bot Battles" can take minutes to finish.
 
  
  Horde is probably one of the things that keep this game interesting if your not in the mood to 
 get 'one shot killed' and you completed the campaign its great and the waves are really exciting, 
 but it is annoying that you cant have any friendly I. A. in horde so you don't have to play alone.
 
  
  Multiplayer.
  If you ever played Gears1 online you know that the saw is the most important part of the game, 
 but now in Gears2, there in the starting period and they look at what weapons and strategies are 
 used the most and they make them weaker or less used weapons and strategies stronger.
  The chainsaw is used to much at this points, and you don't get stunned if somebody shoots you when 
 you are revving your chainsaw , and the shotgun isn't strong enough to blow somebody apart and 
 also do quite some damage from a distance. The shotgun is very important in the game, but it just 
 isn't strong enough up close at this point.
  Also the smoke grenade hardens sneak-ups to somebody, because they get planted everywhere and the 
 have a blast radius that is bigger then from where your shotgun can actually do feelable damage 
 to somebody.
  And the way multyplayer matches are created also is different, they now use a Halo style matchmaking 
 system in which you can't chose your game type/level but you can vote for it in a brand new trigger 
 system. 
  They probably did this because they do not want to have the "AFK host" problem again.
  
  And 
 one last thing I think does need improvement is the lagg lots of people have a lot, that's the 
 reason I always hosted so I had a good connection, but now, my connection always blows.
  
  So it looks better, but there are just a lot of things that could use some improvement especially 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomonemich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This was a great game. When it finished, I was left wanting more but at the same time, I missed 
 the feel of the first game. I love the way the game has evolved, new weapons, more gore, new ways 
 to finish off the opponents, all very nice. But some things irked me. For example, the vehicular 
 missions were a waste of time in my opinion. I prefer a cut scene leading to the next battle rather 
 than driving a mini-tank across a frozen lake or through the mountains or underground. The underground 
 cavern missions were kind of cool but the worm was, in my opinion ridiculous, especially when you 
 consider the task was to run away from a big ball of poop. That was just dumb. More time spent 
 in the abandoned towns, in the cities, in some sort of location where you use the cover of the 
 surroundings would have been much better, like the first game. And while the multiplayer offers 
 wave after wave of oncoming enemies, I was hoping for more of that in the single player story mode. 
 I was expecting the Lord of the Rings style wave of enemies. All in all, it was a very satisfying 
 experience and it is truly a great evolution of the first game in terms of mechanics and so forth 
 but... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bret_Hart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Normally, I would write a lengthy review, but I'm too lazy to do that right now. All that you need 
 to know is that Gears Of War 2 surpasses its predecessor in every way imaginable, be it the multiplayer 
 mode, singleplayer campaign or even graphically. It's an incredibly fun, unqiue action game that 
 cannot be missed by any Xbox 360 owner. 
  
  Now, to meet the one hundred word criteria, I will continue to repeat the following sentence: All 
 work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and 
 no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play 
 makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack 
 a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull 
 boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  I thought I'd start with a quote from the worst publicized review of this game:
  "The game delivers the same grizzled, gore-laden action we've come to expect, and it does it extremely 
 well -- but it's as if the original Gears has gotten a face-lift, and been expanded upon, without 
 much real change." - WIRED 8/10
  
  Every other review was an 8.5 or higher. After reading WIRED's review, I wonder if the reviewer 
 even played this game or the first. Because their was a ton of change between GOW and GOW2.
  
  First off, they improved the game engine. It provides much better lighting and shading, which 
 really enriches the colors and the graphics. It made the best looking game ever, look even better. 
 Also, they are able to now Spawn armies of enemies at a time. Next, they added bullet stopping 
 power. So there is no more rolling or running up to your enemy for a cheap shotgun kill. If they 
 are shooting you, you gradually slowdown with continuous hits until you're almost at a standstill. 
 There are more, and bigger guns. They've added a semi-automatic burst firing pistol, a flamethrower, 
 a portable machine gun turret, and gun that shot mortars. They added more vehicles, for advancing 
 the story in campaign. They added new enemies, and allow you to fight or ride as some that you 
 breifly encountered in the first GOW. They have new executions, and you can now use your enemy 
 as a body shield; you can break their neck when you are done with them. They added new multiplayer 
 modes. Most publicized one being Horde. That mode is meant for co-op, against waves of Locust; 
 that get increasingly more difficult. I haven't been able to play that one yet. They introduced 
 destructable environments; which have actual support structures underneath. Now you can knock the 
 top off of the enemies cover, so you can get a better shot at their head with a sniper rifle. The 
 fighting environment has changed to. Now you can be fighting on massive battlefields, as well as 
 running through city ruins. Last, they added proximity mines. Basically, they are your normal grenades 
 and you stick them into a wall; which than they become proximity mines. Oh yeah, and they added 
 some drama for those who need more than just a great game. Does that sound lke just more than a 
 face lift to you? I don't know what types of changes they wanted, but anything more radical would 
 have been a different game altogether.
  
  My biggest issues:
  1. GOW2 didn't seem as technically proficient as the first. What I mean is, sometimes I'd try to 
 slam into cover and roll instead. Sometimes I'd go to run, and roll instead. Sometimes I'd move 
 to the point that is supposed to advance the story, and my progression gets blocked by something. 
 Example: First level, after you ambush the locust, I ran around the balcony to find collectables 
 that maybe lying around. When I met back up with Dom and Tai, they wouldn't let me pass through 
 the double doors to the other room. I had to restart from the last checkpoint. Didn't have those 
 problems in GOW.
  2. The Dom love story. It just seemed forced upon us, and was riddled with cliches. I liked the 
 ending to that subplot, but it became predictable. It also made for some cheesy dialogue.
  3. Gameplay signifigantly changes between Normal, and Hardcore. Haven't played insane yet, but 
 I can't imagine. In normal, you take less damage, dish out more, and both teammates can revive 
 you. In Hardcore, bots can't revive you at all, you take more damage, and deal out slightly less. 
 It makes for a challenge, but it puts too big of a wedge between the two difficulties.
  
  Bottomline: If you loved the first, than you will cheat on it with this game. It's better, and 
 more beautiful. People who should try renting are Run-and-Gun Shooter fans, and those who typically 
 don't like shooters. I'm not a fan of shooters, but this plays more like an action game than a 
 traditional shooter. Every situation is a puzzle, and you need more than great aim and a quick 
 trigger finger to dominate this game. This game totally benefits the tacticians and strategists 
 more than the sharp shooters. If you are both, you will be almost impossible to stop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonePwn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks!
  
  this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 years!
  
  Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks! Online 
 rocks! Online rocks! Online rocks!
  
  this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 years! this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 
 years! this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 years! this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 
 years! this game will be played for 300000000000000000000 years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshTheMod
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be a dam good game with immersive story line and brilliant game play which though 
 mostly the same as Gears 1. Has some brilliant new features like the new excitations and new i 
 like to call "BEASTY GUNS".
  
  The storyline is brilliant but it doesn't seem to pick up where number one left off. if you can 
 rememberr at the end of number one, the war is pretty much over. But this one carries on as if 
 the was has just begun again, and just doesn't seem to make sense. BUT this problem a side a pretty 
 dam cool store with some EPICLY gorey parts, i'll say no more...
  
  The multiplayer has been changed with a new team finding system and new game modes and upto 5 players!!! 
 in a team. But the new team building system makes it a lengthy process if you don't have any friends 
 playing the game. The new modes are fun and addctive it's just a shame it takes AGES to get even 
 a team together to play.
  
  All in all worth a buy and still as EPIC as the last game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santans_rouge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  ok to start off i played gears 1 an i was like wow this games really cool that campaign was awsome 
 but the achievements were hard. but now for Gears 2 the achievements are really easy but seriously 
 2.0 100k kills.. i only got like 6.5k atm an party like is 1999 will take a lil bit of time i got 
 about 550 rounds atm i have 46/50 achievements in gears 2 so if u ike gamerscore then get gears 
 2. if you like great games or good tactical games get gears 2 also.
  the campaign took me from 8pm to 3am on casual on co-op with my friend on the day gears 2 came 
 out we took our time rofl. an took me a few days like 5 to beat insane lol. over all the game is 
 really great but it could be alot better. the veto system on mutiplayer is ok but the search system 
 sucks an the ranking system dont even let me get started but it sucks also. the game can get cheap 
 but its ok lol. u can play private matches with yourself but with AI bots playing (with campaign 
 difficulties) or with friends. the 50 waves of horde can get really borring an stupid an repetitive 
 but its worth it i guess, two achievemetns  . . well i guess thats about it hope this review help 
 ppl that arnt sure about dat game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt2k
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god I want to have babies with this game.
  
  What to say, single player is great, I mean it's a first person cool game.
  
  Then you decide 
 to do a little co-op and it's fantastic
  
  Then you think, hey I'll do some online battles and what the heck this game is freaking sweet. 
 Horde mode is, well it's worth buying Xbox live just to play horde mode, you team up, you chat 
 to really cool people and blast the hell out of the enemies with amazing weapons.
  
  I've completed the game with my flatmate and i play horde mode pretty much every day. Co-op is 
 great because you can split up and take different routes and kill as a team. 
  
  Just play for ten minutes and during that time spend two minutes trying to chainsaw as many people 
 as possible, then come and tell me that this game isn't addictive.
  
  Damn it, this has made me want to go play again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war was epic, but GoW 2 is even more than epic.
  
  Okay so i will start off with the story mode. Its awsome! GoW 2 is what type of storey mode i am 
 looking for in a game beacase it is long, It has the best cut scenes, has the perfect difficulty, 
 and its co-op. Just puting those 4 in a game makes a game awsome, but in Gears, it makes it perfect! 
 The story line is pretty easy to follow along. Much like GoW 1, you are marcus fighting locust 
 and trying to protect your city with characters from the first GoW such as Dom, Baird, and every 
 ones favorite Cole. Also adding some new characters such as Dizzy, and Tia. 
  
  Now the online part of Gears. In GoW 2 they have really, and i mean realllllly improved the online!!! 
 they have added some new modes like for example horde mode. In this mode you enter a map of your 
 choice with 5 people (or bots) and you fight throught 50 waves of enemies getting harder and harder 
 as you move on. Some other modes of online are exicutoner, and territories. bacically deathmatch, 
 and capture the territory. 
  
  Here are some other cool things they added in GoW 2. One thing that is cool is in the menu, you 
 can select almost like a journal and you can see all your achivements and also youre progress in 
 them. Also Instead of Cog tags they put in collectibles and you can find those scattered through 
 out the game in corners or on the streets. You can also see all your collectables in the menu.
 
  
  Over all these three things really make Gears of War 2 what it is, and if they make a third one, 
 i expect the same awsome result i got from this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeePilot
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I played the first GOW a lot and enjoyed it, got used to the multiplayer and how the game functioned, 
 and overall had a good time playing it, online especially. I got really excited that GOW 2 was 
 coming out, and I couldn't wait to play the game with new multiplayer types, weapons, and the horde 
 mode. After playing it for about 20 hours, I absolutely hate the multiplayer. It's worse than GOW 
 1, and so inconsistent that I don't know what to do with myself. I wait in the multiplayer lobby 
 for 15 minutes while the servers find a game, then I get mad at how I shoot people with a full 
 shotgun clip only to have them turn around and hit me ONCE and I fall to the ground. It's just 
 WAY to inconsistent and glitchy for me online.
  However, I enjoyed the single player campaign. It was something like 2 times longer than the first, 
 and had a bigger scale. The game felt like you were part of a full on war instead of a you-vs-all 
 mindset like in the first one. Also, Horde mode is really really cool and fun to play. It requires 
 a lot of team effort to take on 25 or more locusts whose only goal is to completely destroy you. 
 At first you can kinda just run around and steam roll the enemy, but in later levels, you dig in 
 and hold off a position that you and your teammates decide on, and it feels kinda like D-Day. also, 
 the graphics are a little better than the first one, which make them totally awesome on an HD TV!
 
  This is why I chose "mixed reactions" because I like certain parts of the game, but hate the others 
 with a passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I still think my decision to get a xbox next to a wii is a good one. I can't imagine myself to 
 miss great games like gears of war, and now gears of war 2 is there! And it really was worth the 
 wait!
  
  The good:
  
  -Bigger, badder and more badass than the first gears indeed!
  -excellent campaign story
  -great soundtrack and effects
  -Horde
  -levelbosses
  
  The 
 bad:
  
  -Some campaign bugs
  -riding vehicles can be frustrating
  
  So what more is to be said about this game? See all the positive reviews from gs-members and other 
 sites, and you know this game is really good.
  
  Gears 2 picked up where 1 ended. Apparently the Lightmass-bomb was nothing more than a little cracker, 
 because the locust are back, with many, many more of them. And they whoop mankind's butt, as only 
 the capital city of Jacinto is left as a stronghold, and all other cities are sunken! The time 
 has come for COG (and especially Delta squad) to strike back!
  
  Though all you see is ravish and destroyed cities, the game looks absolutely brilliant! The combat 
 pace has slowed a bit since gears 1, so you can look around and enjoy yourself to the beautiful 
 enviroments. The accompanied soundtrack really adds to the atmosphere, the overall presentation 
 is great!
  
  If you played the first gears, I would recommend you start the campaign on hardcore mode. This 
 way, you really feel you get rewarded if you can make it to the next chapter. Sometimes it can 
 be painfully hard, but if you make it, you're glad! And if you are going to play online, it makes 
 you learn to have patience in your shootouts. Don't be set back of the annoying vehicle drives 
 you make, they don't work so well, but luckily they don't come often.
  
  I mentioned in one of my blogs I encountered a boss so insanely cool, I can tell you there are 
 a lot of great bossfights out there, and you finally can take on those grotesque Brumaks, Yeehaahh!!
 
  
  One thing that annoyed me is that I encountered some errors in the game. For example, I had to 
 transport Dom with a lift from a to b, but Dom didn't step on the lift, but just stayed in cover. 
 Yet he screamed to be careful with the lift! Restarting the chapter (instead of checkpoint) fixed 
 the issue, but these things shouldn't happen with blockbusters like this!
  
  But it's really just a small detail, compared to all the great things you encounter. It's really 
 worth the  60 this time, because you can do so many things in the multiplayer!
  
  I have to admit, I got buttkicked a lot of times in the first gears, but if you also have that 
 fear, you can play the horde mode! This way you can team up with 4 others and take on the cpu. 
 You have to defeat up to 50 waves of enemies, and everytime they get harder and harder. Just practice 
 a lot with this, and you will do fine against other players.
  
  Gears of war is an excellent sequel to an also excellent first part. Buy this if you're a fan of 
 shooters!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonstrider101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  The shotgun still does the same amount of damage, except since it kicked butt in the first Gears, 
 they had to balance it with the other weapons. So instead of decreasing the damage, you instead 
 get a .5 second lag. In the end it doesn't really matter. Gears of War 2 is all that it's worth. 
 The campaign is more fun, more immersive, and just plain awesome. The multiplayer is pretty good, 
 however, I was never really good at it so I can't rate it based on that. However, Horde Mode is 
 THE BEST! It never get's boring and when you do it by yourself, it's impossibly hard and fun. To 
 end this review that gamespot makes me put 100 words in, the AI Bots are smart and fun to kill. 
 BUY THIS GAME  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killasuad35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  this the game of the year its nicely put together and u can tell they took there time with it the 
 gameplay is smooth and is a force to be reconed with this game takes skill and a little imagination. ive 
 never been so hooked on a game of this genre since halo 3 love is in the air for this and other 
 GOW to come. the fist levl on GOW is i think the best, and the live system that they have for GOW 
 is smooth and its one of the best i love the live sever that runs with and the matince on the network 
 never interferes with the current online gamers. the sells of this game are thourh the roof and 
 halo looking slim too keep the recourd for most sold in a single weeek 
  
  p. s this game on the list of game to get on all my friends cristmas lists........ lol, and on my 
 dads tooo this might be off topic but i cant wait for ff13 thats going to be the game to buy when 
 it gets an relase date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, gears 2 is FINALY HERE, the game rock and is now one of my favorite games of all time. first 
 off the game has a few issues that i will point out before getting to my 4 step reviewing process. 
 ok, first the game is great but everyone who loved that dark, horror feeling of the first game 
 will be disapointed, the game is gorey is all H3ll, but the games lighting is much more bright 
 and tends to take away from the horror acpect of the first game, also since the 360 hardware is 
 getting outdated, the game has some long load times and laggy muti player, a patch will help if 
 they make one but it wont be prefect. the graphics are nice but since the first game we've oveal 
 out done it with games like MGS4 for the ps3 make the grahpics look like a joke but still the graphics 
 are top notch but we've done better. now the sound is all perrety much recyiced from the first 
 game music wise, but the weapons and voice acting sounds are still great and fresh. now the story 
 is not AS deep as they said it was going to be but is still great and better than most game storys 
 out there, and the story also rasies more qustions than it awnsers. the gameplay is the best and 
 worst part of gears 2, is basicly the same with a large amount of add ons, and the levels of campain 
 feel just like a continuation of the first game without much change. now i think if they make a 
 third game they should do something new with the cover system without ruining it, because tha cover 
 system is getting more boring all the time, but oveal the game is a winner and a great game that 
 all fans of the first game should buy. grahpics 5/5, sound/audio 5/5, story 4/5, and gameplay 4.5/5, 
 oveal gears 2 gets a 5/5 or a 10/10. PS, for any questions and comments awnsered in person look 
 me up at knightangel121 on Xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivious23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Its sad when the new stuff is worse than the old, yeah the world looks good, whocares. If you hit 
 a command for your guy to do and it don't work right away, becareful if you hit it again he will 
 do 2 commands. AND watch for those corners, you can get stuck so bad you can't move any direction. AND 
 your A. I teammates will go into the middle of battle, DIE, then you can't get to them without dying 
 yourself, They will sit in the middle of a 2 person cover spot so you cant use it, and when your 
 down, alot of the time they run past you and get killed. They are making A. I act less human everyday. OH 
 the engine looks cool, if you don't look at bullet holes or blood on the ground or wall. With better 
 graphics comes sluggish slow responding commands comparing to the first one. The mutiplayer like 
 the first one is about as dumb as it gets, pile guns in the middle and who gets there first wins, and 
 its a idiot jumping fest, if you can jump in the right direction. I do like the new grenades, the 
 mortar and heavy machine gun, but I would trade all of it for that classic GoW control. Not worth 
 buying unless you own everything else. Rent it, play 2 hours, and call me in the mourning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulja_gam3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is an AWESOME game!!! The executions are grisly and awesome and the new cover system rocks! 
 There were a couple of pretty funny lines after kills (i. e -If you can't take the heat, get out 
 of my face- after using the Scorcher, and -Look ma, no face!- after a headshot) I agree that there 
 isn't much of a storyline, but it's not bad enough that it takes away from the game. The graphics 
 are beautiful (and I have a pretty small TV) and the sound is crystal clear. Overall, this game 
 is THE BOMB!!! No shooter fan should miss out on this highly addictive game! And if anyone is wondering 
 how the filters work, if you turn the gore off, the whole body stays intact and you see dust and 
 sparks instead of blood (except for cutscenes and when you go --SPOILER -- inside the riftworm and 
 cut the arteries --spoiler over -- . As for the language filter, you still hear minor words such 
 as the "c" word, the "h" word, and the "b" word. words like the "s" word and the f-bomb are censored 
 with a static sound (and for some reason, they censor the word "pissed") 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_schlagel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Tried multiplayer a few times and it was a waste of time. Wait 15 minutes to actually start then 
 finally get in and people are just morons who dont stop jumping around. I play a lot of games online 
 and quite frankly this is one of the worst to date. I love the Horde mode and coop single player 
 campaign but what is all the hype about? I guess Im just not "good enough" for this game online 
 yet but this is why I hated the first one. Guess its another one to let grow dust in my game library. 
 Yes! 60 bucks down the frickin toilet! I'm sure I will have Gears fanboys weeping at me in their 
 underware. But I just have to give you my honest opinion of their multiplayer system. I highly 
 recommend the other game modes, but if you are looking for a fun, exciting, quick online experience 
 this isnt the game for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Folimbito
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Gears is one of my favorite games. First i passed the campain, it was awsome deeper darker story 
 seemed preety good only thing cliff said it was going to be longer but it only has 3 more chapters 
 thats it. After i got rid of campain i hoped to multiplayer. After waiting 10 minutes in matchmaking 
 i finally found a match! I notice that shotguns were slower, and lancer was the shotgun now everybody 
 uses lancer now. Chainsawing is so easy bullets dont do nothing to it so youll see people run towards 
 you and will cut you in half. I cant blame the maps. Maps are very hardcore very nice. Still theres 
 lag in the game so thats not good and theres host power not like Gow 1 but yeah theres host power. 
 I was so pumped with this game I stayed up till midnight but multiplayer was a little dissapointing. 
 So remember dont get hyped for a game just play it and see what you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Some games that I've played are generally fun, and you can play them for a while and then put them 
 away without much thought. Other games start out well, but they become tedious over time and you 
 find yourself dutifully trudging through the game to the end just to say that you finished it. 
 And then there's games like Gears of War 2; this game just keeps you coming back for more. It's 
 like a great book that you just can't put down - you need to find out what happens next. There 
 are very few games that combine story-telling and action together in such a compelling way. The 
 'reveals' in the story are perfectly timed and the action is intense and keeps you moving from 
 one chapter to the next relentlessly. I'll turn on this game intending to only play for about 30 
 minutes, and 4 hours later I'm still at it. THAT is the mark of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamondlod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Cole provides the funniest cutscene in any videogame in over a decade, but unfortunately there 
 aren't enough of these great cutscenes (or enough gameplay in between them) . The campaign is a 
 little under 10 hours, and with all the open plot lines, it seems like there was a lot of room 
 for more campaign time. Instead of the "shortcut" used to move from place-to-place in Act IV, another 
 5-10 hours of gameplay could have easily been added. The game attempts to make up for it with great 
 multiplayer (and it is great -- even if you are not a multiplayer gamer, you will likely try it 
 here) , but for people who only play the campaign, it will be a great ride, but also a great disappointment 
 in the length. If you are a campaign-only player, rent the game for a weekend and you'll be able 
 to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  If you read my reviews you would be aware that I gave Gears of War a 10/10. You must be thinking 
 WHY NOT GEARS 2? Don't fear I'll explain that all NOW!
  
  ********CONTAINS SPOLIERS******
  
  
  OK so lets begin with the story/campaign. It is better, 
 more improved and better mechanics, you can really tell that they put alot of effort into the story 
 with the help of their new writer. The story is also longer and this is very important seeing that 
 the gears universe is just about starting to open up. It plays like a dream just like the original 
 and look absolutely fantastic! I mean seriously? Have you seen these graphics? If you have then 
 you must know that they simply are AMAZING. In the campaign we saw lots of characters developing, 
 mostly in the direction of Marcus and Dom. I admit that maria dying got to me a little hahaha. 
 The same for B. carmines death.
  
  
  Lets begin to talk about the Multiplayer on gears 2. Matchmaking is NOT good, it takes too long 
 to find games, sometimes coming up to 10 mins to find a match. Cliffy B said the lag would be mostly 
 fixed and I think they did a good job in doing this. Unless the other players have really crap 
 connections then your good to go. OK so now onto the gripes on this game... THE CHAINSAW is invincible 
 and it is VERY stupid, when you shoot someone clearly in there face you expect them to at least 
 get stunned? Stop revving the chainsaw? Eh? The shotgun is very underpowered and there is a bug 
 where your shots hit the floor instead of the enemy. So i have one tip for all of you! When hip 
 firing the shotty shoot towards there head/shoulder instead of the old hips like in the original. There 
 are also many bugs in the game from falling into nothing to not being able to shoot at all. Except 
 for the above problems, this game is awesome. While not as good as Gears 1, it still is very enjoyable 
 and will keep you entertained for a very long time.
  
  
  
  
  
  All they need is a patch to fix these problems. Lets hope they do release a patch and everything 
 is fine and dandy eh? 
  
  
  This game is a MUST BUY for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellydoodoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  The best thing about this game would have to be the storyline and campaign mode. The graphics and 
 character models have a huge improvement from gears one and they are worth looking at with a high 
 definition television. the story wil get you emotionally involved.
  
  Gears of war 2's multiplayer is relying on a little bit more strategy and tactics and the multiplayer 
 definetly feels different from gears one. the new characters are awesome and are in-depth. 
  
  the only bad thing about this game it can be very laggy online causing frustration because 
 you just wanna play and i expierenced some glitches online making me nervous. for example i started 
 crab walking in gears 2 randomly and i fear people will find out how to do these glitches and ruin 
 the game.
  
  The game is awesome, the menus, interface, matchmaking not so much. yes you can create parties 
 now but sometimes you can be sitting there for 20 minutes and still havent found a game yet.
  
  Overall the game is great and is a must get for my fellow GearHeads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephrix4000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Even though my Xbox 360 had to be sent to get repaired the day I got it, 
 I still managed to beat it the day I went to my friends house. The first thing I'll talk about 
 is the story. No, I won't give spoilers, but I have to say, it was fun. It is more engaging. Especially 
 when you play on co-op. Overall, the weapons are balanced, AI is awesome, and gameplay is smooth. 
 The story is much more engaging and has a more epic/gloomy feel to it, as it should be. It does 
 take many elements from other games, but that should not let it bring down your thoughts on it.
 
  
  The multiplayer is good, but the one that stands out the most of Horde mode. It really tests your 
 teamwork capabilities. It puts you through waves of 50 Locusts Hordes, each one vastly increases 
 in difficulty. I have to say, Wave 7 started getting tough as it is. Then again, I was only playing 
 with two people. 
  It is hard to find games though, and lags quite a bit.
  
  All in all, Gears of War 2 is a very great game. It has good replay value, mainly for it's multiplayer, 
 and has a very engaging storyline that will want to keep you playing until you beat it. Although 
 it does have it's flaws, like imperfect matchmaking, or similar single player settings, it is worth 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is something of a disappointment simply because it is so much like the first game, 
 and really doesn't offer anything new to the franchise but a new story and some other details that 
 could have been patched in. It looks better, that's for sure, but the engine still has plenty of 
 problems that should have been fixed.
  
  For starters, I didn't particularly like the first game specifically because of how big of a letdown 
 the multiplayer was. I liked the campaign a lot, but only gave it one play-through and was pretty 
 annoyed with a handful of design decisions. Gears of War 2 carries on this poor tradition.
  
  The single player campaign is better then the first game's campaign, but only really considered 
 an improvement to the extent that it can be called a sequel. Epic didn't seem to want to go beyond 
 what they started and pretty much stuck to their guns while tacking on some new content. The story 
 moves along at a pretty good pace, but really just seems like filler as an excuse to keep shooting 
 crap. For a good portion of the game it would have gone unnoticed if the story had simply stayed 
 silent. Not a whole lot really happens that moves along the overall storyline. In the end, the 
 story is good enough, but could have been better. Not a surprise really. Epic doesn't exactly have 
 a history of great story telling, and why should they start now?
  
  The gameplay is basically the exact same. The cover system is still intact and still suffers from 
 the same exact problems. Constantly getting stuck to walls is still an annoyance, and not "leaning" 
 the way you expect is also still intact. It gets really old having to jockey around just to get 
 to the point where you are coming out above a wall instead of to the side of it where you can't 
 see your target.
  
  The weapons are also basically the exact same. A few new "heavy" weapons have been added, as well 
 as a few new pistols and grenades. All the basic weapons, that you use 90% of the time, are the 
 exact same and completely unchanged. It seems the creative weapons designers all went on vacation 
 after knocking out the heavy weapons designs. The heavy weapons are pretty cool. My favorite is 
 definitely he mortar launcher, although it could have used quite a bit of tuning, as it is nothing 
 but a pain in the rear to shoot since you can't really "aim" it and hitting your target is a crap 
 shoot.
  
  Weapon damage is also STILL very nerfy. The amount of damage that weapons do is completely out 
 of balance with how the game moves and feels. It's almost impossible to keep your target in your 
 line of fire, and when you do it's not going to do you a whole lot of good because the weapons 
 do super weak damage along with almost never hitting your target area. Bullets like to fly off 
 on their own direction and a very slow rate of speed. It's not good when your target can get up 
 and walk out of the way between the time your bullet leaves your gun and passes through the space 
 they were standing in. Seriously, these bullets are the SLOWEST bullets in the history of Video 
 Games. Even Max Payne has faster bullets when bullet time is ON. Yet for some reason the enemies 
 move blisteringly fast in comparison.
  
  Pretty much all of the non-heavy weapons are really weak. This makes picking up the new toys a 
 lot more exciting, but definitely feels like a cheap mechanic to create more excitement for what 
 was added. Incidentally I would have had quite a bit more fun if ALL the guns had at least a chance 
 of killing enemies. As it stands, you end up picking your tools and sticking to them throughout 
 the entire game. I spent a LOT of time packing around shotguns and sniper rifles... just like I 
 did in the first game. Fortunately they are still both quite a bit of fun to use.
  
  Fortunately the game does a much better job of mixing up the action and moving at a faster pace. 
 There are no real "long haul" situations where you are just blasting your way through wave after 
 wave of enemies for what seems like no reason. The level designs are a bit more creative, and try 
 to at least come up with good micro-goals for each segment. The second half of the game falls into 
 the trap of asking you to pull a LOT of switches, but at least keeps things moving in spite of 
 this.
  
  The down side to mixing up the action is that a lot of shooting segments are separated with totally 
 crappy mini-game scenarios. I don't mind mini-games, when they are good. If they suck, well then 
 I have a problem. Unfortunately many of them are absolutely trash, or even worse. Easily the absolutely 
 worst curse-inducing moment in the game comes near the end when you are tasked with shooting down 
 6 flying enemies with a stationary gun. Not only goes the gun's aim move at a ridiculously slow 
 pace, but it also seems to do dink for damage. It takes a good 4 seconds of constantly shooting 
 a single target before it goes down. Unfortunately these targets don't sit still for that long, 
 and move out of firing range well before you can stick them for 4 seconds. To top this off you 
 only get a set number of attempts, so repeating this over and over is almost guaranteed. To top 
 THAT off, the game glitches immediately after you "complete" it, and tells you that you failed. 
 I actually completed the goal a total of 4 times before the game let me move on. Clearly the gameplay 
 testing for this portion of the game was at the bottom of the budget. To call this mini-game anything 
 better then trash would be an extremely kind way of putting it. And this is just one example of 
 the crap minigames sprinkled throughout the game. Fortunately there are at least a handful of really 
 well done segments involving "vehicles" that do a good job of redeeming Epic's pride.
  
  The AI in the game is still a disaster. Your teammates seem to do a better job this time around. 
 They still run around in circles a lot, but they are also pretty good at shooting. So good at shooting 
 that you could probably play through almost the entire game without shooting a shot yourself. It's 
 frustrating getting into a firefight and having your AI buddies kill everything for you. It does 
 take quite a bit of the fun out of the whole thing. The enemy AI is even worse, but on the other 
 end of the spectrum. They seem to be perfect way too often. I can't even count how many times I 
 had a headshot lined up only to pull the trigger and have the target move out of the way right 
 that second. Add some herky-jerky enemy animations to this and you get a somewhat frustrating experience 
 trying to kill stuff. I got fed up quite a few times and would end up just running in with the 
 shotgun or chainsaw and doing it the easy way.
  
  The multiplayer is still a waste of disk space. Every problem that plagued the first game's multiplayer 
 came right on over and parked itself in the second game. The hit detection is utter garbage, the 
 nerf guns are almost all useless, except for a few overpowered tools, and the "dodging" mechanic 
 is still grossly abused. Not doing any damage to diving targets is something a stupid oversight. 
 The rush to pick up the powerful weapons is still the central theme in multiplayer. Get the big 
 guns and you are good to go. Be sure to dive every direction you can when you are getting shot 
 at, and eventually you will get away.
  
  I experienced countless instances of lighting up my target with a full clip from the machine gun 
 only to have to reload while they simply walked away in one piece, or I got blown to bits in one 
 shot from a shotgun blast, grenade, or grenade "boom" launcher, or got cut in half from the too-easy-to-kill-with 
 chainsaw. The only real use of the machinegun would be the chainsaw attached to it. You have to 
 get up close to the target to do any kind of damage with the bullets that come out of it, why not 
 just take a step or two more and cut them in half?
  
  All in all I did indeed like the game enough to feel justified in the purchase, but still feel 
 quite a bit of disappointment with how upside down and lame the multiplayer is. How can a company 
 such as Epic, that has spent SO much time doing multiplayer, manage to get it so wrong twice in 
 a row? I am pretty damn sure no one in the entire company even knows what "weapon balance" means. 
 Right now however, I am just too pissed off with how the multiplayer turned out to try and point 
 out all of the things that I really enjoyed about the game. Which there were plenty of.
  
  The voice work and cutscenes were all VERY good. And there was a very well done dramatic moment 
 that is easily the best scene in the entire game. My fiance even got emotional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you start playing Gears 2, y'a know it's something special. From the eye-catching 
 presentation to the award-winning gameplay, Gears 2 has it all. All, except the story. Even though 
 this time around the story makes sense, it is still incredibly bare-bones. Marcus still doesn't 
 have any feelings what so ever, even if his friend shoots himself in the head in front of him and 
 even if hs best friend DOM lost the woman of his life in front of him. This is the only cons I 
 have for this superb game. If you never played the original, you may need some getting used-to, 
 'cause this isn't for everyone. But if youv'e played the first one, you will be shocked at how 
 better the sequel is. First off, the game is extremely gory, maybe twice as much as the first one. 
 The controls have been smoothed out, and the star of the show: the cover system, has been polished 
 tremendously. But sadly, I looked for bugs and glitches and i've found a couple of them. Here's 
 the list: 1. We were in this house when the walkie-talkie rang, so Marcus picked it up and started 
 talking. There was an enemy next to us. I couldn't shoot him 'cause I was on the phone, and he 
 didn't shoot me either. When I hung up, I started shooting the enemy only to realize that nothing 
 could kill him, but he could shoot me and hurt me! I t took me about 6 times to run all the way 
 to the extraction point without getting killed. 2. I was shooting my way out of two guys riding 
 beasts when one of them charged at me and sent me flying INTO the wall... Marcus was stuck and 
 the game didn't want to pause, so I had to turn the 360 off and back on. These are the only things 
 I found about Gears 2. So thanks for reading and don't pass out on this superb package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was a great game, with very solid multiplayer and an innovative style. It 
 was really fun with unique art design, but felt a little less than it could have been due to common 
 glitches (though not big ones) , repetitive levels/gameplay, and one constant color: Brownish Gray. 
 Does the sequel learn from it's mistakes? Yes, in a big way.
  
  Story/Campaign (10/10) : Finally, Gears is given a gripping story that doesn't quite tug as hard 
 as the Halo trilogy, but still grips harder than most. It draws you in, gives the characters some 
 needed exposition, and actually makes you care. Maybe not for the character's life, but definitely 
 what their fighting for. Let me explain: The story to Gears 2 is that now the locust are sinking 
 whole cities somehow, trying to sink the "unsinkable" city, Jacinto, all while Dom is trying to 
 find his wife, and things about Marcus Fenix' dad is revealed. What I was saying earlier is you 
 don't care whether Dom or Marcus lives, but rather if they find Dom's wife, or Marcus' dad. The 
 story feels almost as the ending of the whole thing, until the end where it leaves a lot for a 
 third game, while not giving you an abrupt ending that Halo 2 did. Not only this, but the game 
 is much longer than the first's, but unlike the first, you don't get sick of the game by the end.
 
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : I have nothing really overall bad to say about the gameplay. It has been improved, 
 now being able to battle chainsaws and stick gernades on walls, making it a movement sensitive 
 mine (though, only useful if lucky or camping in small areas, as they are easy to see) . No more 
 random sticking to walls, either, though you still sometimes (though much rarer) stick to things 
 that get you killed.
  
  Multiplayer (9/10) : Supported with a great set of maps (Hail, Jacinto, and Blood Drive are some 
 really fun ones) , a great (GREAT) new game, called Horde, and bots for your random pleasure (or 
 achievements) , the multiplayer is VERY improved. But, there are some awful maps (though few) , and 
 without 4 friends, Horde, after while can get near impossible. Horde is a game where you and 3 
 friends can play on a map against waves of enemies from the campaign, such as Boomers and etc. 
 There are 50 waves in all, and can become, if you're alone or with only one friend, it can become 
 annoyingly frustrating, but play with the right people, it can be one of the funnest things on 
 the disc.
  
  Achievements (10/10) : The achievements here are easy, if not a bit time consuming. The infamous 
 Seriously Achievement from the first (get 1000 kills online only) is back but bigger (100,000) , 
 but can mean ANY kill you get in the game, including through campaign. Campaign on Hardcore gave 
 me about 1000 kills, and horde will gradually give you around 40 enemies later on per wave. The 
 rest are actually fun, such as kill 30 enemies with the grinder turret. These make you play with 
 the new weapons, while actually having to play the campaign (as it is easier to get them through 
 it) in a new way than just plugging away with a sniper/shotgun combo, as so many do, give or take 
 a lancer.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  This game will have you playing for awhile, improving on the originals faults, and so much more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well Gears of War is back for the second time and better than ever most would say there isn't much 
 or anything that you can say that's bad about this game, because it an amazing game and one that 
 any Xbox 360 owner should own and shouldn't miss out on. The looks of the game is great everything 
 is really nicely detailed and everything. The campaign could have been a little bit longer but 
 that isn't a big deal a lot more enemies as well as a lot more different kinds this time around 
 which makes it a lot more fun also. Just plain and simple Gears of War 2 improves in just about 
 everything like I said it's a must have game one you can set down and play for hours and hours 
 and never get bored of it. It has a lot of replay value in it so that you'll defiantly get your 
 money's worth out of it. If you haven't got it yet you need to get it or at least rent it and play 
 it. You find that its defiantly worth every penny that you spend on it. Also play with a friend 
 to make it even more fun if you want.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13kf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game once you have it you do not want to play anything else. Campaign is longer 
 than the first one. It is also on a larger scale. The multiplayer has had a huge improvement. Their 
 is also chainsaw duels. Horde is also new and very very addictive i have beaten all 50 waves and 
 think if you have trouble beating it play it on the map security i beat most of horde with only 
 3 people. Xbox 360 owners finally get to fight a brumak and not just one a lot of them and you 
 even get to ride one. If you don't have xbox live you can still play online because there is something 
 called bots and you can set their difficulty. It is just like playing online but no one else is 
 talking. This game has huge replay value so even after you beat it you will continue to play time 
 and time again. That is why i give this game a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game picks up where the first Gears of War left off. If you where a fan of the gameplay and 
 storyline of the first GOW then you'll like this one too since it feels the same but with some 
 great minor upgrades. This game is bloodier and has a lot more gore than the original and this 
 is evident in that you can no perform different executions with every single weapon as well as 
 pick up a downed opponent and use them as a shield. 
  
  I won't go too much into the storyline as it is just a progression of the original and should really 
 be played through to be enjoyed. One thing I will say is that this game has a great story and the 
 cutscenes are well incorporated into the gameplay. You play underground for a god portion of the 
 game and the environments are awesome. 
  
  One minor issue was the vehicle controls in this game could have used a bit more work but it's 
 only a minor detail since driving isn't a big part in this game and you only do it a couple of 
 times. 
  
  Playing with friends is a lot of fun unfortunately trying to fill up a lobby can be a problem at 
 times. It seems that Epic will need to patch the matchmaking in this game to make it easier to 
 bring together random people into a lobby. Other than that this game has a lot of great multiplayer 
 game modes which are a lot of fun if you can get a group of friends together to play this. 
  
  Overall this is a great great game. It is an instant classic and like the original you should 
 be able to finish the game and pick it up at anytime and have a great time playing through it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privatewilliams
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  offline:
  brilliant couldn't put down the controller till i found out what was happening. the story is full 
 of loads of twists you wont see coming. now some of the bad point there are some stupid bosses 
 in the game that are too easy to kill even on insane and some levels they could have done with 
 out but overall i would give it 10/10
  online:
  online for me was not as enjoyable as gears 1. i get the feeling that they have made the lancer 
 a lot stronger than number 1 so a lot of people tend to use that so the fun factor have just gone. 
 the new game modes are a bit up and down as well i found wing man really fun while i found submission 
 really long and boring. so overall i would give it 7/10
  new features:
  i think the best new feature is horde just no stop madness with your mates as you try to get to 
 wave 50 with out getting killed plus you can get a real feel for the new weapons. the new weapons 
 are really fun a bit slow but can do some real damage in the right hands. then you have a feature 
 then i over use online which is the frag tag to the wall i feel its a really good idea but can 
 be to powerful and can get a bit old when u keep walking round and getting blow up. so for new 
 features i would give it 8/10
  
  so on a whole you should buy this game for the offline alone and get gears 1 for online. my overall 
 rating is 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a fantastic achievement. Not many game sequels are as good as this. Epic have 
 added just the right amount of new items, guns and moves to this game, but haven't gone over the 
 top and complicated the gameplay. The Gameplay in Gears of War 2 mirrors that of its predecessor, 
 you still have to run, duck and cover, but the gameplay has been tweaked a bit, so now you jump 
 over things faster and Roadie run faster.
  
  Where Gears of War excelled in was its brilliant arsenal of weapons, and in GoW2, your arsenal 
 has been made a whole lot better. As well as all the guns off the first game you have a selection 
 of new guns, like the Gorgon pistol, and the Hammer burst assault rifle has been tweaked to shoot 
 slower with more power, but its the new heavy weapons that impress the most. You have the Mulcher, 
 which is a Troiker style gun, and you have the Mortar. Both of these guns are extremely powerful 
 but this is evened out by the fact that you move extremely slowly with them. Another new gun is 
 the Scorcher Flamethrower, which is very effective from close range, but its range can become further 
 if you active reload perfect when you reload.
  There is also a new grenade to use, apart from the Frag and Smoke grenades that were on the first 
 game, the Ink grenade has been added, and this emits a cloud of poison which if you get caught 
 in makes you choke to death. And you can also get a shield called the boom shield, which you can 
 either plant in the round and cover behind it, or carry it around with you to defend on the go. 
 But the down-side to it is that you move slowly with it and you can only use your pistol while 
 carrying it. There are also some new execution attacks on GoW2. Now when a Locust is downed, instead 
 of just curb stomping him, you can rifle but him, punch him to death or pick him up and use him 
 as a living meat shield, and when you want rid of it you simply snap their necks, but when you 
 have a meat shield, you can only use your pistol.
  Another thing you can do on Gears of War 2 is ride on Reavers. You can't do it all the time, just 
 at certain points, but it's great. Well you don't actually ride them, they go by themselves, but 
 you can make them dodge attacks, and you can use the grenade launcher and Troika on them, but at 
 the speed you go you may find it a little bit difficult to aim properly.
  
  The biggest change in Gears of War 2 from the first game is the environments. On the first game, 
 there were lots of buildings and the game was dark, but on GoW2, there are more organic environments, 
 like snow capped mountains, forests and natural underground caves, which shed more light on the 
 game.
  Also Gow2 has a much deeper and lengthier story mode. The story starts 6 months after the first 
 game, and after the Light Mass Bomb failed to kill them all, the Locust are back, and more powerful 
 than ever. Jacinto is the last safe place for the humans because the Locust can't emerge from underneath 
 it, but even that is no longer safe. The Locust have come up with a plan to sink Jacinto, so it's 
 up to Marcus Fenix, Dom, Baird and Cole, and the rest of Delta squad, as humanities last hope, 
 to stop them. Epic have also added 3 new main characters to the game. Tai, who is a friend of Marcus, 
 and some one who Marcus says, is indestructible. Dizzy, who was one of the many Stranded before 
 joining the Coalition as a driver. And there is Ben Carmine, the brother of the Carmine of the 
 first game, and it's up to Marcus to train him up.
  There are also loads of new Locust species. For example, you get Tickers, which are little creatures 
 who explode when they get shot or when they get close to you, and you get Mauler Boomers and these 
 use maces to attack you. There are more, but I'm not going to name them all.
  
  Also the games visuals and sound have been upgraded from the first one. Gears of War was, and still 
 remains one of the most graphic and most brilliant looking games to ever appear on a home video 
 console, but Gears uses the technology of the new Unreal Engine 3, unlike the Unreal Engine 2 used 
 on the first, so the graphics have been made even better and the game sounds a lot better, and 
 expect even more gore. This is hard to believe though because the first game looked and sounded 
 brilliant, and it wouldn't have been a crime if the Gears 2 didn't look better because the first 
 game looked so good anyway.
  
  The multiplayer in Gears of War 2 has been buffed up to. Each team now has 5 players each, and 
 as well as having the Warzone, Execution and Annex game types off the first game (King of the Hill 
 too, the one that only appeared on the PC version) , Epic have added 3 new game types. You get Guardian, 
 Submission and Wingman. Guardian is a round divided game, and in it one player from each team is 
 selected to be the guardian, and as long as the guardian is alive, when you die you can respawn. 
 In Wingman, there are 5 teams of 2 players, and you have to reach a certain amount of points to 
 win, you get points for killing and downing enemies. Submission is a kind of capture the flag mode. 
 There is a Stranded person on the map, and you have to down him, and hold him as a meat shield 
 for a certain amount of time to win. The multiplayer modes on Gears of War were fantastic, but 
 all the additions made to the Gears 2 make the Multiplayer modes, whether playing online or local, 
 that much better. Another option added to Gears 2 is the ability to add bots, and choose their 
 levels of difficulty, to the multiplayer match you're in. I know this isn't the first game to have 
 this option, but it's a nice little addition never the less.
  Rather like on the first game you can go through the campaign on either Local 2 player split-screen 
 or 2 players online over Xbox live. The campaign is the exact same on the single player as it is 
 on the multiplayer, but the formula is another thing Epic have tweaked. This time, each player 
 can choose their own individual difficulty level, so player 1 can be on Casual, and player 2 can 
 be on Insane. This is a brilliant feature.
  
  Gears of War 2, is a technical achievement to be admired, but will never be as technically groundbreaking 
 as its predecessor, and that's where its biggest problem lies. Epic have taken all the good points 
 about the first game, but haven't quite managed to rid the game of its flaws. But Epic have added 
 just enough features to make the game deeper that its predecessor, without over complicating it. 
 It's true that if you didn't like the first game, nothing in Gears of War 2 will make you change 
 your mind, but Gears of War was such a fantastic game that everyone should like Gears of War 2.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9
  Value - 10
  Design - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LusciousOldMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is truly epic despite a few glitches I've found (I got stuck in a box while on the 
 boat in campaign and the audio played twice over itself after the credits) they've only happened 
 to me once so it's not a big deal at all. The gameplay and the graphics are unbelievable even if 
 you don't have a great TV. The campaign is very engaging and is fun to play through multiple times. 
 Insane difficulty is challenging but is by no means hard. The story definitely leaves questions 
 open which suggests a 3rd installment. Multiplayer is awesome although the Halo style matchmaking 
 takes a while to find players. The new maps are play as beautifully as they look and with the flashback 
 map pack, you have access to classics such as Gridlock. The achievement progress tracking is another 
 helpful feature along with individual difficulty for co-op campaign and Horde. This game is truly 
 "bigger, better, and more bada**" than the first. So pick up your Lancer and start hacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  
  SPOILER FREE REVIEW 
  
  I have to say that the story in this game is down right horrendous and borderline stupid. I just 
 get this since of confusion after beating this game story wise. It is almost as if the game was 
 broken up into 2 games. You have gears of war and then you have the Dom show. In all the story 
 just feels kinda forced down your throught with all this drama when all gamers really wanted was 
 an extension of first game. Not the mess that we were given wait what we paid for. 
  
  I mean this game asks more questions than answers and then there are some design issues where you 
 get the feeling that hey i fought this kind of enemie before? Wait Halo bring anything to mind? 
 
  
  At one point the story completely changes shifting from Dom's search for his lost wife to something 
 about mutating locost . I also have to question the dialogue or more so the lines that were use. 
 While the first gears wasn't really known for its excellent use of words but they were good enough 
 to make you laugh and not cringe. Well in Gears of War 2 some of the lines are just plain bad in 
 particularly a certian "Cole Moment" happens and it just leaves a bad taste in your mouth. Makes 
 you wonder were the speech writer was at during this process? 
  
  But then again I shouldn't have gotten my hopes up that this game was going to deliver on story. 
 In the end the story just plan lame and underwhelming. I will say this though. The game is truely 
 epic with certain segments having that feeling of being part of a larger battle. While this doesn't 
 really happened in the begin but towards the end you get the sense of part of an army instead of 
 4 man army. My major complaint is the vehical stages. I DON'T LIKE THE VEHICAL STAGES. 
  
  Not only are these segments fustrating because this game was never design for you to be shooting 
 at enemies in the air like that but for the sheer cheapness of it. I understand you wanted to bring 
 in variety you your game but this is not what I had in mind. The Ice stage with the tank is probably 
 the most annoying of the bunch nothing beats the so called boss fight towards the end. 
  
  The enemies in the game are numerous and different enough so that way you don't feel like you are 
 fighting the same enemies over and over again. Also the AI is very intelligent and will revive 
 enemies you failed to kill. Some of the boss fights in the game......... wait a min now that i 
 think about there was only 2 boss fights in the game. While the first one was pretty obvious but 
 the second fight is kinda lame and left with the feeling of WTF feeling.
  
  Now for Mulitiplayer.
  
  In its current state MP needs some major fixes. Particularly for the 
 lag and frame rate drops. I guess they can go hand and hand. I mean i have played about a dozen 
 or so matches and every match so far was either just a little lag to sliding across the screen 
 lag. It seems to lag the most with these game types : Annex, Submission, and King of the Hill. 
 But overall the MP just lags all the time no matter what. Then there is the issue of the frame 
 rate drop whenever alot goes on the screen. In particularly when you are hit by a smoke nade which 
 knocks you all over the place thanks the physics system but there is a problem with that. It tends 
 to make the lag even worst and tend to teleport people which happened to me on Canals. Smoke nade 
 hit me under the bridge next then you know I am on top the bridge. 
  
  The matchmaking could be better but I am glad it is there because it saves me time from having 
 to search for rooms in previous game which is always welcome. Other than that Gears is a good game 
 just not the mega blockbuster hit I was expecting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: submissions72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Instant Classic part 2 is what I call this game. One of the things that the first game lacked was 
 a good story. Well, GOW2 definitely full-fills that need. The story in this game is superb, and 
 for the first time in a video game I had a little *twinkle* in my eyes in one of the "scenes". 
 This is a definite for gear fans to begin with and a must for those who never played the first 
 gears of war 2. At the end of this game it leaves you wanting for more. I can' wait till Gears 
 of War 3. This is one of the most intense shooting game you will play. There are still some glitchy 
 places when you run around but it's nowhere close the quality of the game. 
  
  Positive:
  Intense shooting
  Intense manliness
  Good Story
  Superb Graphics
  Smoother Gameplay
  
 Amazing Sound effects
  Amazing levels and graphical effects
  
  Negative: Way too straight forward
  The matchmaking system in multiplayer needs A LOT of improvement
 
  Lack of 4 player co-op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWKurusa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game packed a punch and personally my favorite mode was the thrilling Horde mode and the amazing 
 Campaign left me thrilled Also several different characters with some interesting personalities 
 Even Several Different game modes which were amazing I really like what they have done with the 
 online it is 20 times better than the first Many new features like the hostage move This game is 
 thrilling and I would of posted a review earlier butt I was to busy playing the GAME as you could 
 probably imagine theres more gore more features more online and more fun what is not to love every 
 corner is excitment and a real pleasure to play the game with Gears of war 2 there are many things 
 to say butt I think a good thing to leave it with is I hope that they make another Kick *** Game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iseesmurfs420
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I am highly dissapointed by Gears of War 2. I have so many complaints I don't know where to begin. 
 First and foremost the matchmaking system is complete garbage. If you like sitting around waiting 
 for a game instead of actually playing it, this is the game for you. If you are so lucky as to 
 find a game it probably wont be one you like. No longer can you just pick Warzone or your gametype 
 your forced to play **** game types you dont even like. As for weapon swaps, forget about it. Then 
 there is the overpowered chainsaw. Why bother using any other weapon but your lancer. It stops 
 people, it one button kills them, and it has completley replaced using the shotgun at all. The 
 shotgun is weaker now as well as it shoots slower. It no longer stops chainsawers coming at you. 
 Also firing from the hip is useless. I guess military trained **** warriors that kill thousands 
 of locust cant aim a pistol grip shotgun from the hip. They always seem to shoot straight into 
 the ground no matter what. This in turn slows down the game so much Gears just seams slow now. 
 Stuns are very annoying and should be a pickup not something everyone starts with. Some people 
 get up from being stunned in like a second then some like me take 10-15 seconds and thats not counting 
 the rest of the team throwing in their stuns one after another so you can never get up. Personally 
 I also think they emphasize the power weapons like mortar and mulcher too much. You see them more 
 than the sniper and torque bow for gods sake. What is good about Gears is the campaign. But the 
 fun only lasts so long. Once you beat it your stuck with a broken multiplayer experience. If you 
 were a fan of the first id rent this first before buying it. This game almost has no resemblance 
 to Gears one. Probably the only good thing they did was get rid of active downs. With Gears one 
 I picked it up and didnt put it down for a year. Gears 2 lets just saw I didnt even make it more 
 than a weak before I got fed up with this game. Im not just bashing this game because i dont like 
 Gears. I loved Gears of War and I find it hard to admit that this just isnt a good game. Ill admit 
 I was in denial for a while but too many things changed for me to just deny what they did. Sorry 
 Epic but thanks for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibirobo1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  ok yes the first one was great with a 9.6 but how could this one get lower? WTF? the gameplay is 
 better better graphics better story, and longer story. i think ign made a better review i mean 
 why did they give this a 9.0 when the first they said got a 9.6? I think they should of re-think 
 their reviews. i mean gears 2 is amazing and better than the first. why gamespot? Why give us a 
 review that dosnt make sence? are you drunk? are you lazy? or do you never look back at the first 
 one to see what you gave it? Ok i mean seriously i beat the whole game and its more bad-ass than 
 the first they finally added a snapshot mode and and you can choose from the lancer or the other 
 gun but i mean i think it deserves a 9.7 at least so re-think it i mean the cover is better and 
 the horde mode is awesome the co-op is great fun and of course you finally see hauffman get of 
 his ass and fight lol. And in the story there is a lot of drama and cool creatures such as the 
 giant worm and the giant fish and of course skorge. also you get to see the locust queen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilton45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't a fan of the first Gears of War, and I'm not sure why I decided to buy this over other 
 shooters that came out around the same time. But I'm glad I did. The campaign which is probably 
 what I've spent the most time on is great, the plot isn't all there, but there are interesting 
 questions that are raised the keep the action interesting, and good enough to stay motivated. The 
 multiplayer as of the last couple days has been bad, because it takes a long time to join a match 
 through the matchmaking system, but the actual gameplay is great. My favorite thing about the game 
 so far is the multiplayer mode Horde, which is basically wave after waver of Locust, I didn't think 
 it sounded fun when I heard about it but it is by far one of the most fun multiplayer surprises 
 that I have seen in a game, mostly because once you get up to the tougher waves you really need 
 to play as a team, which a lot of games don't really force you to do anymore, but Horde does. This 
 is a great game, I feel like the controls feel tighter than the first one, and it also looks a 
 lot better, the first game just kind of looked either brown or grey this game has more color in 
 the environments. Basically this is a great game, and as far as the matchmaking issues, MS and 
 Epic said they were working on it, so don't let hat stop you from getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Opening Comments:
  In all honesty i did not enjoy Gears of War 1 as much as some people who thought it had a great 
 story and revolutionary multiplayer. All i saw was a generic story and a crappy shotgun fest multiplayer 
 that didn't live up to its hype. After watching a bonus movie on Unreal Tournament 3 showing the 
 new way multiplayer would work, i decided to give this series one last look. I was pleasantly surprised. 
 
  
  Graphics
  Most games use Epics Unreal 3 engine which is probably the best looking engine 2nd only to the 
 engine Crytek use to fuel Crysis. In short this game looks awesome. In a longer explanation this 
 game has breath taking environs ranging from cities to open forests to underground chasms filled 
 with Brumaks and Imulsion. Whilst the game is strictly linear the way the levels are presented 
 give a more feel impression. Characters also look very nice. Ranging from Cole and Tai's bulging 
 biceps to Skorges slim predator style physique. Whilst the character still look rather emotionless 
 even in the emotional parts, they do there jobs well and when backed up with superb animation you 
 cant go wrong. Special effects also take a step up with physics being implemented, destructible 
 cover and the addition of bullet streams + more. Bullet streams just look cool, making you feel 
 like your in a war zone, and also let you pinpoint enemies with ease. The hammer of dawn also has 
 a new laser look making it look totally awesome in comparison to the original. 
  
  However its not all good. For one the game is filled with texture pop-ins when you start a multiplayer 
 game, although it does slowly place detail in after a few seconds. The game is also buggy as hell. 
 You get caught on cover, your character can get stuck mid vault thus hovering over cover, in coop 
 your guns may start totally empty, enemy bodies get caught everywhere, debris can attach to your 
 weapons or person and the list just goes on and on. Its a real disappointment because the game 
 as a whole does look very nice. 
  
  Sound
  Gears 2 offers a pretty generic, if good backing track with orchestrated themes and what not. This 
 as stated, is good. What isn't good is the voice acting. I know some people love the whole macho 
 american thing, but i for one am sick of that whole thing and hated nearly every line of dialogue. 
 You have Marcus who sounds like a guy who's smoked 1 to many cigarettes, Dom who sounds like whining 
 teenager, Baird... well i fund baird rather funny, and Cole who EVERYONE loves but i personally 
 find him annoying. Filled with your stereotyped black moron dialogue. Shame the voice talent couldn't 
 live up to the graphics. Sound effects on the other hand are rather good, from the sound of a Hammer 
 of Dawn smashing things to pieces to the powerful roar of a lancer. 
  
  Gameplay
  Well gears 2, like gears 1 lacks anything good in the story department with basic reasons to go 
 there and kill that. Luckily the killing part is a total blast. You fight hundreds of locust at 
 a time in some scenarios with the occasional larger than life monsters like Brumaks and Corpsers 
 to mess your day up. People who have played gears of war 1 know what to expect weapons wise, but 
 there are some new additions such as the Boom shield which deflects pretty much anything, the mortar 
 which can rain firey death on an entire team, the Mulcher which is a hand powered Chaingun abale 
 to rip through flesh and bone in about a second and finally the Scorcher which just burns everything 
 in sight to great effect. These new weapons are all welcome additions to the standard Gears weapons. 
 And with some weapons tweaks to the Lancer, Shotgun, sniper rifle and Hammer Burst you might find 
 yourself loving a new weapon over your Gears 1 favorites.
  
  Most people who buy Gears 2 will be in it for the online, and there has been some major changes. 
 There are new modes such as Submission, King of the Hill, wing man, Horde and guardian. These are 
 great and add a huge amount of variety to your games. Ontop of this there has been a player cap 
 increase from 4 V 4 to 5 V 5 on every mode minus wing man which is a 5 teams of 2 free for all. 
 The final additions are Smoke Grenades Concussion effect and the inclusion of Stopping Power. Smoke 
 grenades where near useless in gears 1, but in gears to they are a invaluable asset. A smoke grenade 
 knocks everyone its radius to the ground for a second or two allowing you to charge in and slaughter 
 them. It may seem annoying at first but once you get used to it, it makes the game WAY more frantic 
 and exciting. It stops you from staying behind 1 bit of cover and forces you to move which can 
 be a tricky business in Annex or King of the Hill. Stopping power however stops all those Shot 
 Gun Whores from sprinting at your and killing you in the most annoying fashion. All guns slowdown 
 a targets movement speed which means that the Lancer is VERY powerful as you cant just rush in 
 without getting torn to shreds. It adds more stratergy to the online and makes it more enjoyable. 
 However Online is ruined by bugs, balance issues and glitches. Corner Sniping has been made worse, 
 Chainsaw blades are nearly unstoppable and every gun apart from the lancer has been weakened in 
 some way. People can survive boom shots, active sniper shots and even torque bow shots on the rare 
 occasion. Further more maps are highly buggy with single player issues transfering over making 
 it unenjoyable. Unless they patch everything up Gears 2 will not be played online and Gears 1 will 
 be the place to be.
  
  Overall
  A good game. Buggy, but fun. I reccomend you atleast rent it and hope it has been fixed so you 
 can enjoy some amazing multiplayer. 
  
  8/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The first GOW took me bit to get use to, at the time, I never played a game quiet like it before. 
 I soon found that GOW was a fascinating, exciting run and gun FPS. So when the new GOW came out, 
 I was there is a flash to buy my copy, and had it up and running as soon as I got home. This version 
 is very similar to the first one, but with new weapons and new sites to see. The story continues 
 the fight against the Locust, now the fight is getting tougher; the Locust has enough power to 
 sink cities!!! 
  As in the first one, the vistas in this game is amazing, underground caves are huge and spooky, 
 the creatures are powerful and very aggressive, so you really need to stay on your toes. The fast 
 action is what brought me to this series, and you it didn't disappoint, you will fight waves and 
 waves of Locust, some small some huge, and of course you will face off with creatures big enough 
 to eat you!
  The game isn't without its issues, though, I still think a game of the type, and pace needs to 
 have some sort of ability to continue your team. The teams are almost always in the wrong place 
 to be any useful, and there is times when you are split into two 2 men groups, and the one guy 
 with you is nowhere to be found. I had to reload the game a few times, because my team would show 
 up in the cut screens, but when the action starts he is nowhere to be found, and though your character 
 continue to talk to the your team mate, he isn't there. It took me a while to figure out what to 
 do, to fix that issue, but after a few reloads, my team mate was back, and I wasn't a fool anymore 
 for talking to myself.
  The other issue I have I have with the series is that the games are very scripted so the repay 
 on it is somewhat limited. You have almost no room to wonder around, and you are forced into paths, 
 that you know are full of bad guys. With such a small team, you would think there would be a optional 
 or alternate route to take to avoid all the battles, but again the battles are what make the game 
 amazingly fun. So even though the game has some limitations, and the game certainly needs a command 
 our crew option, the game continue to be one of the best shooters out there!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  
  
  Gears of war 2 is the best game to come out this year. So far its been the game I've been waiting 
 all year for. I had a blast from beginning to end. I've played it over and over, solo and co-op. 
 Multiplayer for me is as fun as Halo 3. (Even though I know most Halo 3 fans won't agree.) I give 
 this game a ten for so many reasons.
  The first game felt kinda closed in. Like Delta squad was pretty much humanities last hope. In 
 Gears of war 2 it felt so epic. From the first mission "Tip of the Spear" it felt like you were 
 in a huge epic battle that has waged on for years. The speech the Chairman gives was inspiring 
 and really set the tone for me. I really got excited about playing Gears of war 2. The Atmospere 
 is perfect. I've been playing games for along time now, and atmosphere is usually something really 
 hard to attain. Epic pulled it off. 
  The Graphics are probably the best to be seen on the X-box 360. Gears of war and X-box are like 
 chocolate and peanut better. I could'nt imagine playing this game on any other console. The settings, 
 the caverns, the sky, its all destroyed beauty. Its something you'd have to enjoy for yourself. 
 
  The game play is tighter than ever. Its not as clunky as the first game, even though getting stuck 
 to the wall while in a rodie run will happen its not as bad as the first gears of war. The addition 
 of heavy weapons is a welcome feature. Much like Halo 3 there are pros, and cons to using the heaving 
 weapons, but when its all said and done its seems to be pretty well balanced. The motar weapon 
 itself is pretty awesome, and fun to use. I really like that one. It allows for you to kill mutiple 
 enemies at one time..... Well thats if you time it just right.
  The music and the sounds of Gears of war 2 are awesome. The surround sound if you have it makes 
 this game triple A! I love my X-box 360 and custom sound track is fantastic. I love to listen to 
 Disturbed and Godsmack while I'm gunning down multiple enemies. This makes for a great combo.. 
 Well at least for me. 
  Gears of war 2 is one of my favourite games of all time. I'm glad this game was made. I'm glad 
 Microsoft paid epic to make this game. I'm glad Cliff B. is creative force behind the Gears of 
 War.... You owe it yourself to play this game. You owe it yourself to go out and buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Post-Carnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  To start this off I want to say that the sequel to the award winning game Gears of War 2, definately 
 lives up to it's name, by far.
  The graphics in this game are as good as the first, if not better.
  The Multiplayer, can get 
 annoying at times, the community anyway. However the new playlists and game types are great.
  
  Campaign -
  The campaign in Gears of War 2 starts just as the first one did. You are Marcus 
 Fenix, and with your partner Dom following behind. You start the game in the last hope for the 
 human race, the city of Jacinto. After an attack on a depot in downtown Jacinto, the humans realize 
 that the Locust are getting more persistant, and are moving closer to destroying the city. The 
 humans decide to send drills to infiltrate the Locust territory and bomb it from the center.
  
  Gameplay -
  The gameplay is mostly the same as it's first one, just with bigger and lots 
 more enemies, and more weapons and equipment.
  A couple of great addons to the gameplay is that you are able to crawl when you are down. This 
 means if you end up getting down, you're not a sitting duck in the middle of the battlefield.
 
  Another fun addon is the chainsaw duels. It feels great to just run through the frontlines on 
 the field, towards another Locust and engage in a rush of button-tapping.
  The fact of having a chainsaw on your gun is still as badass as ever. The game features new ways 
 to kill you're enemy, you're able to press X for your casual curb stomp, B for a quick blow to 
 the head with your gun, or you can press Y to jump onto your enemy, and pumble their face for a 
 good excecution. Or you can even press A, to pick up your enemy up, and use him as a meat-sheild.
 
  
  Multiplayer -
  The Gears 2 multiplayer features a 2 play splitscreen co-op, a 5 player online co-op, a new feature 
 known as Horde mode, and you're casual online multiplayer battles. You still have the favorite 
 playlists from the first game, Warzone, Annex, etc. But there are new game types to come to the 
 table, such as a capture the flag varient where you don' capture a flag, but rather a hostile civilian 
 whom fires at anyone. You use the meat-sheild technique to return him to your base, and capture 
 him.
  
  Campaign - 9.5
  Gameplay - 9.5
  Multiplayer - 8.5
  
  Overall - 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flash76
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short & sweet. If you played the first one and liked it then you will love the sequel. 
 This is one of the rare occasions that the sequel delivers on the hype and is head & shoulders 
 better than the original. If you don't have it then get it and you won't be disappointed. I haven't 
 played online yet so I can't judge the multi-player or community but the campaign itself has been 
 a blast. I'm playing on normal and have approx. 12 hours invested in the game thus far. I just 
 made it out of the "Hive" and I'm back at Jacinto. There is something about being able to walk 
 up behind someone and rip them from the sternum up!! This game also has some of the best if not 
 the best visuals I have seen. The smoke filled cities to the fog covered mountains in the background. 
 If you have surround sound then turn it up and take full advantage. So far I only have two complaints 
 and they are minor ones. The first one was the fight with Skorge inside the hive. The fight was 
 too easy and much too short. I expected more out of it than that. The second is that I wish there 
 was a way to mute Cole and Baird at times. Baird only wants to whine and complain as he did in 
 the first and Cole is constantly making idiotic remarks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-human777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  SPOILER ALERT!!!! The storyline and gameplay of the campaign mode is incredible and there is a 
 good variety of new enemies weapons and combat situations although they should have answered a 
 few more questins that they left out there like they never really said why they were capturing 
 people or how the queen knew marcus' dad. Also the vehicle control is a little sketchy but since 
 they didn't focus on it it didn't matter too much. The online is also awesome with so many cool 
 new modes like horde and wingman and the return of the gud ones from the original gears aswell 
 as cool new weapons and levels but i would've loved to have four player split screen multiplayer 
 and an online guest system like halos. All in all great game to buy and is so much fun to play. 
 I totally lose track of time whenever i play it especially when i first played campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics - out of this world. The way cover chips away as you shoot. The up close and personal 
 battles. I got killed once just because I was looking around. 
  
  The only flaw seems to be vehicles (especially) loose graphics (?) when running, or when not focused 
 in on. Its very minor and does not really effect anything.
  
  Story - The end of civilization, huge monster aliens, individual characters that have their own 
 micro-story that makes the whole "earth being taken over" plot personal. It makes you want to fight 
 that much harder for them. Which is why a real soldier fights. For the guy next to him. 
  
  The real genius of the whole game is. Even if the graphics were tone down and the storyline did 
 not exist. This game would still be great. Its the game play that makes this game unstoppable. 
 NONSTOP ACTION, lots of blood and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DudeDaryl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, Its the best game ever invented. Then that would be a lie.
  The game is boaring, and easy. Of course it will be hard if you do the campaign on hard.
  I will 
 admit that i like the game, but if i new it would be this bad i wouldn`t of bought the darn limited 
 edition one. If you havn't got it don't. If you are get the normal. Unless you are a collecter. 
 The story is good but it gets boaring after a while. RENT IT FOR A WEEK AND YOU WILL HAVE IT COMPLETED!
 
  You could get the walkthrough on the internet. If you do complete it, its like 500GS! Its a pointless 
 game and easy acivements but you have to work for  
 IT NOT WORTH TO BUY! DONT GET LIMITED EDITON 110% WASTE OF MONEY, 
  The demo is probly better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyodwyer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's hype machine was set to eleven in November 2006 when the first iteration of the Gears 
 of War series hit shelves worldwide. Epic rode the wave and created one of the best games of this 
 generation while simultaneously knocking Halo off the Xbox Live most played list for the first 
 time in two years. A sequel was inevitable, but with a twenty-four month turnover and the aforementioned 
 hype machine running at a steady five or six, you'd be forgiven to think Epic were going to rest 
 on their laurels for this release. The good news for those of you who haven't already dropped notes 
 on Gears 2, is Epic haven't released a lazy sequel. Gears of War 2 takes the winning formula of 
 its predecessor, augments what we loved and fixes what we didn't. 
  
  The story mode continues a number of months after the initial campaign and things have naturally 
 gone from bad to worse for Marcus Phoenix and the COG. The light-mass bomb detonated in the first 
 game didn't do as much damage as intended and a very angry Locust horde have devised a method of 
 creating emergence holes large enough to swallow entire cities. The story revolves around your 
 last desperate strike at the Locust from humanities last standing major city; Jacinto.
  
  The most fascinating part of the GOW2 storyline is its ability to send the narrative in directions 
 that you never expected. Several times during the campaign Delta squad's momentum and goal is radically 
 shifted, keeping you engaged in the story and changing elements of the gameplay frequently. Dom's 
 highly publicized emotional journey runs alongside the main storyline and though it initially feels 
 forced, it ads genuine heart to the game and builds to a memorable conclusion. 
  
  Not enough can be said about the art design and graphical power on show in Gears 2. A quick boot 
 up of the original game will remind you how far the graphics have really come. Textures, models 
 and effects are far sharper, draw distance has been boosted for the larger levels and each area 
 has a broader colour pallet than the last game. The water effects and lighting are among the best 
 ever seen on Microsoft's console; GOW2 just looks amazing. 
  
  Levels range from vast valleys to hollow caverns, locust cities to underground lakes. Each is given 
 a unique design which makes the campaign feel far more compartmentalized and memorable. A number 
 of vehicle levels attempt to stretch out the world of Gears 2. The jeep runs allow you some sort 
 of freedom and there's nothing wrong with riding a turret-laden Brumak for ten minutes. Unfortunately 
 the parts where you saddle up a Reaver can feel like a bad game of Time Crisis if you can't figure 
 out the hook, but they're brief and at the very least; exciting. 
  
  Epic's talent for creating awesome weaponry is proven again with the addition of some heavy weapons, 
 a semi-auto pistol, a metal locust riot shield and a flamethrower. Each, without exception, is 
 fun to use and ads its own twist to gameplay. The metal shield works as a useful piece of moveable 
 cover, the mortal can rain ignorant amounts of death onto larger foe's and the 'mulcher' chain-gun 
 makes 'mulch' about of people. Existing weaponry has been tweaked to improve multiplayer with the 
 sniper-rifle active reload no longer downing instantly and, in an act of pure genius, grenades 
 can now be stuck to walls including the augmented smoke grenade which knocks down anybody cost 
 in its blast radius with hilarious rag doll action. 
  
  Gameplay has had its fair share of booster shots too. Downed enemies can no A-tap to safety or 
 hilariously raise their hands to their faces in a final pathetic act of begging. And beg they should, 
 because players now have the ability to finish their opponent off with a face-stomp, hammer them 
 down with their weapon or, if you have some time, spend a few seconds beating their face like a 
 fleshy cushion. That's if you're lucky, because a quick tap of 'A' brings the downed enemy to his 
 feet again as you hold him up as a 'meat shield', using your free arm to weird a sidearm. 
  
  Multiplayer has been given the same care & attention as the solo campaign. Co-op is as popular 
 as ever both online and off, horde mode pits you and up to five buddies against wave after wave 
 of increasingly brutal locust attacks. New multiplayer modes include 'meat-flag' which uses the 
 aforementioned mechanic to drag Gears one cameo's to pre-set positions and wingman allows teams 
 of two to pal-up against each other. The new maps on offer are a good mix of designs; many with 
 environmental hazards such as 'Rain' with its showering painful razor-rain and the superb 'Avalanche' 
 which changes completely after a snow-fall is triggered. A surprisingly excellent new addition 
 to multiplayer is bot-support. Though they naturally lack the bite of real world foe's they act 
 as perfect placeholders for private matches as you wait for friends to drop-in, and adequate entertainment 
 for light-hearted single player fun. 
  
  Gears of War 2 is one of the best shooters in recent years. It builds on what made the original 
 such a hit, and somehow despite the massive weight of anticipation, doesn't disappoint once. The 
 story is memorable, the multiplayer deeper than ever and above all, it's seriously good fun. If 
 you own an Xbox 360 you should probably own Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estevie69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  DOESN'T GO FAR FROM #1 BUT WHY GO FAR? THE FIRST ONE WAS AMAZING, SO IS THIS ONE! IT FIXES THE 
 MINIMAL PROBLEMS THAT WERE IN THE FIRST AND MAKES MORE OPTIONS TO DO. ONE PROBLEM WAS WAITING FOR 
 A PERSON TO FINISH HIS CHAINSAW TO KILL HIM, NOW U CAN EVEN SAVE UR TEAMMATE IF QUICK ENOUGH. SOME 
 GLITCHES THAT PEOPLE EXPLOITED ARE NO LONGER. THERE ARE MORE GAME MODES THAT ARE GOOD, BUT THE 
 ORIGINAL WARZONE IS ALWAYS THE BEST! THE CAMPAIGN IS EPIC AND A BIT DISTURBING, COULD GIVE U NIGHTMARES 
 (U'LL KNOW WHAT I MEAN WHEN UR THERE) . ITS JUST THAT SINCE THERE R SO MANY NOOBS, EVERY1 USES THE 
 CHAINSAW, BUT IT'LL GO AWAY WHEN SKILL GETS DEVELOPED WITH TIME. BUT IT PROBABLY WONT WIN GAME 
 OF THE YEAR CUZ IT WASNT "REVOLUTIONARY" BUT WHY SHOULD U CHANGE THE FORMULA OF THE 1st? ITS JUST 
 ADDICTING, I'VE NEVER TALKED ABOUT A GAME AS MUCH AS THIS ONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orin_Steel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Like getting off for the first time... you're like "why haven't i done that before?"
  Yeah that's right. I would have to say that this game is:
  Better than the first. While I say 
 that the original was the bomb, I want to say kudos to the developers. Any issue you had with the 
 first one has been made up for. Great story, great fun and tons of excitment. You need this game 
 in your collection. Not to many second series games work out. I hope the trilogy works out just 
 as well!! Buy this game. Buy it for your kids. Buy it for your friend next door. If you are unfamiliar 
 with this series, you are asleep.!! If you didn't pick up the first game, go to Best Buy and get 
 it now. In fact, you can probably order it through gamespot. So get it if you do not and join us 
 in an epic battle against the grubs!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elemntal360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Great Game! Has some flaws but its still an awesome Game! Matchmaking is a little weak, but oh 
 well, everyone should get this game. campaign is great, good stuff too, like driving the centaur, reaver, 
 and Brumak! then killing the lambent brumak at the end! Horde was a great addition to the game. 
 All the new characters are a great addition, along with the new maps. the flashback map pack was 
 a great idea, especially with their new twist! and there are some pretty awesome new weapons like 
 the flamethrower, and the ink grenades. My favorite part to the game was probably in campaign mode 
 where Dom found Maria and he pictured her one way, and in reality she looked horrible, and he ended 
 up killing her which was sad.
  Hopefully there's a third one, i'd buy it! But in the mean time..... BUY GEARS OF WAR 2, its worth 
 the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariyafathi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 maybe the greatest game until gears of war 3. The story while may be a quick cut 
 off, was worth the payoff. I waited for this game for two years, and God Bless epic because it 
 passed what it said it was gonna be. While many of my friends say horde is boring it could not 
 be anymore fun. The chainsaw is still as cheap and fun as ever, and the executions are some of 
 the sweetest ever. Ripping someone's head off with a bow an arrow could not be cooler. Also the 
 new curb stomp is so much cooler stomping on someone's face is so much fun I could do it all day. 
 I hope though in the next game they change the horde mode. Make it random what eneimies come and 
 how difficult they are. Also I wouldn't mind a four player co-op with Baird and Cole. Also including 
 the story I want to know what happended to Dizzy, he better be in the next game, we never knew 
 what happended to him. Overall this game is awseome and everyone should get it how enjoys a shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game and is unique in its gameplay style and multiplayer content. The 
 game's campaign starts off where Gears of War 1 leaves off. You're Marcus Fenix and you must lead 
 your team through more hordes of Locust and attack the Locusts' home. The campaign mode is exciting 
 and fun, but is better when played with a friend.
  
  Graphics - The game's graphics are incredible. They are a technical masterpiece and it's great 
 when you shoot at a wall and pieces of the wall fall off. The physics engine has really gotten 
 better and the game looks more crisp, cleaner and nicer. One change I noticed was that in Gears 
 of War 2 they added more color into the game, it's more vivid and it sometimes comes off as "strange". 
 The COGs' armor used to be a dull color, but now it's bright and somewhat uglier than the previous 
 armor.
  
  Sound - 80% of the sounds in Gears of War 2 have been re-recorded. This is good and bad. A lot 
 of the guns feel different such as the lancer. It makes sense to change a gun's sound to make it 
 sound better, but what I don't understand is why they changed some of the sounds that they did. 
 Storywise why does the lancer sound soo f'in different in Gears of War 2? I liked the sound of 
 the lancer in Gears of War 1, it sounded unique, now it sounds like some automatic assault rifle 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas 2. The voice acting is still great and the music is better. Change can be 
 good, but it can also be bad. The sounds in Gears of War 2 even out to be equally good as they 
 are bad. If you play Gears of War 1 and then you play Gears of War 2 you'll understand what I mean.
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay mechanics are basically the same. What's different now is when you jump 
 over a barrier it's much faster, the game is still in third person but it's zoomed out more which 
 makes the characters seem smaller (I hate it) , the smoke grenades have the ability to knock people 
 over and they don't really leave smokescreens anymore, they're basically like a flashbang without 
 the flash, grenades can now be stuck to walls which is an interesting addition but I wish you could 
 take the back off because while trying to frag tag this does get very, VERY irritating when you 
 frag tag a wall and you kill yourself because the enemy sets it off and you're closer to the radius 
 of the grenade, there are new weapons but you'll find yourself using the weapons from the first 
 Gears of War, and there are more executions and you can also use downed enemies as meat shields.
 
  
  Online - Online gameplay in Gears of War 2 is very different than Gears of War 1. Only thing similar 
 are the guns and the voices of the characters, even the characters seem different. Gears of War 
 2 attempted to copy Halo in the match making format of online gameplay, but this ruins what Gears 
 of War had which was when people hosted what map and what game style they wanted to play, now you 
 cannot do that you HAVE to do match making and it's all off voting. So good luck playing whatever 
 mode you want to play because the odds are always against you and you'll end up playing some mode 
 you won't want to play. Even as bad as match making is you can now set up your own parties and 
 bring your friends, wait a second do not bring your friends. Match making takes about 5-8 minutes 
 to find a match. The longest it took me was 14 minutes and I finished a take home test while I 
 was waiting for a match with my friend. He drove and picked up his girlfriend, came back and the 
 game was still finding a match. It's ridiculous, it really is, I actually hate playing online unless 
 it's "Horde". The game mode Horde saves Gears of War 2 from becoming the next popular game to be 
 returned at Gamestop. Horde is a fun mode where you face 50 waves of Locust, you and your friends 
 can work together to survive 50 waves and this really is fun, but time consuming. Play it with 
 your friends in a private match. If you play Horde in a public match, when you lose there's no 
 starting over and the game just CUTS out. You'll just return to the lobby screen in less than 3 
 seconds, so have fun making friends online because it's hard to keep in touch with people. In Gears 
 of War 1 the game never cut out and you could talk to people after a match ended and then you could 
 set up your own match just by talking to people. In Gears of War 2 there is no talking, it's very 
 fast paced online gameplay that gets you in and out as fast as possible. 
  
  
  
  **What I hate most about Gears of War 2**
  
  (smoke grenades because they knock you over and 
 everyone uses them and I also hate that fact that...
  
  
  They got rid of 4 vs 4 online gameplay. That was the reason why Gears of War 1 stuck out. It made 
 you work together as a team and you needed your teammates otherwise you wouldn't make it. 
  
  
  
  To be honest I want to just get the achievements for Gears of War 2 and go back to 
 playing Gears of War 1. Gears of War 2 is itself a great game but it lacks in too many areas and 
 in result isn't as good as Gears of War 1. If you're a fan of the series you should get Gears of 
 War 2 but do not expect to be blown away by the online gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great sequel to one of the best sci fi shooters ever. It improves upon the 
 first game in almost many ways. 
  
  The graphics in Gears of War 2 are much improved from the first game. Much of this is thanks to 
 improvements in the Unreal Engine 3. Gears of War set a standard for high definition gaming and 
 Gears of War 2 improves upon that with better textures and more detailed environments. There are 
 levels that definitely show how beautiful the game can look like a level that shows the inside 
 of a worm and another level with a huge and beautiful snow covered mountain. The finishing moves 
 and the chainsaw battles are as bloody as ever.
  
  Sounds in Gears of War 2 are superb. Chainsaws sound fantastic and grenades and explosives sound 
 just like they were intended to be. The voice acting in the game is also pretty good as the voices 
 fit the personality of the characters in the game pretty well. The background music and vehicle 
 sounds are also done very well.
  
  The game play in Gears of War 2 is probably the strongest part of the game. The unique and intuitive 
 cover system works very well, is easy to use and is improved from the last game. Shooting and revving 
 up your chainsaw are well implemented with the use of the cover system. The many guns and weapons 
 you can use add to the effect. These weapons range from the original Lancer to the flamethrower. 
 The clever level design also helps increase the effect as it eliminates aimless wandering through 
 the levels trying to find your objective. Boss fights are superb and hectic pitting you against 
 a huge locust creature. The multiplayer portion of the game also adds to the replay value as there 
 are many different game modes to play on. The most noticeable game mode is probably horde where 
 you and a squad must defend yourselves against waves of increasingly difficult locust attackers. 
 There are a total of 50 waves to survive and it's very fun to try to get that far. Other multiplayer 
 modes include guardian and many others.
  Overall, Gears of War 2 is a great shooting game that should not be missed. It has great graphics 
 and sound and superb game play; online and offline.
  The good:
   Great game play mechanics
   Clever level design
   Great graphics and sound
   Horde mode 
 is a lot of fun
   Fun shooting action and easy to use cover system
   You can carry up to four guns at a time
  The Bad:
   Cover system can sometimes frustrate
 
   Vehicle controls are slightly clunky
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Terror
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  As expected, this game is a very good third person shooter, but I was somewhat disappointed when 
 I first played it due to the insane amount of hype it had before release.
  A lot of people have said that the first Gears of War's story was lacking, if not non-existent 
 and the people of Epic tried to rectify that in the sequel. The story seemed a lot grander in this 
 one, you were part of large operations that involved more COGs than just Delta squad. There was 
 also some character exploration and a more personal story involving Dom and his wife Maria. Based 
 on the way the game ends I can say that Epic most definitely plans on making at least a 3rd Gears 
 of War (if not a 4th as well since there were originally 4 Carmine brothers) . Unfortunately this 
 caused Gears of War 2 to end up a lot like the second Pirates of the Caribbean, existing pretty 
 much solely to set up another sequel. I'm usually alright with a story leaving some mysterious 
 points to be covered in the sequel, but Gears 2 seemed to have a maddening amount. Also the final 
 fight was pretty horrible, I'm not sure why they put it in.
  The new and altered weapons feel pretty good and are quite enjoyable to use. The flamethrower is 
 a lot of fun and so is demolishing groups of enemies from afar with a mortar while hiding behind 
 cover. 
  Even though this game was fun and generally played pretty well, there were a few glitches that 
 made the game seem rushed. I'm usually not one to complain about a few glitches (nothing is perfect) , 
 but whether my AI partner was getting stuck and not moving at all and complaining about being unable 
 to "get a shot" or me getting randomly stuck and being able to roll in place, these glitches started 
 to annoy me after they happened a few times.
  All in all this game was a lot of fun, but not as amazing as I had hoped. It's worth buying and 
 I hope that they fix the multiplayer issues that many people are complaining about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --VoiD15 --
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Everybody recalls Gears of war 1... It was a good game and it revolutionized the cover system and 
 over the shoulder game play with a sturdy online play but had major flaws, as well as campaign 
 which hardly had what could be called a storyline
  
  Gears of War 2 comes back in a vengeful and violent storm of pure awesomeness. Flawed... hardly 
 but every game has a flaw. 
  
  The campaign is a much better more cinematic experience, with Dom's Search for his wife and the 
 locust coming back in a full on army and start sinking entire cities, no little emergence holes 
 here. I'm not going in depth but this game really hit the nail on the head with campaign.
  
  Multiplayer is much better but its ranking system is weirded sometimes out but I'm sure a patch 
 will fix that. I'm not going in depth but its experience is overall much better.
  
  Horde is also a much better experience than the last because there was no horde. Its really fun 
 once you get 5 people going. Its also very hard! 
  
  The real only problem that should be of concern is the vehicle sections are hard and messed up 
 but nobody really cares.
  
  This game deserves to be game of the year. Gears of War 2 ftw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  First things first im not big on multiplayer so this review is really just for the single player 
 mode. If you liked GoW then you will love this, its non stop action from beginning to end. The 
 controls are smooth and the quality of the visuals is just crazy ... everything looks so beautiful. 
 I will be honest and tell you i did not buy the game for 2 reasons. One as i mentioned im not big 
 on the multiplayer so i beat the game in under 10 hours and two i just blew all my cash on fallout 
 3. But make no mistake even if you are not big on shooters you should not pass this game up. Now 
 i know graphics isnt everything, nice shaders and glows dont make a game fun ... but man i gotta 
 give two thumbs up to the level designers and texture artists over there at epic. Keep up the good 
 work and i cant wait to play part 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the first Gears of War more than this one, tho I had played the original so long ago 
 it's hard to remember much about it. However this game had a story, it was an ok story, I got the 
 point of it, but it was still ok. It appears there might be a sequel at the end when it refers 
 to how you want to be viewed and all that...
  
  The game took about 10 hours maybe slightly more to beat the entire thing, and it was pretty easy 
 to play. I died a hell of a lot more in the first one and this one was much much much easier! Even 
 on Normal difficulty it was ridiculously easy to beat the game.
  
  Graphics deserve a 10+, absolutely stunning areas and players, well done and thought out! Sound 
 effects were awesome and the weaponry to match the atmosphere was great!
  
  Some of the levels were eh.... Like being inside the giant worm, that was a really cool place to 
 play but obviously not very realistic in any way, but still fun to play. I know it's a videogame 
 and the levels are all supposed to be crazy and futuristic, but being inside of a giant worm was 
 a bit too far stretched. The snow level of driving the big wheeler was a lot of fun except for 
 crossing the iced lakes.
  
  Enemies were fun, bosses were fun, nothing was too hard or insane to have to get through, it was 
 pretty easy the whole time.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who loves the first game and wants more! It is definately worth 
 your time and your money, get this game and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  Wow where to start. This was one of the most amazing games i have ever played! 
  
  Gameplay: The game play is pretty much the same as gears 1 but why fix what isnt broken. There 
 are also new features like meatshields which let you pick up enemies as shields, a wide variety 
 of new executions, and more weapons that are much improved. Some of the new weapons are the mortar 
 strike and flamethrower and also the hammerburst. and yes chainsaws are back and better than ever. 
 Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Story Mode: The story mode in gears of war 2 is one of the best parts. There are 5 acts and all 
 are unique and great in there own way. You will go to a lot of different places including Jacinto, 
 a forest area, underground, to an abondand facility and to a mountain. All are great places that 
 are really fun to go through. The vehicle scenes arent to good, but better than the first gears, 
 and there is one amazing "vehicle" sequence suprise at the end and that is great. Co-op is also 
 fun. The story itself is much better than gears 1. It is a lot more than just the "we need to go 
 here because thats what the boss says". Although it does leave more questions than answers IMO 
 (GeOW3 anyone?) 10/10 for story mode.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is really addictive. It is 5 vs. 5 and has a wide variety of modes. 
 Wingman is 5 teams of 2 people. Elimination games are games where youre goal is to kill all the 
 people on the other team. Territorie games are when you have places to try to capture. My personal 
 favorite is territories: king of the hill. There are 10 new maps. And you can download the flashback 
 map pack for 5 maps that have been revamped from the previous game. The one downfall of the multiplayer 
 is its matchmaking system. It can sometimes take a really long time to get into a game, but once 
 your playing its so fun that its worth the wait. Multiplayer: 9/10
  
  Horde: Horde is the biggest new improvement to gears of war. You face groups of enemies that start 
 off easy and grow increasingly more difficult. This mode is great for a group of friends. There 
 is almost every kind of weapon scatterd across the map to, and you will face about every kind of 
 enemy in the game. My only problem with horde is that you stay on the same map for all 50 waves 
 so it can start to get a little repititive, but its still fun. Horde: 9/10
  
  Graphics: Gears of War one had some of the best graphics, even to today's standards. Gears of War 
 2 improved the graphics, and while not by a major difference, it is still very noticably better. 
 And the first games graphics were so good that it would be hard to improve much. It is a lot better 
 though, and the blood looks much better. Graphics 10/10
  
  So all in all Gears of War 2 is just an amazing experience that any xbox 360 owner should have. 
 If you ask me, Halo 3 isnt the game to own a 360 for, Gears of War is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the best bloodbath coming out this holiday season and is a must-have for all 
 action and shooter fans. It improves on nearly every aspect from the first: Campaign, Multiplayer, 
 Weapons, Graphics, Audio... everything. 
  The Campaign is longer than it was in the first, and definitely more immersive. It has a higher 
 replay value with the added items to collect throughout. Although the story in the campaign brings 
 up more questions than it answers, the campaign itself proves to be an amazing experience. One 
 of the new co-op features is Horde mode. 5 players cooperatively take on wave after wave of increasingly 
 powerful Locust. This truly brings out the game's tactical side.
  
  The Multiplayer utilizes Epic's Unreal Engine 3 to the max by enhancing the physics system greatly. 
 It also uses a matchmaking system which can be slow at times but puts forth an experience much 
 better than the first. With the elimination of host advantage and the balancing of weapons, the 
 multiplayer is one of the greatest aspects of the game. Weapon changes include: addition of a chaingun, 
 mortar, flamethrower, and burst pistol, and changes to the sniper and shotgun. The one shot down 
 previously seen on the sniper has been removed and the unbalanced power form the shotgun has also 
 been removed to further balance the system. Instead of a shotgun-fest seen in the original, Gears 
 2 utilizes every single weapon on the map. There are also new multiplayer gametype additions to 
 the mix. Wingman is 5 teams of two fighting against each other for the highest kill count. Submission 
 is a version of Capture the Flag in which players must down an armed AI and take him hostage. Then, 
 they must walk the AI to a designated area in order to win. Guardian is a new take on Assassination 
 in which players are allowed to respawn so long as the leader is alive. Of course, the old modes 
 are still there: Warzone, Execution, Annex, and King of the Hill.
  
  The graphics and audio system have seen a drastic improvement as well, from the splash of blood, 
 to raindrops, water movement, the sound of bullets tearing through flesh, and the favorite chainsaw 
 tearing things apart.
  
  Basically, this game will not disappoint anyone who is not afraid to adapt to changes made and 
 try a new method of gameplay. Overall, this game delivers in every aspect it should, making it 
 an all-around amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I happen to believe that this game is better than the first! GOW has gone above and beyond what 
 a action shooter should be. It takes everything that made the first game great and improves it 
 100%. 
  Lets start from the beginning... you still play as Fenix and the Delta squad as they battle the 
 Locust horde all around and underneath the world of Sera. The Locust have found a way to sink cities 
 and are targetting Jacinto which is the Humans last hope and so-called haven from extinction. As 
 you control Delta, you battle and fight through destroyed cities and underground caverns with a 
 rich detailed environment. You can still hold 3 weapons and grenades which can be switched for 
 different weapons throughout the game. The selection of guns isnt very vast but the amount of ammo 
 found is extensive so you will always have something to shoot. Now you can use a Grinder Gun and 
 also Mortors to beat the Locust down. 
  The first game showed you the enemies the Locust were but the larger ones were mostly non-existant 
 or Boss battles. Now with GOW2 you fight countless Corpsers, Reapers and Brumaks in crazy battles 
 either on the ground, in tanks or in the air. There are even a couple of occasions where you hijack 
 enemy vehicles and ride them against the Locust. Did I mention yet that you RIDE a Brumak... yes 
 a Brumak! That had to be the most fun I had playing this game.
  The storyline itself is pretty simple but it does lead to another game coming soon in the series. 
 What makes this game so great is the amount of battles and detailed environments around you. Fighting 
 inside a giant Riftworm, inside the Locust Stronghold, under cities and on mountains the action 
 never stops. Even your partner is smart enough to hit enemies and take action so your not stuck 
 doing all the work. 
  I dont have to sit here and tell you how great this game really is... just play it for yourself 
 and see what the hype is all about. So much fun and that is only the campaign mode... there is 
 also multiplayer, co-op mode and online play that makes this a non-stop adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the hugely successful Epic offering Gears of War is here and I must say it is superior 
 to the original on all points. It is as if the Epic development team examined everywhere the original 
 game was lacking and addressed it. It isn't easy to live up to the hype when your are a signature 
 franchise for your exclusive console but Gears 2 manages to do so.
  
  Storyline: To say that the Gears of War 2 story is better than Gears of War is almost damning with 
 faint praise. The fact that there is any story at all puts it ahead of the original game. The storyline 
 is not bad but nothing special either. The attempt at dealing with emotional subject matter falls 
 flat however. Think Sylvester Stallone starring as the romantic lead in a chic flick. The resolution 
 of Dom and his wife's side story couldn't be less realistic but to Epic's credit at least they 
 gave it a shot this time.
  
  Graphics: Spectacular. Epic's Unreal Engine is humming on all cylinders. Huge, expansive, and beautiful 
 environments with enemies sprawled all over the place. Unlike the first Gears you actually feel 
 like a war is going on around you rather than being just two buddies on a hunting expedition. Pop-in 
 is not an issue but some "fade-in" occurs in multi-player as a match starts. It's very minor and 
 very brief.
  
  Gameplay: Two words: Hoard Mode. No one else has anything like it. Up to 5 player co-op against 
 a chaotic mass of everything the game can throw at you. It's an absolute blast! Also, it appears 
 that Epic got the message regarding the flaws in it's online experience. I found no glitches, the 
 absurd host advantage is gone, and the achievements can be pleasantly obtained among friends rather 
 than dealing with, in my opinion, the worst ranked online community in gaming. Gears of War 2 realizes 
 a radical concept "Hey why not make the multi-player actually fun?". Naturally, campaign co-op 
 is superb. Although it's only 2-player co-op, each player can play on different difficulties in 
 the same game. And it actually works!
  
  Basically, Gears of War 2 is what a top tier, triple A title is supposed to be. Fresh, well done, 
 and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakan959
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  In Gears of War 2, you play as Marcus Fenix, a COG soldier defending his homeland of Sera. Together 
 with your squad, comprised of Dom, Cole, and Baird, you must work to defeat the forces of the Locust 
 Horde before they take over your planet.
  Gears 2 takes over from where Gears 1 left off - The Lightmass Bomb. When the bomb was detonated, 
 some of the Locust survived, and are now back to continue their quest. 
  While the campaign is short, it continues the plot from the original Gears, with some big plot 
 twists to go along with it. Every time you beat one of the 5 acts within the campaign, you unlock 
 another character that you can use in multiplayer. In the campaign, you get a chance to destroy 
 the Locust with every weapon under the sun. Stunning graphics combine with vivid gameplay to create 
 the ultimate gameplay experience. 
  Before you go online, you can try the Training Grounds included with the game. In each of the 5 
 lessons in Training Grounds, you are walked through some of the basics of multiplayer, including 
 the different game types you can play.
  Once you feel ready to go online, there are multiple playlists you can choose from. Once the playlist 
 is selected and the teams are assembled, the game type and map are voted on. Once you're in, complete 
 the objectives as you learned in Training Grounds, and you win the match. Some game types have 
 multiple rounds, in which the first team to 3 wins wins the match. Others, like Annex, are 1-round 
 games, in which the team to win the round wins the match.
  Overall, Gears 2 was a great game, well worth the money. Any serious gamer should spring for the 
 limited edition, which comes with a Gold Plated Lancer or Gold Plated Hammerburst, which can be 
 unlocked by entering the code in to the Xbox 360 Dashboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjaneek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Despite the problems I bring up, I love this game.
  
  The campaign:
  
  The Good
  -Epic Monsters
  -Fairly good vehicle segments
  -There's a story in this one
 
  -New weapons
  -No lambent Wretches
  
  The Bad
  -There may be lots of enemies on screen... but they're somewhat dumber than their brethren in Gears 
 1.
  -Not as hard, even on Insane (the "Hard" up there in the difficulty row comes from the multiplayer.)
 
  -I'm not at all afraid to get close to the Locust in this one, they just aren't as deadly in this 
 one
  -While just as violent, it lacks the gritty, street to street feeling of the combat in the first 
 Gears
  -The levels don't seem like actual streets with convenient cover, the cover is clearly put there 
 to set up a firefight, especially near the end of the game
  
  *Please Note*
  I have played trough the campaign in the first Gears literally 20 or so times with my best friend. 
 I played through the campaign in this installment with him as well, since the only way to play 
 is co-op (it's boring alone) . The criticisms may be caused by my love of the first game.
  
  The Multiplayer
  
  The Good
  -More weapons
  -Tons of ways to kill your enemeis
  -Choice 
 between the Lancer and the Hammburst as starting weapon
  -All of the new weapons
  -Moveable cover, alive or synthetic
  -Crawl while down
  -Intense as hell
  -Well balanced 
 maps
  -The Boomshot is actually awesome in this one
  -Snipers aren't over powered
  -Chainsaw duels
  -Martyrdom far superior to that of Call of Duty 4
  -Smoke grenades stun your 
 enemies
  -Hard
  
  The Bad
  -Hard (goes both ways on the difficulty)
  -The shotgun still doesn't work for me
  -It's too good sometimes.
  
  Blowing people to chuncks 
 never looked so good, as the models are built to actually tear apart, unlike in the previous Gears, 
 which did the old delete the dead player and replace it with the chunkies.
  
  Also, ajdust the lighting in the options menu, or the whole game, single and multiplayer will look 
 cartoony.
  
  Go buy this game f you already haven't. If you don't have a 360, run and get one. If you have a 
 PS3, you'll just have to wait for God of War 3, which I really want, so I'm not a console fanboy. 
 But 'em all.
  
  This game is great despite some minor flaws. If Gamespotwould let me, I'd giv it a 9.9 instead 
 of 9.5.
  
  Remember ---- 9.9
  Buy it, love it.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  I myself am not a gears of war fan boy. Too be honest I really didn't care for the first one. But 
 this one is good it doesn't stray too much and yet it offers something different. You have an added 
 storyline not unlike the first but the graphics are lit unlike the first by that I mean your not 
 walking into walls trying to find your way around on certain levels. It also has maps or multi 
 players that you can play up too 9 bots on your console in many different maps. And you don't have 
 too hear the kid that never reach puberty giving you crap (punching them through the system is 
 next gen something we all hope for) . Bottom line it is an arcade shooter, not one for the tactical 
 shooters like Rainbow six. But at the base it is fun to play online with a buddy or simply by yourself. 
 Graphics are great storyline is solid and the sound is also, all and all this is a must buy for 
 any shooter fan. Or wait for the next gen when you can punch the ungreateful yuppie larva on the 
 other side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillydowhap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  I played through rather fast it took me about 8 hours to beat the game on hard. It was worth every 
 penny spent plus some. The bosses alone were impressive enough to keep me coming back for more. 
 I think my favorite weapon of choice was the flame thrower which was amazing the next best thing 
 was a shield with pistol down right diabolical You should play this game. I only had one issue, 
 what happened to pappa fenix? I didn't catch that part of the story. Maybe its saying Gears 3 perhaps 
 well lets hope so if we can beat the crap out of everything in the mean time. Loved this game. 
 SPOILER ALLERT!!! Don't READ UNTIL YOU BEAT THE GAME
  
  I just listened to the ending of the credits and adam fenix comes through jack and is asking what 
 we have done? this is crazy but cool enjoy the game everybody it is a bad ass ride. Later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I don't really own this game. My friend came over for 3 days, and we played this game almost non-stop. 
 W played co-op campaign, and i can say that it is absolutely amazing. The new flamethrower and 
 pistol and mulcher and artillery thing are amazing. The ability to make grenades mines is also 
 wonderful. I caught this one guy trying to sneak up on me, and i couldn't help but smile and laugh 
 when he ran into the 'nade i put on the wall.
  Horde, is also great. However, it is really hard to do alone. Even with 2 people its tough. 5 people 
 in 1 horde game though is a blast. You guys form plans, stick together, split apart, cover each 
 other, etc etc. What i want to know though is why people can't do that in multiplayer :P
  
  In short, This is a spectacular game. If you haven't played/bought it yet, do so. Life is pointless 
 unless you have tried the amazingness that is Gears of War 2 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jres11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  ok just let me start off by saying gears of war 2 is a MUST BUY game!!!! The graphics are superior 
 the lakes water snow etc. everything looks gorgeous. The story is getting more more interesting 
 its an emotional game at some points. the gameplay just feels so much better like more smoooth. Hoard 
 mode is my favorite whats better then taking about 50 waves of the locust hoard? Multiplayer is 
 so much fun what i love most is the new executions they are freakin awesome. New weapons, new characters, new 
 game. Im litteraly hooked i cannot stop playing the campaign is longer than the first this game 
 is so much better than the first another thing is the bosses i like how u can get really upclose 
 too them pretty sweet! You will be Amazed.
  
  OVERALL:10
  
  gameplay:10
  Graphics:10
  Sound:10 
  Story:10 
  Must buy game for any 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seemore10
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 improves upon pretty much every aspect of Gears of War. It is a great sequel, even 
 with its minor flaws. It feels almost identical to Gears of War in most areas, while not feeling 
 rehashed or like Gears of War 1.5.
  
  Graphics
  
  As if it was possible, Gears 2 looks even more astounding than the first. The updated Unreal Engine 
 3 looks amazing, with huge draw distances and vistas making your jaw drop at every turn. The lighting 
 and weather effects are brilliant, making every room, building, bridge, and lava filled cavern 
 ooze with atmosphere and creativity. The detail is simply awe-inspiring. Every piece of metal, 
 wood, meat, and rock gleams with realism and quality. The explosions, and mangled corpses look 
 as good as ever.
  
  The only issue I found in this case was that sometimes when loading a previous save, textures wouldn't 
 load right away, taking about 10 seconds or so. It isn't a huge issue at all, just something to 
 take note of.
  
  Story
  
  The story begins about 6 months after the end of Gears 1. With the resonator not successfully doing 
 its job, the Locust are back and stronger than ever. Your main mission in Gears 2, as you find 
 out early on, is to beat the Locust to sinking a city known as Jacinto. Sinking the city before 
 they do would ultimately destroy all of the Locust army beneath. The narrative is great and you 
 are always immersed in the plot. There is also a side plot involving Dom and his missing wife Maria. 
 I'm not going to spoil it for you, but Dom's mission during the game is to find her and rescue 
 her.
  
  The story has it's share of surprises that keep you on the edge of your seat throughout. Unlike 
 Gears 1, there are more boss battles - and boss is an understatement. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  "If it ain't broken, don't fix it" applies well in regards to the gameplay. Gears of War 2 is still 
 all about taking cover intelligently, finding out your opponents weakness, exploiting that weakness, 
 and flanking. Run and gun is still not the name of the game, and they have also helped enforce 
 this rule in the multiplayer (I'll get into that) .
  
  There are plenty of new additions however. Each weapon now has its own special execution. These 
 are gruesome and brutal, and I love them. With the Longshot equipped, you basically take a huge 
 hammer swing to the skull of your downed opponent. With the Torque Bow equipped, you brutally pop 
 the opponent's head of with a swift pull. 
  
  Also, in order to make rushing an opponent a hard tactic to use, the developers gave the weapons 
 stopping power. Now while running towards an opponent, if you are getting shot you will get significantly 
 slowed down by those bullets, forcing you to take cover and plan a different attack. This is especially 
 useful in the multiplayer, as it no longer purely consists of rush, roll, shoot encounters. 
  
  Sound 
  
  The music here is top notch, with eerie orchestral pieces setting the mood. Every 
 weapon, explosion (organic and not) sounds fantastic.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Here is where it gets complicated. In Gears 2, Epic made a decision to pretty much nerf the shotgun, 
 while seemingly increasing the power of the lancer. They were getting complaints of people only 
 using the shotgun, and just rushing and shooting from the hip. Cliff stated that "that wasn't the 
 game they wanted it to be." So now, you MUST aim with the shotgun if you want any chance of getting 
 a kill with it. For those veterans of Gears 1, this might be a hard one to get a handle on, and 
 could make the experience quite frustrating.
  
  Also, we have noticed that the new matchmaking system (similar to Halo's) has been a bit hit and 
 miss so far. Once you are in a game everything is great, but a lot of the time it takes far too 
 long to find players and a match. Hopefully that will be fixed soon though.
  
  Gears 2 has a lot of new great maps and modes as well. These are variations of Gears 1 modes, however 
 new ones like "Submission" and "Guardian" taking the limelight.
  
  Overall
  
  In closing, Gears of War 2 lived up to it's promise of being bigger, better, and more bad ass. 
 You get huge vistas, better graphics, executions, and enemies. But most of all, it still remains 
 one of the most bad ass games of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puffycloud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Ah Gears of War... one of my favourites now has it's sequel. Epic has taken the original and placed 
 all the standard upgrades one would expect from a part 2 of a triple A title, and have enhanced 
 it in every way imaginable!
  
  Graphics and sound remain just as sweet as the first one, if not better, but considering how high 
 the bar was in Gears 1, I almost don't notice.
  
  The story has gotten a bit deeper and darker with more focus on Dom, the addition of some new characters 
 and a few details on Marcus' past thrown in are a nice touch. Although a few scenes have reminded 
 me that this is a "M" rated game and has rightfully earned its rating. In order to avoid spoilers, 
 I will not go into the details, but my only real gripe is how it ends off into the perfect formula 
 for a Gears of War 3. (which was expected)
  
  The on-line experience has had a massive overhaul with the introduction of matchmaking a la Halo 
 style and filled with tons of new and interesting modes. It is now much easier to play with those 
 on your friend's list and awesome modes such as Guardian, Horde, Wingman, etc... will keep gamers 
 hooked for a long time. The addition of several old maps is a nice touch, however, it is missing 
 War Machine, my favourite map.... sounds like future down-loadable content in the making. On the 
 down side, the multiplayer does have a few drawbacks, most obvious is the lack of control on the 
 settings such as number of rounds and the difficulties leaving/exiting a match. Now this should 
 reduce quitters, however, it also makes the user have to wait at the end while the clock counts 
 down and the winning team's trash talk commences. This is only a minor problem considering how 
 many improvements have been made and opens up an opportunity for Epic to refine their system and 
 possibly provide updates and tweaks to improve an already solid multiplayer game.
  
  Overall very fun with everything you would expect from a great sequel and a bit more. Highly recommended 
 especially for fans of the first Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcomando7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 has a fantastic campaign mode. The action is fast paced and intense, the story is 
 amazing, and the characters a wonderful. I being a player who have never played Gears of War 1 
 am new to the Gears universe and was expecting to be left behind in the story and have it be pointless. 
 I was very wrong about that. I was soon engrossed in the story, and actually cared what happened 
 to the characters. Sure, there were a few cheesy lines, but overall the story was fantastic. Also 
 the action was great. It was tons of fun to be overrun by Locast then battle back to chasing them 
 away. Epic most certainly accomplished its goal of making you feel like the star in an action film. 
 As far as the multiplayer goes it has the potential to be amazin, but is the one thing that is 
 preventing me from giving this a 10. I first started out playing a couple games against the bots 
 to get used to it and I loved it. The game modes were fun and creative (especially submission) , 
 but when I went to play online i was dissapointed to hav to wait 7 minutes in order to get into 
 my game. Once I was in the game I experienced no lag and (I was playing Wingman) I loved it. It 
 was very fun to use team work to stay alive and kill the oppenents, and the map (s) have lots of 
 enviromental hazards (avalanches, razor hail, etc.) . The only problem I had actually in the game 
 was I had one confusing chainsaw battle. I'm not sure what happened, but i thought i had won (the 
 chainsaws were disengaged) and a couple seconds later i was chainsawed. Other than that Geas of 
 War 2 is the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardipk4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  When i bought the game and played it for the first time it sucked! but then around 15-30 minuets 
 into the game it started getting more and more addicting! if you buy this game don't thin your 
 imidity going to like it seance the being lvls for Cam pan suck Multilayer is just awesome but 
 takes a long time to find a match seance you cant join a match that is already going on. When they 
 fix up the multilayer so that you find match faster it will be ALOT better and a grate time saver! 
 Camapan also comes with Co-op so that two people can play Campanile at one time this helps ALOT 
 on some levels deepening on what you chosen for your difficulty 
  The game is GRATE! the only complain i have is the waiting for XBOX LIVE Match's 
  
  
  Graphics 
 - 7/10
  Game play - 8/10 
  Camp an Story - 8.5/10 
  Multi-Player (LIVE) - 9.2/10 
  Over All - 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psdsoldier25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  A great all-around game, GoW 2 blew my socks off. Cliffy B really out did himself on this one. 
 The overall gameplay has improved very much. Getting in and out of cover was even smoother this 
 time around. One thing i really enjoyed was the tone of the game, the colors and the graphics were 
 amazing it really seemed to brighten up the entire game.. Several other things i was having a blast 
 with was the new meatshield hostages, chainsaw battles and using grenades as proximity mines never 
 gets old.
  
  The campaign could have been a bit longer but im not complaining. Also i have to mention the new 
 hoarde mode ie. like CRACK TO A GAMER and the excellent online gameplay give this one alot of re-play 
 value. I have not had this much fun on LIVE in a long time. New weapons and a wider selection of 
 bad guys to chainsaw in half all make this a cant miss game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymysteriofan6
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  it is so good its just another game that grows on you 
  
  absolutely  
 
  
  i loved almost every new idea of this game like the meat shield and the stopping power of thebullets 
 so people can't just charge with the shotgun anymore but the fact that you can't get up by yourself 
 anymore and the fact that the A. I. sucks makes the game so stressful i mean i died 9.5/10 times 
 just because the A. I. wouldn't get me up wtff and why can't we just get up by ourselves anymore 
 huh? this part makes the campaign suck ass mostly in harder difficulties when you get downed alot. 
 if they don't fix this imma give it to someone after i finish all the achievements. trust me you 
 won't play the campaign again with the A. I. like that. though the multiplayer is great, the campaign 
 has flaws that make it way too stressful to play. Horde is great but why can't we put bots in the 
 game like in matchmaking? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  While nothing's been drastically changed, the sequel offers everything fans want; more non-stop 
 action with bucket loads of gore, excitement, and of course, the chainsaw which enthralled players 
 the first time round.
  
  The story picks up six months after the first concluded, with the Locust growing even stronger 
 in their plans of making Earth their own and destroying all those who stand in their way. You again 
 take the role of Marcus Fenix and fellow comrade Dominic Santiago as they try and resist the Locust's 
 attack against the last Human strong hold of Jacinto. Your role feels much more purposeful this 
 time and there are a few twists along the way, however, the story remains one of the game's weakest 
 points.
  
  Going into the action, the gameplay is very familiar; cover being the main mechanic. Thankfully, 
 it still remains one of the best systems in the business. Fans of the series will notice some refinements 
 to the gameplay mix, such as destructible cover, using enemies as shields, as well as new finishing 
 off moves. Your team mate can now able to heal you which adds to the flow of the game.
  
  A handful of new weapons also grace the game; the flamethrower, which is unsurprisingly appealing 
 at close range, and two-handed weaponry; the mortar and the heavy machine gun named the Mulcher. 
 These add new dimensions, especially to the online modes. However, the most significant addition 
 is the tweaking of weaponry; with the main assault rifle more powerful and the shotgun made slightly 
 inferior, resulting in more balanced combat.
  
  Although replay value is at hand with four separate difficulty levels and the drop-in drop out 
 co-op mode, the campaign is disappointingly short, and can be completed within a couple of evenings. 
 As you play, you won't only find yourself fighting on the ground; you now have tanks and flying 
 creatures at your disposal for some levels. While these additions offer a change of pace, they 
 not as polished as the rest of the game and seem a little tacky. Battles are larger, the enemies 
 AI has been noticeably improved and a more convincing story make the campaign overall more engaging 
 and even more exciting.
  
  Perhaps the most significant addition overall, is the new Horde mode; wave after wave of increasingly 
 difficult enemies try hunt you and your buddies down. It become more and more frantic and addictive 
 and is a real change of pace to the rest of the game.
  
  Competitive multi-player is back, bigger and only slightly better. The maximum players been bumped 
 up to ten players with all the usually modes, such as the death match themed warzone and execution, 
 as well as new ones such as guardian, which is a capture the flag based mode where the flag is 
 a bot also trying to kill you. Although the weapons are more balanced, the host advantage still 
 remains, making it more difficult that it should be to try and take down a certain player. It also 
 takes a long time to connect to an online match if you're playing by yourself and most of the maps 
 are inferior to those on the original. However, if you enjoyed the first, you will love this just 
 the same.
  The visuals may not have been significantly improved from the first, but the environments are a 
 lot more varied and the can be literally dozens of enemies on screen at one point which add to 
 the high pace and dramatic scale of the game. The sound is equally as impressive, with epic scores 
 and good voice acting, however, the scripting, although tongue-in-cheek, is disappointingly cheesy 
 at times.
  
  Gears of War 2 is more intense, more exciting and ultimately more fun. Although it shares a lot 
 in common with its predecessor, new weapons, a superior campaign and an overall refined gameplay 
 experience means fans will enjoy it even more than the first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelongdavid
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  i loved almost every new idea of this game like the meat shield and the stopping power of thebullets 
 so people can't just charge with the shotgun anymore but the fact that you can't get up by yourself 
 anymore and the fact that the A. I. sucks makes the game so stressful i mean i died 9.5/10 times 
 just because the A. I. wouldn't get me up wtff and why can't we just get up by ourselves anymore 
 huh? this part makes the campaign suck ass mostly in harder difficulties when you get downed alot. 
 if they don't fix this imma give it to someone after i finish all the achievements. trust me you 
 won't play the campaign again with the A. I. like that. though the multiplayer is great, the campaign 
 has flaws that make it way too stressful to play. Horde is great but why can't we put bots in the 
 game like in matchmaking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alldaelong
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer matchmaking is busted. Most of us bought this game to play online, personally what 
 happened to Dom's wife doesn't interest me much. 15 minutes to find a game, then being booted out 
 once the 3 to 5 rounds are over. They took a good multiplayer and broke it, first in the original 
 gears you could see the host's name, then they took that away, now we can't even choose where we 
 go, or who we're going to play with in a public match, hell you can't even choose what side you're 
 on. You get thrown to whatever connection the game feels like giving you; I don't know about you, 
 but I feel violated. Companies are really getting out of hand, because of DLC, they figure they 
 can release trash and fix it later. Bring back the old match making with the party function and 
 maybe I won't trade the game in before christmas. Epic managed to ruin the most anticipated game 
 of the year and turn it into the bust of the year, Can I have my $60 back please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romanmoniz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  OMG Just a little short could have 5 hr added to it. Love it so did my wife im 37 she is 35 omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg oomg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omgmg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omgomg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omgomg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Whats more fun than shooting behind cover, attaching grenades to enemies and running away, or just 
 simply sticking a chainsaw through their torso and twisting it around a bit? If you answerd "Nothing!", 
 you get a gold start for correctness. Gears 2 offers a great story, breathtaking scenery and cutscenes, 
 and lovely specs of flying flesh as you tear through your enemies. Gears 2 offers everything that 
 an avid shooter fan loves. 
  Before I begin, I have to admit that i wasnt a big fan of the first Gears of War game. I felt that 
 the campaign, while keeping you wanting more with the in-depth and unique story, left more to be 
 desired in the way of graphics and replayability. The scenery was repetitive and the action was 
 predictable. When playing online, you could predict where and when the battles were going to take 
 place, before the game even started. There were many physics glitches and texture faults. But, 
 looking past all the cosmetics of it, it was a solid game and kept me curious about where they 
 would take this game in the future.
  When i went to pick the game up i was about to go out of town, so i got to look at the unopened 
 package for week while getting texts and phone calls from friends telling me how "epic" it is. 
 Anxious to get this baby home and see for myself, i immediately unpacked and sat down in front 
 of my tv. The word "epic" perfectly describes this game. When you start the campaign, you are imediately 
 launched into a new world, picking up right where the last game left off. With the final cutscene 
 from the first game burned into memory, you are left wondering, "why the hell is this still going 
 on?". You are introduced to the brother of the cameo hero, Anthony Carmine, from the first game, 
 and offered a chance to train him, so you can get your feet wet before jumping into the fray. After 
 you are prepared for that you are launched into a series of cutscenes, introductions to new and 
 unique characters, you are instantly lost in time while your eyes are glued to the screen. The 
 story from the previous game is creatively and flawlessly continued, leaving you wanting more and 
 more as it progresses through the campaign. The onslaught of new weapons, enemies, and areas keep 
 you occupied and never bored throughout the entire game.
  After playing the campaign i was asking, "How could the multiplayer ever match that?". With the 
 addition of the new game mode, Horde, you are given more variety with games to play with your friends 
 online. They brought what was good in the first gears of war multiplayer and added more and improved 
 on the short comings. The new maps are more detailed and reduced repetitive encounters by encouraging 
 the use of different pathways and weapons to pick up. The horde mode allows for a nice change in 
 pace with the ability to team up with your friends to fight AI in 50 waves of increasing difficult 
 AI in a survival-style mode. The multiplayer is very intense and, i think, will put a dent in the 
 religious player base for games like CoD4 and Halo 3. 
  This game offers many new features while keeping to the roots that the first game established deep 
 into the video game world. Cliff Bleszinski has reminded us why he is a developing god and renews 
 my view of him as a great gamer and developer, with an ingenius mind. This game will go down as 
 one of my favorites for the Xbox360 to date, and remains one of my best buys for the system. This 
 game rightfully earns a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adstaryoung
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Why has Gears 2 employed an auto matchmaking similar to halo 3 which does not work? Being a player 
 in Australia, why does the stupid matchmaking put me in an American room... every time??? I don't 
 want to be there, there is to much lag, technology is not there yet! Also, why are Americans in 
 our rooms, they complain also! It just isn't a good idea. What was wrong with searching for a room 
 with 3 green bars like they had in the original Gears? I was able to find my warzone with 3 bars 
 and join that game within around 5-10 seconds. The auto matchmaking Gears 2 employs was not able 
 to place me in an elimination game in under 10 minutes. (No, I am not kidding) I searched in matchmaking 
 for 4 minutes, would not progress. I then exited matchmaking and re-entered, it went on for another 
 6 minutes. 
  
  I am so upset, I loved Gears, I enjoyed setting up a public room and seeing people join from Aus. 
 Even 1 on 1 until more people joined, then before you know it the rooms full with everyone sticking 
 around for hours. 
  
  Here it is... a time line I kept while in matchmaking.
  Matchmaking - Elimination
  5.5 minutes - found 1 player
  8 min - player left
  10 min - 1 
 player joined
  12 min - player left
  16 min - found player
  21 min - player left
  22 min - found 2 players - found team
  24 min - lost 1 player
  24 min - found player - game 
 started
  33 min - game ended. 
  I think 24 minutes trying to join a game is (can't say) 
  I asked the other players where they were from, all that replied said USA and sure enough the game 
 had terrible lag. Thats alot of farting around for 9 minutes of lag game play. My recommendation 
 is don't buy this game, it is broken. I'm sure if I could access games like in the original Gears 
 i would review this game very high, but as I spent the majority of time playing online warzone 
 I am not able to access good game play. Shame really, so much potential game play just out of my 
 reach due to the auto matchmaking that is sure to ruin the franchise. 
  
  This matchmaking in Gears 2 is going to be its downfall, why spend more time looking for a game 
 than actually playing? 
  
  Gears is my favorite game, I am its biggest supporter, but Gears 2 is going to frustrate me and 
 I know is only going to be played for its co-op campaign and thats about it. Just like my copy 
 of halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guma822
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  the game is just plain great. definitely goty worthy. the singleplayer is a great experience and 
 it is plenty long enough. there are even several instances in the story which will leave your mouth 
 open. and to top it off theres horde which is so much fun to play with 4 other people. and lastly 
 theres the traditional multiplayer, in which there are plenty of maps and modes to play. i have 
 already put much time into the multiplayer myself, however i cant seem to figure out how to actually 
 level up. ive been stuck as a recruit for the entire time i've had the game, and its not like i 
 lose that often or anything like that. only complaint is that it takes some time to get into a 
 multiplayer match, but i hear that they're working to correct this. its a great game and a must 
 buy for any 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off I have to say I'm made the scale won't let me go higher then 10. I loved this game, 
 I waited in the cold and rain to get this and still felt like I didn't do enough to earn this amazing 
 game. I played through this game like a fiend and then started over and then over again! The story 
 is amazing with a plenty of content, and really makes you care about the characters. I really cared 
 about the characters and actually got upset when one died! Locus hoard suffer!!! But the game play 
 is great with new features that were only in the multiplayer. Like when you get gunned down your 
 A. I. buddy can get you back up and let you keep rocking! The A. I. is actually pretty helpful this 
 time, doing more then just running into the line of fire. Now speaking of the A. I. the computers 
 A. I. has gotten alot better, with them using cover better and always trying to flank you. So over 
 all I would say this game is a must to own for any gar of shooter! If you liked the first one you'll 
 love the second one to death! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I waited for Gears 2 the moments the rumours started to appear. And what can i say, 
 I was not disappointed! Gears Of War 2 features lush and gory scenery, a nice new array of new 
 weapons with spectacular sound effects, interesting goals and missions, however the Hammer Of Dawn 
 only makes a brief cameo appearance!
  
  The graphics in Gears Of War 2 are just vivid! The gore looks so realistic and the enviroment creates 
 a wonderful atmosphere to play in. It's like a realistic virtual world with vibrant or gloomy graphics. 
 Epic Games, Great Work!
  
  The new weapons are just astonishing! The flamethrower makes short work of the Locust, while the 
 minigun shreds it's way through flesh, like a hot knife through butter! Another great new weapon 
 is the Locust Motor Gun! It literally obliterates whatever it comes across and rains hell from 
 above! A great improvement from Gears Of War is the sound effects. All the weapons's sound effects 
 have been re-done. Now, the Lancer sounds like an actual assault rifle while the Troika turret 
 sounds like a mean machine! Awesome!
  
  The plotline of Gears Of War 2 is quite interesting, however at least one half of the game is set 
 in the Hollows (underground) so at times, the enviroment might seem a tad boring, however during 
 the intense fights in the Hollow things just get fun and exciting. So overall it's not such a let 
 down. What I am a bit disappointed is the lack of the Hammer Of Dawn! In the entire game, it is 
 only usable during the final moments! I would have loved to use the Hammer Of Dawn during my time 
 at the outdoor enviroments. However, this doesn't ruin such a great game!
  
  Overall, Gears Of War 2 should be bought by anyone who enjoys the occasional shooter since the 
 game is just plain awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozmono
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Well my wish came true. I asked for more chances to chainsaw, and what i received was far greater 
 than i could ever imagined. GOW2 has surpassed any expectations i had, and made not just a game, 
 but a massive Hollywood blockbuster. How Gamespot came to give it a 9/10 is beyond me. Show me 
 a game that even come close to the game play and graphical achievement and ill bite my tongue. 
 The enemy's you will face are truly amazing. Telling you they are massive still wont get you to 
 understand just how massive they are. Its got to bee seen. By far out doing the original GOW, the 
 story and battles are truly amazing. The blood factor is outstanding. Especially when in a particular 
 part of the game, your standing neck deep in it. And i mean neck deep. The coolest scene would 
 have to be when our vehicle looses power. While trying to start it, it pitch darkness, you can 
 hear the growls of the next beast approaching. Pure thrill. The idea that a squad mate can revive 
 you is a wonderful adapt ion, and the pure fact your not constantly having to babysit your team 
 mates, unlike the original, it a good fix as well. Sure, ive seen some glitches, like when i was 
 disabling turrets, i turn to see Dom in the doorway doing some kind of dance, like he couldn't 
 decide whether to go in or out. The AI is great, but like most games, there come a time every now 
 and then where you have to wonder, just what the enemy is thinking. At one stage i walked straight 
 up behind one and he never even moved. It was almost like he was trying to hide like a two year 
 old would if they covered their eyes thinking, because they cant see you, you cant see them. The 
 cut scenes are massive. It really makes you feel like your part of a story. Unlike the original 
 where the scene would cut almost flawlessly from the action, GOW2 seems to lag, but only by a second 
 or so. It doesnt really effect the WOW factor, but im guessing it shows the stress this game must 
 be putting on the 360 compared to the original. Having played it through Hardcore, i cant help 
 but think how easy it has been compared to the original, but theres always Insane to go back to 
 once you have completed the first trip round. And yes, chances are you will do it all over again. 
 GOW2 gets a 10 from me. Hail goes to Epic for putting such a true master piece together. Lets hope 
 GOW3 gets even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: det442
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  It came down to finish the locust in one attack plan. The campaign was amazing. In it I cut out 
 three hearts from a worm and nearly drowned in the blood. Escaped the Locust city on a reaver, 
 apparently Cole always wanted a pony and that was good enough for him. And rode a brumak to near 
 death but an under dog victory! The multiplayer has a few flaws. When you shoot someone with a 
 shot gun trying to chainsaw you, the bullets will not stop them! Epic Games wanted to make it more 
 realistic, so when you hit walls concrete and etc falls off it but to do that they needed to slow 
 down the game play! Horde is amazing and very fun to play with multiple people! If you've never 
 played one of the two Gears of War games it's like paintball. The best way to get the full multiplayer 
 experience is to have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyman89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I gave it 7.5 and I am blatantly stating that I only rented this game because this game is definitely 
 not worth 50 to 60 dollars. Maybe 30 dollars but now more than that only to be fair to the game 
 studios. I think they could have easily made this game into a patch and expansion for 20-30 dollars. 
 It does nothing to make innovative ways to improve upon the first one. The studio was not daring 
 at making features. They fixed limited and minor things wrong from the first game. Even the campaign 
 was kind of pathetic to play. The only thing carried over was the characters and the goal that 
 the humans must beat the horde. Anyways game was a lackluster of entertainment and should be less 
 advertised next time they make a game. Then they can lower the price of the game for people less 
 likely to spend the money on such a downfall of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artaxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Although Gears of War 2 does not take a gigantic leap forward from the previous title it does take 
 what was good about the game and makes it even better. As you progress through the game you will 
 notice subtle tweaks and refinements that make this title one of the best games this year.
  Single player is now even more action packed with carnage happening all around you. The new Unreal 
 2 engine makes it possible to display a lot more enemies on screen than before and small details 
 like water, plant life, and just the overall lighting makes the game shine like a diamond. On top 
 of all that the game is about twice as long as Gears of War 1 and the story is well... actually 
 there. You feel for the Cog army as the epic saga unfolds.
  Multiplayer. First of all I have to say that it is different. The basics are there but the weapons 
 and game play have been tweaked. At first you will be cursing the television about how your shotgun 
 is crap or about how much you hate frag mines but after putting in a lot of hours of ranked game 
 time I have come to feel that it is actually a lot more fair and fun. Host advantage is irrelevant 
 now, I can never tell who is host, and matchmaking (although slow right now) is much improved letting 
 you and your buddies all join together and play on the same team without having to wait forever 
 for someone to join just to quit on you when the chips are down.
  The stellar single player and multiplayer combined with the fact that Epic has added new matchmaking, 
 3 new game modes, and unlock able goodies to keep you coming back for more earns the game a 9.5 
 in my book. If you liked Gears 1 you will love Gears 2. If you were not much of a fan than this 
 game is at least worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Epic's games since the original Unreal on PC (also the fact that I worked 
 in NC right up the road from their office and new some of the guys helped as well) . As time moved 
 on, and I started using my PC less and less to play games Epic fell off my radar (and to this day 
 I still don't like playing UT on a console) . However that changed drastically with the original 
 Gears of War. 
  
  I was extremely impressed with GOW's presentation, gameplay, music score, level design, and online 
 play. I really dug the duck-and-cover system and thought it was done to near perfection. Now I'm 
 talking a lot about the good of Gears of War 1, because they are the same strengths of Gears of 
 War 2. 
  
  The game moves the player through outside and inside levels that could normally be seen as tedious 
 and repeating, however the focus on level design and Epic's goal to deliver a cinematic experience 
 really payed off. Again I want to mention the music score as being superb (seemed like a cross 
 between Aliens and Lynch's Dune) .
  
  There are definetly portions of the story that I thought were ridiculous (hey, i didnt know that 
 worms can actually have up to 5 hearts!) at the end of the day the narrative wasn't too terribly 
 bad. However GOW 2 pulls a Halo 2 ending and doesnt give you any answers, it simply creates more 
 questions. Also, I have read some complaints about the Maria storyline and while it seemed out 
 of place in the beginning, the outcome delivers a much needed emotional jolt to the player.
  
  The Good - Graphics, Music, Levels, Online play, all fantastic
  
  The Bad - Boss battles 
 are weak... especially the ending to Chapter 4 and 5. Clearly I am not a fan of ending a chapter 
 on a vehicle when you are playing a shooting game.
  
  The Ugly - Story goes by quickly (thank goodness for online play) , the Halo 2 ending.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobNY12380
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is friggin great! Everything about it is fantastic. The campaign, the multiplayer, 
 and the Horde feature. I never played Gears of War 1 and now I wish I did because I missed out 
 already but at least I wisened up and purchased Gears of War 2. The weapons all create mass havoc 
 and are fun to kill the locusts with. I didnt think there would be a game better than Halo 3 but 
 I was wrong. This game is hands down better. This is the first game that I played until the sun 
 came up in the morning (had to survive all 50 Horde waves, lol) The achievements are all fun to 
 complete. The graphics are on point, the sound is fantastic, the story line is exciting, I can 
 go on and on. I recommend this game for any first person or third person shooter fan. Gears of 
 War 2 is hands down the game of the year and a must have. A++++++++++++ and two thumbs up! Every 
 X-Box 360 owner should do themselves a favor and save up $59.99 (plus tax) and go out and buy this 
 game ASAP. Not buying this game as an X-Box 360 owner is a travesty and downright dumb, lol. This 
 game deserves an Academy Award for "Greatest Game Ever." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan7735
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  GOW2 is the best game that I have played since Halo 3 came out last year. This game has great graphics, 
 sound, gameplay and environments. GOW2 is deifinetly longer than the first game. This game was 
 a lot more epic than the first one. My favorite level was the level where you had to go inside 
 a research facility to find information on the location of the locus stronghold. I like the creatures 
 that burst out the glass tubes, i think they were called "sirens", anyway they were uber awesome. 
 I like the new weapons that are in the game. My favorite one is the flamethrower but it is only 
 affective in close range. I also like how you can pick up shields from the maulers and use them 
 for cover against enemy fire. This game also had a lot surprises such as the locus queen, doms 
 wife, and the internal conflicts between the locus themselves. GOW2 is also more bloodier than 
 the first one. Hey the more blood the better i say! I like the details in the environments and 
 the characters. The snow levels look very nice. I also notice the blood effects on Marcus, Dom, 
 Baird, and Cole when they killed the riftworm, that was impressive. Overall, this game is a must 
 buy. Cliff and the rest of guys at Epic did a great job on this game, instant 10 out 10 for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vardanchik
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  i love this game, cool! coolcoolcoolc
  What Character in GoW2 are you most like?
  i guess the only thing epic did not improve is the hit detection
  I really like EPIC and all 
 but they really didnt think to hard about mutiplayer. Friends with Benefits didnt pop up
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
 
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
 
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers**
 
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*
  question about ending*spoilers*qqwdsvfcvcbgf fffffffff jjjjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjj j j j j j j j j j jj j j j j jj j jj j j j j jj j j j j j 
 j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niall556
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Very good game, multiplayer not as good as the first gears of war but the single player is amazing. 
 The graphics are amazing. One of my favorite game releases this year. The new characters aren't 
 as good as Marcus, Cole and the rest of the old one. The worst thing about the multiplayer is the 
 party thing it take too long to find a team. Some of the new weapons ruin the game a little bit, 
 sometimes you get killed to easily and the games don't last as long and is not as exciting as the 
 first gears of war. The new vehicles in the campaign make the game a little bit better. The lancer 
 is way better and more powerful, the chainsaw duals are one of the best things in the game and 
 the sound of all the weapons are perfect. For the first gears I would have given a 10 but Gears 
 2 is just not as good so i'l give it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keoki6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  So this game is amazing but it was mega short. Contradictory to what other players say I thought 
 this game was easier than the first one. But who cares I thought it was  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: are-eye-see
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Alright.. im pretty much like everyone else who had their position with the game as "*cough*... are 
 you serious? this is kiiind of a let down" then played it non-stop and i absolutely adore the game!! 
 the controlls are a little more smooth and easier to controll and being able to change the sensitivity 
 of movement speed, targeting speed, and zooming speed makes an enormous difference while playing. 
 especially in multiplayer. speaking of which.. the multiplayer in Gears 2 is a big step up from 
 the first but is abit slow at the moment because of the lack of people that play online who just 
 want to beat the game and finish horde. but when you get into a match its all fun from there. the 
 only thing that bothers me is the shot gun that has been weakened quite abit and the lancer is 
 much easier to you and you'll find yourself getting chainsawed ALOT. other than that the mechanics 
 and feels of the multiplayer are quite pleasing. as far as the story goes... i think this game raised 
 the bar to being able to connect to the players emotions due to certain events in the game (which 
 i will not spoil for those who havent completely finished the game) . all i have to say is i was 
 hooked on the story and felt the exact emotions the characters were going through at different 
 points in the plot. simply "TOO good!" as a friend of mine always says. graphics are another thing. 
 the visuals in this game are absolutely stunning due to the higher poly-count in the character 
 modelling. you can clearly read their lips and laugh at how good the lip syncing is. computer ai 
 is another thing. especially in multiplayer when you play with bots. they actually stick with the 
 closest player and help them out with a flank and revive you when need be. i was a huge fan of 
 the first Gears of War and this game simply blew me away. for those of you who might not even like 
 shooters but love a great story, i highly reccommend you buy this game and give it a shot. it's 
 well worth the money and the extras that come with the limited edition are some solid goodies to. 
 so keep an eye out for a copy and grab one if you can. hope you enjoyed my bit about Gears 2. let 
 me know if you feel the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lerfish
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Originally before i got my Xbox, i was torn between getting a 360 or a PS3, i had an original Xbox 
 which you would think would draw me towards buying a 360 but i still just COULD NOT make my mind 
 up. Until, i played gears of war 1 on my friends Xbox 360. After playing it online, my heart was 
 set on getting a 360 just for that game and NOTHING was changing my mind. Now that gears 2 is out 
 and I've played it, I've fallen back in love with my Xbox. I also went back after playing the second 
 gears to play the legendary Gears of War (1) and it just seemed... boring, i mean, this is the 
 game i loved with a passion, the reason that i bought my Xbox, i thought i would NEVER stop enjoying 
 it, but somehow the greatness of Gears of War 2 did that. And only a newer, better Gears of War 
 could have done that. I'm not going to get into the details of the game because i can't think of 
 words to describe it, but i hope what I've said gives you a sense of how sensational this truly 
 amazing game is...
  
  100000000000000000 out of 10, nothing could ever beat it... unless they make a Gears of War 3 :P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZ-Shadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, the developers overdid it on the difficulty when it comes to Insane and the upper 
 levels of Hoarde on Casual, but if you have A LOT of patience then you can do it by yourself. My 
 recommendation is that you have a friend who's good to help you. It took me a little over a week 
 to beat it on Insane by myself so be prepared to die over and over and over and over and over again. 
 The way the story continues to unfold in this sequel is very interesting and leads me to believe 
 that we can look forward to a Gears 3 perhaps, most likely not though. I love the upgraded multi-player 
 system, you can practice against the CPU in the versus maps before you play online. I found this 
 to be a very good way to learn the levels and strategies to use with my human teammates online. 
 The new execution system kicks major ass! See if you can discover all eleven on your own... I won't 
 spoil it for you.... just experiment. So play, practice, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that the whole reason that I bought an X Box 360 when it came out was for Gears 
 of War. Gears of War successfully dethroned my prior favorite game franchise, The Legend of Zelda, 
 from it's lofty throne high above the rest of the gaming world. While the games are nothing alike, 
 Zelda is now a distant second on my list of all time favorite gaming franchises. So naturally I 
 was very excited (as well as most of the rest of the gaming community) for Gears of War 2. While 
 the core of the game is still in tact, Gears of War 2 boasts more, more, and more. It's a great 
 and loyal follow up to the break out first game. 
  
  First off the game looks fantastic, but that's what we all expected right? The first Gears of War, 
 now two years old, still is one of the best looking games on the 360. Gears of War 2 is no slacker, 
 adding even more detail, animations, colors, and depth to the already beautiful Gears of War mythos. 
 So A+ there for Epic, keep up the great work. 
  
  The 3rd person run, cover and gun style of game play is still pretty much the same with a few added 
 bonuses. First off there are more finishing moves in this game then just the curb stomp. Secondly 
 you can use enemies as "meat shields" while they are down to add even more salt to the wounds. 
 There are more weapons to choose from, so there are new "rules" to live by in the game. The weapons 
 are far more balanced in this game, but all of the tried and true prior weapons are there. So all 
 I can say is flame thrower, 'nuff said. 
  
  The single player, co-op mode is much longer and larger. It takes you through vast cities, under 
 ground tunnels, snowy waste lands, a worm's stomach, watery depths, and Locus Hives. There is more 
 story too, for the most part about Dom. In the first game Dom was to Markus as Robin is to Batman. 
 But this story shows a new, bolder, meaner version of Dom. I'm not going to give away that plot 
 line. You are also introduced to several new members of the Gears, Dizzy and Tai are two of my 
 favorites. It's nice to see that they tamed the difficulty level a bit. There are some great and 
 huge boss battles that are almost Zelda/Resident Evil esque. They have added a "normal" setting 
 which is equal to the "casual" setting on the first game. Then "casual" is a much easier mode. 
 It's good for people looking to open achievements and new bes. 
  
  The multi player has several new maps, and some of the oldies return. More people are allowed to 
 play at once which is nice. Also new character (for the most part old faces from the first game) 
 make their appearance in this mode. A new mode called "horde" has been added. This takes players 
 vs. bots in wave after wave of Locus. As long as there is one of you left, everyone respawns and 
 another wave of Locus comes in. The "horde" mode is now my new addiction. 
  
  The music still stands as some of the best in gaming history. All of the actors from the first 
 return in some excellent voice acting and intense cut scenes.
  
  There are some minor control issues that I am being nit picky about. Mostly "sticking" to walls 
 that either you really shouldn't be able to stick to or should be able to stick to. There is one 
 "driving" level which is ok, but I feel that it takes away from the action. It just feels tacked 
 on much like the driving level in the first game. But at least it breaks up the action a little 
 bit. Otherwise there are some really cool levels and ideas that have been implimented in other 
 games that work well here, and new ideas that will be in games to come. 
  
  All in all Gears of War 2 is an excellent gaming expierence solo, locally, or on line across the 
 country. Aside from some minor details, and compared to some of the other 3rd person shoots today, 
 Gears of War 2 is at the top of it's pack. All I can say is I can't wait until Gears of War 3 comes 
 out. 
  
  P. S. I've noticed some people trying to compare Gears to Halo, while they are both shooters and 
 both huge X Box properties, they aren't the same. 1st person shooters give a completely gaming 
 expierence then 3rd person shooters. It's like comparing apples and orangers. So it would be more 
 prudent to compare it to Resistance 2 on the PS3 or Darksector. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  If you have played Gears of War, then you're probably like "I gotta get 2 right now!!!" Well, Gears 
 of War 2 keeps the same formula without changing it much. This isn't a bad thing at all, in fact, 
 its a very, very GOOD thing. The game is simply fantastic. Old weapons have been tampered with 
 to make them more fair, instead of having one weapon all the time. The new weapons, like the flamethrower, 
 mulcher, and mortar are a lot of fun too, because they use new tactics, and have pros and cons. 
 The graphics haven't really been updated that much, with the COGs looking slightly better, but 
 its more the animations, weapons, and backgrounds that are really improved. You can now destroy 
 many things in the environment, which is cool, and you can have chainsaw duels. The new mutiplayer 
 maps and modes are fun, but the single player is what you buy it for. That, and the co-op. If you 
 were a fan of the original, then get this, because its a great sequel and it has IMPROVED MEAT 
 PHYSICS, MORE WEAPONS, BETTER STORY, A FILTER TO REMOVE THE HARSH LANGUAGE AND BLOOD, AND IT HAS 
 A BETTER COVER SYSTEM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano-The-Dino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Yes, Gears of War 2 is definitely one of the 360s best games to date, and a prime candidate for 
 Game of the Year. But hang on. Despite my score of a 9.5 out of 10, near perfect, I had a few problems 
 with the game which should rate it down, but won't. So first, lemme get the praise out of the way.
 
  
  The campaign is a fantastic 8-10 hour epic journey through sunken cities, the Locust homeworld 
 and even in some unexpected places. It's definitely a fun game to play in co-op with a mate, and 
 still pretty fun with strangers. Some additions are nice in the sense that they fix old problems 
 that shouldn't have existed, for example, chainsaw duels, and weapon stopping power. Online multi-player 
 is fun, especially the new Horde mode which is, to quote a friend, "like Space Invaders on steroids". 
 Hilarious fun with mates, even when you **** up catastrophically. Photos are a nice new addition 
 too, meaning you can never ever capture your own moments of epic ownage, or whatever you like to 
 call them. Thanks Dayte for NOT snapping my beautiful execution of a blindfired Boomshot into a 
 Kantus' face. Heavy weapons are wonderful, especially (for me anyway) the Mortar, which makes even 
 the largest of Locust squads fall down like dominoes. Now, lets talk ****
  
  First of all, no game ever created by Epic Games, as far as I can remember, has been renown for 
 its incredible story, or telling of said story. So suddenly, they decide that Gears of War 2 should 
 feature a more heartstring pulling story. The problem with this is that it's hard to gain an emotional 
 attachment to a character who runs around with a Lancer in one hand and his cock in the other. 
 So when the wife of said character unexpectedly dies, you really can try to give a **** but if 
 you do, maybe this game isn't for you.
  
  Also, while the addition of some of the new weapons, namely the Heavy ones, does make for interesting 
 gameplay, some of them are pathetically applied, and pretty much ****ing useless. The Gorgon Pistol 
 for example, a burst pistol given to the Kantus enemy. ****ing useless, in any situation, no arguments. 
 It has a tiny tiny clip, good for four bursts, which do nothing more to most Locust enemies than 
 chip their already mangled teeth.
  
  Speaking of Locust, Tickers? Tickers are just Wretches, but somehow less effective, and less likely 
 to kill you. There was no need to Epic to add this ****ing worthless creature into the Locust line-up. 
 One smash with my Gnasher and I can pretty much forget about the ****ers, even if there're 30 odd 
 of them crawling around.
  
  Multi-player hasn't improved much along the lines of player communication. Horde mode is fine, 
 similar to Team Fortress 2 in terms of player co-operation. Anything else, however is not. I recall 
 playing a round of Horde with some very good friends of mine. We then decided to round of the night 
 with a quick game of Submission/Meatflag. Shortly afterwards, arguments galore! over a particular 
 players abusive nature in the use of his Lancer chainsaw. You can't make everyone ****ing happy 
 when in competition on this ****ing game so if you can help it, stay off of the online modes, except 
 for Horde. If you're a raving achievement whore then whatever, have fun enduring around 30 hours 
 of arguments for the sake of worthless points.
  
  Back to the story for a moment, what the **** It's not necessarily bad in any sense, but it really 
 is a headtilting game, so much so that I was completing the final chapter from a 90 degree perspective. 
 Some of the acts that the Delta Squad try are ****ing MENTAL. Hijacking Reavers and Brumaks? Cutting 
 up a giant, city-sinking worm from the inside? Sinking the last refuge of the humans?
  
  To some this may seem like just a rant, but make no mistake, I ****ing LOVE this game to bits. 
 There's just so many little things that piss me off everytime I go back to it.
  
  To summarise, Gears of War 2 is a fantastic piece of work from Epic Games that shouldn't go missed 
 by any 360 owner. But in the same respect, do be prepared to hate it just as much, for minor reasons 
 that niggle at the back of your head.
  
  And Cole needs to shut the **** up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  So chances are, even if you are one of the few people NOT to own this game, you've played it. Heres 
 what was promised Bigger, Better, And more Bad Arse. Since Epic and MS decided to remain pretty 
 tight lipped on this one, were gonna have to go off of these three things. 
  
  Bigger was mention first and foremost so were gonna put this ahead. This game takes the original 
 Gears Of War and smashes it with a hammer in terms of scale. So the first Gears you see like maybe 
 10, 15 people in each firefight. In GeOW 2 you will see hundreds of drones on screen in a few areas, 
 alongside MULTIPLE Brumaks, Corpsers, and other large baddies. The amazing things they have put 
 into this game shock and awe. You simply feel like a larger war is happening on all fronts besides 
 your little rag tag squad from the first game. 
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Better is something that is pretty hard to believe seeing as the first game has such a cult following. 
 But again, they pulled it off at Epic. Theirs really no way to describe the game other than better 
 than the original. As bad as that sounds, it truly is a better, more refined game. Also a key thing 
 that needs to be noted, is that despite the major Hype with this game, I wasn't disappointed PERIOD!! 
 Normally when you get super hyped for a game, you end up psyching yourself out and thinking that 
 it didnt do well enough to your standards. Gears fought and won against Hype though. The movements 
 are smoother, the games is more fun, the story is grander, and any way you look at it. Gears to 
 is better. The new weapons, characters, creatures, modes etc. etc. Everything about this game screams 
 Gears 2.0 no 1.5 crap period. The thing is that Epic had set the plot, mechanics, and basics. So 
 now they were able to really finetune the small problems with the first game. Like in the underground 
 potions in the first game, if you throw a frag in the immlusion instead of sinking like it would 
 in a liquid, It bounces like its a hard surface. All they did before to get out of some work was 
 texturized a smooth surface and made it play an animation. No more of that, liquids move extremely 
 realistically. Whether you are walking through it or shooting it. The graphics are upped a decent 
 enough amount that you can notice without having to load up one then the other. Great improvements 
 have made this already good game better.
  Delivered- YES!!
  
  More Bad Arse... What is the definition of this really? Well I suppose I can tell you. When you 
 blow a guy to bits after frag tagging a wall, and then to top it off his friend comes around the 
 corner and you down him, then you walk over, and tear his head off with a Torque Bow. That makes 
 you feel like a million bucks, like you are unstoppable. The executions make a new touch of raw 
 visceral brutality that the first game simply didn't have as much of. The chainsaw duels, man when 
 you win one you feel again, like you cant be stopped. Like a god almost. 
  Delivered- Yes (on any definition)
  
  Now I know this wasn't listed as one of my review pieces 
 but I have to explain that this game will own your online life! You will not want to put horde 
 down ever. Holing up in an area with some friends, and stopping a seemingly never ending group 
 of Locust is the most fun ever. This really just is so much fun because its kill after kill, you 
 can compete with your friends to see who gets the highest score. The feel of Arcade game is here 
 and thats what makes Horde so addicting. Its rewarding, Funny, and its great to do a 5 player co-op 
 bit.
  Delivered- YES
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The best graphics and audio in any game out so far, a better deeper story, new enemies 
 and weapons are amazing, new Horde, Wingman, and Meatflag modes are super addictive, it's not Halo
 
  
  The Bad: Seen this all before, campaign is still too short
  
  I have been hyped about GoW2 ever since I finished the first game and with info slowly leaking 
 out of Epic's mouth and I just couldn't help myself from getting all giddy and mushy inside. Ok 
 enough, seriously, Gears 2 is just amazing on so many levels with tons of new multiplayer modes, 
 weapons, enemies, environments etc. The game is just a whole new beast and old Gears fans will 
 NOT be disappointed. First let's start off with the campaign, so you remember Gears one being huge 
 and sprawling with wide vistas and beautiful architecture? Ok well that was nothing compared to 
 Gears 2. You really do have WIDE OPEN vistas that stretch as far as the eye can see and they are 
 absolutely breathtaking especially on a HDTV. The graphics are still what we've grown to love, 
 but with better lighting, higher resolutions, more objects on screen and everything is just crunchier, 
 and more big, beautiful, and hectic and ever before.
  
  Speaking of crunching the game's audio has been notched up and everything sounds more gruesome 
 and brutal than ever before. Headshots pop and sound and feel more satisfying than before, curb 
 stomping an enemy looks more painful (and sounds it!) , sawing Locust in half with the Lancer feels 
 more powerful and just looks, feels, and sounds nastier. The whole game is like this and it feels 
 like a true sequel instead of just Gear of War 1.5. All of your core elements are here like the 
 great cover system, the Roadie Run (TM!!) , the voice actors, characters, Locust, and story are 
 all set in place but you are a bigger part of the whole thing and you feel more like a participant 
 that a spectator. The story is more involved in which the Light Mass bombing failed and the Locust 
 are coming back with their full force and Delta Squad is sent in to rip out the heart... three of 
 them! Anyways, Dom is trying to find his wife along the way, and a few new characters are introduced, 
 but aren't fully developed since they well... don't make many appearances like Dizzy, Tai, Chairman 
 Prescott, and a certain dad who will go unnamed... the story goes even further with 41 collectibles 
 you can find that you can read and help evolve the back story some more. Gone are the COG tags 
 people now you gotta find papers and more of them too.
  
  Getting back to the campaign's weapons there are about double the amount with a whole new weapon 
 class: Heavy Weapons. You still have the Lancer, Boltok pistol, Shotgun, Longshot, Boomshot, Snub 
 you know all those... but now you have better more crunchier and kick BUUUTT weapons like the Hammerburst 
 (gone is that dinky little Locust assault rifle) , Gorgon Pistol (a semi-auto three round burst 
 Locust pistol) , the Mulcher (a heavy weapons KICK @$$ mini-gun that you CRANK!) , a Mortar (yes 
 like a WWII mortar only better without all those Krauts) , the Scorcher (a flamethrower that you 
 can blindfire!) , Ink Grenades (go figure) , and a whole bunch others. These weapons feel powerful, 
 sound powerful, and they are all useful and so useful in fact it'll be hard to choose which gun 
 you want to use half the time! Now this time around you also get to use more "vehicles" like the 
 Centaur which is a monster truck tank... a Reaver, a Brumak, you know just cool "vehicles" like 
 that. Yes they all feel powerful and are just amazing to "drive".
  
  The campaign all together is just more riveting and more cinematic thanks to the HUGE open vistas, 
 massive hordes of enemies, and the campaign is just perfectly built. The only problem is that it's 
 about the same length as the original and there's room for a sequel. I just really can't express 
 how great it is to feel up front in Gears and really driving things home with all of the awesome 
 weapons, graphics, and audio. Of course I have to mention the new awesome Locust like the Tickers 
 (little ticking and crawling "bombs") , the Kantus (these guys summon Tickers, and can resurrect 
 downed Locust) , Brumaks (only seen in GoW1 for the PC, and at the end of the fight at Fenix's mansion) , 
 cooler looking Reavers, a whole "Boomer Class" like Butcher Boomers, Maulers (which have spiked 
 shields you can carry!) , Grinders (which carry Mulchers and yell "GRIND!") , Flamer Boomers etc. 
 The whole old crew of enemies is here with great new ones and they are all fun to kill and the 
 game is perfectly balanced.
  
  Speaking of balanced let's move on to multiplayer. Ahhh yes good 'ol Gears multiplayer is back 
 with a ton of new modes along with the old ones. First off you all remember Annex, Execution, Warzone 
 etc. Now here are the REAL fun modes that makes me really get into Gears multiplayer. Horde. Just 
 one word: Horde. You and four people pitted against 50 waves of increasingly more difficult enemy 
 AI. Yes this is addictive, super fun, and you need a couple of hours on your hands if you and your 
 team mates are really good. Getting through all 50 waves can take a good couple of hours, but boy 
 isn't it fun. Just imagine one guy sawing a Drone in half while the guy next to him is popping 
 off headshots at Wretches and Boomers. You are at the enemy spawn point sticking grenades on walls 
 and that last quiet guy is just hiding in the middle somewhere scorching Locust. Ahhh, is joyous 
 and wonderful at best and you are sure to come back until you clear all 50 waves (I could only 
 get to 36) .
  
  Now there is Wingman which is 5 teams of 2 against each other and you can only kill with executions 
 (more on those later) , or one shot kills like a grenade or something. This is extremely adrenaline 
 inducing since all you can rely on is your buddy and if he dies it's just you. Meatflag is very 
 interesting since it utilizes GoW2's new "meat shield" system where you can press A near a downed 
 enemy (even in single player!) and use them as a "human shield" as most of you would know. Other 
 executions include the classic curb stomp, but if you press Y you can do "long executions" with 
 other weapons like a golf club swing with the Longshot, or just use your fists and beat the guy 
 up, but back to the multiplayer mode. In Meatflag it's like capture the flag, but you have to bring 
 the Locust back to your base so he's a moving, shooting, ugly flag. This is super fun and an original 
 twist on Capture the Flag. There are a few other modes, but these three are the 3 "blue light" 
 modes that really stand out and are super addictive. If you haven't noticed the player count has 
 gone up by 2 so now there are 10 people playing instead of 8. This makes things more hectic and 
 fun as you can tell. Thankfully the online mode plays perfectly with no server issues and there 
 are a ton of new maps to play that are very well laid out and you'll grow to love.
  
  Before I close this out I have to mention the new achievement system. For once a game updates you 
 on your achievements in game while you're playing without you having to pause and go into the guide. 
 Let's say you're aiming for the new Seriously 2.0 achievement *cough* it's oh nothing only 100,000 
 kills *cough* so you every 100 kills you get a widget will pop out at the side and update you on 
 this. Try the new Said the Spider to the Fly (kill 10 enemies will grenade wall tags) and every 
 5 kills you'll get updated. This is very very helpful and is just a reminder why you should keep 
 playing this wonderful game. I love this new achievement system and more developers (multi-platform 
 or otherwise!) need to take note of this. This takes full advantage of the system so please learn! 
 Now this game isn't perfect.
  
  There are a few flaws such as we've seen the core of all of this before (GoW1 I gave a perfect 
 10) , there are still a few bugs yet they were tweaked like the cover system. Turn the left stick 
 a certain way and a little sketch will show up on screen telling you what Marcus will do. While 
 this is fine and all it's just not perfect. There are times when you'll want Marcus to roll a certain 
 way, but he'll snap against a wall. Yes, they let you change the buttons for this, but it's still 
 annoying. Multiplayer can be a biatch for people who aren't very good at this. Gears veterans will 
 smear you on the floor within seconds and will make a lot of new comers hate multiplayer. There 
 are mainly glitches that are only noticeable on Insane difficulty like collision issues that let 
 enemies shoot through walls that will kill you in one hit etc. These are super minor, but we STILL 
 have seen all of this before two years ago and I just can't wait for Gears of War 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  It finally came! the long awaited and EPIC, Gears of War 2! Everything's Bigger Better and MORE 
 BADASS. Campaign: The campaign seriously blew my mind, the story gameplay, and BOSS BATTLES are 
 truly AMAZING. Graphics are the best so far and u finally see the princess but i won't spoil the 
 game for anyone.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is pretty much the same but some weapons have a different feeling to them for 
 example the sniper, 2 to 3 special shots actually brings down the enemy but then he's all urs however 
 u want to execute the enemy is totally up to u. Punch him to death (one of my favorites) , STEP 
 ON HIS FACE which is much more BRutal than GoW 1's Step. Holding him hostage which is pretty useful 
 when u have several enemies vs. u. and Kill him which the weapon in hand. Some new weapons such 
 as the Lancer became really good and powerful, stopping Power helps it stand up to other weapons. 
 Other weapons like Boomshield and Scorcher are a great addiction to the weapons library.
  
  Sound Effects: They are just amazing, the lancer's sound effects are pretty cool and every weapon 
 has their perfect sound.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10!!!!! WE ALL GOT WHAT WE WANTED although the matchmaking is like Halo 3's Matchmaking 
 in which they find u the teammates and the opposing team which wastes time. I don't really know 
 why they just made it like GoW 1 in which u just get in a match and play but still GoW 2 is one 
 of the best games and 9/10 is PURE Bull**** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is here and it's bigger, better, and more badass just like cliff blezinski said. 
 I think it is better than the first one. The campaign is a lot longer than the length of the campaign 
 in the first one. There are new enemies and they are much stronger. You can finally kill Brumaks 
 and unlike the first one where you start killing reavers at the very end. Well in this one, you 
 start killing them from the very first act. The story of Gears of War 2 is much more emotional 
 as well. There are a few twists in the campaign and you actually feel bad for those twists that 
 i'm not going to spoil. There are new weapons as well such as the flamethrower of course and some 
 new machine gun and more. I think Gears of War 2 might win Game of the Year of 2008 but i'll have 
 to wait and see and meanwhile i got to check out Call of Duty: World at War to see if it's any 
 better cuz we all know how good Call of Duty 4 was. Anyways, you will find out more about Dom's 
 wife, Maria, in this game and i'm not going to tell you anymore about that subject. You will find 
 out more about the Locust Queen. There is a new main boss in this game just like General Raam was 
 the main boss in the first one. This guy's name is Skorge and he is one tough-looking locust. You'll 
 have to fight him later in the game so be ready for that. The last boss of the game was actually 
 much easier than General Raam and i wasn't expecting that and no, the last boss is not Skorge. 
 This game is also more darker and grittier than the first one. I was just impressed with the campaign/story. 
 The game ended with a cliffhanger and i just know from the looks of the end of this one that there 
 is going to be a Gears of War 3 and i just can't wait when they announce and release it. Gears 
 of War is getting really good and it's got a good competition with the Halo franchise. Anyways, 
 you just got to get this game. There is no excuse. Such a long wait and it's finally come and you 
 can't let it go to waste. I promise you that it won't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is the best game I have ever played for the xbox 360, it is incredible the graphics 
 the story and the big guns.
  
  The story is amazing, it keep you playing the game.
  You have to fight the locust defeat the queen and try to find dom's wife. From the beginning it 
 sucks you in to the world of gears of war 2.
  You feel and understand the characters and the game have that black humor that make it funny and 
 entertain specially when Cole get the microphone and start talking to the locust about how delta 
 will kick there buts.
  
  Graphics deserve a ten they are the better graphics since gta 4.
  Gears of war 2 concentrate 
 to give a better look to the caverns and buildings of the locust.
  
  I don't know why game spot gave a ten to metal gear solid 4 and I don't know why gears doesn't 
 have a ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrighty2525
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  i think its a really good game , only have a problem with the multiplayer, it takes too long to 
 get a game set up ive been sitting there waiting 10 mins just to find a team. and when i finally 
 get into a game sometimes its over in 5mins and then your back to finding another team all over 
 again, but if they sort out the multiplayer and make it more like gears of war 1 with a list of 
 games to choose from instead of waiting on 4 other players to join your party then finding another 
 5 players to verse at your parties skill level, the game would be spot on for me. overall the game 
 is very good and met all my expectations it has a great story line and its fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this is a great third person shooter that take you straigt to the battlefield of the 22nd centuary 
 you play markus delta squad captan and all round bad ass along with dom, cole nd baird you will 
 be fighting the locust and kicking ass. during game play you destroy giant rock worm thats been 
 causing cavins and sink holes that is a part of the locust grand plan to sink the last strong hold 
 for the human race (some city i forget the name of) by filling it with water and sinking it you 
 endup doing it tho kill the locust queen and end the war forever
  
  the multiplayer is graet yet some say its not as good as GoW 1 multiplayer there are many new online 
 multiplayer game types one of wich is horde that is very similar to the before the dawn mod or 
 cod4 wher you and your team hold a point on the map and kill all the locust in that wave when the 
 wave is over you have about 20 seconds 20 resuply and get back to the strong hold with each wave 
 getting more difficult and having more locust.
  
  this is a great game and **** on the original GoW i thouroly enjoyed it and thats somthing considering 
 i hate GoW 1 scotty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  Story:
  as with gears 1, the story is very good and thrilling and the twists and turns like the killing 
 off of plot characters (not saying which though) keeps you on edge right to the very end.
  
  Gameplay:
  not much to say here other than its gears 1 with a good deal of improvements. 
 but you have to change your tactics this time around. due to the shotgun being nerfed to about 
 the same usefulness of a fuzzy dice (less, even) and the inclusion of stopping power means that 
 running anywhere is suicide if enemies are about. sniper is your friend for campaign along with 
 the mulcher and mortar and the new larger amount of enemies means alot more one-hit kills is needed 
 before the chainsaw frenzy begins.
  
  Graphics:
  substantially better than gears 1. if i was to be bold enough to say that its probably the best 
 graphics and blood effects ive seen in a while (better than far cry's)
  
  Online:
  ah, this is where we hit the snag.
  its almost impossible to find any public games using the 
 matchmaking system (which is poor) so you'll be stuck with the bots or private matches with friends 
 which isnt so bad but it is advisable not to get into any shotgun battles with the bots since they 
 can kill you from a fair distance away with it but you cant kill them point blank.
  ***********update***********
  the online matchmaking has been fixed with recent patches and the 
 shotgun has been brought up so it can now one shot people at point blank rather than shooting the 
 floor 90% of the time.
  i would still say that the versus part of online has alot of improvements to be made (laggy games 
 are too common for my liking) and the melee needs a thourgh going over due to it being hit and 
 miss at best.
  the new XP system is useless. other than giving us more achievements to feed the achievement junkie 
 within us all, it does nothing. it has no effect on matchmaking as the devs have told us as i frequently 
 get pitted against a superior team (if the levels are to be believed)
  probably the most fun to be had with the online is horde. this is where the game shines through 
 and blasting through waves of enemies with 5 of your mates is hilariously fun at points.
  
  overall:
  a recommended buy and a definite rent if your not sure. just dont expect to get into 
 an online match as soon as you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfLink5777777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Two years of waiting and the game delivers on many levels that the first Gears didn't. First, the 
 simplistic story of Gears 1 has been done away with. There are some brief moments that return to 
 the Gears 1 story's formula at times, but these are brief and rare. Instead, Epic has decided to 
 create a game that allows more depth and insight to the characters than the first game did. There 
 are several moments that are both more emotional and, well, epic at different times throughout 
 the game in ways that Gears 1 didn't have. There are tons of large scale situations that make full 
 use of the next-gen capabilities, and they show as a vast improvement.
  
  The only problems with the campaign are the redundant boss battles and some moments that don't 
 quite deliver what is expected, in a bad way (won't go into details due to spoilers) . These spots, 
 though, are short and often followed up with even more of the action that fans will appreciate.
 
  
  Perhaps the biggest improvement though, is the the multiplayer. The entire aspect is more friendly 
 to newcomers, but not disrespecting of veterans of the game. The game will now place you into matches 
 based on your teams skill, and even comes sporting with a matchmaking menu similar to Halo 3's. 
 This, however, unlike Halo 3, is long and can cause some annoyance. This complaint is very little 
 compared to the new feel of the multiplayer.
  
  New weapons, executions and maps litter the battlefield and give a welcome experience to all. The 
 old game types are there (some renamed) , as well as many new ones, such as Wingman, where a team 
 of two fights against four others. The best mode, as expected, is Horde. This mode creates 50 waves 
 of Locust for you and up to four friends to fight against. Every 10 waves, the Horde gets more 
 powerful. Even once you beat it, it is still a challenge and a ton of fun to play again. The full 
 game is one of the best this year, despite its minor flaws, and will keep fans coming back for 
 more for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMcCarty75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War gained so much respect and awards a sequel had to be delivered just as good. The team 
 at EPIC delivers with something far more impressive.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics are amazing. This is the best looking game on the 360 to date and makes 
 the first gears of war look last-gen.
  
  CONTROLS - It sticks to the orginial in almost every way with very few tweaks.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
 - The gameplay in this game is much improved. With revamped weapons and new environments this game 
 delivers everything that the first one didn't.
  
  STORY - The story really is more in-depth and has a true feeling in this one that last one was 
 missing. However at the end of the game you are left wondering what is going on and why some things 
 just aren't resolved. 
  
  ONLINE - Welcome to matchmaking. Matchmaking is very simple and helps you keep a party for every 
 match. However with backed up servers lately it is harder to find a match than to beat the story 
 sometimes. Online is just as good once you start playing with new game modes such as wingman, 5 
 teams of 2, and submission, capture the flag with the flag being a fighting person, this game offers 
 more. New multiplayer maps feel at home, but some just can't beat the classics. 
  
  NEW CONTENT - New weapons just fit perfectly in the gears of war weaponary and the maps welcome 
 a new playing environment. Horde mode is outstanding upgrade for this game that was needed. Horde 
 is pretty much an arcade style game mode that can pit 1 - 5 players against endless amounts of 
 Locust. Until you finally reach level 50, bring a friend for this one though.
  
  OVERALL - I think this game is a must buy for anyone true online gamer, fan of gears of war, shooter 
 fan, or just someone looking to spend hours. The achievements are not all easy to get as some you 
 will have to work hard for such as Seriously 2.0 (100,000 kills) . In the end this is the one game 
 that will always be played for for till gears of war 3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game to play this is the game. No shooting game is good enough to compare 
 to this game in my eyes. Gears of war 2 takes the cake for blood and gore in a shooting game. the 
 horde is even more fun than, knowing that your going against so many enemies is sooo cool. The 
 only thing that mostly everyone i have played with is complaining about is that its so hard to 
 get into a ranked match with people. They should have left that part someone similar to the first 
 part. I'm also glad that dom found his wife so now i wont have to be wondering what happened and 
 who was her. The game is a great multiplayer game and I hope they come out with a part 3 that has 
 more players that can go against each other. Say a 10 on 10 team or more. The story mood itself 
 was great and longer than the first but, the bosses were a bit too easy to beat. Still, its a wonderful 
 game to play and i hope that i meet alot of other players online so i can test my skills against 
 new heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallicat1243
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The single player was epic. Truly a fun, intense experience. There were many times where I literally 
 jumped out of my seat and screamed when I pulled off a headshot at the perfect time. The characters 
 are much more developed than in the previous game, and the gamer is able to appreciate the story 
 much more so than in the previous Gears.
  
  Sadly, that is where it ends. 
  
  The multiplayer offers little to nothing new over the original gears, forces you to stay in a laggy 
 online game (there is no "quit" selection) AND I did not have one game in the 20 or so that I participated 
 in that I was able to join up to that took less than 10 MINUTES! If you have time to wait 10 minutes 
 for every matchmade game online when you have a stellar internet connection, then you will love 
 this game. It will give you all the time you need in between matches to twiddle your thumbs, do 
 homework, or read about Call of Duty: World at War and it's multiplayer. 
  
  I played the game for the weekend, enjoyed the single player, and traded my copy into Gamespot 
 to go towards my purchase of Call of Duty: World at War. There is no reason to buy this game if 
 you can RENT IT FOR ENOUGH TIME TO FINISH THE CAMPAIGN! Save yourself the $64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpfb4life
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great game that unforntunately followed an even better game. The campain in 
 gears 2 is better than the campain in the first one. It has much more things that hook you in and 
 much more parts that are very fun. You get the oppurtunity to ride various types of vehicles and 
 creatures that was missing from the first game. The horde mode which alloos you to battle 50 waves 
 of locusts with up to five friends is also very fun. The one major dissapointment id the online 
 play. The online play in gears 2 is much worse than it is in gears 1. There are many more modes 
 that are basically the same as a preexixting mode. It is also very hard to get a match if you are 
 trying to play by yourself. The campain and horde modes definately add to the gears expirience 
 but the reason you keep playing games is for great online multiplayer which gears 2 simply doesnt 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOrangeHurt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Though they did slow down the walking pace a tid-bit, and certain situations were buggy and maybe 
 glitchy but THIS GAME WAS AS EPIC AS THEY CLAIMED IT TO BE!!! The unreal engine 3 worked beautifully, 
 the large scale enemy fights were amazing. Gone are the 1-5 grunts cumin' at u 1 at a time, in 
 GOW2 5-10 enemies are guaranteed to come at u, 10-20 in some cases, and what is so good about more 
 grunts to pop u ask?!?! THEY ALL COME AT ONCE AND THE SCENE IS SIMPLY AMAZING!!
  The graphics are way better in the sequel, hell everything is better in the sequel, I don't wanna 
 spoil it but go back to what bungie did when the did Halo 2 and what new and cool stuff u could 
 do in the sequal. Now translate that to the gears world and just think about everything u wanted 
 to do in gears 1 and more then likely u can do it in gears 2. Though the boss fights aren't as 
 obvious as the first, the "bosses" u do fight in the sequel are just as amzaing. The foreign reviewer 
 sucked and UK gamespot sux 2. The score they gave it does the game no justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Epic has done it again with great graphics and sounds. The story in Gears 2 was a lot of fun to 
 play and very intense at times. I played the game on hardcore so it did offer me a good challenge. 
 The AI was a very big surprise to me. I was stomped, face bashed and even used as a human shield 
 in split screen. That last move surprised my friend too! Yes there are new execution moves that 
 are a lot of fun to pull off. One move is the ability to use your downed victim as a human shield. 
 The cinematic scenes were fun to watch and the story had an overall smooth flow to it. The vehicles 
 are pretty easy to control. Plenty of checkpoints throughout the story and always setup after a 
 big fight to help save your progress.
  
  Online play is were this game has a serious breakdown and the main reason for my low score of the 
 game. Epic you seriously need to go rent other online games and take note of the online game lobbies 
 and in game. First your set in your player lobby with 5 open slots total. This is where you can 
 invite your friends to join your squad. Any open spaces left in your squad will then need to be 
 filled first. On to the endless search to fill your squad. Heres a note for ya, If you keep your 
 party at 1 to 3 it will go by faster. Of course if you have a full squad then you totally bypass 
 this search. Ok so your teammates are found and now it's time to search for opposing team. Now 
 don't get to excited as this search will also take another 5 to 10 minutes to search. During this 
 search you will probably lose teammates and be forced back into player search. Lets speed things 
 up and say you finally get into a match after searching for 20 minutes. Worse case scenario after 
 going through all that, you enter a room full of LAG yeahhhh! Soon a more positive note you finally 
 get into an online game where everything is working right. Now the fun begins. Epic has done a 
 nice job with online play. No more god mode during execution moves is a big plus and funny at times 
 to see 4 or 5 people all chainsawing each other in the middle of the arena. Shotguns were a real 
 pain in the first Gears but in this Gears not so bad. Mainly due to the new grenade stick and weapon 
 stopping power, people can't just run or role up to you anymore. Great job Epic! One last problem 
 with online play. Chainsaw duels. In case Epic is unaware, companies have built and sold mod or 
 hiper controllers. These controllers will win every time in chainsaw duels. It is very frustrating 
 to mash the crap out of your B button and still come out the loser.
  
  All in all I am very pleased with story mode, graphics, controls, execution moves, sounds and music. 
 I am not pleased at all with the online matchmaking. If you just want to play story mode then I 
 highly recommend the game but if you plan to just play online then I suggest move on to another 
 game or wait for bargain bin. If I were to score this game on story mode alone then it would have 
 received a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calmed_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the game I have had at the top of my wish list all year. I dived into the campaign 
 just after the midnight release and was not disappointed. The campaign continues the storyline 
 of Marcus Fenix's time during the constant war against the Locust. The game brings back the fresh 
 faces of Dom, Cole, Baird, Anya and Hoffman while giving us some new friends in Dizzy, Tai, Carmine 
 and Prescott. But the Loscust have come with all new personnel as well including grinders, maulers, 
 kantus, flame boomers, butcher boomers, nemacites, tickers, sires, bloodmounts, brumaks, Giant 
 worm, Lake monster, Hydra, and Skorge. This is quite a step up in diversity of enemies than before. 
 The only enemies missing from Gears of War were the lambent wretches which were replaced by the 
 tickers. Now I am not going to give any spoilers but what I will say is that Gears of was is more 
 badass, more emotional, and more engrossing than before. Co-op is still the best way to play because 
 two guns are better than one. And with the new ability of being able to have each player on different 
 difficulty settings, the game allows for a much wider audience to take part in the action. There 
 are many more cinematic sequences than Gears of War which help to flesh out the story. Gears of 
 War 2 also really drives home the desperate state that the people of Sera are in, including the 
 Gears that are fighting. 
  Now onto multiplayer. Multiplayer is as fun as ever with tweaked old game modes, new game modes 
 and a new party system. Warzone returns as your classic deathmatch gametype where everyone get 
 one life a round. Execution adds a slight twist to warzone making it necessary to kill opponents 
 with one shot kills (ie. headshots, torque bow and boomshot hits) or getting up close and personal 
 with an execution move. Annex is also back with a hill that moves around the map. Guardian is assassination 
 revamped, where there are still respawn for your team as long as your guardian is still alive. 
 King of The hill is just one stationary locale that you must acquire and hold to win. Submission 
 is Epic's take on capture the flag with a flag that shoots back at you. All of these modes are 
 a blast to play especially if you have friends to party up with. Gears of War 2 has done away with 
 the lobby system from the past and now has a party and matchmaking system. This is great for getting 
 together with your buddies and playing all night long. There is a huge downside to this though. 
 The matchmaking system is EXTREMELY SLOW!!! It has been taking me and my friends about ten minutes 
 to find a match every time we search for one. I do not know why this is but it takes forever just 
 to get a match going. 
  Now I have left one mode out of the multiplayer section I have written and that is Horde mode. 
 It stands alone as one of the greatest game modes I have ever played. In the words of one of my 
 co-worker's, "It's like seeing Christ for the first time." This is just pure genius. Horde mode 
 pits you and up to four other players (for a total of 5) against wave after wave of Locust bastards. 
 There are 50 waves in all and can be played on any of the 4 difficulties. These waves consist of 
 almost every Locust enemy you have to fight in the game. And with the variety of enemies from the 
 campaign, it makes it one hell of a ride. This mode is why co-op was invented. Without flawless 
 team work you have no chance of making it all 50 rounds. 
  So Gears of War 2 has lived up to the hype. The only flaw, which is a big one, is the time it takes 
 to find a game through the matchmaking system. So my final score is as follows 10-1 point for the 
 lengthy matchmaking system+.5 for the amazing Horde mode=9.5. This review is over so why are you 
 sitting here when you could be playing Gears of War 2 right now? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbooth330
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is definetly bigger badder than the first one by far more intense. first the campaign 
 is about 3 to 4 hrs longer than the first gears. Drop in and out coop makes it very nice and convienet 
 to the players. the Campaigns story doesnt follow mainly on marcus life but those of Dom trying 
 to find Maria or the new characters Tai Dizzy and Ben Carmine. The scale of the levels are much 
 bigger and you feel like you are fighting in a war instead of by yourself. many new enemies make 
 for better chalenges for the players. many new weapons to dispose your foes of. and new executions 
 plus you can pick up a downed enemy and use him as a sheild can becomew very useful through out 
 the game. the graphics have much improved from the first one putting the unreal engine again to 
 the test. textures are very well done but it took sometime for them to even show up. also it became 
 frustrating how it seemed like there was an invisible wall in front of me because i just got stuck 
 in the air for the most part. but definetly the campaign is amazing. cant wait to see what they 
 will do for the next gears. on the other had the multiplayer is bigger with 5v5 and has many new 
 modes in it. the horde mode is fun and ver challenging. but the actually multiplayer lacks in some 
 parts. the weapons seem to be alot weaker like the shotgun doesnt do the damage that it did in 
 the first one. now it has mostly turned into Lancer and chainsaw battles which gets old after the 
 first few rounds of play. Match making is a very good thing now but it just seems like it takes 
 forever to get into a match. so hopefully Epic will send out a few patches to fix up some of the 
 issues that hard core gears fans have with the game. Other than that Gears of War 2 is hands down 
 Game of the Year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Douginator94
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Great story with lots of questions to be answered in the next game, All of the new game modes are 
 fun, collect different items with descriptions instead of just plain old cog tags, Some funny glitches 
 happen when playing online, They added bots so you can play multiplayer game modes versus CPUs, 
 The new weapons are cool, Same with the executions.
  
  Cons:
  The online multiplayer got worse: After a public match you have go through matchmaking again, They 
 bundled the old game modes into categories then you vote on one of the two game modes they show 
 you, you can't join public games. The boses were too easy, The campaign was short, I didn't have 
 any "OMFG" moments like I did in the first one. They should have added more weapons. Not many major 
 improvements from the last game.
  
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:9
  Online:6
  Multiplayer:8
  Replay:8
  
  40/50=80/100=8.0/10
  
  8.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is probably the most highly anticipated console game of the year. With that said 
 there have been exceptionally high expectations for the game. But does it meet them?
  
  Gameplay wise you can think of Gears of War 2 as the original with some new gameplay additions 
 that bring a new level of depth to the game. On top of the already established gameplay mechanics 
 such as roadie runing (sprinting) , aiming down the sights and the cover mechanic the game has become 
 so well known for we have new abilities such as sticking grenades to walls to use like proximity 
 mines, new ways to execute your enemies like using them as shields. New weapons and equipemnt really 
 bring new tactics in to such as portable shields. All in all I'd say that Gears 2 really has a 
 great level of new and old ratio that most sequels should strive for.
  
  While the fantastic gameplay from the original has returned with some nice tweaks, the worst part 
 of the original also makes a return... glitches. While the game is fun as hell, the glitches really 
 ruin the experience. And Im not talking small stuff. I mean things that can ruin the experience 
 somtimes. A few times I've had the game glitch to where I couldnt pick up ammo, weapons or equipment. 
 And in one of the game's boss fight sequences the game was so glitchy that I had to end the session 
 and load in back up for proper play.
  
  The glitches can occasionaly get in the way, but it doesnt happen to often. The good deffinatly 
 out weighs the bad. Hopefully though, we get a patch.
  
  
  I can safely say Gears of War 2 is the most visually impressive game I've played on the 360 when 
 it comes to detail and art. The game is just beautiful in every way and has improved much on the 
 lighting and water effects from the original. Alot of things can be going on on screen, but in 
 most cases the game runs pretty smoothly. Unfortunatly, texture popin makes a return in Gears 2. 
 It's not quite as abrupt as it was in the original, but it's still kinda anoying.
  
  Gears of War 2 sounds great. Alot of the guns have had adjustments to sound alot and it just feel 
 very nice. The voice acting is also pretty great. Some of the best voice acting you'll hear in 
 the a shooter and the dailouge is great and ocassionaly funny. And for the sound track, it's hollywood 
 quality. I would say though that I found the sound track for the original game a tad better, but 
 this is still pretty good.
  
  Gears of War 2 provides a much longer campaign than the original (which provides 2-player co-op... 
 Yeah, no 4-player : ( ) , clocking in between nine to twelve hours. Theres plenty of reason to go 
 back through too aside from the fact that it's a ton of fun. Once you beat it, you unlock the Insane 
 difficulty and you'll probably want to go back and grab the collectibles scattered through out 
 the game's five acts. And these aren't like the cog tags from Gears 1 where they were just there 
 for achievements. These collectibles contain stories and stuff, further fleshing out the story. 
 They arent just there for achievements.
  
  While the campaign is over all a much better experience, the boss fights don't quite hold up. While 
 you do get to take part in much more epic scale battle, sometimes it just feels like you get the 
 easy way out. Almost every time a huge enemy that seems like a pototentially awsome boss fight 
 comes around, the game hands you a BFG and no other way to beat the boss. And the final boss is 
 the most pathetic one this side of Guilty Spark. They don't ruin the over all experience, but they 
 ould have been better.
  
  I'd also like to mention that the campaign brings with it a little innovation. Each player can 
 play on seperate difficulties in co-op. For instance, one can be playing on casual difficulty while 
 the other plays on Hardcore.
  
  Gears of War 2 brings a mew game mode called Horde. This mode allows you and four of your friends 
 to duke it out against Locust forces in multiplayer maps. It's bassically a game of survival. You 
 and your friends try to clear as mamy waves of locust as possible. And each wave get progressively 
 stronger. It's a pretty addictive and fun mode which is to many, their favorite mode.
  
  Then theres the competitive multiplayer. I've got to say the strongest area in this multiplayer 
 is maps. The game comes with a surprising amount of maps. On the disc there are ten maps, then 
 an additional five that come with a free code with the game making a total of fiften maps, right 
 out of the box. And their all fantastic maps.
  
  There are more multiplayer gametypes than the original... But there still really arent enough. 
 And alot of the game types are just variations of other game types.
  
  We have Warzone, which is bassically team death match. Then theres Execution, which is team deathmatch, 
 but in order to kill your oponent you need to use a special execution or a one shot kill, then 
 theres Wingman.... Which is team death match, but with five teams or less of two players. Then 
 theres king of the Hill and Annex which is King of the hill with a hill that moves on occasion. 
 And last is Submission, the most unique game type. It's bassically neutral capture the flag, but 
 the flag is a guy with a shot gun.
  
  So really, it's just three game types with a few variations of two of them. Hopefully we'll get 
 new game types in the future.
  
  Interestingly during multiplayer while you're dead you can freelu move the camera and spectate 
 and while doing this take picture. You can share the pictures you take and the theres an ingame 
 scoring system. Not near as robust as what Halo 3 lets you do with pictures but it's better than 
 nothing.
  
  The online multiplayer has improved in that theres actually a party system as well as other nice 
 things taken from Halo, like the ability to bring up your friend list with a press of a button. 
 Theres an actually matchmaking to with reall ranks (although all the playlists seem ranked) . And 
 you can actually veta maps and game types now. It's different than most games though in that you 
 can vote between two maps and game types.
  
  I gotta mention though that right now it takes quite a while to get a match up. Im not sure whats 
 wrongs, but the guys at Epic are saying their working on it.
  
  Gears of War 2 is a fantastic sequel thats much better than the original. Unfortuantly though, 
 the many glitches and the lack of variety in game types hold the game back from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I must say i was a late converter to the Gears of War series, in fact i was a late adopter of the 
 XBOX. I have previously been very pro-sony, (note not negative-XBOX, just neutral) . After playing 
 the original Gears at a mates place for the first time just over 6 months ago, i became extremely 
 intrigued in not only Gears but the XBOX brand, two weeks later i had purchased an XBOX360, along 
 with Gears of War and Halo 3.
  
  Gears of War 1 was the sort of game which at the time i thought, "Wow, this sort of high quality 
 game doesn't come along too often", and began to eagerly await the release of Gears 2, expecting 
 relatively the same sort of experience. Not only did i get the same sort of experience, but that 
 experience was enhanced drastically. Gears 2 successfully improves on every single feature that 
 made the original so good, whilst also improving some of the very few shortcomings of the original.
 
  
  If i were to have one complaint about the original, it was the cover system. Occassionly it you 
 would move you into the wrong position, and you tended to move to cover positions that werent your 
 target. This whislt an inconvenience, was not something would cause me to throw the controller 
 away in disgust, but was frustrating at times.
  
  The result of Gears 2 is a measure of Epic's commitment, that even the cover system which was still 
 brilliant in the original, was massively improved for this sequel. It was not a neccessity for 
 Epic to impove the cover system, but they did, and the same applies for every other feature of 
 Gears 2, what you thought couldn't be done any better after the original has been.
  
  Visuals are spectacular, most notably the scene in the dark tunnel, where Fenix and Co. are guiding 
 the tank through the tunnel, whilst protecting it from exploding creatures called Tickers. The 
 brilliant use of lighting, created by the tank really boosted the tension, when you as the gamer 
 have your eyes darting left and right attempting to spot a ticker before it gets you.
  
  Tension as just previously mentioned is something Gears 2 delivers in spades, and coupled with 
 a brilliant story, visuals and audio, makes Gears of War 2 one of the best gaming experiences you 
 will likely sit through in a long time... maybe until Gears 3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War was a revolution in video games and truly ushered in the next generation of gaming. 
 Gears of War put the Xbox 360 on the map and made it the one true home for action shooters. At 
 the end of the campaign, it just left gamers wanting more. Now, our thirst is quenched with the 
 highly anticipated Gears of War 2. 
  
  The problem with some sequels is that they seem to deviate from their predecessor in terms of style. 
 Gears of War 2 feels like the first game but at the same time seems so new. With the help of an 
 updated Unreal 3 engine, Gears 2 looks fantastic. On a happy note, there are more colors to the 
 game and much better textures and more attention to detail. The character models look great and 
 the environments are rich and inviting. The Unreal 3 engine not only allows better graphics, but 
 better physics and more destructible environments. Also, if you wanted more blood and gore, then 
 your wish is granted. There's so much more blood and the dismemberment is insane this time. You'll 
 probably never play a more gorier game. Ever. 
  
  The feel of the game is much more emotional this time. You have a real sense of sympathy for the 
 characters and what is happening to them this time around. The story picks up where Gears 1 left 
 off, or some time afterwards. The Locust are back and more fierce and they have a way of sinking 
 entire cities and it's up to you to take the fight to them and finish them once and for all. Delta 
 Squad returns with Marcus Fenix, Dominic Santiago, Baird and Cole a. k. a the "Cole Train". Again, 
 only Marcus and Dom have any story amongst the cast. The subplot of Dom trying to find his wife 
 comes into play after being briefly mentioned in Gear 1. Although it is sympathetic, the Dom plot 
 could have used some more time in Gears 1 to build up what happens in this game. When the moment 
 comes, you feel what you're supposed to feel (I won't spoil) but you get over it quickly. That 
 particular story arc could have used more time to get fleshed out. But the story is very good and 
 has good pacing and style. My only real problem is that at some points you're just questioning 
 what is going on. The best part of the campaign is that it features so many awesome "OMG! Did you 
 see that?!" moments and some killer boss battles (one that features a terrifying battle between 
 you and a giant sea monster in the middle of a lake that totally kicks more butt than Resident 
 Evil 4 did, remember??) .
  
  Gears of War 2 brings many new things to the table. First off, there are new weapons. Some nice 
 additions include the Mulcher, which is a gatlin gun of sorts; the Gorgon pistol, which shoots 
 off two round simultaneously; a mortar; the Scorcher flame thrower; an updated Hammerburst and 
 a more powerful Lancer; and lastly the ink grenade, which sends a poisonous gas into the air and 
 an updated smoke grenade which knocks people down now. The Lancer's chainsaw is much more powerful 
 this time around and now you can have chainsaw duels with the enemy, which are a lot of fun. With 
 grenades now you can not only stick enemies, but stick the grenades to the walls or the floor to 
 set traps. Aside from weapons, there are new characters. New COGs include Tai Kaliso, a very spiritual 
 friend of Marcus, Carmine's brother, and Dizzy, who is a rugged cowboy who drives a drilling derrick. 
 The Locust have some new faces as well. The "boss" is a creature by the name of Scorge, who wields 
 a staff that has chainsaws at each end. But it must be said that his particular boss fight is not 
 very good at all. Also, there are some new monsters including the Ticker, which acts as a kamikaze 
 exploding bomb and Beast Riders which ride upon these horrifying creatures called Blood Mounts. 
 There are now more one type of Boomer. We have Maulers, which wield shields and flails to hit you 
 with. We also have Grinders, which wield deadly Mulchers. There is also the traditional Boomer 
 as well as a flame thrower-wielding Boomer. And the original Locusts make a return as well. Aside 
 from weapons and monsters, there are some new in game features. One is the ability to crawl your 
 way to safety when you're "down but not out". This helps A LOT. Another new feature is the "human 
 meat shield". This is where you can pick up a downed enemy and use them as a shield for cover when 
 you walk. Or you can use Mauler shield as cover too and you can plant them in the ground. A cool 
 new feature are the multiple executions. In Gears 1, we had the chainsaw, headshot, and curb stop 
 executions. Now, almost every weapon has a particular execution style (especially the Torque Bow) 
 and you can also beat your enemy to death.
  
  Other than the campaign, we have co-op campaign (split-screen, system link, or online) , multiplayer 
 (Xbox Live, Local, or System Link) and a new game mode called Horde. Horde is where you and 4 others 
 can go against 50 waves of Locust armies with each wave becoming more challenging. It's a blast 
 to play but don't try doing it on your own. On Xbox Live, gone are the ranked and player matches 
 and now there's either Public Matches and Private Matches. The Xbox Live has improved with a new 
 matchmaking system and new game modes. The classic modes return with new ones like King of the 
 Hill, Guardian (where each team has a leader and you can respawn infinitely until your leader dies) , 
 Submission (CTF like game but with a human "flag", who will fight back) , and Wingman, which is 
 similar to Halo 3's "Team Doubles" where you and one other person play against multiple teams of 
 two. At the present moment, though, the matchmaking is very slow and there is a huge presence of 
 lag in almost every game. Also, the chainsaw is too powerful so that you can't stop someone from 
 revving it up. Epic has added in that if you're being shot as you run, it slows you down. In many 
 instances, it slows you down so much that you can't fight back and just have to wait to go down. 
 Also, the shotgun is not as powerful so no more of the rolling and popping up technique, okay?
 
  
  Now, the achievements have had a major overhaul this time around. Remember how to get 100 headshots, 
 you had to play in ranked matches? Well, to get any achievement, you can get them in campaign, 
 co-op, online or Horde. Also, the game tracks your achievement progress in your "War Journal", 
 which also tracks collectibles you've found and your unlocked items (yes, there are unlockables 
 now) and a progress bar will pop on screen to show you where you stand on a particular achievement. 
 So, in terms of additions and features, Gears 2 is a huge improvement over Gears 1.
  
  A comment has to be made on all the cool stuff you can get with the game. For $10 extra, you can 
 get the Limited Edition. The LE comes in an awesome case (much better than the Gears 1 LE) and 
 you receive an art book, a photo of Dom and his wife, a bonus DVD and a code to get a golden Lancer 
 to use in multiplayer. All new games come with a code to download the Flashback Map Pack, which 
 features 5 re-made maps from Gears 1. If you went to a midnight launch, you received a code to 
 get a golden Hammerburst and if you went to Gamestop at midnight, you also got the first issue 
 of the Gears of War comic book and a code to get an exclusive theme designed for the New Xbox Experience 
 (and yes, I got the LE and received all of this bonus content and the comic!) . 
  
  In conclusion, despite its flaws, Gears of War 2 is fantastic game and succeeds over its predecessor 
 tenfold. It's action packed, gripping, haunting and features killer multiplayer and awesome achievements. 
 It has plenty of replay value and belongs in every Xbox 360 game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_9_9_4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  ok so first of all im just gonna get this out in the open: this is probably not what you would 
 call an objective review. What i mean by that is that there is very little epic could do to make 
 me not like Gears of War as a franchise (which it basically is at this point) . Having said that 
 lets get to reviewing. 
  
  The single player campaign is a pretty immersive experience especially if you go for all the the 
 collectibles scattered around the game world that give you backstory. It's basically the same stop 
 and pop action from the first one but much faster paced and on a much larger scale. There are some 
 low points however like the chapter you spend inside a giant rockworm. I thouroghly enjoyed using 
 my chainsaw to give it a "multiplebypass" as the acheivement reads but all the platforming style 
 gameplay it took to get there really takes away from what gears is all about. Also Epic does a 
 very good job of adding more story butthey also leave some pretty big points unatended. For instance 
 the level in the abandoned research facility i still have no idea what we were sent to retreive 
 wether or not we got it (although i assume we did becuase we left) and whats up with the sires that 
 come out of the giant test tube like containers. Those are my only problems with campaign modeand 
 they were fairly insignificant when coupled with the overall effect of what was done right in gears 
 with violence, plot, story, etc.
  
  Multiplayer is also a great experience and while it is mostly the same as gears 1 with the exception 
 of a few new modes, including an interesting take on capture the flag, and new strategies (cant 
 do the roadie run and shotgun combo all the time anymore) Horde mode is where it really shines. 
 I dont really ave words to describe it but everyone should play it if only to know that they dont 
 like it.
  
  In conclusion if you didnt like Gears 1 you probably wont like gears 2 unless your had a problem 
 with the things Epic addressed like faster paced action or more story........... and you get to 
 ride a Brumak.......... I mean come on thats pretty badass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eko_Eko_Azarak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  ***WARNING: THIS CONTAINS MINOR SPOILERS***
  
  
  Gears of War 2 is an absolutely incredible game. It is yet another must-have game for this holiday 
 season, and will likely cause non-360 owners to buy the system.
  
  The graphics are incredible. It is amazing to me how far the programmers pushed the 360 for this 
 game. The animations and details of the characters are incredible. From their facial animation 
 to the dirt on their weapons, everything about the way the characters are animated is incredible. 
 Environments are extremely detailed and very tastefully done. There is much more color this time 
 around, but this is a good thing-it makes the gritty environment more engaging and easier to look 
 at for extended periods of time. This time around, there are also far more things going on on the 
 screen at once. More locust appear and the graphics never waver. 
  
  As in the previous installment, the sound is amazing. The score is great and really helps the player 
 stay in the game. Gunshots sound realistic and so do all of the other sound effects. Superb voice 
 acting rounds out the incredible sonic experience of GoW2.
  
  The story is a major improvement over the last one. It focuses on Dominick Santiago, Marcus Fenix's 
 friend and fellow member of Delta squad, on his quest to find his wife. 
  
  The campaign is a vast improvement over the one in the last game. This one is far more busy. The 
 driving sections are great as are the rail shooting sections. I particularly enjoyed the tank section 
 in regards to the vehicle sections, and the section where Marcus and Dom ride a Brumak is really 
 satisfying and a great amount of fun. The missions this time around have many different things 
 to do and this helps the game out greatly. The game also does a great job with the enemies-they 
 are built up and in many cases, tougher then the last game. The new enemies as well as the amount 
 of enemies in general always leave you something to shoot. Also, the new weapons are awesome and 
 great fun to use. One of the better campaign modes I have played in a shooter in a long time, and 
 that's saying something considering how many shooters are out there.
  
  The online is great. The game modes are standard, but since the gameplay of this game is so great, 
 it doesn't matter. One place the multiplayer shines is Horde-a game mode where you and up to four 
 other people play against wave after wave of increasingly difficult Locust. This in my opinion 
 is the highlight of this game's online component. It causes players to work as a team to overcome 
 the many enemies they face. Horde is a great example of a new spin on an old idea. My friends and 
 I got past Wave 50 on Normal difficulty, and we can't wait to try it on Hardcore and Insane difficulties 
 in the weeks to come. I only hope they eventually patch it to make more waves-maybe even including 
 some of the bigger monsters from the campaign!!!! (HINT HINT WINK WINK EPIC)
  
  As great as this game is, I simply cannot give it a 10 out of 10 for these two reasons: ***SPOILERS 
 HERE***
  
  1) The end of the game is a joke. By this I mean the last boss fights. Skorge is a pushover, especially 
 when compared to the extremely difficult General RAAM of the last game. And the final boss, which 
 is a Lambent Brumak and looks really menacing, ends up being no more difficult than a regular Brumak-in 
 fact, less so since both players have the Hammer of Dawn. This is a major letdown, considering 
 how incredible the campaign is up until that point. ***END SPOILERS***
  
  2) The matchmaking is very slow, which is a shame because it will turn some people off of the great 
 online experience. The online in this game is going to be in the XBOX LIVE top three along with 
 Halo 3 and CoD4, and a patch fixing this problem would make the online just that much better. 
 
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of shooters, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. It is a great achievement 
 (no pun intended) both graphically and game play wise. Get it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  now, let me start off by saying that there aren't many great sequels that seem to surpass the first 
 in every way. but Gears of War 2 proves me wrong. let me start with the story, WOW! there's a lot 
 of moments where I'm so into the story and the cut scenes, it's like nothing else matters! the 
 graphics are better than ever! everything is so bright and colorful! there's not a flaw in mind. 
 and the gameplay itself wins everyone over. so far in the game, I haven't been able to find a single 
 glitch. it's perfect and nothing is corrupt in the game. and what all new things they have introduced 
 is simply amazing. with all the new executions and weapons in the game, you're most likely not 
 to get bored any time soon! there's even another driving missions and you get to ride reavers and 
 brumaks! and the reavers even land on the ground this time! so they have evolved the original into 
 something amazing. the only odd thing is that sometimes *I* feel like they can focus a little more 
 on the story rather than anything else. but I have no problem with it! there's a great storyline 
 and great voice actors! the most appealing thing to me is the longer campaign. it last a few more 
 hours and another sequel is set in motion. so what I'm saying here is that this game is perfect! 
 no glitches, bugs, or anything! you'd be a fool not to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadMans444
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 truly sets the bar for all new games. Not just sequels, but all games. The totally 
 immersive experience lets the player enjoy a campaign that is better then most. The campaign, while 
 lacking true details that flesh out the story, is a very fun and replayable experience. The new 
 game types included in Gears of War 2 are a leap above the rest. Horde, the newest and, in my opinion, 
 best, gametype that Gears of War 2 has to offer, consists of you against a Horde of locust. Playing 
 with up to 4 Xbox - Live friends, this can be such a blast, as your adrenaline is pumping. Gears 
 of War 2 is a definite buy for anyone who likes tactical shooters, and I highly recommend it for 
 people that like shooters with intense storylines. When you aren't playing... well, you won't not 
 be playing. This is a riveting game that keeps you playing for hours, and with the multiplayer 
 features and the replayability of the campaign, I would say that this game is one of the best that 
 the Xbox 360 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prvtTucker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I have a few complaints...
  
  1. Skorge felt tacked on, I was under the impression that he was going to be that "shadow figure" 
 that follows you the whole game and keeps you scared and on the move.
  
  Well he wasn't. he shows up for a tank killing and a short "boss" battle and an on rails shooting 
 segment.
  
  which brings me to my next complaint.
  
  2. On rails shooting? come on Epic one in a game is cool, but three! (if you include the amazing 
 (but easy) brumak chapter) is un-acceptable. Come on guys show some creativity 
  
  Ok rant done, On to the positive.
  
  1. EPIC Campaign! (no pun intended) will reveal more questions 
 than answers (but hey it worked for LOST didnt it?) and leave you begging for more.
  
  2. Horde mode is the most fun I have had in years in a video game.
  
  
  Ok that's really 
 all I can think of (this being my first review) so leave me some feedback and go play the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  To start off simply, Gears 2 is incredible. IT stands as not only a crowning achievement of graphics, 
 technology, and gameplay- but proof that it is possible to creat notj ust a better sequel- but 
 a FAR superior one!
  
  Storywise: Gears of War 2 begins roughly 6 months after the first Gears ended. After a moment of 
 peace, war continues with the Locust, and worsens everyday. COGs (the soldiers of the game) are 
 desperate and have decided to attack the Locust homeworld.
  
  Just like the graphics in the first, Graphics are nothing short of exceptional. Now, however; the 
 graphics are both excellent from a technical, and artistic standpoint. Far more Colors and different 
 settings are strewn throughout the game. Also, there's just more STUFF going on onscreen. More 
 enemies, more explosions- and thankfully framerate (usually) keeps up.
  
  Gears 2 may also have the highest value for your $$. The Campaign is longer, there are many new 
 multiplayer modes to get addicted too, and best of all there's horde. Horde pits you against Wave, 
 after wave of enemies and best of all it's up to 5 players online! 
  
  Overall, Gears is worth every penny. Its gameplay excells in all forms, and when you're done- you 
 can always come back for more! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aserbianguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 surpasses game of the year, Gears of war 1 in every possible way. Gears 2 has perfected 
 the gears genre. Gears of war 2 is a must have for every Gears 1 fan. It even might draw somepeople 
 who didnt like Gears 1. Horde mode is the best multiplayer game type ever. The story mode is much 
 longer and more engaging. This storyline is a lot more clear and murders the gears 1 story. The 
 graphics have been cleaned up a bit. The controls are much smoother than the first. The battles 
 are much more massive a intense. THe intensity of gears makes it one of the best selling games 
 on the xbox360. Gears amazing engine raises the bar for a blockbuster game. Gears also tops halo. 
 halo 3 was a crapy, over hyped game to begin with. There isnt going to be a game that compares 
 to Gears 2 for a very long time.
  GEARS FOR #1 GAME OF THE YEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrjpo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  It hasn't been that long since Gears of War was released, so when I heard Gears 2 was coming out 
 so soon, my expectations were fairly stymied. Much to my surprise, this builds upon Gears 1 making 
 it a better game.
  
  All the Gears 1 regulars are back and the locust are also back with a vengeance and this time they've 
 brought a secret weapon. I'm about 12 hours in and only about 1/2 way through the story and it 
 is as riveting as a Hollywood sci-fi movie. New weapons, achievements, etc, hold your interest 
 as well.
  
  Multiplayer includes many new weapons and modes. Of particular favorite, is the chainsaw battle. 
 The biggest problem you'll have when you play Gears 2 is choosing to do the campaign or multiplayer 
 first.
  
  Bungie take note. This is the way to make a highly anticipated sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKing867
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Some of the best enviroment graphics I have ever seen, outstanding visual effects, flawless 
 framerate, and super character models. However up close some of the facial graphics can be a little 
 weak but are still good. The blood and gore effects are unrealistic but you can't get much more 
 awesome than chainsawing a enemy in half as the blood splatters all over your screen.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting and the music is truly amazing, from sweet monk music that destroys Halo 
 to awesome battle music that pumps you up.
  
  Story: A powerful emotionaly-charged story with themes about love, friendship, and revenge. Also, plenty 
 of unresolved parts of the plot that may make some angry, but make people like me happy because 
 I'm thirsty for more Gears.
  
  Gameplay: Controls that perfectly match the game and make it easy to play with a short learning 
 curve.
  
  Conclusion: A truly superb gameng experience with a great story, graphics, sound, and gameplay. A defenite 
 buy for X-Box 360 owners and if you don't have one, GET ONE, just for this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalcyonJedi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, when the first Gears of War was released I knew very little about the game and 
 hadn't really been following previews for it at all. I showed up at one of my local Best Buy stores 
 the day of release to find almost 75 people in line waiting for the BB guys to bring out another 
 cart full of Gears of War. The commercials were badass, the plot sounded sweet, and judging by 
 how many people I found waiting in line anxiously I figured it had to be good.
  
  And oh boy was it - I simply could not put this game down. Never before had I see graphics as gorgeous, 
 firefights packed with so much adrenaline, and a control scheme to DIE for. This is the game that 
 set the new standard for shooters on all consoles. While the story lacked in some places, and some 
 of the macho comments from Fenix and his squad got on my nerves at times; the hilarious comments 
 from the Cole Train more than made up for it.
  
  Does the sequel re-write the book that the original authored? No, it does not. Before everyone 
 gets pissed and closes my review; let me explain - Epic took the monumental success of the original 
 GoW and made it bigger, better, and prettier. The game doesn't do much in terms of rewriting the 
 standard of the genre, but at the same time it takes the core foundation of the original and makes 
 it bigger and better. Bigger battles, beautiful scenery, better weapons, and a nearly flawless 
 co-op campaign mode make this game bigger and better than the original. If you liked and owned 
 the first one, there is no reason why you shouldn't own this one; hands down.
  
  The graphics are a stark reminder of the war that the COG is waging against the Locust - beautiful 
 hillsides and vistas part to give glimpses of and in completely ruined cities; devasated by the 
 Locust Horde. New allies, new vehicles and modes of transport all provide excellent immersion into 
 the world of Sera and the COG/Locust war. Smoke pours from destroyed buildings and cars, weapons 
 glow when overheating, and the animations of the Locust and COG soldiers are so smooth and well 
 done sometimes it seems like you're watching a CG animated cutscene when you're actually knee deep 
 in a firefight. 
  
  The sound is equally impressive - if you have surround sound this is a game to play full volume. 
 Explosions and weapons will fill the room with the sounds of war, while the yells and screams of 
 COG and Locust alike put you right into the action. The voice acting is very well done, even if 
 some of the macho talk from Fenix and his squad gets annoying at times; it's still done very well. 
 
  
  You can't say enough about the controls and gameplay. If you found yourself to be an active reload 
 master in the original, you're going to feel right at home from the get-go in the sequel. You'll 
 be mowing down Locust and chainsawing them in half before you even know it - the controls are extremely 
 precise, easy to pick up, yet hard to truly master. The duck and cover system is again put to excellent 
 use, and the added feature of destructible cover adds a bit of tenseness to every firefight. As 
 your concrete barrier begins to crumble away from incoming fire, you'll have to make the split 
 second decision - "Should I stand up and mow them down??" or do you frantically look for the next 
 available cover??
  
  The difficulty on the normal level is in my opinion a bit easy. Granted, I played 3/4 of the campaign 
 via co-op with a friend; but it still felt like it was a bit easy. I'm certainly not saying it 
 was a cakewalk by any stretch of the imagination, but it certainly helps a lot when you have a 
 real life Dominic joining you versus a CPU controlled one. 
  
  Some of the locations and terrain you find yourself in are very well done, but some of them could 
 have used a bit more originality to them. I'm not going to ruin the plot by going into details, 
 but I will say this: The razor hail stage was VERY cool, and as we were playing through it I thought 
 it was definitely original; until my friend commented that it was virtually identical to the Kryll 
 stages at about the same point in the game as the original. Then it kind of hit me. Certainly not 
 a bad thing, but that is why I originally stated that while this sequel is bigger, better, and 
 prettier; it doesn't re-write the genre like the original did. Some of the new locations are definitely 
 cool, and I will throw this hint out there: One of the stages before the halfway point in the game 
 will totally make you have a flashback to the original NES Contra. Trust me - LOL.
  
  With all of that said, the only real issue I've had with the game thus far (I'm near the end, but 
 haven't completed it yet) is that in the co-op campaign mode my buddy and I experienced some issues 
 where his Dominic character would suddenly freeze up, and the only way to recover would be for 
 me to kill myself so we could restart a checkpoint. Very easily fixed by a patch I'm sure, and 
 it is by no means a deal-breaker. In fact, it only occurred during one stage (maybe 5-6 times) 
 and seemed to disappear afterwards. 
  
  The storyline is kind of predictable, with some minor twists thrown in here and there; but still 
 leaves you craving more. You find out more about Marcus, more about Dominic and the search for 
 his wife, what drives the Locust to so viciously eradicate the human race, and other details; which 
 obviously sets up a 3rd chapter in the series. 
  
  In summary - if you enjoyed the first game; this is a no-brainer and a definite purchase. Even 
 though the campaign is a bit short, the immense replayability via co-op and multiplayer gives this 
 game months and months of extra life. DLC is almost a certainty, as I doubt Epic will let this 
 one grow stale before the 3rd game in the series hits us. If you haven't played the first game? 
 No big deal. Like I said, the control scheme is very easy to learn and pick-up, yet difficult to 
 master. Aside from the very few graphical hitches and clipping, and the very minor co-op issue 
 I described; this is a very solid game and another winner for Epic. Great graphics, great game, 
 great controls, a no-contest winner. Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackophant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is a roller-coaster ride from hell that greatly expands upon the original but doesn't 
 really improve it. It takes the series up a couple of notches with its monumental story, environments, 
 creatures, and characters. A couple of times it really nuked the fridge though. By the end of the 
 game I was like, no four guys could do all of that. I know thats their style, over-the top violence, 
 but it seems to me that it contradicts itself, with the story of Dom's wife adding personality 
 and humanity to the characters and the story of defeating the Locust stronghold taking the humanity 
 and realness right out of them. It is an extremely fun game still that I will play several times, 
 but I just might not read any more of the books. Another annoyance with the story are hanging plot 
 lines. It teases you, the biggest being after the credits, but I guess its them just saying hey, 
 you gotta buy Gears 3 to find out what happens. And one last thing regarding the story, I know 
 the lightmass bomb killed the kryll, but what about the berserkers? Theres not one Berserker in 
 the entire campaign. Maybe they are hanging out with Adam Fenix or something, guess we'll find 
 out in a few years.
  The multiplayer is simply awesome. It has some glitches, especially with finding matches but I'm 
 sure they'll patch it up. The coolest thing about it is Horde mode. Fighting wave after wave of 
 enemies with four of you friends is the coolest thing since sliced bread. Its all like "hey man 
 theres a boomer with a mace behind you," SPLAT! Good times, good times. To say the least, I will 
 be playing Gears 2 multi-player until a better game comes out, which is unlikely because its awesome. 
 Maybe Left 4 Dead. We'll wait and see. Anyways, to round it up, Gears 2 is awesome but only as 
 deep as a Micheal Bay film. Which is not very. Fun, nuf sed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R41N_M4K3R
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a ambitious game by the folks from Epic. The lead designer Cliff Blezinski claimed 
 that the game was going to be "bigger, badder, and more bad_ss". The game deliveres in all three 
 of those categories by creating an amazing game world and atmosphere along with some of the graphics 
 and sound in a video game to date. The single player once again has Marcus Fenix and delta squad 
 out to save the world from the evil locust hoard again. The overall story is more well written 
 then the first Gears because their are deeper and more complex story lines including Dom Santiago's 
 search for his wife. The scale of the story is much wider and Epic does a great job of making delta 
 squad feel like a little fish in a big pond by the sheer number of soldiers on screen. The ending 
 is slightly a let down but is understandable because Epic had planned on making Gears of War a 
 trilogy. 
  The multiplayer is a very different beast then Call of Duty or Halo but is still extremely addicting. 
 There are many different game modes to play with your friends online over ten new maps and five 
 revamped maps from Gears 1. The maps are evenly balanced and are easy to learn. The best multiplayer 
 mode is a cooperative mode that you can play with five of your friends. It is called horde mode 
 and the main goal is to try to survive an onslaught of enemies as long as you can with your friends 
 on a multiplayer map. The game takes place in waves of enemies where the longer you and your friends 
 survive, the more points your team can earn. 
  There are several issues with the game that keeps it from being a all time classic. The overall 
 single player campaign is way to short and only takes between 8-10 hours. There is also no 4 player 
 story co-op which is found in Halo 3 and CoD 5 and the waiting time for a multiplayer match is 
 terribly long. I timed myself and I waited for 20 minutes to join a game where all I needed was 
 one partner. I also wish there was accessible stats for online play like what is found in CoD 4, 
 Rainbow 6 Vegas 2, and Battlefield Bad Company. 
  The issues are minor to the overall game of Gears 2. The upside is so much higher then the negative 
 aspects that it should not be missed by anyone that owns an Xbox 360. 
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jennings1993
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is soo much better than the first one. The new mode 'Horde' is really good but surprisingly 
 hard. I would advice you to get this game as soon as possible. Another great thing about this is 
 you unlock characters throughout the story mode that you can play with on-line. Also instead of 
 4 vs. 4 it can now be 5 vs. 5.
  
  The bad point about this game is that they have copied Halo 3 too much, e. g. they have now got 
 ranks, and the same matchmaking lobby. But overall this is a really good game.
  
  If anybody knows how to rank up in this game can you please tell me, i was three gold bars and 
 then was brought down to two silver bars and does anybody have the gold hammerburst code?
  
  If you didn't really like the first one then I would advise you not to get this one. My stupid 
 friend brought it because everybody else was getting it and he dosen't even like them so he sold 
 it on ebay :)
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First off the graphics look awesome and more gruesome... giving the game a darker feel.... The 
 levels are fun like you get to go inside a worm, go into a haunted house, go into levels of destruction, 
 etc... The single player can be played by a co-op mode online which is great since the campaign 
 is long and has a great story and has about 15 levels broken up into 3 acts... The multiplayer 
 has a strong 5 vs 5 online component and the new horde mode which consists of 50 levels (if you 
 are lucky to finish) is an addicting new mode and great fun.... You can litteraly get better online 
 by playing horde mode and the modes like deathmatch, team death match, and king of the hill and 
 others are back.... The mechanics like cover and the weapons have a better feel to them and the 
 chainsaw is back and better than ever. This game is what I was hoping for and is defentitly not 
 a dissapointment and I believe is better than the first.... If you have to chose 1 game to buy 
 this holiday season/christmas season then buy this one it will last you a while.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marz311
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 was pretty much one of the highly anticipated games to come out this year. The guys 
 at Epic Games didn't disappoint at all. It's an action pack thrill ride throughout most of the 
 single player and co-op campaign. I'll go over a few things that i liked or disliked by dissecting 
 the game in a few sections.
  
  Story:
  
  In Gears of War 1 we found the story to be pretty lackluster and made you wonder what the hell 
 was going on in this game world. Who are the locust, what do they want? All you know is that you 
 shoot to kill in order to survive. Somewhat the same deal here in Gears of War 2, although you 
 do get some background story elements from the collectibles you pickup throughout the game. The 
 side story with Dom trying to find his wife is inserted just to add some emotion to these soldiers 
 and make them seem human. The ending of the game will probably not satisfy anyone with closure 
 either, which probably will pave the way for a Gears of War 3 to make sense of it all. So until 
 then we shall theorize what the locust are, who the lambent are, who the locust queen is, how they 
 built that huge fortress underneath the ground, what really happened to Adam Fenix? 
  
  Graphical Representation:
  
  The game looks gorgeous and a bit brighter than the first game. 
 Bosses are bigger and badder, gore is bloodier than ever. Environments are cleverly crafted and 
 varied throughout the game. There's nothing like traversing through the interior of a huge worm 
 and avoiding the dangers of the digestive system. Even cut scenes seem well directed and very cinematic. 
 User interface is clean and easy to navigate. So i give graphical representation high marks all 
 around.
  
  Mechanics:
  
  There is nothing fairly new with gameplay mechanics that differ from the first game. You find cover, 
 aim and shoot enemies. You do get a few new weapons at your disposal which are all very satisfying. 
 The controls are very responsive and you can adjust the sensitivity on the analog sticks. There 
 are some different mutli-player modes which will seem familiar to those who played the first game 
 and to those who have played other shooting games. This game has some vehicle scenarios and i kinda 
 wish they were easier to maneuver but it does not hamper the play experience throughout 90% of 
 the game anyways.
  
  Sound and Music:
  
  The music in this game is top notch and makes you feel like your in an epic action movie with amped 
 orchestral scores. Weapon sounds are clean and effective. The voice acting is also superb and you 
 can feel the emotion coming from the characters words. Not much to look for in faults other than 
 the annoying sound of some monsters which is pretty much intended.
  
  Content:
  
  The game does not have much content single player wise as you can blaze through the game in about 
 10 hours. You can unlock the insane difficulty and some characters going through the campaign which 
 gives it some re playability. The most content you'll get out of this game is from the different 
 multiplayer modes. Co-Op campaign, Horde, Online multi-player matches. Each mode gives the game 
 alot more fun points and replay value. Horde is especially fun with a group of buddies where your 
 faced with up to 50 waves of locust. Each wave getting progressively harder which stresses your 
 groups focus and teamwork to maximum effect. So no doubt you'll get hours of fun from playing the 
 different game modes available in the game. Perhaps there will be DLC in the future but we'll have 
 to wait and see.
  
  Technical Issues:
  
  I found that the game was fairly bug free, though there were some spots in the single player campaign 
 where i had to rely on my partner to open a door or move to a position in order to progress and 
 they would end up stuck somehow and i had to restart the checkpoint.
  
  Overall:
  
  Gears of War 2 is just an experience you have to see for yourself. If your into shooters this game 
 will most definitely satisfy your hunger for combat. It's one of those games you have to pickup 
 if you happen to have an xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game is outstanding PERIOD The campaign is a sure fire hit for anyone who felt the last one 
 was just "hey there's some stuff to shoot and achievements to get" that is not the case at all 
 in this campaign. It completely immerses you into the story and gives you hints of what will be 
 going on in the third. The time they spent on this campaign is noticeable. Its so beautifully and 
 artistically done that I am sure no one will ever forget it and doing it Co-op just makes it that 
 more fun. The new Horde mode is a great addition its insanely addictive to try to get to that next 
 wave and see just how much harder it will be and get. The multi-player is just as fun as the first 
 with the new modes involved making it a bit more fun even more so with all the new stuff like popping 
 heads with the torque bow and have it hit the guy behind him and making him explode and the new 
 chainsaw kills and executions to show off. The only thing I frown upon is the new matchmaking system 
 which completely and utterly sucks because once you get to a high rank like I did its so hard to 
 find people that rank which allows longer times to wait for people to play with. I'm sure they 
 will fix that in a patch. The other thing is the ridiculous inconstancy of the shotgun but I am 
 also sure that will be fixed too in a patch.
  Well that is my review on GoW2.
  
  *Stay BlackListed* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash1521
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  OK, ever since I finished the first installment of gears I heard about a gears 2 and have been 
 waiting ever since. Well now the wait is over and it was well worth the wait. Not only is the story 
 mode incredible but online is great. They finally put a ranking system on here so its like your 
 actually playing for something instead of just playing to play. The only things I felt that could 
 have been worked on are the chainsaws, 1 they are a little to easy to get a kill and its like playing 
 COD and getting noob tubed then the chainsaw battles fells like it ramdomly just picks a winner. 
 But those are so small that the rest of the game makes up for those stupid flaws. Online co-op is 
 still great and needs no improvement. It just sticks on dom and maria a little to much. So get 
 your lancers reved up and shotguns ready to go because gears is back and better than ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxghostxx93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Every thing they said it was going to be! I haven't had that much fun playing a game since Duke 
 Nukem. The story line is so intense it will melt your face! A complete emotional roller coaster. 
 It really gets into the game like you're really there with these guys. There's twists and death 
 and just plain insanity. And the campaign is much longer than the first game, but it still leaves 
 wanting more. The graphics are amazingly superb. Epic really knows what they're doing. And just 
 when you think the multiplayer couldn't get any better, it does. New maps, new playable characters, 
 and more matches. My personal favorite is Wave. Up to five players having to survive wave after 
 wave of horde and they get harder and harder each time. Between chainsaw dueling, human shields, 
 and they many ways to curb stomp some son of a **** I would not be surprised to see this one on 
 the game of the year list. And of course they leave you hanging at the end. I am so pumped for 
 the next one, but I'm still gonna play the **** out of this game until then. Thank you Epic for 
 kicking so much ass! The only word I can use to describe this game as a whole is intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbsoluteFilth
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is the 'epic' sequel to the highly-praised 360-only 3rd person shooter. 
  
  The game's hype could not be described, people were expecting nothing less than the game of the 
 year, nothing less than perfect. Although Epic has delivered a solid game to feed our chainsaw-gore-fest 
 filled hearts, there are a few things that should have fallen short.
  
  The main reason people buy Gears of War is for the multiplayer, so I will get to that first and 
 hit the campaign next. The multiplayer compared to the first game is slowed down to a tempo you 
 would almost see in a Call of Duty game. You will see 'landmine' type grenades attached to walls 
 and people hiding waiting for a chance to chainsaw someone in the back. Or you might die multiple 
 times from an unknown mortar attack.
  
  The multiplayer is outstanding in the fact that the new matchmaking system creates a new experience 
 that allows fast gaming. There is no more waiting for your game to fill up like in the first one. 
 You will be placed into games with people near your 'trueskill' and you will find that competition 
 definitely rises as you get better.
  
  The few flaws you may find in the Warzones, Executions, etc. is that the chainsaw is almost overpowered. 
 You may find that people resort to the chainsaw because it does not go down when shot, they can 
 go through gunfire and proceed to cut you up. You may also notice that the new and (improved?) 
 smoke grenades can knock you down for 40+ feet away. The shotgun has been taken down many notches 
 as this is no longer a tactic shared by every Gears player. There is no more 'roll-up-shotgun-in-your-face' 
 tactic because it takes a second longer for the shotgun to actually shoot. Although these minor 
 downfalls of the multiplayer are easy to ignore and get over, they are still there and can get 
 quite frustrating.
  
  Horde mode is a great addition to the game as well. You can take 4 of your friends, or 4 random 
 people from live, or 3 friends 1 random, or (ok you get the point) and face off against waves and 
 waves of horde. It is going to be a struggle to get to wave 50, so Epic put in a great feature 
 for the not-so-crazy gamers that want to take some breaks in their hours of late night gears. You 
 can save your progress and come back to Horde later, so if you are on Wave 30, you can save and 
 come back when you all are rested. Horde is a lot of fun and I can't really find anything wrong 
 with it.
  
  Gears of War 2 also has the ability to add Bots to your offline multiplayer craze. I know I had 
 a lot of fun with this for when I couldn't get on live for some reason but had to have some Gears 
 multiplayer action.
  
  --
  
  Ok let's get to the Campaign. The number 1 thing you will notice from this sequel is the scale 
 of the Campaign. It is, for lack of a better word, epic. You will see that this game takes the 
 world of gears to a bigger, badder, better, scale. The characters, as cliche as they are, are still 
 lovable and fun to watch, the guns are awesome and introduced very well. 
  
  I want to refrain from spoiling any story points hit in the game so I will just say this. The bosses 
 are... kind of easy. That's all I am going to say.
  
  --
  
  As for the technicalities of the game, I would say that the best feature of Gears 2 is the sound. 
 They really hit this game with the best ambiance, gun-fire, and character noises. However, the 
 voice-acting is not so much. They could have worked the voices a little more throughout the campaign, 
 but it only seemed like in the beginning that the actors were off-key.
  
  But, with all these little problems I had with the game, it is still worth your 60 dollars and 
 time. I can see myself playing this game as much as gears 1. And that is a very... very... very 
 long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizzyshk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I really love the Campaign. Plays really smooth and not unreasonably difficult. The weapons seem 
 to be improved from the first Gears. Love the story in the Campaign as well. The only problem I 
 have to date is with the Horde Mode. I was invited to play with a person on my friends list and 
 it was amazing. Kind of like Rainbow Vegas Six2, Terrorist Hunt, on the Juice. Played the game 
 until we cleared out 50 waves. I would of kept on playing if I could. That leads to the problem, 
 and the question? Since my first addictive experience on Horde Mode, I have been unable to get 
 connected to a Public Match unless I am invited by a friend. Unfortunately, many of the people 
 on my friends list have not yet purchased Gears. What are they thinking?? That said, I attempt 
 to get a match by going to the Multilayer and clicking on Horde in a Public Match. The system then 
 goes on a never ending loop looking for other players to establish a group to play with. To date 
 I have been unsuccessful. Not sure if I am doing something wrong, or whether the Server is over 
 crowded or just having problems. The format the Clancy used in RVS was fantastic. Without problem 
 or delay you could easily get in a match. I really, really love the concept of Horde Mode, I just 
 can't get a game. If anyone has a solution it would be greatly appreciated. My Gamer Tag is actually 
 Hard44Eight. I would love some feed back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batigol_9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I was very excited because the first game blew me off with its graphical power, and because of 
 that I was really excited to see this one at 1080p but it didn't amazed me like others did, like 
 MGS4 or even COD4. But it does look great, I was just expecting a little bit more awesomeness!!! 
 Other than that it is a great game, I wanted to know what happened with A Fenix, but I guess we'll 
 have to wait till part three, because I don't think it ends there!
  
  The game difficulty at normal is just perfect for us, we passed the game and tried it in hard core 
 and it's really challenging, but we are having lots of fun. It really forces you to take cover 
 and shoot better which is great! Multiplayer is great too! Guns I prefer the default ones but there 
 are quite a few cool ones. It is definitely a game to try alone and with a friend (co-op) and it 
 is worth replaying it over and over again!!!
  
  Two thumbs up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exbox360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  A great game all around. Epic really wanted to appeal to all types of gamers. The unfortunate downside 
 to that is the people like me who play the campaign for 20 hours and the multiplayer for 500 hours 
 are kind of left out in the dark. There is hardly any online multiplayer achievements which makes 
 you feel like you are playing online with no reward at the end of the tunnel. Also since they combined 
 player matches and ranked matches you have to wait for a full group of 10 players before you can 
 play a match. The playlist are combined so you cant choose exactly what mode you want to play. 
 For instance, if you want to play warzone you have to use a playlist that conatains 2 other types 
 of play. The quickie multiplayer aspect of gears 1 is completely gone. If you want to get in a 
 match in less than 5-10 minues you have to play with bots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevComesRipping
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Before you go to click on the disagree button, you may want to hear me out. I absolutely love this 
 game, I bought it day of release and even splurged on the Limited Edition. I was quick to notice 
 that the ground combat was fixed in almost every aspect, the turning felt smoother, transitions 
 from dive to roadie run were mended together to make beautiful animations, the chainsaw will almost 
 certainly work every time you rev it in an unsuspecting enemies face, the active reload has been 
 made bigger on screen with the 'perfect' line bolded to be more recognizeable even without looking 
 directly at it, at it's core, this game deserves a 10. The multiplayer became more "play with a 
 friend" friendly, even added a "What's Up?" button to see where your friends are and what they 
 are playing, they changed the Assassination game into something much more competitive and kill-crazy, 
 added some fun (yet cluttered at times) games like Submission and Wingman, which have their minor 
 glitches still, and with the new smoother chainsaw can be a pain at times when what I like to call 
 "chainsaw parties" start to happen when basically you end up in a train of every one chainsawing 
 one another, but this is what makes the game great, "Game of the Year" great even. Then came the 
 bulk of the campaign, defend the hospital, get in the flat bed tank, use a turret to shoot down 
 nemacyst'. Ok, fair enough, get back on the ground, close a few emergence holes, (about a 2 minute 
 segment) get back on the flat bed tank, take out the locust and brumak with the turret... ok, another 
 turret, but fine, get through that, defend your "assault derrick" for about 20 minutes... back 
 on a turret, defend your assault derrick... now I don't want to give away the entire game but this 
 gets repeated, many, many times, It may have a different approach (Ride this and shoot the turret, 
 ride that, shoot the turret, defend this, with your turret, drive this, shoot your missiles) but 
 it still feels a bit like a filler to make the game last longer and ***SPOILER ALERT*** Completely 
 takes out any difficulty in the last act of the game ***SPOILER END*** I can only hope that for 
 Gears 3 they will bring the campaign back to what this series does best, bloody firefights, and 
 brutal melee (and not by turning it into Star Fox) .
  From a technical aspect Gears 2 looks great, the animations are smooth and everything you know 
 from the original Gears just works better or more realistically, you now slow down when trying 
 to run through bullets for example. But this of course comes with new glitches, from time to time 
 online you'll find yourself "warping" backwards, or losing ability to shoot your weapon. Although 
 I'm sure epic will fix these soon enough it's sort of a bummer for those who want to play right 
 now. Other than my gripes about on-rail sections of the campaign, Gears of War 2 is incredibly 
 polished and a game you'll have fun with for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conSept84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  although the game has some mysteries in it i know these mysteries will be answered soon like what 
 exactly does Marcus's dad really have to do with everything and what was the all the "security" 
 about, kinda fishy if you ask me. anyways i game the game a 9.5 game play is amazing easier to 
 play and control story character, easier to move around and the new multiplayer mode horde is the 
 best feature of the game in my opinion. another thing i liked way more about this gears over the 
 first one is the guns, the power they put out and the sounds. they would seen to sound more accurate 
 like if they were real and there is obviously more too choose from witch is always a plus in any 
 game. over all gears of war 2 was an amazing experience and left me wanting more i couldn't stop 
 playing it until i beat it once you start it its got you hooked and any gamer can tell you if a 
 game can do that and grip you in its a game worth while. so bottom line 9.5 don't miss out on this 
 one people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray_dog_253
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  The single player is one of the best i have played in a while. the pace the story and most impressive 
 the visuals. The dark stages to me are my favorites. What i dont like as much are the chapters 
 when your driving or riding, it's too much fun taking cover and chainsawing fools.
  
  The multiplayer is solid, great game modes, great maps, but i dont really like the matchmaking 
 system. At the moment it takes way too long to get a game started, unless you got a full party 
 then it seems to find matches rather quickley. The new Horde mode is good, but it would be more 
 rewarding if you couldn't beat the 50 waves in a private match for an easy acheivment. Starting 
 from where you left off rather than the beginning. It's still loads of fun though.
  
  Overall it's worth the buy for the single player alone, and multiplayer is good, but really hard 
 to master, it can be really inconsistant, and the ranking system after playing COD 4 for a year 
 seems really shallow, I think it works like Halo's, but you cant check your progress whatsoever....
 
  
  I love using cover!!! 
  If you like shooters, or action games in general this is one great game. So everybody go out and 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_ruler
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  At first sry, for my bad English :)
  
  GoW2 is truly the best Game i've played in my live ... and i've played a lot of games. I'v finished 
 the game yesterday and i'm still stunned!
  
  I've played the game in Co-Op-Mode on normal with my best friend (love bro) . We both felt the same 
 way about GoW2. It was a sweat tripping, emotional thrillride, which was more intense than a movie 
 and more entertaining than any other game i've played before.
  
  I've played GoW1 in the same way (Co-Op) and it was a sweet game too. But although GoW2 does not 
 make much differently than GoW1, it's a whole different class of Game. I can't really describe 
 what makes the difference, but believe me ... it's different. It's felt just perfect and complete.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay ist just one big pleasure. The few control-issues with GoW1 are fixed and the controls 
 feel more direct. The cover-system works great and i've never got problems to get in or out of 
 cover.
  If u hit a locust in the face u can barely feel the pain. The overall feeling is just great. If 
 a flamethrower hits you, you can almost feel the heat! And is there anything more satisfying than 
 going leatherface on sumone's ass with the lancer? ... don't think so!
  The variety of weapons is just right. There are not to much and they are not to similar.
  The 
 game is well balanced and the locations are sumtimes tough but never unfair.
  But like i said, the Gameplay is just perfect!
  
  10 / 10
  
  Graphics:
  WTF is Crysis?!
 
  If u take a look at the whole package ... GoW2 beats Crysis easily. The game provides so far, 
 the best graphics on the Xbox360! I've often caught myself with open mouth while playing. Water, 
 fire, enviroment, charakters and the whole other stuff looks soooo sweet. If i didn't got b*lls, 
 i would have cried ;) .
  
  10 / 10
  
  Sound:
  *BOOM* thats how a game have to sound and GoW2 sounds just like this. Voiceacting is also top-notch 
 (even in the German Version, but it wasn't always lipsynch) . Nothing more to say here.
  
  9,75 / 10 (-0,25 cause of the asynchronism)
  
  Overall and final words:
  If u got a friend 
 and if u like shooters with guts and gore, buy GoW2 or go play on the freeway! I've started playing 
 the game in singleplayer mode and it's fun too, but it can't keep up with the co-op mode. Maybe 
 i've rated the game lower if i would not had played it in co-op ... but who knows?!
  
  10 / 10
  
  The game was just *there is no word for, to describe this game*.
  Thanks to Epic 
 u did a great job and u've created a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidaldys
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Ok as most of you all know with all the hype this game is pretty amazing, but imo only on campaign 
 and the Horde mode. The graphics are like playin on a pc, the battles and fire fights are huge 
 and intense and the story is pretty good too. Only problem i found with it is I wanted more when 
 I got to the end I was shocked that was it, but I suppose its gearing it self up for Gears3 rite?
 
  So when I played Multiplayer I found the Horde mode and co-op campaign really really fun and addictive, 
 but thats it just those 2 rest of online play I found myself waiting forever in lobbys to get matched 
 up when I got playing it seems everyone just uses the shotgun and imo I found it very boring and 
 repetative.
  All in all I love the game and im sure I`l get into the online play alot more as time go`s by. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife97
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 picks up where the first one left off, just six months after you tried to blow up 
 the hollow, which failed terribly and now Marcus, Dom, and the rest of Delta squad have to team 
 up with the last surviving Gears to try one last ditch ever to save the human race! This game was... amazing!!! 
 Now I am a fair reviewer so ill say the good, and the little bad there is, but overall i still 
 have to give it a 10, 9.9 if they had it =D.
  
  The Good: Where to start..... Amazing graphics, great sound track and effects, improved weapons, 
 more melee attacks, improved head shots (wow...........) , alot of blood, more weapons (flamethrower 
 for the win!) same in your face characters, more story on the characters and their personal lives, 
 makes you feel every emotion possible from happy, sad, mad, glad, teary eyed, furious, frustrated, 
 accomplished, screaming mad, screaming happy, WHATEVER YOU DO! You will do it with this game
  
  The little bad: As the gamespot review has said this game does leave alot of unanswered questions, 
 this isnt a spoiler all im saying is watch til the end of the credits!!!! Gears 3 will be the best 
 game, EVER!!! And also it can be a little hard to find an online match because it will only pair 
 you with people in your skill range, not lower, not higher.
  
  So overall Gears 2 is an amazing game that will keep u entertained for days, weeks, months, until 
 you put it away for awhile and one day wonder why you ever put it down! It is in my opinion the 
 best game series since final fantasy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRPanthers
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  is this one exactly like GOW 1 just with new enemies, and new weapons? i want to see if its actually 
 worth $60 and if it is/isnt a repeat of #1, ive looked at alot of reviews and it sounds like a 
 really good game but i just dont want to feel like i played #1 but just with new modifications, 
 the online sounds awesome, but im hoping that GOW 2 is new material and pretty much new everything, 
 except the main characters, so please, can anyone help me on this? this looks like a really awesome 
 game, i just dont want to buy it, and try to sell it on craigslist 2 weeks from  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  From the intense, addictive online multiplayer, to engaging campaign mode, Gears of War 2 hits 
 the bulls eye. It is highly detailed with beautiful environments and well crafted multiplayer maps. 
 The gameplay, like it's predecessor, is highly addictive. Especially online with friends.
  
  The campaign is very well constructed and has a good variety of gameplay mechanics. It is fun 
 to play through alone, but even more fun with a friend in online co-op mode. The story itself is 
 enjoyable, and while its not necessarily better than the first, it does have a great amount of 
 twists and turns, surprises, and very exciting moments that will keep a player intrigued, as well 
 as keep them playing. 
  
  The online mode is where Gears of War 2 really excels. Although it is buggy at times, along with 
 the occasional lag, it is still one of the best multiplayer experiences available. The maps are 
 all almost flawless in design. Some include environmental effects that can be fatal to players, 
 which adds a great deal of excitement to the online gameplay. The team size has been increased 
 from four players to five and a party mode has also been added, which makes for a more sociable 
 environment and makes it easier for players to stay together from match to match.
  
  Horde mode is arguably the best new feature in Gears. It is a fast-paced, insanely fun arcade style 
 of gameplay that can be played on any one online map. The mode itself takes some time to complete 
 with a full team of five, but it is worth fighting until the very end. There are 50 waves of the 
 Locust horde to snipe, torque, hammer, grind, scorch, frag, blow up, and chainsaw in order to score 
 a well-deserved 50 achievement points.
  
  Gears of War 2 is, without a doubt, overall one of the best games to hit the Xbox 360 all year. 
 A must-play for any action junkie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moh2in
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  a great game, great campaign, great guns. Gears of war2 is a great sequal to add. but the online 
 makes me MAD. why did they have to change it why???!!??
  the online randomly goes to match making its not bad but its not good. u cant host a match cant 
 chose where to put the guns u have to most of the time wait 10 mins for matchmaking and u cant 
 chose the number of rounds. tht sux.
  
  but tht dosent make gears of war 2 a poopy game. gears of war 2 is a great game and i suggest u 
 get it. but sometimes the matchmaking is very fast. but painful too. get gears of war. like a said 
 its a good game......
  
  the campaign is amazing and yeah u can also get golden guns only with the lancer and hammerburst 
 i dont know how to get them.
  
  like i said gears of war 2 is a amazing game but somewhat frustrating and annoying at the same 
 time. it annoys and frustrates everyone thnx to the matchmaking but its not tht bad. but why wht 
 wht did they have to change the online why did they have to make it automaticly go to matchmaking.
 
  
  u cant host a game or chose the number of rounds.
  
  gears of war 2 is a amzing game but l
  
  
  ike i said frustrating and annoying a little bit 
 or is it? oh yeah and its hard 
  
  
  p. s go to my website  it sux lol but go to it=p coment on videoes 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h7nichan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is one of the best written games that I've ever played. It has superb voice acting 
 and graphics which gets you fully immersed in the game. Gameplay is meticulously well-thought out 
 and just plainly feels right. You even feel the "weight" of the character as you run around. On 
 top of that with the addition of new "stomps" and a handful of new weapons and grenades makes this 
 game better than its predecessor. The fact that they took a game like Gears of War and made it 
 better is simply mind-boggling. My only beef with the game is the fact that when I was playing 
 online with a friend, glitches infest the gameplay, and at times made it impossible to play. This 
 game will reach anyone who plays it, theres hardly any repetition, and hits all the rights spots 
 ALL the time. Gears of War 2 has my vote for the game of the year AND the game of the millennium. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is amazing. LOL. I'm just going to start off by saying that. It's more epic on every 
 level of gameplay and design. And from the start you are thrust into battles of epic proportions 
 that makes you feel like your playing huge role in the Locust-Human War while making you feel insignificant 
 with it's scale and epicness.
  
  Graphics (9.5/10) :
  Amazing graphics. Gears 1 was pretty much the most graphically proficient game of it's time. Same 
 here with Gears 2. One part actually stood out for me. When you're watching the huge worm sink 
 a city, everything about the scene is absolutely awe-inspiring. Just grandiose in every aspect. 
 The gore is gorier and blood bloodier. I don't believe I found anything wrong about the graphics 
 except, like Gears 1, textures take time to load. Not to noticeable once you get a good look at 
 the level and characters.
  
  Sound (9.5/10) :
  Sound wise, the game succeeds. The guns sound much meatier and sound like they can rip something 
 to shreds. Even little things, such as rubble tumbling to the ground, sounds amazingly good. 
 
  
  Gameplay / Storyline (8.5/10) :
  Other than a few glitches, the gameplay holds up rather well. As for the story, once again, it 
 is riddled with holes, but the story is otherwise good and entertaining. Oh yeah, it's dark. VERY 
 dark. But entertaining, nontheless. Gameplay-wise, the game holds up pretty much. Yes, the shotgun's 
 damage dealing is either extremely underpowered or extremeley overpowered. You'll be five feet 
 away from someone and be able to blow them apart with one shot, but then you'll be ten feet away 
 and it'll take five shots just to down them. And I'm not exaggerating. Like most games that introduce 
 new weapons, some of them aren't well balanced and need a little bit of tweaking, but other than 
 that, the weapons are good. Chainsaws are ridiculously overpowered, however. Yeah, you're probably, 
 "Well, duh, it's a chainsaw." But if I shotgun someone, they should either die or stop chainsawing, 
 NOT CONTINUE AS IF THEY'RE SOME SORT OF RAMBO/MASTER CHIEF/CHUCK NORRIS FREAK OF NATURE. Other 
 than those minor annoyances, the gameplay holds up pretty well for the most part.
  
  Lastability/Multiplayer (10/10) : 
  I haven't seen a better multiplayer game since... well... CoD4 
 or H3. While yes, matchmaking takes some time, Epic and Microsoft have said they're working on 
 it, so don't worry. Lag-wise, the game is virtually lag-free. Nothing like H3. Maps are overall 
 balances, although they seem annoyingly symmetrical. The matchmaking system is a welcomed addition. 
 The ability to use bots also helps out with the lastability. For those achievement whores, the 
 Insane difficulty unlocks after you beat the game for the first time, so, knowing you achievement 
 whores, you're going to want to make a second run through and get the achievement. The game on 
 Casual-Hardcore takes at least 10 hours, so if you play through twice, it should take about 20-25 
 hours. Horde is tons of fun. Nothing more fun than having people scream "Pick me up!" into your 
 mic once you guys past level 40. It's fun. Really, it is. Lots of new multiplayer games, like Submission, 
 just keep continue adding on to the Lastability/Multiplayer factor. I mean... I can just keep going 
 on. But trust me, you WILL be playing this game for MONTHS.
  
  Final Comment: 
  Gears of War 2 is worth the $60. Actually, I recommend getting the Limited Edition, just because 
 of how much I love this game. The story is dark, depressing, and yet entertaining. The gameplay, 
 other than some unbalanced weapons, is tight and fun. Graphics push the 360 to it's limit and the 
 sounds create that dark ambience of war that every game deserves. Multiplayer will keep all of 
 these aspects entertaining you for months. And so, in the end, Gears of War 2 recieves a 9 out 
 of 10. Let's go people, it's Emergence Day. Go shred some Locust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ooNaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is simply the best game the 360 has to date. Everything that was in the first Gears, 
 is now in the second one, which is really good. They've upgraded just about everything! The look 
 of the lancer is different and has a more better sound to it and is accurate. They also upgraded 
 the shotgun, so don't worry to all of you guys out there who want to actually use a different weapon 
 online. That's one good thing. Not only that, but the story has a more darker feeling to it with 
 more disturbing and gruesome action! They also added a variety of COG and Locust characters as 
 well, including Tai- a indian dude, Dizzy- a cowboy, and more! They also added a Horde mode, which 
 is a mode where you face off against wave after wave after wave of enemy Locust. [ They are Computers 
 ] This mode supports up to 5 players. Speaking of 5 players, the multiplayer modes can support 
 up to 10 players, 5 on each team. They completely outdone themselves on the multiplayer! They made 
 a lobby system, kinda like Halo's, and also no dumb host advantage! [ Dosen't that make you happy? 
 ] There are 3 new modes including Submission, King of the Hill, and Guardian. Submission is a type 
 of capture the flag mode for Gears, where both teams rush to get to a Stranded - who is armed with 
 a shotgun- and must down him. Then you pick him up by tapping the A button and rush to the Scoring 
 zone! King of the Hill is basically Annex, except the spot stays there, it dosen't move. Guardian 
 is a mode in which each team has a leader and can respawn as long as the leader is alive. When 
 the leader dies, you must wipe out everyone else to win the match. In Wingman, there are five teams 
 of two, kinda like Multi-Team in Halo3. Basically, wipe out the enemy to win.
  
  Overall, this game is my most favorite game I have ever played. Everything about it has improved 
 so drastically! Anyway, what are you doing there? Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 no matter what dominates all others in story its the 360 version of MGS4 if there ever 
 was one. Gears 2 holds up to its predecessor but the sad thing is the first Gears was so well done 
 it was hard for the second Gears to add more on to the franchise. Graphics are still amazing and 
 horde is wonderful. The bad thing about Gears 2 is its somewhat low playability. After getting 
 the Horde achievement it seems somewhat boring and unappealing. The one thing that I know pisses 
 off every Gears 2 player is the online matchmaking, it will literally take forever to find an online 
 if your by yourself or don't have a full 5 member party. The time it takes can range from average 
 5-15 minutes if your lucky. This is done so no team is uneven which is nice but very annoying. 
 Now lets talk about glitches which are very annoying. At times in the game you might Kung fu flip 
 over cover by some weird chance and get laid out by Locust. At times you might jump over cover 
 where your friend is and for a quick brief moment will be standing on him out in the open this 
 happened on Horde. The nice things are AI which are decent on account but could be better. A great 
 thing is in the campaign you'll be able to be picked up by friendly AI which is a relief. The enemy 
 AI still have some complications such as the wretch won't notice you from behind and will just 
 sit there until killed. Another glitch is with the chainsaw at times when you saw a drone in half 
 you might actually be sawing a tree instead of the grub if your too late to the kill but you'll 
 still be vulnerable. Gears 2 anwers a lot of questions and has a more in depth campaign than before 
 and delivers non-stop action. The battles are bigger and the weapons are far more accurate than 
 before.
  Gameplay-9/10
  Graphics-10/10
  Story-10/10
  Another thing is the sound affects are fantastic and sound so realistic than before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was very excited for this game. I loved GOW and thought it was to short. GOW2, 
 is about the same in length and will typically take much longer the harder you make the difficultly 
 and if you try to get all the single player achev. pts. The graphics are the same, the controller 
 the same and many of the action scenes remind you of the first. The parts that are different are 
 some of the action scenes when you use your saw to cut guys apart. Some different guns and more 
 big guys throughout the levels. The storyline is pretty good and it keeps you involved. Overall, 
 I would say this game is a must play for anyone. The gore is great, the gameplay is great and the 
 fact that this is another game you can co-op with a friend is just awesome. MP is good also but 
 I havent played a ton of it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say , i didn't played the first one because i didn't have time when the game was 
 released , but after spend 200 hours playing Fallout 3 , there is no game that you can play and 
 make you fell the same way , but still Gears of War 2 is a great game. To the rates:
  
  Graphics - 10
  The game visual is a amazing , i have to say i was very surprised with the game 
 graphics , didn't expected being so good. I am saying that because believe Gears of Wars 2 have 
 one of the best visuals i ever see. The char models, the guns , the space around you, fantastic.
 
  
  Game History - 9.0
  The game history is very good but follow the same path as the first Gears of War ( i know i said 
 i never played the first one , but that is no excuse to don't know the preview game of this great 
 series history) . Its a world war humans versus no humans , i know its look like the same history 
 of all war games , monsters versus humans , well it is like that a little but this one is very 
 better , the humans are almost extinct , you fight against the no humans but as far as you proceed 
 to the game you will begin to uncover some dirty little secrets...
  
  Sound - 10
  I think the game sound system is very good , i mean they sounds are very well made , footsteps, 
 gun shot , anything you name it. And the best part is, the game don't have game music's in the 
 mission's , and that is 10/10 , i hate listen songs in a middle of a god damm war with some guys 
 trying to shoot a bullet on you head , and the stupid game music keep going.
  
  Fun - 8.0
  Well its a third person shooter , its a good one i admit but still IS A THIRD PERSON 
 SHOOTER , well is fun blow things , kill some people , but after playing Fallout 3 you can't help 
 don't enjoy the rest of the games for some time. Gears of War 2 is very fun , but this rate 8.0 
 is with Multiplayer included if you going to play alone is like 6.5 - 7.0.
  Its nice blow some people head online =] .
  
  Gameplay - 8.0
  The game is very nice , there 
 are like 15 weapons is total , you can do a lot of things in the missions , the multiplayers mode 
 is very addictive because let the game much more fun , the cover system is great , make the game 
 much more real. But thats it , no majors new things that make you sayWOW THIS IS GREAT, the 
 cover system maybe but thats all.
  
  Results - 8.0
  Its a great game, one of the best games released this year , one that you must have , but if you 
 were playing Fallout 3 like 200+ hours like me... rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredtaylor281
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely an M but a very enjoyable M. All in all a great game that I will surely 
 be playing for years to come. Horde is the funnest thing I have ever done in a video game in my 
 life. This amazing game has definitely lived up to the hype and more. I really appreciate the split-screen 
 co-op campaign because most of my friends don't have Gears of War 2 so they come over and can play. 
 This will surely become present at any gamers party. The training grounds is also a welcome addition. 
 I disagree with anyone who says this is the same as Gears of War 1 because it is most certainly 
 not. I am tired of people who say that sequels are just the same as the first because that is usually 
 very untrue. They are two totally different games anyone could tell. This is a truly epic game 
 that will become loved for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artb678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is pure fun if you've played Gears of War 1 you must get this game. The story is 
 better than the first games story but it is basically the same thing shooting and hiding but the 
 story and the online multiplayer makes it all worth it. The game gives you a great amount of weapons 
 to choose from, most are from Gears of War 1. You'll be fighting the Locust most of the time just 
 like in Gears of War 1 but its fun all of the time. The cut scenes aren't at all too long, you 
 will be playing most of the time. The mutliplayer online is highly fun. Basically if you've played 
 Gears of War 1 you will feel right at home playing this game. Even though Gears of War 1 was slightly 
 better Gears of War 2 is still a great game overall and the story will keep you with it till the 
 very end. Might even be Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorisSoad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Only weeks before the release I was really into Gears 1. The action there was in the multiplayer 
 based on the shotgun. That aspect has been kicked out of the game. When I first heard this I was 
 just scared. I was afraid they ripped they soul of the game out by changing this. I was wrong.
 
  
  First of all: the campaign. It's awesome. The cut-scenes follow each-other in quick tempo. There's 
 always happening something, somewhere. The action will thrill you untill the very end. Stunning 
 enviroments, vehicles with style, the sickest executions. Man. This game is heavy. In the campaign 
 the lancer will be your faithful companion and it was the gun I always carried. Sometimes I changed 
 my shotgun for a sniper or for the great new weapons, but without a long-distance gun you are nowhere. 
 The hammerburst has been balanced better and now is a great alternative for the standard lancer. 
 But back to the gameplay: in contradiction with the first game this game will force you to use 
 tactics and hold your position longer. Weapons have been improved to help you improve your tactics. 
 Small things like that a smokegrenade now does explode give help by breaking the cover of your 
 oppenent. And not only in the multiplayer, in the campaign too this is helpful. You almost feel 
 sorry for those beautiful Locust temples when you tag a grenade in a wall. This is another improvement, 
 tagging grenades in the wall allow you to set up traps. 
  
  The epic feeling the campaign gave me dissapeared in some of the vehicle-scenes, which are the 
 negative aspects of the game. It frustated me when I spent an hour driving in a stupid tank shooting 
 gigant Reavers. The whole take cover and use your brain mentality was gone in these parts. I was 
 pissed off at the A. I. in this parts because they sometimes where just too strong. But, hey, what 
 am I compaining about? The tank-scene was just a small one and the rest of the vehicle-scenes worked 
 out better. Not good, but better.
  
  Well, what did I like about the campaign? As I said, the long-distance fights and the enviroments. 
 The story has improved and there even is emotion in the game. Yeah, that's right. The machos break. 
 Dom cries, that part of the story nearly made me cry, Marcus is worried about Anya. Man, I didn't 
 know the Gears had that much emotion. The characters are more clear now, the cockyness of Baird 
 really made me laugh and Cole stole my heart. Well, I'm not in love with him but he now is my favourite 
 multiplayer character. And then the epic feeling the campaign gave me. The beautiful cut-scenes, 
 the action. It is just perfect. And the boss-battles. Sorry if I'm gibbering, but, man, the boss-battles 
 are so cool! You will fight a huge fish, a Locust with dreadlocks and creatures too wicked to discribe. 
 Really awesome, sometimes a bit too hard, but stil awesome.
  
  And then the part where the whole game is based on. The multiplayer. The adrenline rush you'll 
 get when you have your first shotgun fight is nearly better than sex. That the shotgun plays a 
 smaller role in this game doesn't mean it has totally vanished. You'll sometimes grab your shotgun 
 if it really gets up close and personal. But when you have enough space to aim, the lancer or hammerburst 
 will do the job just fine. And the action still feels the same, altough you now use other weapons 
 and tactics. The ways to rob your enemy of his life are sicker than ever. And that's just my style. 
 Nearly every weapon has its own execution and that rocks. 
  
  The bots which are new in the game work fine. Not excellent, but fine. Sometimes you'll get the 
 feeling the bots are too good. Sneaking up to someone to give him a taste of your chainsaw is nearly 
 impossible. They will always discover you in time. And sometimes when I crept up to someone who 
 was in cover, they quickly equipped a shot gun and hit lethally in my chest before they even got 
 out of the cover. Felt unrealistic and pissed me off. But the bots feel the empty space quite good 
 if your xboxlive is expired. Not as good as real players, but if you are as noob as I am you can 
 finally feel how it is to be a pro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I truly was waiting for this game, Wanting to grab that controller and dive back into the war. 
 Well that wait is over, and Gears 2 was soooo Worth every min. I spent playing it. From the new 
 weapons, to the few new moves, Gears of War 2 was a roller coster of a ride. From start to finish, 
 I was on the edge of my seat the hole time. Like many have said, the store this time is Darker 
 then the first, dealing with lost loved ones, to lossing comrades, to watching the city you defended 
 against the Locus, get destoryed. Not alot has changed form the first game, but really how can 
 to change something that is already just pure WOW. The graphics as always are jaw dropping, and 
 the controls you can pick up and play with out any problems. Every turn was a new enemy to fight, 
 or new monster to kill. The new vehicles are a mixed of fun and a little frustration. Oh but the 
 Brama was all about FUN, stomping and just distroying everything and everyone in my way to the 
 end of the game. Not many games get my attention like Gears 1 and 2 did. This is one of those games 
 I devoted myself to play all the way to the end, and not stop tell every Locus was ethier Dead 
 or Dieing.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonaldAWilliams
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Gears of War 2... Well as the ratings is M for Mature, it definitely earned 
 that with some of the language presented and exaggeration of gore. This game is not for little 
 kiddies that's for sure ha ha! The missions were pretty straight forward, and it had excellent 
 visuals but all they all felt repetitive. But let's be honest, what game isn't repetitive to some 
 extent? The voice acting was sub par, but still good and the developers had definitely added a 
 sense of stereo types to some of them. Some of the mechanics like jumping on walls, and blind firing 
 got choppy at times but given the freedom to go and do as you please... all is forgiven. Not so 
 much a fan of the multiplayer; however, there is much to be enjoyed with the several different 
 game variants like horde and the basics (aka Team Deathmatch) . The reason I didn't enjoy it too 
 much, it took me back to the Halo 3 days where you would unleash wave after wave of ammo into an 
 opponent and yet it would not finish them off. But as expected, this may be what some people enjoy. 
 Other than a few quirks based on my personal opinions about gaming, I would have to say that Epic 
 has definitely done a decent job on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyrusTheVirus9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First up - Campaign is not that long especially if you dont care to find collectibles, the bosses 
 are huge and exhilirating. vehicle sequences are better and occur more often and the storyline 
 is great except dominics vendetta to find maria comes off a bit cheesy thus making it feel forced 
 into the main storyline.
  
  Second - Gameplay is alot more satisfying. Character movements are alot tighter than the first 
 game resulting in going in too less unwanted cover positions by accident. There are alot more weapons 
 to choose from giving the player the freedom to strategize and boobytrap a location you so choose 
 to hold-off. 
  
  Third - A new mode called The horde, could of held its ground as a stand alone game, it is that 
 fun. Dont expect too complete it on your own. Best played with your friends.
  
  Fourth - The multi-player matches are fun. Capture the flag has a welcome twist. The only thing 
 missing is a ranking system for online play. Other than that this is a game you dont want to miss 
 out on and once you have it you'll be trying to get all your buddies to pick up the game as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pakhazman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  After seeing all the hype around Gears 2 and the top reviews received by Gears 1, I took the risk 
 of going out and purchasing a copy on day 1. After having finished the campaign, I have to admit 
 that it was one of the most visually stunning games I've ever played. The graphics cannot be over 
 hyped, man these guys did their homework before setting out to develop this game.
  
  Now more critically, I think some improvements could have been made in terms of a stronger storyline 
 but the gameplay is satisfying and will keep you mesmerized until you finish the game. Again there 
 could have been more to the ending but it certainly doesn't disappoint. 
  
  In terms of the muliplayer, the horde mode is incredibly fun, its like campaign except with 4 of 
 your friends, since there are 50 rounds you'll be busy for at least a couple hours depending on 
 the difficulty setting you choose. And for casual gamers like me, its more than enough to keep 
 you busy. As for other multiplayer settings, I've tried the elimination mode and it is pretty good 
 from what I've seen. It is in third person, so its different than first person (as in COD4) but 
 maybe that's a good thing if you like variability. 
  
  COD4 set the standard for muliplayers so high for me but Gears 2 is still more than worth the value. 
 I'll still purchase COD 6 when it comes out but this'll keep me busy until then, if you want to 
 buy one of the best games for the 360 over the next year, let this be it. Oh and the load times 
 for muliplayer maps are a little on the slow side so I hope they release a patch to fix those, 
 only issue I have with this shooter is it takes a long time to get kills unlike COD4 which is more 
 realistic, also, heavy weapons give a disproportional advantage (one hit kills) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMikeInVA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The new Gears of War is a spectacular piece of gaming and artistry. The detailed graphics, and 
 game play really drive what is best about shooters. The "over the shoulder" view works well, while 
 the game mechanics do not interfere too much with the overall likeability of the game. Some of 
 the new features also bring player satisfaction up. The Horde, and the coop game play make the 
 replayability of the game high. Being able to track your progression towards achievments is a step 
 above most shooters.
  
  A couple of small issues with some of the interactions with such things as the lever's and switches. 
 Also, a couple of times, it was difficult to switch weapons. Also, I was under the impression that 
 co-op would be 4 player not 2. Not a show stopper but just the same, one can hope. All of these 
 are minor things that did not overpower the overall gameplay but still annoying. The story line 
 has very few holes and leaves you wanting more. I found myself scouring the internet to get ideas 
 on the rest of the story. Overall the game is great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyg756
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  The first Gears of war was somthing new. The graphics were amazing and its probably the reason 
 so many people bought an xbox back in 2006. This new one is more of the same, the graphics are 
 improved slightly, the campaign feels different and the multiplayer is awesome as well. But its 
 still not as good as the first game, it technically is, but it takes more than slight improvements 
 to make a sequel that destroys the first game.
  
  Same goes for the new call of duty coming out. Games that just improve themselfs a bit every year 
 still do well, but the best games always end up being the ones that stand out from the crowd of 
 similar games. Personally i don't want another War-FPS game im pretty sure i have played them all 
 already. Same goes for Gears 3, if they only change it slightly like they have done with this game, 
 then i might consider not buying it.... Still this game is great, be it a copy or not its still 
 more of the same awesome gory fun that the first one had... and its not worn itself out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umarA1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  gears of war 2 beat gears of war at being the best game ever created the storyline has to be a 
 key selling point, although I would prefer it to be longer maybe 6 acts or 7. Aside that there 
 is no other fault, this game has its own shelf and bulletproof casing with a security system inside 
 that casing. Unbelievable game, rocks, its the s**t the raw hardcore tyrannosaurus rex s**t definitely 
 buy, and don't even think about resistance 2, just do what the title says and resist from purchasing 
 that sad game. XBOX 360 have managed to have an exclusive game which allows them to persuade people 
 to purchase the console for a game. All the hype was definitely accurate, the guys at epic really 
 know how to keep their fans loyal. I will be playing this one until a number 3 is released which 
 I think we all know is heading our way in the future. Gears of War, Gears of War 2 and Gears of 
 War 3 is definitely a must have box set. This is one game that has a special place in the industry 
 of entertainment, people behold the ultimate game has been created and then released on the 7th 
 of November 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexdiaz18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  gears of war 2 is a very cool game the graphics are awsome and everything else but the online while 
 get youbored of the game quick because its the same as last time there is a ranking system but 
 theres no point of it because you dont get new guns if it were like cod4 the online will way better 
 but this game is still very fun its your to buy this game dont listen to no one this game is crazy 
 espacially the story the story is amazing but way to short you can beat it one day but the story 
 and what happens in the game buy this gameeeeeeeeeeeeeee if you like this game believe me if you 
 not a gears fan you will not this game its hardcore go buy this game please its crazyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy 
 i dont know what else to say ssoo yeahhhhhh ummmmmm peaceeeeeee if you want to go buy and believe 
 you are to love it or not who knows 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerkiduri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  hi, now this is gonna be my reveiw on gears 2 (A HUGE LETDOWN) this game should have been released 
 next year or somethin, BUT THIS GAME LET ME DOWN!!!!!!! it has flaws in everyway! the online and 
 the campaign let me down.
  GRAPHICS:
  the graphics are amazing but it has got bad textures, for eg. marcus's back looks so gray etc.
 
  9.0
  STORY:
  the story was great and the characters are really interesting
  9.6
  GAMEPLAY:
  gameplay was the same but new weopons etc and you can use ur chainsaw in different 
 ways 9.0
  campaign:
  campaign is completely dissapointing! it is too short! only 8 hours!
  6.0
  online:
  online is also very very dissapointing because it is the same but now you can 
 use 10 people and a new mode called horde modewhich is really fun but ONLY 10 PEOPLE!!!!!!!!! and 
 the online is filled with glitches! so the online is huge letdown and there is still no ranking 
 like they are in cod, resistance, halo etc.
  6.0
  so overall this game will bore you because after the short campaign you will play online which 
 is the most dissapinting thing in this games and this game hyped so much and this game is sooooooo 
 overrated! i give this game
  8.5
  if i were you i would only rent this game causeafter a day there will be no use of this game. so 
 if you are a shooter fan you should get call of duty 5, resistance 2, resident evil 5 and killzone 
 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_S3rv0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I literally can not put my controller down once I start playing Gears 2. This has everything you 
 want in a shooter: big guns, big aliens, lots of blood, lots of action, great graphics, and an 
 awesome multiplayer.
  
  The campaign is all well and good, we get to know more about Dom's background and personality. 
 It would be hard to put Marcus Fenix in the same role since we all know his main objective is to 
 put a chainsaw through the chest (or back) of a locust grub.
  
  The action becomes intense when the bosses from the previous game (Reavers, Brumaks, Corpsers) 
 become more frequent and sometimes even multiple ones on screen at once. The bosses this time around 
 are even more grand, and the fact that you need to attack one from the inside just proves how massive 
 they can be.
  
  But all that is just a primer for the multiplayer portion of Gears 2. First off I just wanna say 
 I love the idea of bots, that way if my internet is down for whatever reason, or I just want a 
 casual game without all the kids being annoying on the headset, I can simply jump into whatever 
 game I wanna play and the AI gives me a good challenge.
  
  All the modes are fun to play, I still love playing Warzone the most, but I will play Execution 
 sometimes, and now I am starting to get into Submission. Just the idea of the "flag" being able 
 to fight back just fits in the Gears Universe.
  
  Also being able to play on 5 of the old Gears 1 maps is a welcome addition. I personally liked 
 Mansion a lot and so it was good to see that come back on the Flashback Map Pack. 
  
  The Achievements are once again hard to obtain, and you feel a great sense of gratification when 
 you do get them unlocked. I will be spending countless hours trying to get "Seriously 2.0" since 
 that requires you to kill 100,000 baddies. Just more incentive to keep playing. (like you needed 
 it)
  
  In the end, Gears 2 is a great experience that nobody should miss out on. Even if you were on the 
 fence with Gears 1, get Gears 2, if only for the awesome multiplayer. 
  
  Get your chainsaws ready again, cause with the Locust, it never ends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gophers1789
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is by far one of the most visually pleasing games of all time. This game has to 
 be considered one of the best games of all time. It's multi-player mode is ridiculously awesome 
 and the story is revolutionary. Nothing can compare to this incredible game. It's extremely addictive 
 and ever since I bought it, it's hard to stop playing. This game is highly entertaining and anyone 
 smart should own it. I don't think this game could have been made any better. The graphics are 
 just as amazing as they were for the first Gears, if not, better! This is a must buy for anyone 
 who knows good games and knows what is right for them. It's worth the amount I paid for it and 
 more. The critics should have rated this game a ten no questions asked. The weapons make the game 
 so much better too. It's nice to have a good variety. Not only is the variety of weapons good, 
 but the ones they chose for this game are insane. The shot gun has to be my all time favorite. 
 I don't see how anyone could see this game on the shelf and walk by it without at least a glance. 
 They would have to buy it if they only knew what this game was all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerjustin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all, there is so much new add-ons that make GOW2 shine. But first, let me describe some 
 of its aspects.
  
  GRAPHICS: This game has refined it's already amazing graphics and made the world shine. Maps have 
 been reanalyzed and more details have been added. As an example, when you shoot your lancer, the 
 environment reacts. Walls start to crumble and destructible environments make a nice eye-toy.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game keeps the same type of action, with some new weapons and features. New weapons 
 include the mortar and the flamethrower which heavily balance the game. In the past GOW, the boomshot 
 was overpowered but now, games are more balanced and more epic. Also, the new types of killing 
 locust is awesome. The Y button does some pretty tight moves with some different weapons. 
  
  Get what you pay for? Oh yeah. There is so much new "stuff" to this game that you will be playing 
 for hundreds of hours. The multilplayer has been improved and there is a new multiplayer mode called 
 the Horde! The horde consists of 50 waves and you MUST work together with teammates to complete 
 it. Enemies will be increasingly harder as the waves are increased and this mode is the best new 
 thing to the Gears Franchise.
  
  This game does live up to the hype and I will see you out there gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlsOfJustice
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is simply the most addictive game i've played all year. From the brutal fight scenes to 
 the awesome story line, this game is a classic. It brings back all the parts of Gears you love, 
 while adding in new weapons, tactics, enemies and an intriguing plot. One thing i like about this 
 game is the new and deadly executions introduced, as well as using the enemy as meat shields. The 
 long campaign puts you through some of the most intense and epic fights ever to be seen on the 
 x-box. The fighting is fast paced, and you find yourself massacring thousands of the locust effortlessly 
 as your riding A FREAKING BRUMAK. The new character dialogue ultimately throws up more questions 
 than answers, but at the same time gives you more of an insight into the war, and its effects on 
 the regular people of Sera. One thing i did find is that the AI was a little laggy at parts, but 
 overall your allies cooperated very well. Also, the ending i found could have been a lot better, 
 although it leaves room for Gears 3, it doesn't give much closure as it just explains that there 
 are a new and deadlier enemy, the glowing Locust, which is pretty weak. And considering that the 
 end to the game is to sink ONE city underwater to hopefully kill all the Locust? While the ending 
 was kinda lame, i think we can ALL agree that it blows Resistance 2's ending right out of the water. 
 All in all, this game was money well spent, with hours of fun fighting through the horde's in single 
 player, and hours with the brand new multiplayer setup thats even more fun to play than the campaign. 
 BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvisbond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Many are asking, does gears 2 live up to the predeccesor? While this question may be biased any 
 given reviewer, the facts are the campaign and story line of the original do overshine the sequal. 
 Gears 2 doesnt have the same feeling of achomplishment at the end, mainly because we all wanted 
 a general ram, and we got a monster that we could kill within under a minute. Whie gears 2 does 
 have some intense and exciting missions, it just doesnt captivate you like the story lines of halo 
 3 cod4 and gow1. Multiplayer on the other hand, it extreamily improved, it is much more clean cut 
 than the original. Overall graphics in the game are great, the addition of horde mode, only makes 
 the game better. At the end of the day, while the campaign may be slightly behind, the new additions 
 make for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_armolas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was setup by Epic Games sounding like they took the first game and added so many new 
 features that it would never get old, and that's exactly what they did. This game has so many different 
 modes, maps, and different things to do that it is hard to imagine that even when you have completed 
 the campaign on insane, mastered wave 50 on horde and can beat all your friends in multiplayer 
 that you will be finished with this game. Those things alone will take up many hours to complete, 
 not to mention the very welcome addition of bots to the game, which many other games such as Halo 
 3 have been missing. Cliff Bleszinski seems to know what he's doing when he adds new elements to 
 the gameplay because every new enemy and weapon is a welcome addition and they all fit perfectly 
 into the game and add some new fun, such as the new shield that can be used from downed boomers, 
 as well as the new burst pistol that can be used while taking a locust hostage. That is another 
 welcome addition to the game. Now, when an enemy is downed you have several options. You can press 
 A to pick them up and use them as a meat shield while you use your pistol, you can press X to perform 
 a good old fashioned curb stomp and you can press Y to punch them to death. There are so many tweaks 
 here and there with the already awesome gameplay such as the chainsawing from behind, the chainsaw 
 duels, the stopping power, and as mentioned just now, the variety of killing downed opponents.
 
  
  Literally every single aspect of the game has been improved upon including the graphics, which 
 are now a bit brighter which is a good thing because, although the environments in Gears 1 were 
 impressive, they were at times dark and uninteresting, whereas now there are extremely visceral 
 environments along with huge scale areas and you are not always cramped.
  
  There is one complaint that I have with the game, and it was a complaint I had with Gears 1 as 
 well, and it is why I have taken of 0.5 from its perfect 10. Most people have more than one friend, 
 so it only makes sense that games are made to support the maximum number of players that the console 
 can handle, in the Xbox 360's case, 4. It is frustrating when we have to take turns playing Gears 
 2 because it is only 2 players local. Every mode (campaign, versus, and horde) are only 2 players 
 local. Most people do play online now however the multiplayer experience is often at its best when 
 played locally, which is where Gears 2 and 1 fall short.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is a must have if you are a shooter fan, or a good game fan. 
 If you have played Gears of War 1 and enjoyed it at all then this game is a must buy. Although 
 I would recommend buying it new because it includes codes for 5 maps that they carried over from 
 Gears 1 that are not available without the code. This game is awesome and perhaps my favorite game 
 for the console of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewave31
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  it has been a while since i spent the night playing a game but believe it gears of war can actually 
 made u do that i will review this game step buy step:
  
  graphics: 
  the environment felt soooooo real if your covering behind a stone bullets will gradually destroy 
 it u will actually see the pieces fly around
  head shoot are a pleasure to your eyes and you will never get board of cutting your enemy in half 
 with your mighty chainsaw 
  the monsters are greatly detailed evilly drowned and they are really BIG.
  so graphics 10/10
 
  
  sound effects:
  chainsaw sound is a music to the ear catchy back round music but the sound acting could be better 
 (it is good but not great as the game itself)
  
  so sound 9/10
  
  story:
  deeper story memorial moments has all the elements love, war, tragedy, mystery and unfinished ( 
 so hayyyyyyyy there is gears of war 3) much better than the first part
  
  so story 10/10
  
  control:
  good covering system and great aiming system steady as ever
  but there is on 
 problem the running button and covering button are the same so if your planning on running out 
 of enemy fire you will get stuck some times with your back to the wall and ur face is taking all 
 the bullets 
  vehicles control is kind of sluggish but you will get used to it
  
  so control 8/10
  
  game play (fun factor)
  what is best than kicking evil ass. cutting with 
 a chainsaw.
  riding reavers and fighting with ugly big monsters.
  variety of weapons cool ways to use them.
  none stopping action 
  good A. I the will make it 
 a challenging game
  
  so fun 20/10
  
  sorry i don't have fast internet so i have no idea of multiplayer
  but any way the solo player 
 is the best i have seen in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfgiantsfan8291
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Before I talk about Gears of War 2, let me just say that I was a huge fan of the first game, and 
 although I know it had its flaws, it was a great start to a phenomenal series. With that being 
 said, Gears 2 brings back what Gears 2 did right, and more.
  
  When I first picked up Gears 2 last Friday, the first thing I did was the obvious choice: Play 
 the campaign. Although not everyone was a big fan of Gears 1's multiplayer, the reason the Gears 
 series is so big today is the highly acclaimed campaign story. The game picks up 6 months after 
 the original game I believe. Humanity is on the brink of extinction as the Locust attempt to crush 
 what is left of it. The city of Jacinto stands as humanity's last "safe" haven, and this plays 
 a big part in the story later on. 
  
  Right off the bat you should notice the improved visuals. Gears 1 ha spectacular graphics, but 
 somehow Gears 2 found a way to make them even better. The environments are breathtaking, and if 
 you pay attention to the details you will see some really cool things. So once again you take control 
 of Marcus Fenix, (or Dom Santiago if you are playing coop) and take on the Locust hordes. 
  
  Note:
  Speaking of coop, I found it interesting that you and whoever you are playing with 
 can set a different difficulty. I thought I would mention that, it seems like a neat idea. Also 
 players can now can join their friends campaign mid-game, which is a big improvement from the last 
 game where you had to start it together and if one person left the game would end.
  
  Back to the story, an important part is Dom's search for his lost wife Maria, which serves as kind 
 of a seperate story almost. It makes for a lot of and anger for Dom throughout the story. Along 
 the way you will team up with old friends: Baird, Cole, Hoffman, and Anya is still the voice in 
 your ear keeping you up-to-date with info you need. Also you are introduced to a couple of new 
 characters, the first being Ben Carmine, the brother of Anthony Carmine who was killed during the 
 first game. There are a few jokes involving him/his brother, none of which he gets so listen for 
 that when you are playing. Another new character is Tai, a very spiritual Gear who is an old friend 
 of Marcus. He is a very tough guy who is described as "tough to kill" The last new friend you meet 
 is Dizzy, a redneck who drives a derrick named "Betty" so you can tell from that he is a little 
 messed up in the head. 
  
  Keep in mind there are quite a few new enemies, but I'm not going to go into detail on them. Vehicles 
 are used quite frequently as well, some more fun than others. Overall the campaign was very immersive 
 and addicting to me. It definitely didn't disappoint, and provided plenty of WOW! moments, as well 
 as the typical Gears humor. Baird and Cole have some pretty memorable moments. Like the last game, 
 utilizing active reloads, and the cover system will be important to your success.
  
  While every good game needs a great story, the real replay value of course comes from the multiplayer. 
 I have been a huge fan of the Gears MP system since the first game, but it is definitely not for 
 everyone. I like that it provides a big change from your typical shooter. No respawns (in most modes) 
 and the importance of the cover system really makes for great gameplay and use of tactics. 
  
  10 new maps are shipped with the game, and I haven't even played all of them yet. The ones 
 I have played are very good though. Also if you bought the game on the first day, you receive a 
 code for a map pack composed of 5 original Gears maps (Gridlock, Tyro Station, Subway, Mansion, 
 and Canals) . I think it's too late to get now if you haven't already bought it, but I guess you 
 can pay for it on the marketplace. 
  
  As for weapons, you have a lot of the same, but they have been changed somewhat and now feel different. 
 You have the Lancer, Shotgun, Hammerburst, Longshot, Boomshot, Hammer of Dawn, Torque Bow, etc. 
 With the Lancer equipped, you can still chainsaw, but they have now added chainsaw duels. So if 
 two people are trying to saw each other, the winner will be decided by who smashes B the fastest. 
 There are also some new weapons: The Scorcher is a flamethower, the Mulcher is a turret you can 
 carry (inaccurate) or mount somewhere and then fire. The Mortar is exactly what it says it is, and 
 is very effective on groups of enemies. Keep in mind the Mortar and Mulcher will slow you down 
 while carrying them. The Gorgon pistol is a four-burst pistol that can be effective but fires kinda 
 slow. The Boomshield is exactly what it says, a shield. You can carry it, or plant it in the ground 
 for instant cover. I forgot to mention the smoke grenade has been changed, if you are in the blast 
 radius you will be knocked off your feet for a few seconds. There is still your regular grenade 
 as well, but lastly the ink grenade is a new, poisonous grenade that will slowly kill you if you 
 are in the poison cloud. The cool thing about grenades is you can still tag people with them, but 
 now now you can plant them on a surface like a mine. Killing 10 people that way is an achievement. 
 
  
  Note:
  While I am talking about achievements I like what they did regarding them. It tracks how close 
 you are to getting certain achievements. Say you kill a person with a planted grenade, a box will 
 pop up saying you are 1/10 of the way to getting that achievement. It only notifies you at "milestones" 
 though. By that I mean the first time, then 5, 10, 20, etc. It varies for the different achievements 
 though. Another thing that was kinda nice was EPIC rewarded those of us who played the first game 
 by using "linked achievements" So basically if you have a certain achievement in Gears 1 it made 
 a certain character unlocked in Gears 2 for you to play with in MP. This is one of those little 
 things I thought was very cool.
  
  Back to gameplay, curb stomping has returned. If you down an enemy you can still run up to them 
 and press X to stomp their face off. But now they have added new weapon-specific executions. Depending 
 on which weapon you have in your hand, you can walk up to them and press Y or B and you will get 
 a cool animation. Be aware these take a little while to perform so you could get blasted after 
 it ends. Another new element of gameplay is the ability to crawl after being downed. Instead of 
 being stuck in one spot while down, you can now crawl in hopes of getting to a teammate or out 
 of the line of fire. So if utilized correctly this can save your life. Something else new is that 
 after you die during a match, you can use different camera angles to watch what is going on, and 
 then take screenshots if you choose. I haven't tried this yet but it sounds cool. It might be a 
 little difficult to catch something cool live but this is still a good idea nonetheless.
  
  Now we come to the MP modes. You still have Warzone, Execution, Annex, and Assassination has been 
 changed a bit and is now called Guardian. The rules are similar but now until you kill the leader 
 there are infinite respawns. I am not going to go into much detail on the modes, but Submission 
 is Capture the Flag, but in this case the flag is a person. You must grab him as a Meatshield (basically 
 you are holding him hostage, and this can be done with any enemy after they are downed to help 
 protect you) and take him to the scoring zone. King of the Hill is self-explanatory. Wingman is 
 like Multi-Team in Halo 3. Multiple teams of 2 face of in a deathmatch. There is also the ability 
 tro practice with bots so I guess that could be considered a mode as well.
  
  This brings us to arguably the best part of the mulitplayer, and maybe the whole game: Horde. Horde 
 involves you and up to four friends facing off against wave after wave of Locust with the enemies 
 getting tougher as you go on. You can set the difficulty level anywhere from Casual to Insane, 
 just like the campaign. There are 50 waves to complete and depending on how good you and your friends 
 are, this can make for quite a long game. Teamwork is very important to completing all of these 
 waves, without it you have no chance. Even on Casual you will find the higher waves are no pushovers. 
 What I like so much about Horde is I don't see how it will ever get old. Granted I haven't played 
 it for that long, but there is just something addicting about it. I am looking forward to playing 
 this some more when I get the chance.
  
  One complaint I have about the MP right now is the matchmaking system. I am happy that EPIC decided 
 to change their old system, but it is very difficult to find a match, unless you have a full party 
 of 5 players, and even that can take a little while. This should be a fixable issue so maybe they 
 will release a patch or something.
  
  Overall Gears 2 is everything I wanted and more. I couldn't have asked for a better sequel to an 
 amazing first game. A great story, multiplayer, and beautiful graphics help to make this game truly 
 great. EPIC fixed the little issues and then went crazy expanding on the series. This really makes 
 me wonder what they will have in store for us for Gears 3. Anyone who does not have the game already 
 needs to get it, I could not give a higher recommendation. I hope this review helps, I put a lot 
 of time and effort into this and hopefully it will help convince some of you to get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 
  The graphics in Gears of War 2 are sometimes too good. Firefight after firefight I felt disorented 
 and the epic scale of them made my mind see them as something bigger than they were. Character 
 models look beliveble (for giant ripped dudes) and gore is beautiful its own right.
  
  Sound
  The audio is amazing in Gears 2. Gory deaths sound disgusting and explosions are ear ringing 
 on surround sound. The music is just absolutly top noch, it really makes you feel like your in 
 an epic war and occasionally sends shivers down your spine.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay has been significantly advanced from the first game yet keeping the same control style. 
 There are more executions, roddieruns are easier to control and moving from cover to cover is alot 
 easier than the first game. The new weapons add for a more epic feel when in a frantic firefight 
 and the are not overlooked, they feel right and not out of place.
  
  Multiplayer 
  The multipayer is intense and exciting. It has a steep learning curve for noobs but getting the 
 hang of it is made easy with the turtorial and bot mode. Horde mode is extremely difficult and 
 takes very long to get to level 50 on the insane setting but turning it down to casual or normal 
 is still fun and frantic. There is unbelivible fun to be had in horde mode. One MAJOR negative 
 is the absolutly flawed matchmaking. In Gears 1 you search you game mode pick your map and play, 
 in Gears 2 you search for a team, long wait, search for opposite team, long wait, search for a 
 game (which's mode is chosen for you, you cant pick) and loaded into the game. COME ON EPIC. *sigh* 
 I'm sure they had their reasons.
  
  Story
  The story is alot better than in the first gears. This one you actually feel like your in the middle 
 of a war that has torn a planet apart and it is very dark and not everyone makes it out alive. 
 There are very sad moments, dramatic moments and laugh out loud funny ones. I am absolutly sure 
 every one can enjoy this story... Not the little ones of course... They might cry to there mommys.
 
  
  Overall. if you have a 360 you own this game.
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10 
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  Story: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Amazing looking visuals that surpass the original, a much improved storyline that keeps your 
 attention, new weapons and executions, amazing co-op and multiplayer with a good amount of new 
 modes, there will be a Gears of War 3
  
  CONS: Driving the Centuar could've been more exciting
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The first Gears of War was simply amazing and was hands down my GOTY for 2006. Luckily, there was 
 more to come and now here we are with Gears of War 2 in our posession. Did it it surpass the first? 
 Check. Did it live up to the hype? Check. Will in it win the 2008 GOTY? Let's find out.
  
  THE GRAPHICS undoubtedly holds nothing back and will dazzle your eyes in the best current gen consoles 
 have to offer. This is by far, the most beautiful console game on the market, and one of the best 
 looking games you will ever lay eyes upon. If you thought the first Gears was gorgeous, then be 
 prepared to be blown away by this one. 
  
  THE SOUND is much improved over the original. All of the original voice-overs have returned and 
 provide a much better script than the first. Also, a lot of the tacky and cheesy things they used 
 to say are gone, yet their personalites remain completely intact. All of the weapons, as well as 
 the new ones, sound excellent. The lancer is probably the most notable that it has been improved. 
 It sounds alot more powerful, and more like a machine gun than before. 
  
  THE STORY has been drastically improved and got a lot more mature and dark than the first. It has 
 a much more personal and emotional story that works extremely well and is better and more interesting 
 than the first one's story in almost every way. It was very smart to focus a lot more on Dom this 
 time and help him in his search for Maria because it solved alot of unanswered questions from the 
 first and also brought this new look onto the whole situation by showing how dark and painful this 
 war really is. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is simply amazing. All of the feeling from the original Gears is all intact, yet a 
 lot has been improved upon as well. EPIC did a phenominal job by adding alot of new content enough 
 to the point where it feels like a fresh experience. All of the new weapons are great and exactly 
 how you would've hoped, the actual campaign is a complete masterpiece. Now this ranges from the 
 story, to the actual gameplay, which is extremely intense and offers no break or slow point from 
 the action. This game is one of the most action packed shooters I have ever played in my entire 
 life. And it never gets old. People complained about not fighting the Brumaks in the first game. 
 Try fighting about 8 during the course of the game. There is just so much that goes on within the 
 game it cannot be described into words, and simply must be experienced. The only, and I mean ONLY 
 drawback in the game lies with the Centuar sgement in which you drive the Centuar tank. Its not 
 really bad at all, but it wasn't nearly as good as when your on foot. Also, the multiplayer has 
 been much improved upon as well. Not only has it been bumped to 5 vs. 5 matches, but it has added 
 a LOAD of new modes that all require your attention. Most in particular is Horde. Its a new 5 player 
 co-op that has 5 players fighting waves and waves of increasingly difficult enemies that goes all 
 the way up to 50 levels. Also, if your one of the unfortunate that does not have Xbox Live yet, 
 you can now play multiplayer and add bots to the match to fill out the roster. And don't worry, 
 the bots are extremely intelligent as if you were fighting real people. The part that gets me is 
 how smooth this game runs for as much that it offers and how great it looks. 
  
  OVERALL Gears of War 2 is one of, if not, the best game on the 360 thus far. And trust me, that 
 says a lot considering how many triple A titles are already settled onto the 360. This is the whole 
 package here people. Beautiful graphics, amazing gameplay, superb multiplayer, it's all here. So 
 what are you waiting for? Go join the COG army now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? Uh... Oh yes, the campaign.
  The campaign is absolutely in almost every way better than the first, it's much more dark and gritty. In 
 my opinion, the story is almost EPIC, and so are the characters. So you are Marcus Fenix again with 
 your trusty pals, Dom, Baird, and of course, The Cole Train! So 6 months after the light mass bomb 
 went off people started getting a disease called Rust Lung from all the burning Imulsion, and Locust 
 are back and stronger than ever with a secret weapon built to sink entire cities. As Marcus, you 
 and Dom are trying to take the fight to the Locust as a desperet last stand for humanities survival, and 
 you find Locusts are trying to bring down Jacinto, the last safe haven for the humans. New characters 
 include Tai Kaliso, Dizzy Wallin, Chairman Prescott, and of course, Benjamin Carmine.
  
  Now to multiplayer,3 words, BETTER THAN FIRST!, It's so highly addictive it's INSANE! Even bot matches 
 are ridiculousely fun, all I can say is addictive, and icredibly funner than the first. New game modes 
 are Submision, King of the Hill, an improved Guardian, and Hoarde witch is as well highly addictive. New 
 multiplayer skins as well as the abbility to pick ur weapons. SWEET!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist1980
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is just what i was hoping for, it really delivers a better game in all aspects and it will 
 be alot of enjoyment for many months to come. 
  
  I was a little worried when i first popped it in and started the single player campaign, it just 
 seemed to cinematic and not alot of skill was involved in moving through the first few chapters.. 
 however the campaign picks up in difficutly and the enviroments in which u fight in just amaze.
 
  
  I havent really gotten into alot of the multiplayer choices but I did try horde mode and let me 
 tell ya that alone is worth the 60$. And if you dont have xbox live not a problem, if you dont 
 have friends to play coop with not a problem you can play horde mode by yourself or with bots, 
 which realy is a great idea and it just adds so much replay value to this already amazing masterpiece 
 of a game.
  
  everything is slightly improved, so if you played the first gears just expect a more epic bad ass 
 experiance. A must buy, and a perfect score. Im sure i could go into detail but its not even neccessary, 
 just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoteny
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  so here it is, the game every gears fan has been waiting for ever since that trailer debut back 
 in february. time for some major chainsaw duels an improved cover system, and better net code for 
 better online experience? and a great story to boot to explain somewhat what the locust are and 
 where they came from and why they are trying to exterminate humanity. let's dive deeper!
  
  no doubt most of us agree the campaign is amazing. definately a step up from the original. it does 
 feel epic and it does encourage to you keep playing until you've reached the end. there's more 
 drama this time around all due thanks to dom and his search for his wife. this drives the story 
 on. kinda like a side quest inside of a bigger picture. simply put, just more engaging to the player. 
 you get to see old faces and new ones. some characters die, some characters survive. the environments 
 in all chapters are superb. going through the campaign you just cant help but stop to look around 
 to admire all the art work that went into this. the guys at epic really did bled their soul into 
 this game making it candy for the eyes for us to enjoy. there are some situations or cutscenes 
 that deliver a cheese fest. meaing its really cheesy. so cheesy you can make cheese pizza out of 
 it or just remind you of having a cheese pizza. see what i mean? overall a truely groundbreaking 
 experience and on that note i give it an A. and now for the creme de la creme. the multiplayer. 
 the one thing that held on to the value of the orginal gears. however, dont expect me to say nice 
 things about it in the sequel. one of the many first things you notice are the glitches, the supposably 
 improved cover system, the party system, the weapons, the chainsadomy. oh oh the chainsaw kills, 
 and the kill of all kills, THE LAG. everything youre used to playing in the original gears has 
 changed. (generally speaking) aside from your stop and pop gameplay. the shotgun will probably 
 be one of the most disappointing features changed to accomodate the other guys who **** about the 
 shotgun being way to powerful "at close range"? its very slow and like every other user reviewer 
 here says has limited damage this time around. personally, the shotgun battles are what gave gears 
 of war its personality. especially to all those hardcore fans of the original. if you were good 
 then you were good, if not then you need more practice. gears 2 is all about the lancer battles. 
 the maps are based off that idea - lancer battles. and it is not as fun as the hype claims it to 
 be or as it was "meant" to be. muliplayer seems to move at a more slow pace and feels sluggish. 
 the framerate too for that matter seemed to drop down. the gameplay online in terms of framrate 
 is nothing compared to the original. the framerate was always (well not always) running at a smooth 
 and yet fast pace. the shaking camera effect doing a roadie run doesnt seem so dramatic anymore. 
 seems less shaky. i guess that makes sense since the gameplay is slower. everyone one should be 
 afraid of the chainsaw. the noobs were in gears 1 with the multiple chainsaw kills, they are most 
 certainly in gears 2 with the biggest smile on his face im sure. very big disappointment in this 
 particular matter. dont forget to take your time and watch those corners. there may be a grenade 
 stuck to it. adding more tatical gameplay such as sticking grenades to the walls is a nice touch, 
 but ultimately takes away from the gameplay. one minute youre looking for a fight, the next youre 
 meat pie. so there's no shotty battles? anyway they also took away the active reload for the sniper. 
 for this i can understand why they would do such a thing for i was always getting my head blown 
 off after standing straight up in execution mode in the original. very frustrating thing. its like 
 giving them free "downs" in ranked matches. however, in gears of war 2, having the ability to crawl 
 to cover so youre not exposed in exection mode would balance out the advantage of any active reload 
 snipe. but its gone. not more active reloads for snipe... cuz youre a cheater.
  
  the cover system is glitcy. it doesnt to work quite as... oh what the hell... the cover system is 
 sh*t now. the responsiveness is gone. having to look dead center just to climb up to a higher platform 
 or to vault over an object is lame. or maybe you dont have to look dead center, maybe its just 
 the responsiveness online. who knows? bottom line is, despite all the claims of how there have 
 been over 400+ so called "tweaks" to the cover system (which i think was already a perfect 10 in 
 my book) has no grounds. having the ability to break a slide cover doesnt really do justice. how 
 does that effect gameplay? standing back a little further from the corner while in cover isnt all 
 that noticable. you still seem more or less exposed to a headshot. the only thing that need be 
 fixin' in the cover system is the fact its very easy to get stuck on walls or accidentally getting 
 into cover. other than that, it was fine. 400+ tweaks?! where did those tweaks go to to improve 
 upon? i know not.
  
  this feature really cooked my eggs. dont get me wrong, i think its really nice to be able to invite 
 your friends to play with you in a ranked match or what have you. we all love it right? of course 
 we do! that's why epic incorperated a party system. sadly... yes it blows. i dont know if its because 
 the game is still in its infant stages from its release date that no ones online playing it as 
 of yet or everyone is playing story mode, but getting a single match to start is a tedious process 
 this time around. the original was simple, either find a customized match, or find any match to 
 your liking in ranked or public. it was fast... it was easy... and we loved picking our maps! now 
 i know we live in a democratic society, but having to vote in gears of war? thats not very gears 
 of war to me. the original was unique. it wasn't like those run and gun FPS's like halo or call 
 of duty. and now, gears online matches plays like halo and call of duty. no more custimization. 
 now you have to rely on votes. let's play on gridlock or canals! NO YOU CANT CUZ YOU HAVE TO VOTE 
 ON IT. screw that "noise". you also have to vote on what mode you want to play on. needless to 
 say... that blows as well. if you want to play your own custimized game mode the only way to do 
 that is the training mode in the menu. where you dont play other humes, instead you play with bots 
 with the difficulty of your choosing on any map of your choosing. it was a nice touch if you want 
 to get some practice in for the real thing. horde mode is fun, but how long can the fun last until 
 its out played itself. this mode can be very fun playing other friends along with some alcoholic 
 beverages (i do not condone alcohol) which should keep its appeal for months on end.
  
  the maps in gears 2 were not all that impressive. they were cleverly designed but in the long run 
 they just dont have the beautiful simplicity the orginal had. the map "river" was definately at 
 least one of the better maps in gears 2. thank goodness for the flashback map pack huh? lastly, 
 the graphics. i know epic claims they improved the lighting on the characters so its easier to 
 see them (particularly the small details) or easier to spot in multiplayer. gears of war 2 is pretty. 
 it is eye candy. it is gorgeous. but looking back at the original, realistic lighting just seemed 
 more attractive and had a more robust look to it. gears of war 2 online mulitplayer graphics are 
 pretty, but not as pretty as before. the self-shadowing are not as defined. then again this is 
 just my opinion. but i think some people know what im taking about. you know who you are.... as 
 for the rest of you who love gears of war 2 for all its glory and improvements, despite all the 
 obvious flaws, have fun. maybe they'll eventually put in a patch anyway right? or maybe it doesnt 
 need a patch at all. who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The original Gears of War was one of my favorite games of all time, so obviously I'm going to enjoy 
 the sequel. But this game improves on so many levels. The graphics are much more detailed with 
 more textures and the new destructible cover which makes fire fights that much more intense. They 
 also improved on the gun sounds making them more realistic and louder . The Lancer sounds less 
 like a lazer and more like a machine gun. The Hammerburst is now more powerful and accurate by 
 changing it from burst to semi automatic which makes it a good alternative to the Lancer. The new 
 weapons are awesome, including the flamethrower, gattling gun, mortar, shield, among others. This 
 basically improves on what was already an awesome game.
  
  The story mode is not the best in a game, but it's definitely fun playing with 2 people. It's longer 
 than the first, and adds more variety to the levels. The multiplayer rocks as always, adding 5 
 on 5 and new game modes and maps. Horde mode was my favorite, teaming up with other people and 
 having waves of locust come at you constantly. Gears of War 2 adds so much more depth and variation 
 to the game. With different types of kills, using grenades as mines, using an enemy as cover, and 
 much more makes Gears of War 2 the most exciting and satisfying game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting so long for this game. I preordered it about a month ago, and I realized I 
 should have ordered it like the second I heard about it. Gears of War 2 is a game based off a fictional 
 story. Let me tell you that this game is the most fun I have had. I didn't play the last one but 
 I could understand it completely. It has sweet weapons, amazing graphics, no lag (for me at least) , 
 and sweet maps. And instead of using the shotgun, epic has made it easier for us fans of the Lancer. 
 Instead of running around with the shotgun, if you shoot the person he will slowdown giving you 
 the advantage. NO more superman's... sorry. Basically I would recommend this game to anyone whose 
 looking for a great multiplayer and campaign game. If you don't want it than just think for a moment 
 and at least rent it. What harm could it do? Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beersy118
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It is the best game that i have played this year and thats considering that i hated the 1st even 
 for those who dont like 3rd person shooters there wont be a better shooter out this year. Cole 
 is still funny every1 is back besides Carmine and kim but you can still play as them online if 
 you completed the last game and got some achievements. Carmines brothers in it but i wont tell 
 you what happens to him. The new characters are good dizzy is my personal fave but there is also 
 tai which is a muscle man that can apparently survive anything but that --may -- not be the case. 
 Dizzy is a cowboy style dresser and a tough guy but you dont know if he survives or not. Cole is 
 funny as usual but is not with you at the start. Your faithful companion Dom is back and better. 
 The new weapons are great the scorcher (flamethrower) very effective a close range and maybe medium 
 if you reload right. The gorgon pistol (basically machine pistol) is very fun to use agaisnt you 
 opponents but the shots come in burst but its better than the normal pistol but maybe not a good 
 as the boltok. The hammerbusrt is also improved because instead of it being in bursts its in single 
 fire but it goes very fast so its almost like the lancer but without the chainsaw and it is a bit 
 slower. ---Spoilers ---- Carmine brothers youd think theyd learn wouldnt you but oh no they dont. 
 This one dies aswell but i wont tell you how. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  If i was grading on a more precise scale, I'd say this game was a 9.2. All the things you loved 
 from the first game are back and someone decided to spike the punch for good measure. Improvements 
 come in the form of new weapons which are a blast to use. Raining down mortar shells on your friends/enemies 
 has never been so satisfying. The flamethrower and mounted chain gun are also nice additions. 
 
  
  The camapaign feels a little short, but that is what we have all come to expect from our shooters. 
 what is packed into the 9-10 hour stroy mode is solid, with a few exceptions. the middle of the 
 second act seems to be extremely easy with very few enemies to kill. this happens during a part 
 of the campaign where they seem to be focusing on the story more. I guess this was done to get 
 you to pay more attention to what is going on in the story. this is a small gripe, but it stood 
 out in a game that was rich with memorable combat sequences. The environments are well done. you 
 will find yourself fighting in some very unusual places, but they are nonetheless enjoyable to 
 play. there are som combat set peices that are ratcheted up to give you the feeling that you really 
 are in a large scale war. the appearance of Brumaks, reavers and a multitude of oversized and sometimes 
 intimidating foes make for several adrenaline soaked experiences. You always seem outnumbered but 
 never outgunned, which is the attraction of Gears. You are given many different tools to get the 
 job done..... how you get it done is up to you.
  
  the addition of the multiplayer "horde" mode is enjoyable if you arent into the online ranked hysteria 
 which can intimidate less skilled gamers. This allows you to take on the CPU in hellish firefights, 
 with each round becoming more difficult. It is a solid challenge and teamwork is essential for 
 success. 
  
  
  It is hard to throw many stones at GOW2. It is a game filled with frantic fun. It is impossible 
 to not have a good time playnig it. If you are a newcomer you will have a 1-2 hour learning curve 
 with the controls, which isnt too bad. Seasoned gears players shouldnt play on anything less than 
 "hardcore" to start. If you play a lot of Gears, "casual" and "normal" won't provide enough of 
 a challenge. I finished the campaign in around 9 hourd on normal and I rarely died during combat. 
 most of my deaths were in go-here-and-press-the-button scenes. 
  
  This is a solid sequel with a better story and better weapons, which is all i really wanted. go 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is finally here. So how does it compare to the first? Lets see...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game play is pretty much the same as the original Gears of War. Hold the A 
 button to run -- and basically hide behind places, with the unique cover system the original Gears 
 started. You press the B button to Melee, the LT to zoom and RT to shoot, RB to do active-reloads.
 
  
  What has been improved are the following. The locust rifle is MUCH better than the original Gears, 
 the grenades have been improved, allowing you to use them as a proximity mine or throw them onto 
 enemies by pressing the B button when you have grenades loaded.
  
  Another interesting thing that has been added in chainsaw duels. When you and an opponent both 
 go for a chainsaw kill, it'll do a duel where whoever presses the B button the most amount of times 
 and the fastest wins.
  
  There is another thing you can do where you can hit pick up enemies when they are crawling as use 
 them as "meat shields"
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are much improved over gears 1. The scale is just amazing, lighting is better and 
 there is more variety in the levels and there are more .. COLOURS!
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound has been much improved. Guns sound better, musical score is really good. Everything just 
 sounds really good.
  
  The game has really good voice acting, just like the first, and has a way better story that the 
 first game.
  
  Presentation:
  
  Menu screens are slick. The game virtually has no HUD, which is nice and the cut scenes are really 
 well done. 
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  Lots to do in Multi-player, Horde Mode especially is amazing. That's all I've been playing on the 
 mutli-player front but there is A LOT more to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Now letme say this right off the Bat. I did Play the Singal Player FUlly on Hardcore beat Horde 
 on 50 and Played Gears of War 1 to death. 
  
  Gears of war 2 is a Game that had many promises but many were just to get the Consummers Pumped 
 up like Having Golden Guns for Limited edtion and Midnight Release. Now here is the pros and the 
 Cons
  
  PROS 
  1. Very engaging Singal player that Makes all of your Questions for GoW 1 answered
  2. Horde Mode 
 is very nice Edtion ( But this cant keep up the whole game)
  3. Graphics are very nice
  4. Very likeable Chartcers
  
  Now why This game kinda Ate a Sandwich like the guy you work with 
 
  
  Cons
  1. It Aint Broke Dont Fix well i guess Epic didnt get that and Changed the entire Multiplayer by 
 making you have to Matchmake like Halo3 This really does not Work well!
  2. Chainsawing Just got a bit bigger of a Prob Like in GoW1 that Guy who just chainsawed you in 
 Annex Np its only 1 guy Now think of what 2 4ths of the game doing it ====== Very Bad thing to 
 Add Chainsaw Battles and such
  3. Chainsaws are harder to get Lowered. I just had about 20 mins ago a guy come up to me chainsawing 
 and i shot him Point Blank with Shotgun and he just keeps comming! REALLY!
  4. Maps are ummmm Garbage only good thing is you can get the Flashback Maps at Gamestop wich kinda 
 Resolves the Issue ( i Suppose)
  5. Horde is really boring after you beat 50 
  
  Well Ladies and Gentlemen i suppose thats It i have said everything that makes Gears of War 2 kinda 
 a Let Down So... Id Suggest a Rentle or borrow before hand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmnts
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I'm usually not the type of gamer that buys a game when it's brand new, but for Gears of War and 
 now for Gears of War 2 I made an exception. I even went to the midnight launch of GOW 2 at my local 
 Gamestop partly for the free swag, but mostly because I really couldn't wait to play the game. 
 GOW 2 follows the same path as the original, but tweaks things just enough to be considered a better 
 game (in my opinion) . The campaign is still some what short, but very enjoyable. The multiplayer 
 is just as fun as the 1st GOW and the new modes add additional value. The difficulty varies greatly 
 depending on which mode you choose. I played through the game on Normal mode which should be easy 
 for most gamers, but Hardcore & Insane will put anyone to the test. Overall GOW 2 improves on the 
 original without changing the things people loved and is well worth the $60 to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianw_64
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  The graphics are fantastic as expected. The story is broad and immersive, but it unfortunately 
 leaves a lot of unanswered questions. That is about the only bad thing I can think of when it comes 
 to Gears of War 2. The gameplay is awesome, both single player/co-op story mode and multiplayer 
 are loads of fun to play. Gears 2 has a lot of potential for replayability. There is the right 
 amount of difficulty for just about anyone to play and enjoy this game. Epic did an excellent job 
 with the AI, for both friend and foe. Your computer controlled squad mates do a great job of fighting 
 alongside you and actually fighting intelligently. They take cover well, they attack intelligently, 
 and probably my favorite thing is they are very good at running to your rescue and reviving you 
 when you go down. If you liked Gears 1, or just like FPSs I highly recommend Gears 2. You won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpalberg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  The first Gears of War was a great game, this game is MUCH better. There's so much to say about 
 it, it's hard to find a place to start as all aspects of this game were vastly improved upon. We'll 
 start with a totally revamped single player campaign. I usually don't care much for the single 
 player side of games, although I will take the time to play through them. The original Gears was 
 pretty cut and dry, take cover, kill some locust, repeat with little variation. GoW2 brings so 
 much more variety to this recipe. Aside from undertaking in some pretty cool boss fights, you'll 
 use huge moving worms for cover (shooting down food to get them to move around) , chainsaw your 
 way through a giant heart, and destroy entire squads of locust with a single shot from a centaur. 
 There are a lot of other cool situations you'll find yourself in throughout the game, but another 
 thing that should be noted is the new types of locust you deal with. You won't just be fighting 
 grubs all day long, but locust with flame throwers, massive turrets, and giant shields with maces. 
 These guys all have a different method of attack, and consequentially, you'll need to approach 
 them in a unique way of their own. Lastly, the game is much longer than the first, althought I'm 
 not quite finished with it yet, and the plot is really keeping me going. All of this goes without 
 saying that the multiplayer is awesome. The new game modes are a lot of fun. One that will surprise 
 you is Horde mode where you fight off wave after wave of increasingly tougher baddies with 4 other 
 players. It's a nice change of pace that I was bashing before I tried. I could go on about this 
 game, but I think you've caught the drift. The game is AWESOME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTowhead
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 builds on everything Gears of War did. The scale is bumped up, the graphics are 
 incredible and the multiplayer is impeccable. Gameplay-wise, this game is amazing, it's a really 
 nice change to the usual run and gun games. Graphically there are a few late loading textures, 
 but otherwise the graphics are better than almost any console game. The sounds are awesome, when 
 you get a headshot there is a scrumptiously juicy sound, and all the weapons sound excellent. The 
 multiplayer is much improved (although the mortar in multiplayer can be a rigged weapon) , and the 
 addition of a matchmaking system makes the online about a thousand times better. Offline multiplayer 
 with bots is fun, but definitely not as good as the online. Horde mode is great, and really fun 
 to play with four friends. What really wraps up the package is the coop. Playing through the story 
 with a friend is one of the best features in games, and Gears of War 2 does it perfectly. Overall 
 a great sequel that fans of the first Gears will definitely enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdave07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Great game. A 10 in my book. They did a great job and took their time to do it. Can't wait to play 
 this for a long time. Great repeat playability for anyone and everyone. I like how they kept with 
 the original parts and play but just tweaked little things to enhance the playing. This is a must 
 have for all who play shooter games. Highly, highly impressed with the gameplay, graphics and the 
 sound. Don't miss out and watch out for me online. Good luck all you other Gear Heads out there. 
 Kill as many locusts as you can 100,000 is crap load of enemies to kill in one game, schweeeeeet. 
 Kill with every weapon in the game, schweet. Do all the finishing moves. So many achievements and 
 the new play modes like Horde are beyond crazy good. The list goes on and on for everyone to have 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericpillion
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain badass!!! The story is well thought out the characters are witty and smart. 
 The graphics are jawdropping! The gameplay is the same as the first, so it is easy for vets of 
 the first game to get right into the action! This game is worth all the hype and it is worth every 
 dime of $60! It is worth waiting for it to be released! I am very pleased with this game!!!! You 
 could easily get rapped in the game, that you forget all around you and time. It is very addictive. 
 The new weapons are easy to use and a nice addition to the already large inventory at your finger 
 tips. The A. I. Is smarter and they do just what you think a person would do if they were under 
 fire. The boss battles are good, and the chainsaw battles are cool. One of the levels that is neat 
 is when you try to kill a big worm from the inside. It was a nice touch. All and all this game 
 will be remebered for a long time. It is an instant classic! Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Opinion - Some people don't care for third person shooter games or shooter games in general. I 
 was like that when I played the first Gears of War. However, I was soon won over by the tactical 
 movement of the character in the game. The game was fun and never boring. Gears of War 2 was built 
 on this success with a game that met everyone's expectation.
  
  Positive - Graphics are even better than the first game. Movement and gun targeting feels more 
 refined. Multiplayer mode is out of this world and intense. If you play Horde up to the 50th level 
 you'll find yourself loosing track of reality and spending hours upon hours taking down those nasty 
 aliens. Orginally, I thought a maximum of 10-plyars in a match was kind of skimpy but after playing 
 it it was just right. Any more would be too crazy . . . almost like Ground War in COD4. Co-op, 
 split screen is a great option to have. Spilt-screen should be include in all games sporting Co-op. 
 
  
  Negative - Up to 4 Player co-op would have been awesome if EPIC would've worked it out. There is 
 some lag in multiplayer games and frequent cut-offs in 2 player co-op. In other words there were 
 several times my co-op buddy lost connection and had to restart his 360 and enter into the game 
 again. This seems to be a common glitch.
  
  Overall - The game is a 9.0, a solid A. Even though it will bring hours of fun and is well done, 
 there are some elements that could have been tweaked before release (see Negative) . The game is 
 well worth the money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theEan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  -Campaign
  Gears of War was a unique game with a captivating, mysterious storyline. Gears of War 2's storyline 
 seemed forced, too detailed, all of the campaign's missions seemingly placed simply to move the 
 story along. It was generic and stale, lacking in that magical badass quality found in the first 
 Gears. It was somewhat brief, nevertheless it was good.
  -Mechanics
  The cover mechanics are broken. You cannot cover on corners anymore (this prevents you from shooting 
 opponents trying to flank you.) When you do finally manage to cover on a corner, your character 
 will glitchfully change his aim stance every half of a second, preventing you from effectively 
 shooting an opponent. Also, it is very difficult to move over cover. You must be looking almost 
 perfectly forward, and must not be in the corners of cover. Everything about cover is worse than 
 Gears 1. 
  -Multiplayer
  We first discover that it is much slower paced than the first Gears of War. Even the fire rate 
 of our beloved shotgun has slowed down. And, most of the time you'll be staying indoors to avoid 
 environmental hazards like mortars and the occasional avalanche. What really kills the multiplayer 
 though, is the fact that Epic Games didn't fix most of the glitches from the first Gears of War. 
 Bullets from the shotgun still dissapear like the first Gears, bullet damage from the shotgun is 
 random, etc. Many times you will have to shoot someone five times at close range to down someone 
 with the shotgun, more often than the first Gears. Even more dissapointing is the difficulty at 
 stunning a chainsaw. In-fact I was using my chainsaw and saw myself shot multiple times and my 
 chainsaw did not get lowered. Apparently, Epic Games prefers listening to Gears of War One newcomers 
 who have only played a handful of multiplayer matches, than hearing the advice of skilled players 
 who have mastered the game and have played thousands of matches. As a matter of fact I sent Epic 
 Games a letter, months before Gears 2 was announced, saying I have some ideas for Gears of War 
 2, and I did not even recieve the courtesy of a reply. 
  In addition to keeping all the bugs of the original, they've added a plethora of new glitches. 
 Some examples are flying hundreds of feet out of the map, the HUD dissapearing, and the funniest-all 
 of the text of the Menu (yes, the main Menu that starts up the game, disappearing.) On top of all 
 that, the matchmaking system is downright awful. Usually it takes 5-10 minutes to find a game. 
 And, everything is automated, so it's impossible to see what you're going to get (there is no server 
 list, so you won't be able to select your map, bleed out duration, etc.) In-fact, all games are 
 preset, there are'nt any explicit hosts, so the bleed out duration, and time limit are THE SAME 
 FOR EVERY GAME.
  
  So, if you want a slower paced game than the original Gears, a game that focuses more on weapon 
 pickups than skill, a game that isn't unique like the original, then Gears 2 is for you. Everything 
 about Gears 2 seems unfinished. With its various bugs (I can't even remember them all) , blatant 
 disregard for the Gears 1 player community, and cartoonish multiplayer atmosphere, Gears 2 is a 
 try before you buy. It seems the real power behind the modern game industry is the fiscal manager 
 (apparently there are more Halo/Call Of Duty players out there than Gears 1'rs, so they decided 
 to tailor the game for them.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I have never felt so much hype regarding a game as I did on my way to pick up my copy of Gears 
 of War 2; and ever since I popped that glorious disk into my 360, I have not once been disappointed. 
 I have killed and I have been killed; I've experianced glory as well as failure; I have wept for 
 humanity, and morned the loss of a loved one - and I enjoyed every minute of it. GOW is a technically 
 sound game that delivers jam packed action and weaves a decent story along the way.
  
  In order to not disappoint those who haven't played yet, I will forego the usual synopsis. Suffice 
 it to say, this game delivers a story that, although marred with incosistancies and holes, delivers 
 exciting, comical, and often touching moments. I look at this story as part of the gears saga, 
 which will obviously extend to a 3rd. Think of this as the second matrix movie, or The Empire Strikes 
 Back.
  
  The game plays solid! The controls, which I feel are clunky at first, soon become second nature, 
 and really fit in with the gritty, harcore nature of the game. Anyone familiar with the series 
 will tell you that cover is the golden rule in this game, and epic adds to the action and fast 
 paced nature by sending multiple, hard-to-kill enemies, that will flank and shoot at you, eventually 
 destorying your cover. Boss battles or gory, and, while on the easy side, none the less satisfying.
 
  
  Epic found the perfect way to compliment excellent gameplay by giving you and excellently designed 
 landscape to play on and amazing voice acting to go along with it. Jacinto, and the surrounding 
 war-ravaged areas, are clean, crisp, and amazingly rendered. The best example is the disgusting 
 view of the slimy and bloody riftworms insides. The voice acting is top notch, with standout John 
 Di Maggio delivering an oscar-worthy performance as the gruff, tough leader of the delta squad, 
 Marcus Fenix. Di Maggio's interpretation of Fenix completes the aura that makes him the bad-ass-est 
 of videogame characters. Other noteworthy standouts include Carlos Ferro's strong, empassioned 
 Dom and Lester Speight's histerical Augustus "Cole Train" Cole.
  
  The only thing more fun than taking the fight to the horde, is taking the fight to them with a 
 friend. Online co-op is back for another round, and while the double tandum technique remains largely 
 the same, it is still a worthwhile experience. Multiplayer is similair to any other shooter experience, 
 albeit with the "Gears" twist. Then there's the newest mode - horde- with which I have spent most 
 of my time. In this new mode, you can team up with up to 4 friends to take on waves of horde at 
 progessively increasing levels of difficulty. Think a couple of grubs and tickers are nothing? 
 Try level 30 when they're raining down on you like nobody's business! This mode is frantic and 
 bloody, and the only way to survive is by ammo conservation, tactical planning, and teamwork. This 
 mode is the highlight of the game, and most gamers should and will spend most of their time here.
 
  
  Gears of War 2 takes the standard expectations for a sequel, takes it's lancer and guts it like 
 a fish. This is the best shooter of the year, and arguably the best game of the year. Bottom line 
 - Don't miss gears 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strapp84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Is the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLD
 
  Is the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLDIs 
 the best game to ever live basically I never played a better game in my life. It's great LDLD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cELsius89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is basicly an improved version of the first one. 
  The graphics and gameplay have had minor adjustments and are still excellent. The game feels a 
 lot more faster paced than the first one. The whole game isn't that hard even on the insane difficulty 
 just like the first one. Also the game is a bit longer than the first one but not by much.
  The reason the game is longer is mostly explained by the fact that they've added three vehicle 
 sections to the game instead of only one like in the first one. I can't help to think why Epic 
 would like to torment people like this. There has and never will be a decent FPS (or TPS) game 
 that has good vehicle sections. GoW2 is no exception. Though the last vehicle section is definetly 
 the best the other two are just awful and really serve no other point than to extent the overall 
 length of the game.
  Some new enemies have been added to the mix of the regular ones and some new weapons have been 
 added too but I still found myself to use the good old lancer + sniper rifle combination that I 
 used in the first one.
  The plot leaves loads of plot holes that are obviously going to be explained at Gears of War 3. 
 The overall story is much more epic than the first one but it kind of feels like they were trying 
 to put loads and loads of different story elements into a game that's only around 8-10h long.
 
  A new game mode named Horde has been added. It pits you and 4 of your friends against waves of 
 enemies. That and the old co-op (with still only 2 players) again save the game from being just 
 an average shooter and make it excellent fun. Just like the first one. The online part of the multiplayer 
 with all those deathmaches and capture the flag couldn't interest me even the slightest just like 
 any other online shooter.
  So in conclusion. The sound, graphics and gameplay are excellent but the story even though it feels 
 a lot more grander and epic suffers from plot holes and too many new characters added and killed 
 off. The co-op and the new horde mode really make the game excellent but I wouldn't recommend the 
 game if you're just going to go through the single player campaign alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I was really not expecting much with Gears of War 2. The first game was a great game, but I didn't 
 think that it could be improved too much. To put it short, I was WRONG.
  
  Gears 2 is by far the best shooter game I've played this year. The campaign is the bloodiest and 
 most distubing of any game I've ever played. The graphics are simple amazing in this game. Epic 
 really outdid theirselves with the artwork and graphics on Gears 2. If you liked playing the campaign 
 in the first game, you are in for a pleasant surprise with Gears 2. You will leave this game hating 
 the Locust and really understanding how horrible they really are. 
  If you consider yourself a pretty good Gears player, you may want to play through this game on 
 the Hardcore mode. Normal mode was just way too easy for me.
  The story for me was great. I loved the big bosses and the pacing.
  
  The multiplayer aspect 
 of Gears 2 has improved, but it still has some issues. Horde mode is the best addition to multiplayer. 
 I think that many future games will try to do something similar to this mode. The party system 
 works like Halo and COD4 and is 100% better than Gears 1.
  
  I have yet to play many multiplayer matches other than Horde, so I'm not going to review them. 
 Patches will be applied soon that will fix many of the problems. I do know that the Host shotgun 
 issue has been somewhat fixed.
  
  If you have a love for shooters this is the game to get this Holiday. It will bring you countless 
 hours of enjoyment.
  Epic great job and keep up the great work.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1rdIsTheWord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Just Completed Gears of War 2 on casual goin to try it on insane next. So finally, after 2 years, 
 we all have our chance at taking Gears of War 2 on a spin! I've been waiting for this game for 
 quite sometime now, and just to sum it all up, I'm was well worth it! FIrst off, I would by no 
 means say that this is a ZOMB best Game Ever! In fact, to me there is no such thing because it 
 seems like we're always upping our standards every year. However, this is a must buy for all...... here's 
 why.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much the same as the original gears, however, not like that's a bad thing at all. 
 Same recipe of finding cover first then popping up to take your pop shots. Nothing unexpected there, 
 however, add some bigger baddies (no bizzerkas though thank god!) , bigger environments, and some 
 different (but not all that different) guns and that's Gears of War 2 for ya! 
  Graphics: They're the best you can find on the 360 so far from a technical standpoint and artistic 
 point of view. Some might be put off by the art style simply because of the locations. You can 
 only have so much fun with cities turned to rubble and huge vast caverns. However, they manage 
 to keep things fresh and organic feeling throughout the whole experience. The biggest addition 
 to the graphics (IMO) isn't just the scale, but the interactivity of your character with the environment. 
 From the shadows/lighting cast on the character, to how you distort the water, it all helps you 
 feel like you're in that world. 
  
  Multiplayer: I've only had a chance to play Horde online with some friends and a friend on splitscreen, 
 and while it's certainly a great addition, it's not just absolutely breathtaking. It is what it 
 is, and what that is IS basically you on a multiplayer map with a lot of spawning characters that 
 get harder and harder. If anything, it surely adds a lot of longetivity to the game. Also, unlike 
 most games these days, it gives you something fun that you and another friend can play on splitscreen 
 together. I've tried to join some other multiplayer matches using the matchmaking, however, by 
 my first impression, it takes TOO long getting into a server, and I've seem to have seen a lot 
 of other complaining about that. Honestly though, I'm looking forward to diving deeper into the 
 multiplayer because all the new maps are certainly worth giving a shot!
  
  Conclusion. This is an all around very polished game. Whether or not it's game of the year or not 
 is totally debatable. It won't change the fact that this is a great sequal to what was already 
 a great game. Expect some more of the same characters with a little bit more character development 
 (except from Baird) One thing for sure though, you'll love Cole train-he's a funny dude. For sure 
 though, this is one game that you'll want to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is the best shooting game ever made in my opinion. System link coop, online coop/deathmatch, 
 singleplayer, coop campaign etc etc. Theres so much here to do. The campaign is EPIC and extremely 
 awesome from start to finish (minus the final boss, but the rest of them more than make up for 
 this) . 
  
  Horde mode system link with 4 players is without a doubt the most fun ive ever had playing a video 
 game, and that goes back to 1988 super mario bros. for the nes. Its that fun.
  
  The guns are cooler sounding/looking than they were before, and the new additions are really cool. 
 
  
  If you dont like playing online, you no longer have to thanks to intelligent bots you now play 
 with/against in 10 player warzone madness. Again, you can play system link and split screen here 
 to (2 people per xbox up to 10) . 
  
  I can go on and on, but trust me, if you liked gears 1, action games, shooting games, or just having 
 fun, this is the game to get. 10/10 GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  I like to keep my reviews simple so here it goes. This game was worth the wait for all of the gears 
 fans. The campaign is way longer and the story is a lot better in this game. I could not stop playing 
 the campaign because I wanted to find out what happens and how the game will end. Even if you never 
 liked gears, you should give it a try and check it out. The co-op is better too because if someone 
 leaves, the game won't end, it will just be replaced by a bot. The multiplayer of course is back 
 and better then ever. No more shotgun duels or bullet lag. There are also better maps and the achievements 
 can be accomplished through mutli and single player. I kind of wish the achievements were a little 
 more of a challenge but, they are still fun to get. The horde mode is also amazing even though 
 I got the 50 wave achievement the first day, I still play it. The new matchmaking system also works 
 well. Over all, this is a must buy game for anyone in to gory action games. Easily a 10/10 for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLawson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Love the game - graphics incredible, love the number of headshots and chainsawing that needs doing, 
 and pumelling the last locust to go down to death with your fists is immensely satisfying. I'm 
 only half way through, have just finished slaying the worm and getting past the razor hail, but 
 can't wait to crack on this evening. My only observation is that it feels a little bit pedestrian 
 in places (think the characters run a bit slower) with the result that it doesn't appear as frenetic 
 as the old one in places but within 10 minutes you stop noticing. New weapons are good - the Locust 
 weapon isn't as good as the old one to my mind but the Gorgon pistol's very good and you can't 
 beat the sniper rifle for some blood fountain action. The best has got to be the mortar though 
 - raining a hail of cluster bomb destruction on some ugly mutha and watching it disintegrate under 
 the withering rain of fire and steel is top notch, particularly when you drop a bomb over the roof 
 of the next door building and the locust die without even knowing you were there! 
  
  Great game. Am definitely going to have to have a 24 hour Gears 1 & 2 chainsaw a thon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  What can i say, Gears of War 2 does deliever. It takes everything good from the first game, and 
 gives you more. Some new features, new bad guys, new moves, improved upon weapons, new weapons, 
 even better story. 
  
  The games brings in a much deeper story than the first one, and leaves the game open just enough 
 for another game. Plain and simple, i feel this is such a good game that I do not want to give 
 up really any new info on it, you just need to get out and play this game. 
  
  If you liked the first, you will enjoy and be thrilled with Gears 2. If you are curious and want 
 to try, you won't be disappointed. Really the only reason to not play this is if you do not like 
 fast paced action, tactical warfare, and maybe do not like a lot of blood and gore, otherwise this 
 is one of those games you want to play and a one of those games that give you a reason to own a 
 360. Gears 2 is a solid game and the only spot I feel it could use improvement on, is the matchmaking 
 online interface, sometimes, it just takes to long for one or 2 of the game types, more people 
 are just playing the others and a few match types will make you wait a few more minutes to play.
 
  
  Get Gears, join the COG army and let's kill some Locust! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackmoses22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Wow Where do i began ok at first i was playing the game on story campagn and it was good i mean 
 i expected everything that was gonna happen to happen with new and old characters and the actual 
 story line but none the less it was still a good story (FYI Im the biggest GOW fan) now with multiplayer 
 AHHH i was blown away it was so much fun fighting friends and bots alike without having to be online 
 (because i don't have online) i know i know i'm missing alot lol but gow2 is so much better then 
 the first one and the time that was puty into the game you can feel it so creative and in depth 
 and my man cole was going off throughout the whole game if u beat the game or at least got to the 
 last chapter you know what im talking about i give it a 10 out 10 minor flaws but whos perfect 
 it was for me. i loved it! Peace!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Gears 2 is the best video game to come to any platform at any time. This game single-handedly can 
 take on the likes of CoD 4 and come out of the ring without a scratch on it!
  
  First lets start with the story. To sum up with all the controversy with Dom's wife and her total 
 incapacitation and with what seems to be Marcus Fenix's love for the COG intelligence woman named 
 Anya Stroud at the very end, this game's story is more like a blockbuster that you wish was in 
 the cinema/theater. The game also answers a lot of questions from the previous one. But as the 
 saying goes, 'With every question answered, comes more questions to take its place'. So we can 
 definitely expect to see something new and interesting, story wise, in Gears 3.
  
  The variety of enemies has also been increased greatly, no matter how brief. Like your encounter 
 with the Sires in 'Gathering Storm' The new types of Boomers also add some new spice to the game. 
 And the riding of a Reaver and a Brumak that goes Lambent at the end, was so very cool and very 
 unexpected. The enemies you fight in the games have also grown in variety with the Flame Grenadier, 
 the Mulcher carrying Boomers and the Mortar Locusts along with Brumaks and Reavers and a new boss 
 known as , Skorage and his Hydra. All deadly in their own way but not enough to cause you real 
 frustration, as in the previous game.
  
  Multi player is solid and an ever enjoyable experience. You'll never get sick of it. The new modes 
 have been done very well and those new modes will come you in the game lobby for hours.
  
  The Limited Edition features are also superb. With the Limited Edition Bonus Disc to show you Behind 
 the Scenes stuff and to give you and Editor's view on the game. The Gamer Pics were a bit random 
 but make you look cool anyway.
  
  So to sum up the whole game, its just AMAZING! A definite must have. A roller coaster of an experience. 
 Just superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Right, no point in beating around the bush, so lets get one thing out of the way. This is an absolutely 
 brilliant game that blows the original out of the water & improves on it in every conceivable way. 
 It really is fantastic & every gamer owes it to themselves to play it all the way through at least 
 once. If you didn't like the original then it probably wont change your mind, but still just give 
 it a go, you never know it may click with you this time. I was never the biggest fan of the original 
 myself. Thought it was a great game but not AAA standard most seemed to think it was. Gears 2 however, 
 is deserving of all the praise it receives. Its up there with the best this gen has to offer. 
 
  
  The whole game is just a hell of a lot more focused, playable & well designed. Just about every 
 major problem with the original has gone. Starting with the locations. There's a great amount of 
 variety to the settings this time, it settles into a couple of drab caves at some points, but on 
 a whole its all quite varied & actually has some colour to it apart from brown/grey. You'll be 
 fighting through a forest on a huge rig one moment then fighting through an underground palace 
 the next. Even the city areas have a distinct look to them. Destroyed beauty gets a whole new meaning 
 with this game. Some of the sights are truly breathtaking. 
  
  In fact the graphics on a whole have been tarted up brilliantly. There's a definite, noticeable 
 improvement in the graphics over the original & that was no slouch when it came to this aspect 
 either. Textures are sharper, animations smoother, battlefields larger, every detail has been turned 
 up a notch or two. 
  
  The whole gameplay is slightly faster too. Not much, but its noticeable & makes the gunfights even 
 more enjoyable. Its also just a lot less 'clunky' & feels natural. The cover mechanic returns as 
 strong as ever, but the quicker movement makes it even more exciting. The larger battlefields also 
 create a lot more flanking opportunities, now ive not played much in co-op but I really think this 
 could come into its own in that mode. You also cant be as relaxed behind cover anymore. Some of 
 the larger enemies will be more than willing to rush you & a lot of the scenery is semi-destructible. 
 It doesn't all get destroyed but enough does so that your huge character will stick out enough 
 for the enemies to get a few shots on you even when behind cover. Meaning you must always be moving, 
 scoping out the cover spots & rethinking your situation. Making it even more of a rush to play. 
 You will be grinning like a loon from beginning to end because it just feels so right. Its not 
 all just 'go into room & kill everything' this time either. Theres more variety to the way you 
 explore the landscape & objectives you have to carry out. 
  
  The scale of every level is truly epic too. Its still very linear & you are just basically going 
 down corridors, but when they look this good & are this wide it just no longer matters. I'm a firm 
 believer that linear games always have tighter & more focused gameplay anyway with more standout 
 moments than the freeform approach. That's as true with this game as any other I've played. 
  
  Even the story is much better handled this time. I actually knew what was going on & there 
 was a lot more purpose to all the events & everything just seemed to make a more sense & was more 
 interesting. Even the characters are a lot more likeable this time, especially the new ones. They're 
 still overly clichd & American but the voice acting is a lot less wooden & there is a bit more 
 to them other than being paper thin macho men. Dom's story could have been handled much better 
 though. At every possible opportunity its thrown in your face how he's searching for his wife. 
 Ok we get it, stop going on will you. It could have benefited from being just a little more subtle. 
 But overall it's a great improvement that just made the whole experience more enjoyable. 
  
  To be honest I could have really given this game full marks, even with the shallow characters 
 & story. I really could have. But there's a couple of moments & a section that bring it down & 
 stop it being a game worthy of a 10 score. But it also means giving away a possible spoiler. So 
 if you don't want to know, look away now. [b] *Spoiler* [/b] At one point you get to ride a Reaver. 
 Now this had me giddy with excitement when I reached it. However it is just no fun to control at 
 all! In fact its quite horrid. You get put onto an on rails bit with limited movement to dodge 
 rockets & get flown through drab tunnels at eye watering speed. Anyone who played that awful last 
 level of Enter the Matrix will know what to expect, this is the current gen equivalent. Nasty. 
 You have to fight some kind of super reaver here too. But you lose too much control & it all just 
 feels too clumsy & difficult to be any fun at all. It's a missed opportunity & it wasn't really 
 needed. [b] *End spoiler* [/b] However it's a small section that's over soon enough so its not too 
 big a problem but its enough to ruin the package.
  
  Lastly the enemies are brilliant too, again theres a lot more variety to them & they all look great 
 & suitably nasty. Some of the bosses are absolutely fantastic too & bloody huge. Theres one that 
 Resi 4 fans will really like too, I did. However the end boss, although massive & looks as though 
 it could destroy the world [b] *Spoiler* [/b] can be dealt with, with ease & within seconds. [b] *End 
 spoiler* [/b] Very disappointing. 
  
  All in all though it's a fabulous game. It really is, I haven't enjoyed a game this much for a 
 while & its easily one of the best of this gen & can stand tall next to Bioshock, Orange Box, CoD4 
 etc. as the best this gen has to offer. Everyone should play it. Incredible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugaboo_pt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  I am amazed by the awesome work Epic did in this 2 years since the launch of Gears 1.
  A company that alters so many things in the, probably, best game ever made that sold millions of 
 copies, in order to improve the weak parts of it, with no fear of the opinion of gamers used to 
 abuse of the shotgun power (lots and lots of them) , sniper active reload, etc, reveals courage, 
 personality, professionalism.
  This game makes me feel the same gameplay, but at the same time that I am playing a much better 
 game, perfectly tweaked, improved in art, graphics, sound, weapons, war strategy, campaign, multiplayer 
 modes.
  I feel that this game is very different from Gears 1 for better in every possible way you can imagine.
 
  Just can't understand how can a magazine give 9 to the only true next generation game ever made.
 
  In a scale 1 to 10 I would rate it 17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 keeps everything that was right in the first game and improves on those aspects 
 that were not so great. The end result is a better game in every way than the first one.
  
  Story in Gears of War was really bad: the sci-fi world of planet Sera was interesting, but you 
 never knew pretty much anything about it. You barely got to know the character you were playing 
 as (Marcus Fenix) and then it was just a nonstop shooting from cover to cover until the bitter 
 end. It seemed like the story started in the middle of something and ended in the middle of something.
 
  
  In this new sequel the story is told much better and in the end you will get a sense of closure 
 while being left wanting for more. Still there are major gaps concerning different characters' 
 personal histories: what has happened in the past that makes them behave the way they do? If you 
 wish to really get into this world of Gears of War I strongly recommend you to read Karen Traviss' 
 novel Gears of War: Aspho Fields. It makes your journey through these games a lot more enjoyable. 
 Unfortunately this is a clear sign that Epic still don't know how to tell a story properly: if 
 I am forced to do some research outside the game itself in order to really enjoy it then I can 
 also say that Epic is nowhere near in telling a story in Gears of War 2 as BioWare is in Mass Effect 
 for example.
  
  Campaign starts about 6 months after the first game and humans' resources are growing thin. Jacinto 
 has become the last fortress and safe haven for humans. This means that humans can either continue 
 to wage this war and eventually lose it, or to launch a full-scale final assault against the Locust 
 Horde and finish it once and for all. Humans' political leader Chairman Prescott chooses to attack 
 and it is lead by Colonel Victor Hoffman. This means that game's premise is pretty much just a 
 story of a one big assault divided in 5 Acts and played in the perspective of Delta Squad. Besides 
 the familiar characters there are a few new ones: my personal favourite is a rookie soldier Benjamin 
 Carmine, the brother of Anthony Carmine, who got ripped to pieces in Gears of War in the hands 
 of a Berserker.
  
  Story is about 8 to 10 hours long, but it doesn't feel that long: it's a nonstop rollercoaster 
 ride and you'll most likely enjoy every minute of it. This time there are much more numerous cutscenes 
 and radio communication, but adding subtitles as a default setting makes it very easy to follow 
 what's happening. Also the overall scale is much bigger this time around: in the first game you 
 felt like you're waging a war of your own, but this time it's clear that this really is one huge 
 assault played in the perspective of Delta Squad.
  
  2-player co-op is back and you can play it either locally on split-screen, through system link 
 or via Xbox Live. It all works just like it should and at times there are splitted paths to take, 
 which again adds a nice layer of replay value. Unfortunately there's no 4-player co-op, which would 
 have been a nice addition since there are 4 guys in Delta Squad (Marcus Fenix, Dominic Santiago, 
 Damon Baird and Augustus Cole) .
  
  Graphics have been improved since the original game: there are a lot more colors and there's just 
 so much more added details in the game. I encountered only a few graphical glitches and the frame 
 rate slowed down 2 or 3 times. Environments can be destroyed, but only a little: don't expect to 
 see a total havoc like in Battlefield: Bad Company for example. You will also notice some texture 
 popping on the surface of characters, but aside from these minor shortcomings Gears of War 2 looks 
 superb.
  
  Audio is also been improved by huge amount. Everything has a certain weight in its sound and voice 
 acting is again top notch quality done by skillful actors. Musical score is done by the same man 
 who made music for Michael Bay's Transformers movie so expect to see a lot of larger than life 
 tunes and melodies, something we quite haven't used to hear in a videogame yet. The most important 
 aspect in a shooter is its guns and the sound of every individual weapon is just nailed: I used 
 the new Locust Hammerburst assault rifle a lot in the campaign mode just because it sounded so 
 heavy and powerful.
  
  All in all Gears of War 2 is THE game to choose, if you wish to invite all your friends over and 
 show them the power of your home theater surround sound system and your new widescreen HD TV.
 
  
  Gameplay is that same cover-based third person shooter you came to either love or hate in the first 
 game. Controls are pretty much the same, with some new twists to give the game a bit more variety. 
 You are also encouraged to try these new aspects of the game, because they are cool looking and 
 you'll get achievement points by performing them.
  
  There are quite a few new enemies that are all trying to kill you and you'll quickly learn to fight 
 each of them in a different way. Well that or you can just watch the game over screen over and 
 over again. Guns are plentiful and there are 15 different weapons in total. Shotgun is much weaker 
 this time around and it will not satisfy everyone, but I personally love the fact that Lancer is 
 now much more powerful in close combat than the shotgun.
  
  Structure of the game is a linear experience divided into 5 Acts and 28 Chapters. There are a lot 
 of scripted sequences and there's no chance of getting lost. This also means that the aspect of 
 exploration is kept to a minimum consisting only the ability to collect hidden items and there 
 are 41 of them to be found in total. Environments change in just right pace: as soon as you start 
 feeling bored the game throws you in a whole different place and environment so the gameplay stays 
 fresh all the way through.
  
  There are a few vehicle levels just like in the original game, but it's not always the Gears' APC 
 that you are driving with To me it was a big surprise to notice that there is a little sneaking 
 mission to do in a usually so straight forward shooter like Gears of War 2.
  
  And finally there's the multiplayer either in local split-screen (2 people) , system link or Xbox 
 Live. Training Grounds teaches you the basics by making you to play against bots and it's worth 
 playing once for the experience and achievement points. I believe that this feature was designed 
 for new players in mind.
  
  At last there's a real lobby system for you to gather your own party. There can be 5 players in 
 one team or you can choose to make your own game and gather 10 people in it. If you can't find 
 all 10 you can replace missing gamers by adding bots. The best thing in this is that if someone 
 chooses to join your game in the middle of a session the bot is removed and your friend is taken 
 in. This ability to easily create a private game and mold it to your liking makes it very easy 
 to play clan matches in the future.
  
  Modes are Warzone (team deathmatch) , Submission (capture the flag) , Wingman (5 pairs against each 
 other) , Execution, Guardian, Annex, King of the Hill and Horde. My personal favourite so far is 
 Guardian, where each team has a leader and everyone respawns 15 seconds after dying as long as 
 the leader is alive. Horde is a 5-player co-op against waves of locusts and you just need to survive. 
 There really is a feeling of team work and desperate defence battle in later waves.
  
  This time the game tracks your progress in every mode including private games so it's just a matter 
 time for you to gather all those achievement points and you're encouraged to do just that since 
 there are no hidden achievements in Gears of War 2. Tracking is done in your War Journal and it's 
 easy to use. A nice little addition is that if you've played the original game you'll immediately 
 unlock quite a few characters to use in multiplayer so I guess this is Epic's way of thanking the 
 gamers who have played through the first Gears of War.
  
  Epic is still not a good company to tell a story, but they also know what to change in order to 
 make it better and what to keep in order to make it feel like a genuine Gears of War experience. 
 In short Gears of War 2 is everything I expected and hoped it to be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevexwwe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Hi there guys this is one of the best games this year by far the multiplayer on Gears Of War 2 
 is a much nicer experience than the last game with bigger and better maps to play on. Now for the 
 co-op this is a great game to play on co-op and the fact that one player can play on easy and an 
 other on hard it gives novice players the chance to play with more advanced friend and truley makes 
 the game a must have for ever game fan a definite 10/10 game. A final word for this game is magnificent. 
 stevexwwe
  
  This game is gonna give Call Of Duty 5 a run for its money when it comes to the game of the year 
 awards it will be nice that a game has come out that can hold its own against a call of duty title 
 dont get me wrong COD is a 10/10 all so and thats why this is gonna be a good run upto christmas 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dc_Cd_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
 very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very 
 good very good very good very good very good very good very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the original Gears of War will be happy to know that Epic Games has stayed very close and 
 familiar as far as controls go for GoW2 while adding some cool new features that keep the carnage 
 factor high.
  
  One of the most noticeably welcome additions, at least in my opinion, are the added signature execution 
 moves and meatshield options. Players can used downed Locust as a "meatshield" and walk with the 
 body into combat while the body absorbs the gunfire. Add in a few new ways to dispatch grubs with 
 the chainsaw on your Lancer and this game provides nice variety for splattering.
  
  I haven't gotten into multiplayer much yet. I'm concentrating on the story first. What I can say 
 is that the Multiplayer seems more balanced and has a few more modes to offer than the original, 
 making replayability higher. So far as I can tell, the graphical detail and rendering seems way 
 higher in this version, especially on an HDTV. 
  
  If I have to find one thing to gripe about so far it has to be player mobility. After playing most 
 shooters, GoW has a tendency to feel like your character is a refrigerator with legs at times, 
 and it makes close encounters a bit wonky. Other than that, I love this franchise, and I love this 
 game. No less than a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legeacy22
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played gears 1 for probably over 1000 hours online and I was ridiculously good at that. 
 to me, aside from maybe 1 minuscule flaw, Gears was perfect. Unfortunately i regret to inform that 
 i cant say the same for Gears 2. I'm so completely and utterly disappointed with this multiplayer 
 its unbelievable. If it wasn't for the graphics style and cover system i wouldn't be able to tell 
 you this is gears. Probably because its not. If Cliffy B and Epic wanted a more tactical game they 
 should've done it with the first one before having everyone fall in love with it. They've destroyed 
 it. The shotgun now sucks and the lancer is god. Its near impossible to make someone flinch while 
 they're revving their chainsaw. I understand some minor tweaks are necessary but seriously they 
 changed the whole formula entirely and it was perfect to begin with AND they added a ton of stuff 
 that should only be added after all the tweaking is done and it all works. The whole thing is one 
 big failure its more than 2 steps back, Its nearly ten steps back I'm so disappointed ill probably 
 just go back to gears 1 until a huge patch comes out or gears 3 comes out. If they want a tactical 
 shooter they should've made a whole new series instead of ruining the perfect Gears of War series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 shares a lot in common with Gears 1. Both are fun with unique and innovative multiplayer. 
 Unfortunately they fail in the exact same ways. Despite a few additions to combat the game remains 
 basically the same. Move forward, get behind cover and shoot. The problem is that you never quite 
 no why. As the game progresses you start to think that at any moment the story will finally unfold 
 before you, yet just like the first game you are left with more questions then answers, many of 
 them following you from the last game. You never find out where the Locusts come from, or why they're 
 so pissed, and unless you have read all the books put out along the first game you will have no 
 clue what is going on. This is a bizarre failure for a game with so much budget and production 
 value, and is just one of the many things missing for no apparent reason. Another odd thing is 
 that despite a heavy female fan base and a heavy demand from that said fan base they have refused 
 to include a female COG. In a game that is so over the top in the first place a female COG would 
 of done little in the way of altering it's mood, and if anything would have brought more variety 
 to the hulking bone head soldiers. 
  
  The game does deliver another dose of high action like the first, but in no way expands on the 
 story, or drama laid out in the first. Co-op is the best way to play, and you will no doubt get 
 your money's worth, but don't expect any revelation or competent story telling to carry you through.
 
  
  Gears 2 is of course good, but until the story is presented in the game and a wider variety of 
 characters can materialize it is far from perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str8thriller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Very few games actually live up to the hype and Gears of War 2 had more hype than any game since 
 Halo 3 or Grand Theft Auto IV, but this game does more than just live up to the hype, it surpasses 
 it. The graphics in the first Gears of War set the standard for HD Gaming and that standard has 
 once again been raised. Everything from environment to the characters looks so much better than 
 Gears of War 1. The weapons even look better. I'm halfway through the campaign and the story is 
 much bigger scale than the first, but still you feel like everything you do if very important. 
 As you go through the story, it really does feel like you're part of a big budget summer blockbuster 
 movie. The story really sucks you in. The game offers a different type of environment on every 
 level it seems. The multiplayer is addictive to say the least, new modes like wingman, submission (meatflag) , 
 guardian, and horde bring in an experience in my opinion no other games offer. This game is hard 
 to stop playing theres no doubt about it. The new executions are really fun to perform, especially 
 the "beatdown". Chainsaw battles are a great addition too, and being able to use someone as a human 
 shield give the game a cool tactical weapon. Speaking of weapons, the new ones in this game are 
 great, especially the gorgon pistol, scorcher flamethrower, and the heavy mortar. Its not easy 
 to make a sequel to a game as great as Gears of War and make actual improvement, but Gears of War 
 2 did just that. Not sure why this game was only given a 9.0 on here, I give this game nothing 
 less than a 10!!! This is the GAME OF THE YEAR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshyoung55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  First of lets talk about the story since that is the foundation of all console games. 
  
  I cannot comment on single player having never been sad enough to play the game by myself but the 
 co-op has improved vastley, lots of little things like the ability for your non-human team mates 
 to heal you and the new hud help to make the game run smoother. The new features that also run 
 onto multiplayer such as picking up enemys who have been shot to their knees as human shields and 
 tagging walls with grenades improves gameplay also.
  
  The story line in Gears of War 2 is more dramatic than the last and gets you more emotionally involved. 
 The main object for the gears is still to stop the locust horde from taking over sera but this 
 time around you have a side mission of finding Dom Santiagos wife Maria, Without spoiling the plot 
 for those who havnt played it the events help you empathise with the characters and help to influence 
 your style of gameplay in ways which the original didn't achieve.
  
  The Multiplayer i think has been improved generaly but there are some minor hiccupps which need 
 to be rectified. The main issue that i have is that the chainsaw attached to the lancer assault 
 rifle is too good. In the last gears i feel that they got it just right by the end but in this 
 one it seems too hard to prevent, you rev the chainsaw too fast and shooting someone while they 
 rev it which used to knock them back seems to affect them far too little. I like the new game modes; 
 Horde and Wingman in particular the main difference is in gameplay, The game seems more about teamwork 
 that the last it is much harder to take on a team by yourself than the first. Also the snipers 
 lack of an active reload means that players with skil thrive over people from the old gears who 
 used to take advantage of all the tactics requiring no skill.
  
  Pros and cons :
  + Meat shields
  + No more lag
  + More Tacticle online gameplay
  + Deeper and slightly longer 
 story
  + More exciting game modes
  + Chainsaw battles
  - Chainsawing too easy
  - Players cannot choose how many rounds of a game mode they play in public matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kollin_1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the campaign mode in this game is fantastic! That's what you need to know if you 
 don't intend to play multi-player at all. They actually tried to make a story in the sequel, and 
 it comes across pretty well. It's weak, but by far one of strongest stories for the shooter genre. 
 It soars above and beyond the original in this area.
  The only problem that stayed with the sequel is the sound mixing. The voices sometimes get drowned 
 out by either the music or the sound effects.
  
  The multi-player is where the problem comes in. There has been a massive overhaul of the controls, 
 interface and power of the weapons, most notably the shotgun, much to this games detriment. The 
 best way I can describe what has happened is that they took everything I hate about Halo which 
 is... everything, and put it into this game. I find the interface to be incredibly complex and 
 aggravating. I can't choose the game type I want to play, it's basically a lottery, and if I want 
 to play a quick match it takes upwards of ten minutes to find one if I'm by myself! In the old 
 one you would select your game type, find a match, and join! Easy and fast. 
  They've also gimped the shotgun. That's supposedly to make it more "tactical" but it just makes 
 it dumb and un-fun, and slow, and tedious. Before everyone would whip out their shotgun, and a 
 match could be over in 5-10 minutes, and chances are you were having fun regardless of who was 
 winning or losing.
  The whole social aspect of it is completely gone, depending on what game type you're playing. For 
 the classic Warzone game, you can only talk to, or hear anyone on the opposite team at the beginning 
 or end of a match. That really bugs me. It's not like there were profound conversations going on 
 or anything, but sometimes something interesting would come up.
  Also, peoples ranks are displayed now. That doesn't seem like a big thing, but a lot of people 
 take themselves way too seriously, and it just becomes less fun. It takes the fun out of the whole 
 experience because you can't just enjoy playing the game for the sake of playing it. Sure people 
 would talk down to others in the old game, but it was always fun to show'em what's what every now 
 and then.
  
  This is why Gears 2 is a waste of money. Goodnight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernoob662
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a Halo fanboy before this game, but now i am a gears fanboy all the way. I played 
 this game on 1080i on an HDTV and it looked unbeleivble, the campagin is so cinematic and beutiful, 
 or at least as beutiful as a locust horde can get. The campagin is a big step up from gears 1, 
 its about 2-3 hours longer depending on what difficulty you pick and is much more vibrate and colorful 
 which for some reason ups the replay vaule, there are more boss fights which are well thought out 
 and fun, the only downside is the answers it leaves unanswered, there will deffintly be a gears 
 3 thats all i can say. The multiplayer is the most addictive one i've played since the Halo seris, 
 the horde mode is so fun and addictive that i don't know how gears 1 made it without it, the new 
 maps are more thought out and balanced, the bots work really well, but sadly this is probably what 
 you'll be playing the most because it takes a good 10-15 minutes to find a game, which is really 
 sad because its really fun when you get a game going, hopefully they will fix it soon, but the 
 bots, horde mode, and campagin covers for the online disapointment, all in all this game is one 
 of the best games i've played since Mass Effect, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxdeadpeacexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Ive played GOW2 since it came out and I have too say it was worth the wait. The first thing I notice 
 is the new multiplayer system. The PROS: Now you can have a party system too play with you. ( Up 
 too 5 ) . CONS: The new matchmakeing is somewhat dissopointed. For one you cant find and pick the 
 mulitplayer matches you want like in GOW1. everything is randomize now. Now for the Campaign. For 
 one the Campaign is very long compare too GOW1. there 5 acts and 6 chapters. each of the acts/chapter 
 is very Epic and some what Humor. You have all the originals like Marcus, Dom, Cole, Baird and with 
 addtional like Tai, Dizzy. Theres all some need games modes like  
 The weponds have inprove alot. Theres also new weponds and new exceutions. Above all GOW2 is a 
 MUST HAVE. Above all this game is worth the wait and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i3iggie_i3lood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I loved Gears 1, but Gears 2 has such an amazing amount of new stuff without wrecking an old masterpiece 
 that I don't know how else to describe it. The bots are nice if you don't want to play with a ton 
 of people or don't have LIVE. The new multi is great with awesome interactive maps and great options. 
 So many new little options have been added and it doesn't take away from the great core of the 
 gameplay. It is a solid story and though some say that it creates more questions then it answers 
 I think that was to be expected. It was going to be a trilogy from the beginning, and the "second" 
 in any trilogy ALWAYS does that so you have a reason to experience the third one to wrap up the 
 whole story in a nice little package. Overall I think Gears 2 is a must buy!!! And anyone who misses 
 out on this is definitely going to regret it (if you like action games that is) . 
  
  DISCLAIMER: I strongly discourage this game to younger gamers who are not of age to buy it for 
 themselves. It has adult language and some of the visuals are not really for children. So parents... 
 don't buy an "M" rated game for your elementary or middle school kid... that's just irresponsible 
 and gives great games like this a bad name when it gets around to the media that kids that age 
 are playing MATURE games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the game we have been waiting for for almost 2 years has finally arrived. Gears of War 
 2 is a huge improvement from Gears of War and is an amazing game. The storyline is very exciting, sad, horrific, and 
 so interesting. You will love playing campaign with a friend or relative because Co-Op is awesome. 
 Horde mode is a lot of fun, though make sure you have 4 friends with you, because it will get intense! 
 The new online modes such as Wingman, where you and a friend take on 4 other teams killing each 
 other to reach the score. If you survive in the end you get an extra point. Also another new online 
 mode is Meatflag. Meatflag is where you face another team trying to reach a stranded and capture 
 him. He carries a shotgun and you must get him down and pick him up. Afterwards, you must walk to 
 the extraction point. Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad return in this epic game to put an end to the 
 locust horde. You get to ride Centaurs, which are small tanks, Reavers, where someone from Delta 
 rides it while you shoot, and a BRUMACK. That's right, a Brumack. You get fight many bosses such 
 as the new villian, Scorge, a gigantic fish, and the inside of a worm. The Locust are new and improved, they 
 now have Maulers, huge Locust who use grenades and shields to attack, Flamers, who use Flamethrowers, and 
 Grinders, who use mulchers. Also there are Kantus. Kantus throw ink grenades and can revive other 
 Locust. New weapons include : mortars, mulchers, ink grenades, and flamethrowers. Though the story 
 is awesome, you will be disappointed at what happens such as deaths. I reccomend this game to all 
 Gears fans, and all gamers. This is the game we have all been waiting for, this is Gears of War 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Killer_66
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Hands down, Gears 2 has one of the best single player campaigns of any shooter i have played in 
 recent memory. While the core action that made the original great has not changed to revolutionary 
 heights, it has greatly improved and wisely kept a winning formula. The new multiplayer is no Halo 
 yet, but it will have you coming back for a good amount of time, and is fun to play with friends. 
 The coop campaign is as always, one of the most fun aspects of the game. The games biggest improvement 
 by far is its character development and story. Marcus's one liners are hilarious (not cheesy, ignore 
 skeptics) and cole is also funnier than ever. There actually is a story this time, and it builds 
 upon the universe of the first game, and from universe info from other sources. It keeps you intrigued 
 and while it does keep you mostly at bay for the third installment, is a fully satisfying campaign 
 experience. Non shooting activities such as vehicle levels and others do well to break up the action 
 frequently, and there are a lot more cinematics in this one. The story is really good, be sure 
 to watch after the credits. Gears 2 has improved in every way, and is tied with GTA4 as my favourite 
 game of the year. The only problems with it is that there are some glitches that shipped (but not 
 too many) and are minor, but the controls of the centaur tank are terrible, if they had fixed it, 
 this would have been a really immaculate game. The difficulties can serve anyone well, and the 
 campaign is a good length for a shooter. This game really delivers. The gamespot review of only 
 9 is abysmall, dont buy their BS, get this game asap, this is the action pack of the year. But 
 we all know that gamespot are a bunch of ps3 fanboys anyways so it doesnt really matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 1 brought a new look to shooters with innovative controls and top-of-the-line graphics. 
 The game became a classic overnight. When the time came for Epic Games to roll out a sequal, they 
 did it with full force. Gears of War 2 is every bit as good as the first one and adds some interesting 
 ingredients into the mix.
  
  The campaign of Gears of War 2 can be described with many words. The most prominant word would 
 be "Epic". Epic battles with hordes of footsoldiers, epic boss-fights with humongous beasts, and 
 an epic storyline that goes deep into emotion. Gears 2's campaign plunges deep into unseen territories 
 from the previous game and creates quite a bit more of a challenge. Although it may be considered 
 short, it still packs a big punch in terms of amazingness.
  
  When people think of Gears, they think of the tactical style multiplayer skirmishes. Gears 1 had 
 captivated millions with tactical, yet simple, online battles. All of the simplicity of the combat 
 and ease of use makes the amazing multiplayer battles all the more better in Gears 2. With new 
 weapons along with updated and balanced-out old weapons, the combat just gets more creative while 
 retaining the simplicity. The new multiplayer modes add an interesting twist of diversity and a 
 breaking of the repetition from standard gametypes. Although, unarguably, the best addition to 
 multiplayer is the matchmaking system. Instead of creating a match and waiting for people to join 
 (whom aren't your friends) , you can get instant joy with the party system. No longer will you set 
 up a match, go make a sandwhich, come back, and have only a few players join. Also, a great thing 
 about the matchmaking system is that there is no a longer a "Host Advantage", allowing every player 
 an equal opportunity in the battle.
  
  While I have only named several features so far, there are plenty more. One of those such features 
 would be the comepletley new Horde Mode. Horde Mode allows you to do just the basic premise of 
 shooter games: shoot stuff for fun and not ask questions. Whether you want to mow things down in 
 an evil and sadistic manner, or fight supremely challenging adversaries, Horde Mode allows for 
 fun of all kinds. The rules of Horde are simple: fight increasingly difficult waves of enemies 
 for the fun of it. This relatively simple gametype takes you back to the old days of gaming where 
 surviving waves of enemies was all there was to worrie about. Invite friends for a total of 5 players 
 battling it out with endless enemies, or go it alone and test your wit.
  
  Summary:
  Gears of War 2 offers all that Gears of War 1 was and explodes it into a more epic game. Updated 
 gameplay, fixed problems, and a heck of a lot more features makes Gears 2 superior to it's successor 
 and superior to other games. Believe the hype, there's an obvious reason for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteeleGT
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Some of the battles could use a bit more work on them because I had it on insane and was still 
 blazing through the stages. Thank god the controls are still similar to it's predecessor because 
 the run and gun and sniping were great but the sniper rifle could use an extra zoom. Characters, 
 enemies, background visuals are amazing. The game does feel like a walking science fiction movie 
 but as the reviews go there are just too many unanswered questions in this game but I guess that 
 can be a good thing because I've gone through the game twice and I am anticipating what is in store 
 for Gears of War 3. Co-Op is nice as always but if you have to get something done right you have 
 to do it yourself because having to revive someone constantly who doesn't know how to true play 
 a shooter game can be annoying, but other than that keep this in the arsenal for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalbisaur
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Picture this:
  
  Epic is in development of Gears of War 1 in 2006. Right in the middle of development, they decide 
 to skip beta testing and release the game to the public. This is essentially the result of what 
 is Gears of War 2. It feels unfinished in every aspect of game design and the result is an uninspired 
 offering which makes you question almost every decision that went into this game.
  
  The multiplayer is a major component of this franchise and it is simply a disaster in Gears 2. 
 Simply searching for a game type and seeing what maps are being played and then jumping into a 
 game is non-existent. With the matchmaking system, the game type that you wish to play falls under 
 a certain category. You cannot directly choose the one game type that you want to play. You then 
 wait for four other players to fill up the empty slots that will make up your team. This can take 
 a few minutes. Then you have to wait while it searches for an opposing team for you to play against. 
 This then takes another few minutes. After it finds an opposing team to play, that's when you enter 
 the match.
  
  Once you enter the match, you're given the choice to vote on the game type that will be played. 
 You can vote for your favorite game type, but there is no guarantee that the game type you want 
 will be played. You also vote on what map will be played.
  
  I absolutely do not understand the logic in not allowing players to choose the game type that they 
 prefer to play. Yes, you can vote on the game type you want to play once you are in a match, but 
 why deny the choice from the beginning? Denying players choice in this regard is, to me, unacceptable. 
 
  
  Besides the many obvious problems with the matchmaking system, the implementation of this has caused 
 another issue: People leaving in the middle of matches. With the matchmaking system, a new game 
 is always started. There is no longer the option of jumping into a game in progress. The problem 
 is that if you are on a team where someone leaves, there is no chance that you'll get new teammates 
 to even out the teams. This ultimately leads to more frustration and more people leaving as your 
 team gets pounded 5 on 4 or 5 on 3. It's simply not fun.
  
  Lag is still a major issue and the networking code hasn't improved at all. What would be useful 
 is to show some kind of connection indicator similar to that of Gears 1 or somehow show what country 
 the host player is in. I do not want to play in a game where the host is in Europe because I know 
 that the connection will be horrendous.
  
  Once the match actually starts, you quickly get a sense of the environment and game play mechanics. 
 The characters seems to have less weight. Yes they appear bulky and muscular, but they don't feel 
 weighted to the ground as in Gears 1. The map design is simply uninspired. One side will be a long, 
 walled off corridor (conducive to lancer fire inspired battles) while the other side will be a 
 random assortment of wall blocks and half-wall blocks. Many of the maps follow this design. There's 
 too much symmetry with the map design and it provides a bland environment for the stop and pop 
 shooting.
  
  The maps in general seem overly bright. The dark, brooding sense of destruction is missing and 
 as a result, they seem out of place within the Gears universe. The textures seem flat, bland, and 
 lack depth, which makes you see how uninspired the map designers were. 
  
  I truly wanted to love this game. For those that do love this game, more power to you. But I simply 
 can't get over some of the decisions that went into this uninspired, half-finished product. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  By all means a 7.5 is a good rating and nothing to be ashamed of, But the idea of rating a game 
 on its qualitys and its negatives is far from exsisting for the games Gears Of War 2.
  
  I must admit the singleplayer was very fun the couple of extra weapons was good... Another little 
 experiance hmmm then again when i think of it think deeply my eyes widely open and realise this 
 is an American made game....
  
  The dissapointment starts from what i state the online is lacklustre absolute disgrace how can 
 you condone a game good if you can barely get a game online with anyone and when you do get a game... 
 All you get is the same dribble as the last overrated game by microsoft, I truelly thought that 
 this game would of made me change my mind but as how bad the american cars corner it doesnt suprise 
 me.
  
  First off the gameplay for online is the same boring camping gameplay, Or how others would describe 
 it tactics i think ir neccesarry for people to realise the diffirence from unranked gameplay and 
 ranked gameplay when and when not to use cowardly tactics...
  And the last inperfection for this game is the sheer stupidity of the storyline it makes no sense 
 whatsoever!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Simply put... if you own a 360, then pick this game up. I will be honest that I didn't think that 
 this version was going to be as good as the original GOW when I first started playing. I was actually 
 about 3/4 through the game before I realized that it really isn't fair to compare this the original 
 GOW because it isn't the same concept. This game is much more over the top with an aim to give 
 you an arcade WTF was that reaction rather than the frantic HOLY SH*% moments that the original 
 GOW gave you. I think that anyone who is honest with themselves will admit that the final boss 
 battle is lame, but the overall game is pretty sweet. The achievements make the replay value fairly 
 high as well. I just finished the single player and started to play multi today, so I don't have 
 a real opinion on that yet. From what I have seen, it looks like they may have fixed the balance 
 issues from the original. Hopefully that is true. To sum everything up in one sentence... Basically, 
 if you don't have this then go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way. I'm an FPS fan, not a 3rd person shooter fan. But ever since 
 I've played the first Gears of War game, my preference started to change, dramatically. Everything 
 that we know was great in the first game, has gotten beefed up to the max in the sequel. Sound, 
 graphics (UT3 engine utilized to the max) and game play. I'm not going to even bother mentioning 
 the back story of the game, I'll just say this, if you haven't played the first GOW, I suggest 
 that you do so in order to fully appreciate this game. My congrats to Cliffy B. and all other developers 
 responsible for making another masterpiece. Keep up the good work guys and continue making games 
 for your true fans, not for idiots who wouldn't know a revolutionary game if a 3 dimensional, 10ft 
 joystick knocked him/her upside the head. 9.0? You have got to be kidding me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves game of the year. I was a bit of a fan of Gears and got quite a bit of the achievements 
 on it. I decided that I would get this game right when it came out though. And boy did it pay off. 
 
  
  In this game, it has something I've not seen before. When playing coop you can have a difficulty 
 and your partner can have a higher or lower difficulty. This allows you to play with friends that 
 aren't as good as you or people that are better than you, and still both be kicking butt.
  
  The campaign is very solid. Quite a few suprises you; ll get out of the campaign a long with 
 lots of fun. The campaign is five Acts long with five chapters per act. The missions aren't too 
 hard but aren't incredibly easy. I played my first time through on Hardcore and it was just right 
 for me. 
  
  Online:
  Online there are different game types. I haven't tried any but Horde. In horde you pair up with 
 up to 4 other teammates and fight against waves of locust. Each level gets harder and harder. It 
 gets really fun too.
  
  GAME OF THE YEAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyboy94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  this game deserves am easy 10/10 because of its great gameplay, amazing weapons, and fun interactive 
 driving sequences, for all the gears fans who havent been able to get this yet it is definately 
 a buy, there are more driving sequences, more vehicles weapons and enemies to, and you even get 
 to ride a brumak! this game also has a plot better then most movies, the plot is deep, and twisted 
 around to make you want to not stop till the games over and the ending leaves ends open and shut 
 to leaving it open for a gears 3 or not, and beating it on insane still give you the insane gamerpic 
 for it. you can also unlock some characters in this game for things you have done in the previous 
 game, if you beat RAAM in the first one you unlock him for multiplayer and if you have 10 cog tags 
 tou unlock kim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luludooobee111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  So first i went to the single player. The acting in the game was one of the best, characters were 
 cool and everything. But when we get to the story, it was terrible. they just start adding random 
 things throughout the game without fully explaining them. Marcus's dad, doms wife, etc. When playing 
 through the game, i felt like it was more an unreal tournament then a gears of war game. This did 
 not feel the way the game should. Everything was a boss battle overall it was not a good single 
 player. Nothing was tactical! 
  
  Now the multiplayer. The worst multiplayer ever, ive never been so bored playing a game. People 
 say that the shotgun in gears 1 was overpowered. I can agree, but at least people were fighting 
 instead of standing in corners waiting to chainsaw or kill someone with a power weapon. The chainsaw 
 is absolutly ridiculous, grenades are probably the worst part of the game. People place them on 
 walls and sit there the whole game, without moving. This games multi is so f***ing boring it makes 
 me sick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingWallace9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War came out in 2006. It was, in a word, mindblowing. This was what gamers all over had 
 been looking for. The story was good, graphics amazing, and most importantly, you could cut people 
 in half with a CHAINSAW. Quite frankly, it was an amazing game. I really got attached to Marcus 
 Fenix and his partner in crime Dom Santiago like I would if I was watching a movie. All in all, 
 it set the standard for shooters on the Xbox 360.
  Now, 2 years later, Epic Games has released the long anticipated sequel, Gears of War 2. I had 
 reserved this game in March so I was sure to get a copy. I then rushed to my local Gamestop right 
 after school this Friday to get my hands on my copy. My brother and I then went home, popped Gears 
 of War 2 into our Xbox, and let the Campeign begin.
  Now, before you read on, I must say this. I don't usually rate games based on how good the multiplayer 
 is, so in this review, that is not a factor in my judgement. With that said, Gears of War 2 immidiatly 
 grabbed our attention just as the first had done. The queen of the locust talks in a very eerie 
 voice to start out the game. 
  As we got into the action, we realized that we were having alot of fun! But the thing was, why 
 were we having all this fun? The answer came quickley. This game is EXACTLY like the first Gears 
 of War. There is absolutely NO difference what so ever except a few added weapons (flamethrower, 
 etc) and features (use a downed locust as a meat sheild) . This really isnt to much of a bad thing, 
 but I wish they could have added more new features into the campeign.
  I will now discuss the cons of the game. My hugest thing in this game is HOW MANY TIMES YOU AND 
 YOUR PARTNER SPLIT UP. I hate that. It is just a bother and makes it harder to accomplish otherwise 
 simple things. Gears of War did this in preportion, but Gears of War 2 rapes it, beats it and then 
 sticks it's Lancer up it's ass. Another thing is that sometimes (and quite frequently, I may add) , 
 the action was quite glitchy. There seemed to be a lot of lag, etc and I wasnt even playing online! 
 The third and last problem of the campeign is that it sticks too close to the first Gears of War. 
 Who remembers one partner going up on a rooftop so that the other can walk across a street crowded 
 with enemies? 
  Now the pros. The story has gotten much better, although it seems to not fill the holes as well 
 as I had hoped. The gameplay is still the same and the new weapons are fantastic. It was very fun, 
 and only took me about 15 hours to beat on hardcore difficulty. All in all, quite solid.
  I really liked this game, and would reccomend it to anyone who liked the first. Still, the first 
 reigns superior. If you don't have number 1, don't even think about getting this. I really liked 
 this game, and I would reccomend it to anyone who wants a good shooter.
  
  -Connor
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  -------------------
  Gameplay: Awesome
  Storyline: Amazing
  Sound: Good
  Graphics: Good
  Replay Value: High
  -------------------
  
  Gears of War 2 is by far the 
 greatest game in the series. Gears of War 1 was pretty good, but it had some flaws. In Gears 1, 
 if you were killed, you had to start from a new checkpoint. In Gears 2, if you were killed, your 
 teammates will actually revive you. Also in Gears of War 1 it seemed that no one was shooting at 
 the enemy except you. In Gears of War 2, they will actually kill enemies, and they do a pretty 
 good job at it too.
  
  There are a larger selection of weapons in Gears of War 2. We all know the weapons from Gears of 
 War 1, which are the Lancer Assault Rifle, Snub Pistol, Gnasher Shotgun, Longshot Sniper Rifle, 
 Torque Bow and the Hammer of Dawn. In Gears of War 2 you've got Gorgon Pistol, Boltok Pistol, Scorcher 
 Flamethrower, Boomshot, Multcher and Mortor. There are three different types of Grenades; Frag, 
 Smoke and Ink. You also can have a bombshield, which is really helpful on some missions in Gears 
 2.
  
  There was some annoying things that happened during gameplay. I remember on Gears of War 1, when 
 you fired the Troika Turret you basically can shoot it as long as you want without over heating. 
 In Gears of War 2, the turret always got overheated, especially when everything went absolutely 
 crazy, which happened a lot. There is a hellava lot more action in Gears 2 then there was in Gears 
 1. You will probably be overwelmed.
  
  There is some other cool and amazing stuff that Gears of War 2 has to offer. When you shoot an 
 enemy down he isn't always dead. You have the options of either hitting him in the head with your 
 Lancer rifle, pick him up and use him as a shield, or pick him up and break his neck.
  
  In Gears of War 1, you were basically in defense, in Gears of War 2 you are in offence. The war 
 goes to the heart of the Locust, and you do encounter the queen. So the game is pretty hardcore, 
 so if your new to shooters you might wanna practice with Gears 1, and then make your way to Gears 
 2.
  
  There is a lot of amazing things about Gears of War 2. There are only a little bit of complaints, 
 but overall this is the best game ever. It might even be a little bit better than Halo, and I am 
 an absolute Halo fan, I played Halo like fifty billion times in a row. This game I might play that 
 many times too.
  
  ----------------------------
  Recommend?
  To those whom love to shoot things! Gears fans, or anybody just curious to know who this game is... BUY 
 IT!!!!
  ---------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomiking
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Improving everything from the first game with impressive graphics, a must have game. Stunning visuals 
 and a perfect sound, pushing the Xbox a little bit more than the first one with a very high (addicting) 
 gameplay rate. the control seems to be identical to the first one. The 360 have his prodigal son 
 back and making the war of console interesting once again competing with the PS3 Resistance franchise 
 again. The events of the first ended with Marcus and Dom delivering the Lightmass Bomb into The 
 Hollow after killing General Raam. Sadly the bomb had about the same effect as sticking a bull 
 in the ass with an ice pick. The Locust only doubled their efforts and have been sinking cities 
 on Sera ever since. Now only one remains: the city of Jacinto whose foundation is thick enough 
 to keep the Locust at bay. But not for long. The Locust are poised to crush Jacinto just as they 
 have every other city. Soon humanity's struggle will be over, all hope extinguished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II-TAGGART-II
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me I thought it was going to be like most other sequels that let down the first 
 game but I was very wrong. The change I noticed most was the story, everyone remembers that the 
 story in the first was mainly to kill the locusts, but in the second you see much more emotion 
 from all characters I just think adding more emotion to a story can either make or break the game 
 in this case I think it was a good choice because It deepens the plot of the story to be more immersive. 
 Gameplay still remains mostly the same but has some differences from the first, one change is the 
 addition of a new difficulty level, second change that came to my head was the new weapons (mulcher, 
 mortar, boomshield, gorgon pistol, Ink grenade, and the flamethrower) another change they made 
 was characters they added a few new types of boomers and a prophetic like creature. The last change 
 I noticed was the addition of yet another multiplayer gametype called horde which is where you 
 go through waves of locusts coming at you getting more difficult as you progress through the waves, 
 having this addition made me happy because my internet is somewhat unreliable so I cannot always 
 connect to XBOX live. as far as the graphics go not much changed other than the blood because well 
 the graphics in the first were terrific. unfortunately there is still some problems with "solid 
 walls" you'll know when you see them
  My review
  Graphics 9.5/10
  Sound 10/10
  Story 10/10
  Additions 9.5/10
  Value 9.5/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  
  OVERALL
  9.8/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 10 Minutes
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Released exactly 2 years after 
 the first Marcus Fenix returns to continue his fight against the Locust Horde in Gears of War 2. 
 Gears of War 2 picks up 6 months after the end of the first Gears of War game, Everything seems 
 ok, but all of a sudden cities surrounding the main base of Jacinto sink into the ground of Sera 
 it's clear that the Locust are not finished and they must be delt with again. The game starts with 
 Marcus and Dom outside a hospital and they get a new rookie named "Carmine" which is a brother 
 to the late "Carmine" in Gears of War which met a unfortunate end due to a sniper. 
  
  This game is what people were waiting for 2 years and they won't be disappointed whereas in GOW 
 they had a lot of outside areas to fight in this time they have more underground scenes also you 
 can also take control of Vehicles both COG and Locust I prefer riding the Brumac, which is that 
 huge Locust in GOW that you had to escape from in a helicopter. You also get afew new weapons nothing 
 very impressive but they all have their uses. You can also do different execution moves on down 
 enemies.
  
  As Before this game has top notch visuals, sounds and controls along with a griping storyline. 
 I know I'm probably going to have people say I'm wrong but I personally got a more in depth feeling 
 from the story in this game compared to Halo 3. You could really feel like Humanity is on the brink 
 of extinction if Marcus and the fearless Delta squad fails. 
  
  The Plus: Excellent Controls, Visuals, Sounds and the Story is still king of the hill
  
  The 
 Negative: I hate to say it but sometimes the enemies seemed a little stupid
  
  Even Though this game has slightly stupid enemies the fact that the rest was perfect like it was 
 in the first GOW game this game still deserves a 10 out of 10 and that's what it'll get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There was a mixture of reactions for Gears of War 2; because there were a few disappointing bugs 
 and terrible lag compared to the first sequel of Gears of War 1 despite that there are no more 
 annoying glitches such as the dreadful crab walk and back flip.
  
  On the other hand the Campaign is fantastic and its the best storyline that I seen so far. A very 
 good mixture of strong emotion when Dominic continues his search for Maria (You know what I mean 
 when you play half-way through the campaign) and the adrenaline of new yet challenging locusts. 
 In some parts of the game, it really does test your patience like figuring out how to get through 
 traps to keep your feet on the ground.
  
  The new game types are very good. Wingman is a 2v2v2v2v2 deathmatch; the only way you can identify 
 your team mate is the one who plays as the same character as you. King of the Hill which I heard 
 from the PC Version of Gears 1 which I haven't played yet because I only had it for like 3 days. 
 Submission is a good twist of capture the flag; you got to take down the armed stranded guy and 
 take him to your base before the opposing team does. Another yet favourite game type is Horde, 
 an arcade-style game type where up to 5 players can team up and fight against a large number of 
 invading locusts.
  
  Players can now play against bots by going on to training grounds. This will allow players to practice 
 before going on mulitplayer to fight real players which will give people who are new to Gears 2 
 a chance. The host can also have a choice of adding bots into a private match along with Xbox Live 
 players which is also good. You are allowed to change the difficulty of bots to make them behave 
 differently.
  
  I heard rumors about removing guest support from the game? Never fear! Go to the main menu, connect 
 the second controller then press Y on the second controller (Look for Guest from the list of gamertags 
 saved inside your hard drive, Happy Days) .
  
  There is a major disappointment to the game though, the lag is worsened (even for the host this 
 time) and there are a few bugs with the matchmaking itself; even though you have a lot of people 
 on Gears 2 it just seems to restart itself constantly and if the party leader quits, you got to 
 find yourself another party.
  
  I gave this a 10 because these bugs should easy be fixed (I hope) despite the multiplayer gameplay 
 experience is disappointing, the campaign could not get any better and it is very well planned 
 in my opinion :) for people who don't have Xbox live (Or have a silver membership) they can just 
 play with the bots.
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyone =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The campaign of this game starts off like Gears of War, I really wasn't expecting too much since 
 the first one was all about walking around and shooting stuff. but when you get futher to the Campaign 
 *ehem, Act 3* you'll see things you have never seen in any other game before. Specially the ending, 
 me and my mate played this in co-op and were completely amazed by it. Overall the most extreme 
 over-the-limit game ever made.
  The online is just fine, a lot better than the first one online, I really sucked online in the 
 first game because the aiming was just bad and it was all about using shotgun, Gears of War 2 made 
 the online play fair. and I really like that.
  I wouldn't call this game too much of a shooter, rather an adventure game. The first game was impressive 
 by the look, Gears of War 2 is not the same as the first Gears of War, just the beginning of the 
 game. so people who wrote a review about this game have only played Act 1 then stopped.
  This game also has wide selection of modes, making you able to play it 24/7, really.
  but overall, 
 best next gen game I've ever played. We'll see if that changes after I've played Dead Space or 
 Tekken 6. I know Tekken 6 will be better, but Gears 2 could top Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is definitely a no-brainer when it comes to buying it. You are pretty much buying 
 it if you own or played the first one.
  I bought it this at the midnight launch and overall it had been just as good as the first.
  Horde 
 mode is tons of fun with 5 played co-op.
  
  The only complain that I have is the online matchmaking. I much prefer the online matchmaking from 
 Gears of war 1.
  I literaly takes me like 10 minutes just to find a match and I know im not the only one. I have 
 read online alot of people have the same problem. On the first one you could pick the match you 
 wanted.
  I also dont know what they removed the player matches and replaced it with private online matches 
 which only lets you play with friends.
  
  That is my only complain everything else in the game is great. There is maybe a few other things 
 here and there but they aren't a big deal so I wont mention them.
  
  So yea pretty much like I said.... go buy this game NOW its a must buy for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gothic_4483
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  When we saw gears of war we encountered the very best game ever on Xbox 360, superb graphics, innovating 
 game play and of course Gore... LOTS of GORE, Gears of War 2 come to Take that same formula and 
 pull it even further with more amazing graphics, a new and more bad ass campaign mode with lots 
 of locus infested levels and a renewed multiplayer mode that improves the already brutal and satisfying 
 one we already love.
  
  A great addition to the game besides the Guardian, Wingman, Submission and king of the hill multiplayer 
 modes that are really fun and engaging to play with others, is the HORDE waves after waves of Locus 
 to be killed solo or with 4 more friends will kick your adrenaline on overdrive.
  
  On the other side we cant say GOW2 is perfect because with some graphic inconsistency and frustrating 
 moments in 2 or 3 spots that will be put behind by the sweet taste of victory after them.
  
  In The end GOW2 is a must have if you are a fan of the first one and if you are NOT as well, 
 you'll find it extremely addicting even if u r a veteran with the COGs and for Rockies the taste 
 of a true battle.... Happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is the sequel to the highly regarded successful game, Gears of War. Gears 2 picks 
 up 6 months after the first game and it is like a new experience. Gears 2 plot is not the same 
 even though you must defend Jacinto and attack the Locust from under ground. You also must find 
 the where abouts of Dom's wife. You resume the Role of Marcus Fenix from Delta Squad. and the whole 
 feeling feels fresh. Dom returns with familiar faces, Cole and Baird, As well as new characters 
 such as Tai Dizzy and Ben Carmine (Anthony Carmine's younger brother known as "Rook". The story 
 generally takes 10+ Hours to complete depending on the difficulty you set it to. The tag line Gears 
 2 has for itself Bigger, Better and more Badass than the first really delivers because Epic has 
 improved the Unreal 3 engine to make the graphics more grittier and better looking as well as for 
 swarms of Locusts to be on screen. The action is very intense and you do not know what is coming 
 next your on the edge of your seat as if you were at the movies or on your favorite thrill ride. 
 In a word the story Epic. Co-op returns but it comes in the form of two player Co-op. The Locust 
 and your Team A. I are very smart. The sound and Graphics are top notch and they really improved 
 the look and feel as well as gun sounds and Character Models. The cut scences and diffrent varaitions 
 that you do in campaign is nice. Such as riding on a Brumak, a Derrick as well as on the Reavers. 
 The old pathway choices are back too as well as driving an APC. As well as particular BossfightsThe 
 Mutiplayer has been greatly improved and truly the highlight to the game. It has been greatly improved 
 with the additions of 5vs 5 matchmaking Versus over Xbox Live, no host advantage which is a big 
 plus for all players. and old favorites such as Warzone, Execution. New modes enter the world of 
 Gears of War 2 such as Wing man where fighting up to 5 teams of 2, Guardian where it is an upgraded 
 version of Assassination (Assassination 2.0) where players can keep re spawning as long as there 
 team leader is alive the first team leader to die looses the round. Also the highly anticipated 
 Horde Mode which is up to 50 Waves of increasingly stronger locust and Horde features of to 5 players 
 to complete it with. There is a total of 15 maps 10 shipped and 5 old original Remakes from the 
 first gears and it is included if you bought the game brand new just redeem the code in the market 
 place. New weapons such as a Mulcher which is a mini gun a Scorcher which is a flame thrower a 
 Gorgon Burst Pistol a Mortar new poison gernades and the ability to stick any grenades onto walls 
 are all great additions. The ability to Chainsaw duel is a big plus. The ability to do new executions 
 is really great and as well as some improved moves like sticking a chainsaw in someone's back is 
 rewarding. The use of a Boom shield is great as well as using a body shield when someone is down 
 is really cool. Though some frame rate issues may occur when there is a lot of action on screen. 
 Overall, Gears of war 2 has a lot of new and old things returning and all of it is improved and 
 most importantly Gears 2 has enough new content and features to make the game look new, and feel 
 fresh and a brand new experience is expected. Gears of War 2 is a masterpiece and it is a must 
 have title for any xbox 360 owner, a shooter fan as well as if someone is new to xbox 360. Gears 
 of War 2 is one of those games that can take home glory in the form of Game of the year Gears 2 
 is just that amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-owned89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Playing through GOW2 was just what I expected... Bigger, Better, and more Badass! First lets start 
 with the graphics.
  GOW2 looks great all around, bigger environments, more polished scenery and characters, and a larger 
 feel than the last game. The entire world seems more interactive and desperate than the last game. 
 The campaign was not so much more amazing that it revolutionized everything again, but it was way 
 better than the first with just the right amount of new features to make it feel like a great new 
 sequel. With co-op campaign available again it gives it a good sense of replay value, but the multiplayer 
 is where GOW2 shines.
  Without a doubt GOW2 has the best multiplayer revamp that I have ever seen. The new maps are bigger 
 and more expansive and the new modes are amazing. Personally Horde is my favorite, which is where 
 you and up to 4 friends face off against bigger and badder waves of locusts. Overall the Multiplayer 
 makes GOW2 the high score it deserves.
  GOW2 is probably one of the bests sequels to a hit game I've seen in quite a while. I would recommend 
 it to anyone who is looking for a fun, challenging, and brutal adrenaline rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2, after a wait of two years it finally arrived and it is a master piece sequel to 
 the first game which was also a true master piece.
  
  The Gears franchise is one of my favorites, at the moment it is my favorite. Gears 2 took a big 
 step in advancement with better graphics, a more detailed story about its characters, and everything 
 else. The Campaign was great, the best story I have played in a while. There was only one beef 
 I had with the campaign, and that beef was there was no night time battles surviving against the 
 bat like creatures known as the Kryl or how ever its spelled. 
  I did not spend too much time on the multiplayer, but it is fun, but also I am a bit sad to say 
 that it is not what I expected, I miss the way of Gear 1 online play, where you look through a 
 list of host and choose a game and meet new people and play with them as long as you wanted, besides 
 the disappointment of no Kryl and a changes multiplayer system, Gears or War 2 scores a 10 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denomaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is the game every Xbox fan has been waiting for. November 7 was every Xbox's fan 
 own "E-Day" so they can grab Gears, rip the plastic and enter it in the Xbox...
  G R A P H I C S : 10/10
  Amazing, the best visuals in a game up to date, some glitches and texture 
 problems time to time, but who will notice this when the scale is MASSIVE and the art is just... perfect
 
  G A M E P L A Y : 9/10
  Repetitive, but still a third-person shooter king. This year Dead Space was the only good competitor, 
 and Gears overpowered it easily... The guns are amazing and the cover was tweaked slightly but 
 in a positive way. Can't wait to play again.
  L I F E S P A N : 9/10
  After campaign which will last 8-9 hours long with Normal mode, then there's Multiplayer which 
 has lots of people inside currently and is pretty fun and Horde Mode, which puts more taste in 
 this delicious dish.
  
  And the details...
  - Shotgun downgraded TOOO MUCH
  - Glitches can sometime.. annoy
  - Multiplayer disappoints a bit
  + Story is A M A Z I N G! 
 ! ! !
  + Dom. Still my fav character in the series.
  + Game of the year material right here folks!
  
  Conclusion: Game Of The Year? Yes most probably. 
 Can do better? Of course. Gears Of War is the best shooter series and if improved a bit more , 
 can be the best game of all time. 
  
  Final Score : 9.5/10 
  
  Buy / Must Buy , Rent, Avoid / avoid definitely : Must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Okay first of all Gamespot just flat out sucks. They gave Fallout 3 a 9.0, they gave Halo 3 a 9.5. 
 Now in my opinion and many others that feel the same way, Gears of War 2 or Gears of War period 
 is better than both of those games. Now how could you just give it a 9. I think it deserves a automatic 
 10. It is perfect. WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY better than Halo. Gears of War 2 is easily the best game 
 for the Xbox 360 and the best game ever. I don't care what anyone says. From the graphics to the 
 campaign, to the very best multiplayer ever!!!!! Gears of War tops every game out there and every 
 game to come, until the next Gears. Also, one thing that really stands out is the graphics. I didn't 
 think the graphics could get any better than Gears 1 but Gears 2 blew Gears 1 out of the park!!!!! 
 There is soooooooo much more detail in everything and the lighting is unbelievable. I'm sorry but 
 Gamespot needs to go back and fix there score of that 9 they gave Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homeboy2k7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 might just be the best game I have EVER played Ive been a member on Gamespot for 
 a long itme nd this is the only game that I would write a review for.
  
  Graphics SUPERB as they say on the box NEW HD STANDARD
  
  Sound: AWESOME! with the combination 
 of vibration at the right time is amazing
  
  Story Mode: Self explanatory, but its so great that you can have a friend sit there watching you 
 play nd they think its a movie.
  
  Gameplay: BEST WEAPONS and best ways to use them, best melee action and everything that a gamer 
 could want.
  
  Replay Value: uhhh wtf do you think, once you play multiplayer then you'll understand. And if you 
 get bored then gather some xbox buddies nd try horde mode which i just found out about when i bought 
 the game, that is the best thing they can ever do with a game. Its kinda like that game on addictinggames 
 that boxheadmorerooms game idk google it.
  Its like that but GOW style and you can have five friends. GET THIS GAME! idk what game i would 
 be playing on my xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeybagodounuts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  I like so many other could not wait for this game to come out. I waited in line for 2 hours Thurs. 
 night to get it and when I got home and played it for the first time I was very impressed. The 
 graphic were amazing and the overall feel of the controls felt tighter and more responsive than 
 the previous game. The story was great.. Gave us all little taste of what and why the war began 
 in the first place. (can't wait for the next one) . The multiplayer in my opinion is CRAP! When 
 you play online you have a choice of two maps and you have to vote. And don't even get me started 
 on how long you have to wait to play online. The new weapons were a real treat and enjoyed them 
 very much. The only thing I was disappointed in was the absence of end-level bosses and online/campaign 
 achievements, which I think would have made this game even better. Overall I think Epic did a pretty 
 good job on this game and will be played over and over again for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is awesome. Story is amazing graphics are amazing gore and blood is a little gruesome 
 but entertaining. Marcus and dom are awesome and the addition of new guys and normal gears fighting 
 beside you makes this game feel like a squad based game. The chainsaw makes this game fell like 
 A GORE FEST! The brumaks are hard and scary espicaly the butchers, Stupid butchers shake the ground 
 and kill in two hits, takes like 10 bullets and 2 gernades to kill one on hardcore. The new vehicles 
 make the game harder like when you meet dizzy for the first time on that big thing. Locust can throw 
 hooks and board your vehicle to so while your killing the things like mortars and brumaks you have 
 to watch out for locust on your vehicle. I LOVE THIS GAME! Chainsaw dueling is cool too but it gets 
 hard. well im done but i have to type more so you should stop reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Ok - this game absolutely rocks on every level. Graphics, sound, story - action; everything. It 
 is a MUST own title period; hands down. The visuals - in full 1080 HD are absolutely jaw dropping. 
 And I am not taking just "cut scenes" [done in engine too!] - I mean all of it.
  
  It is endless entertaining ; gripping - like a really good movie - but you are right in the middle 
 of the whole thing. There is no doubt you are completely in
  the game and a vital element of the story too.
  
  Everything is tied together - it is a masterpiece.
 
  Even the humour and swearing are bang on.
  
  Best to date...
  
  Felix ; When one of the members says something about the wildlife... "What'd I look like - a !@#$%^GR 
 botanist?"
  
  Absolutely dead on. That is what this game is.
  If you like gaming at all - get this game.
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinerx4
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Don't listen to anyone that says that this is a huge disappointment. And also the folks that are 
 crying about the glitches in the game. Does anyone remember the glitches and problems with the 
 1st one that were fixed with the update? The game has only been out 3 days, be patient and Epic 
 will update the game for you. Gamespot should have gave this game a 10 and handed the 9.0 to GTA 
 4. From the graphics to the awesome monster scenes, this is the reason to buy an XBOX 360! Little 
 extra features you'll notice right at the beginning is the glow of the barrel on the gun. Little 
 subtle features like this make the game great and there are a ton of them, like multiple executions 
 not just head stomps anymore! Also the maps for multi-player are more colorfull which is nice to 
 see bright colors. If you havn't purchased, Circuit City gives $20 off or a 1600 point card so 
 for $40 this game is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS ABSOLUTELY A MASTERPIECE! EVERYTHING FROM GRAPHICS TO THE GAMEPLAY IS NOTHING SHORT 
 OF PERFECT! AS AMAZING AS THE FIRST GEARS WAS, I CAN'T BELIEVE HOW MUCH BETTER GEARS 2 ACTUALLY 
 IS. THE STORY GETS A MAJOR OVERHAUL AND REALLY LETS YOU FEEL AND UNDERSTAND WHATS GOING ON. THE 
 CHARACTERS AND NEW ENEMIES ARE OUTSTANDING. SO MANY NEW ENEMIES AND THEY ALL BEHAVE DIFFERENTLY 
 KEEPING THE ACTION FRESH AND INTENSE THROUGHOUT THE GAME. NO OTHER GAME HAS BEEN THIS IMMERSIVE 
 SINCE HALO. MULTIPLAYER HAS BEEN BEEFED UP AS WELL, I'M TALKING A LOT MORE OPTIONS AND A LOT MORE 
 GUYS TO CHOOSE FROM. IT ALSO TAKES MORE STRATEGY AND SKILL TO PLAY WHICH IS ALSO A GREAT FEELING 
 WHEN YOU ACCOMPLISH SOMETHING. I'M SURE THAT MANY OTHER GAMES WILL TRY TO COMPETE SOME HOW, BUT 
 GEARS JUST CRUSHES THEM ALL. IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE REHASHED MEDIOCRITY LIKE RESISTANCE OR METAL 
 GEAR SOLID, THIS ACTUALLY FEELS LIKE A GREAT SEQUEL THAT HAS ADVANCED BEYOND ITS ORIGINAL. THIS 
 GAME ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhf_dude
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  I have been a Gears fan ever since i got my hands on the first game, which was absolutely stunning 
 and the multiplayer never got boring.
  the campaign was half decent and you felt satisfied once you had completed it, however you would'nt 
 play it again unless you wanted achievements.
  once i had popped GOW2 into my xbox i ready to go, and i started to campign and thought OH SNAP 
 this is amazing. and so i went on and on slaughtering the locusts un-relentlessly. 
  UNTIL.... the glitches and bugs started taking effect. and fair enough they were not anything major 
 but they made you think. Epic have their reputation on the line here, and they have obviously shipped 
 this game out in a "un-refined" state. i would say un-finished but that would be really harse.
 
  Then i got onto multiplayer... what can i say.... a complete and utter failiure. im sure alot of 
 people will say the same. roughly 80% of all the people i met in the game said.
  
  OMG WHAT A WASTE OF 40 POUNDS ON A GAME I EXPECTED BETTER FROM!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  and i bought 
 this game to play multiplayer. and i have to say i regret it. 
  the chainsaw is way to over powered. yes i know in the first game it was annoying when u get knocked 
 back. but now it is impossible to stop the chainsaw nuts from hacking you to bits!
  the shotgun, wow it was so fun in gears 1 when u took out your buddy and he wud be lyeing in half 
 on the floor in tears and you would be laughing your head off.
  but now the shotgun is absolutly random! under powered! the range of which it hits its horricfically 
 random! and people dont explode in a gory fashion as much!
  
  AND I WILL NOT MENTION HOW ANNOYING THE GRINDER AND MORTAR ARE!
  
  
  epic. sort out the multiplayer 
 before the reviews such as mine and many others (including the community opinions) prevent you 
 selling more copies of the game.
  
  
  thanks guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  The original gears of war was a great success, it shipped heaps of copies and won game of the year 
 in 2006 and it was the sole reason i got an xbox 360 and Epic has really outdone themselves with 
 a wonderfuly made and intense action game. **spoilers** beware.
  
  What was really hyped with Gears of war 2 was mainly the story elements which was not used to its 
 full potential in the original not only is the story more powerful and provides more backbone to 
 the universe of sera it is a very powerful and emotional story, Doms search for his wife has reached 
 high tension with Dom desperate and the end result is rather sad. But with more backstory and new 
 characters ( Tai Kaliso is some badass spirtual warrior ) there is still the annoyance of unresolved 
 storylines for example there is a bit where in the 3rd act you are in some abandoned facility where 
 there has been some wierd and trippy science experiments gone wrong and somehow the locust are 
 conected with this facility.
  
  Where Gears of war 2 be without some great new weapons and highly explosive action. The new weapons 
 available are the flamethrower, the Mulcher which is just a portable turret, the mortar which is 
 fun to use but difficult to determine where the carnage will happen, the Gorgon pistol is a burst 
 pistol which kind of resembles robocops pistol its awesome. The game also has some great set pieces 
 in store for you and the action is heated up even more with more chainsaw moves such as the duel 
 which is a three second B button mash and the victor saws the victim in half in a shower of blood 
 and gore AWW Sweet. There is also the new execution moves and the result is determined by which 
 button you press on your victim.
  
  Multiplayer is still superb and the addition of the addictive horde mode just sweetens the deal 
 along with the flashback map pack for download when you purchase the game and all of the improvements 
 of the campaign make a good transition to the multiplayer component. If you are noob or dont have 
 access to xbox live then the addition of bots in multiplayer is awesome as these bots while sometimes 
 will go crazy resemble lifelike opponents.
  
  Not only is Gears 2 an awesome action game it filled with so many 80s action movie references and 
 the co-op will have you and your mates giggling like little **** AWESOME.
  
  + Improves on every thing on the original.
  + Awesome set pieces.
  + Deeper story
  + Horde 
 mode is awesome.
  + Cole train is hilarious + great characters
  + better multiplayer.
  
  - unresolved storylines are really annoying.
  - Dissapointing conclusion
  - jaggy viehcle 
 sections.
  
  For all you action junkies out there and i am one myself as my library is filled with numerous 
 action games like COD 4, Far Cry 2, Halo 3, Rainbow six this is one game you dont wanna miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Man oh man oh man. If this game was a piece of meat it would be a piece of Grade A tender sirloin 
 at its finest value. Holy crap this game was amazing. Lets start off with the pros and then we 
 will get into the cons. 
  
  First thing that you notice is the amazing in depth story line as soon as you start playing. The 
 game has evolved from the first game on where you left off give or take a small period of time. 
 The enemy has engulfed pretty much the entire planet and has launched its assault on the last free 
 city known as Jacinto. Your job is to take one last final assault into the core of the beast and 
 try to eliminate it from its source. That is all im telling you about the story. I dont want to 
 spoil it for you. The game offers just a truly amazing and epic storyline. There is actually a 
 part in the game that is truly emotional and makes you want to cry. Youll understand if you play 
 the game and get towards the end of act 4. Anyways Im trying to say as much as possible without 
 actually spoiling it for you.
  
  I bought this game the day it came out. I recieved downloadable content in the game case and Gamestop 
 gave me two additional downloadable flyers that came with an over all total of ten maps and a Gold 
 colored gun. So special thanks to my friends down at gamestop for hooking me up even though I couldnt 
 make the midnight release. Anyways, The story line is just simply brilliant and epic on every proportion. 
 The ending is much better then the first one and so is the big boss. Everything is bigger and better 
 then the first one including the online. It feautures new game modes and if you beat the game then 
 you unlock a secret insane difficulty. My recommendation is beat the game by yourself first. This 
 way you can truly enjoy it at face value. 
  
  It doesnt matter what difficulty you beat it on. I recommend easy, you will still unlock insane 
 difficulty just for beating the game. Then play through with four friends on insane difficulty. 
 This way you will then unlock all achievements based on the campaign and will automatically fill 
 in as if you beat it on every difficulty. This game is highly challenging and highly addictive. 
 I really dont understand how gamespot could give this only a 9 when it deserved and earned in my 
 opinion a solid 10 all the way across the board. This game will keep you busy nonstop for many 
 many hours as the story if you play by yourself can take between 12 to 15 hours. I played it non 
 stop the day it came out from beginning to finsh. Yes I was so addicted to it that I couldnt stop 
 playing. Im sure you will understand once you recieve your copy of the game.
  
  The story line isnt the only thing amazing. The weapons are really great and each offers its own 
 special unique execution style. The game offers great and superbly done rendered graphics at its 
 finest. This game truly does push the 360 to its max capability. You will hear your xbox making 
 a lot of noise on this game so dont get freaked out. that is your processer and believe me it will 
 make noise. You will understand when you play this game. On a great note, there was virtually no 
 glitches in the game at all. This is the first game I have ever played where I have not been stuck 
 in some stupid glitch that the developers often leave in games due to laziness. This was Glitch 
 free. Its hard to believe but non the less, yes its true. The game offers a cool little in game 
 book that you can fill with collectables and documents and also track your game achievements. It 
 will also tell you how close you are to unlocking them. It is called your war journal and the cool 
 thing is some secret characters can only be unlocked by have beaten the first game on this profile. 
 Witch means I have a reason to go back and play the first one again. Very smart Microsoft.
  
  Here we embark on the long list of cons that the game offers. You know the short cummings lol. 
 Just kidding the game only has one flaw. There are times where it may seem a bit repetitive, however 
 this is only in certain locations. I would say between act 3 and act 4 there are some parts that 
 feel like there is just a feeling of okay next chapter please. However this is not enough to detur 
 it from any bit of perfection. This is by far the best xbox 360 game ever to be released. Yes I 
 mean those words literally and I highly recommend it over any other xbox game.
  
  This has been another great and happy review by your one and only king of review.
  
  Okay originally 
 I gave this game a perfect score. However I am now editing my review for the following reasons 
 and loweing the score. 
  
  1. The online has become horrible. Some matches will take up to ten minutes to start.
  
  2. 
 The online community is full of nothing but jack asses.
  
  3. The only thing worth playing onilne is wingman with your friend or horde mode. Other then that 
 when you have online masterpieces such as Call of Duty, Halo 3 and Resistance 2 it is just hard 
 to believe they could create the perfect game with some of the most annoying online feautures I 
 have ever witnessed. I have now beaten the game several times on all difficulties and the marvel 
 has worn off. IT is not the same and I feel a little cheated and betrayed as this is my favorite 
 title xbox offers. 
  
  4. another online glitch that is very annoying is when you run and duck for cover the same button 
 will often make you run and jump over the cover and land right on someones chainsaw bayonett. 
 
  
  5. The wierd thing is when you have games that now offer up to 60 player online deathmatches. You 
 are confined to a small environment with only dive on five battles. Very boring and repetitive. 
 
  
  6. Almost all the online community does not understand the ranking structure and how in the hell 
 you get promoted. You can play a thousand matches and remain the same rank. There is no incentive 
 or anything to let you know your status. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Been waiting for this game for so long ever since I finished the first one 2 years ago. I waited 
 in line and got my Gears2 copy at the first minute it launched. And it was the best game I've ever 
 played. Gears1 shown the world how excellent their normal mapping technology can be, but people 
 say the scale of the battlefield is not massive enough. In Gears2 you are more likely to see huge 
 battlefiled, content huge number of enemies, and still, with the highly detailed texture mapping. 
 Honestly, I have nothing to nitpicking about the graphic of this game, it is just so amazing and 
 beautiful. Gameplay wise, this game plays very similar to the original one, there are new weapons 
 and things, but the overall feel of controlling is the same. It's not a bad thing though, it is 
 just that Gears1 done very excellent in the gameplay department left so little margin for Gears2 
 to improve, long sentence short, Gears2 gives the best feeling of shooting.
  Honestly, I found absolutely no reason to pass this game if you own a 360.
  Just buy it, rent 
 it, try it, and love it !!
  whatever you do, you gonna play this game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Epic has done it once again!
  
  This game has really made some drastic improvements from the first game. Through visuals, story, 
 weapons, maps, and online play, this game truly shines above it's predecessor in so many ways.
 
  
  No longer will players rush at you with a shotgun without slowing down to a dead halt with successive 
 lancer or hammer-burst rounds. Which is a huge relief. Gears of War 1 fell away from the true feel 
 of fire fights when most people just ran up with shot guns and blew each other away. It didn't 
 have the feeling I intended, and apparently Epic felt the same. Now, with the lancer being the 
 trusty weapon of choice to keep, the shotgun is finally realized for what it was truly meant to 
 be in the first game, a trump card, or a last resort, even then, I often disregard it for another 
 weapon. The next thing I really enjoyed was the many methods of dispatching your opponent's. x 
 button initiates the infamous curb stomp, y button is an extended kill which is executed in a variety 
 of ways depending on which weapon you have equipped at the time, b button activates a swift kill, 
 and a button picks them up to use them as a meat bag. Which is very helpful in many situations, 
 believe me. The maps are much larger now in order to accommodate for the two extra players that 
 have been added to make it a 5x5 all out hate fest. and most of all, I won't have to here about 
 anymore active snipe complaints ever, ever again!
  
  This is a really good game though, and while I'd go into detail about the campaign's story mode 
 and it's horde co op playlist, I'm just too dang tired too. But believe me when I say, as a die 
 Hard gears fan this game definitely puts a restful slumber to it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themediumone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 certainly has delivered, and I suppose you can say is living up to it's hype. Campaign 
 mode is pretty addictive and very fun... Especially if you're doing co-op campaign. Though, I am 
 disappointed there wasn't 4 player co-op implemented. I am yet to finish campaign, but it's been 
 a blast so far and I'm loving it. For those familiar with Gears of War 1, I suggest starting on 
 "Hardcore" if you're playing co-op, cause it's been relatively easy thus far.
  
  As for the online, that's great also. New multiplayer game modes, an extra person on each team, 
 new weapons, new maps, and even some old maps! It's awesome. And I love some of the maps environmental 
 changes that effect the game.
  
  BUT there are some flaws (in my opinion) . I feel that some of these weapons should certainly not 
 be used in game modes like Execution and Warzone. The Mortar and Mulcher specifically. Those should 
 be saved for objective type games, horde mode, and of course off-line play. Don't get me wrong, 
 I love the new weapons... I just feel that they're out of place in elimination.
  
  And my last flaw is in regards to the Longshot and Shotgun being toned down wrongly. I DO NOT mind 
 the Shotty being weaker from a further range. I encourage it, actually. My problem lies in the 
 fact that even at point blank range, it's not always an instant kill. I've had several dead on 
 shots not really effect or kill a player, only for me to get chainsawed. 
  
  As far as Longshot goes, I dislike that active reloaded shots do not down the enemy (I've noticed 
 this in campaign also) . That makes using the Longshot even more difficult than Gears of War 1. 
 I love getting headshots, but you don't always have time to get that perfect shot off. I think 
 they need to tweak the Shotgun and Sniper just a little bit, and it would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Gears of War was probably one of the main reasons I bought the 360 in the first place. I loved 
 the first and waited forever for the Gears2. Now it's here, but... well... it's not all it promised 
 to be. The campaign was AWESOME. It was a joy for my friend and I to play through. Every moment 
 was a blast, quite literally because things were exploding everywhere, rofl. Other aspects that 
 made the game fun included: updated graphics (just minor) , new weapons, new characters, new modes 
 (horde was fun to play with a friend) , new finishing moves, and more. While everything "offline" 
 seems great, it's when you try the multiplayer that you'll notice the flaws. First, you can't just 
 bring a guest in to play with you online unless that person has a Xbox Live account of their own 
 already. Secondly, the game searching thing is kinda stupid. The game "analyzes" your skill, then 
 finds a team of your skill level, then find opponents which fits your skill levels. Sounds fine 
 and all, but it takes FOREVER just to find a game. Also, it might be just me, but I felt like the 
 game is not as fast-paced as Gears1. Furthermore, this might be me also, but I encountered quite 
 a lot of lag in the games I join. I can't say it's my connection because my university provides 
 a kickass connection. In conclusion, and it pains me to say this... but try before you buy. The 
 campaign is a must play with it great story, countless action-packed moments, and just a blast 
 to play. However, the multiplayer (the main reason to even OWN the game) was a disappointment. 
 They tried to make so much changes which suppose to improve the game play, but in the end it made 
 it worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iChase
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  After beating Gears 2 in the time-span of around five hours in tandem with my friend over Live 
 I've came to a few conclusions.
  
  1. I've been here before.
  
  Several scenarios seem very similar to the original. While that's not a bad thing at all, it would 
 be nice to have just a little more originality.
  
  For example: Razor Hail = Kryll
  
  
  2. There's a solid story behind all the seemingly mindless gore.
  
  The awesome grit of 
 blood, language, and all around death provide a great faade to what Gears 2 really is. A well-written 
 novel.
  
  Props to the dev team for mixing such artistic fineness in with over the top gore. I love the blood. 
 Mmm, blood.
  
  3. Halo 3 called, it wants its ideas back.
  
  The entire time I'm playing this, I keep thinking, "This is a lot like Halo 3."
  
  So let's 
 see:
  Being inside an epic-proportioned animal; not once, but twice.
  
  Driving a vehicle that is jarringly similar to Halo's "Warthog."
  
  The Flood-esque bugs in 
 the massive Rockworm.
  
  I could keep going, but you get the picture.
  
  
  This isn't necessarily bad, and probably 90% of all the gamers who play this won't notice it. Epic 
 did so well in (I'll tread carefully here) "remaking" Halo 3 that most will be oblivious to it.
 
  
  4. Damn, it looks good.
  
  I'm very impressed with the Unreal Tournament engine. Very nice. Add the new physics engine and 
 you have quite a nice package. I love destroying anything I see, which I can actually do, unlike 
 some games that just claim to give you said ability.
  
  My only qualm; I need an HDTV.
  
  
  5. Finally... there's going to be a Gears 3.
  
  I wasn't too sure throughout the game 
 if we would be seeing another saga of Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad (and probably another Carmine) 
 but after the ending of the game (no spoilers here!) and after the credits, I am very sure now.
 
  
  
  
  Overall, great game Epic! Definitely replayable.
  
  Now, I'm heading off to begin Insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game makes you go wow alot. And for many reasons, and good ones i should say. Just let me 
 start off saying this. The multiplayer on this is great. All the modes are great. Pretty much everything 
 is great.
  
  Campaign-
  Wow. Great storyline, this time it actually goes into the history or Marcus and Dom and lets you 
 know more about whats happened and why they go into this and stuff. This is better than the first, 
 but it leaves the game with more questions unanswered, and alot of them, which is irratating. But 
 the campaign is deeper than the first one, cooler than the first one, but i think harder. Sometimes 
 they are hard because the fights and bosses are just hard. Sometimes something can get really frustrating. 
 For Example, on one level ( i think Act 2 Chapter 5, you have to drive something across a Icy Lake, 
 but oh Seeders are shooting the ice and you gotta drive away. That is very annoying and very hard, 
 espically with Gears OF War 2 driving. The maunal of controlling the vehicals suck. Its hard to 
 reverse and there are too many cliffs and empty abbyss to fall off when youre driving. They did 
 not improve the running of MArcus and Dom, which dissapointed me, because its hard to run with 
 them and not go to the right or left fast. They also added puzzles and stuff to get through (well 
 more) to get to something else and they are all tiny things that are too much to explain that just 
 make this better than the first. And oh the game looks better than the first because it has more 
 detail in all the small things (like Marcus's napkin haha on his head) . But the campaign is good 
 because its deeper and gives you alot to the think about all the characters in the game. The Co-Op 
 is also really good, because you can drop in and out as Dom whenever you want if your the second 
 player, and this time it has Online Co-Op. And the Online is never laggy (or what i have seen) . 
 So Local And Xbox Live Co-Op is nice. Plus the collectibles in this game are cool. Instead of just 
 getting COGS, you also get news articles and scripts that you put in a war journal to look at while 
 playing the game. 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Multiplayer-
  Probaly the best multiplayer this year. I think it is tied with Halo for first. To start off, you 
 got the all new Horde mode, which you can play local or Xbox Live. You get up to i forgot 4 or 
 6 players and just you guys got to stay together and kill all the waves of Locust and its insane 
 because it keeps getting more and more intense every wave. The multiplayer maps ( which you can 
 download the extra flashback maps with your code you get with the game. ) So the flashback i think 
 is all the ones from before so that is nice if you have mastered those, and duh you can pick who 
 you want to play as in multiplayer like specific people, and that is the big part of multiplayer 
 that makes it fun. You got the typical modes here. Deathmatch, Capture The Flag and other stuff 
 like that. With the new modes and old maps and the new maps and the no lagginess and character 
 selection, the multiplayer is probaly the best thing about this game. 9.5 out of 10
  
  Weapons-
  The Lancer. Still probaly the best ( or one of them) in the game. Chainsaw moves and 
 good machine gun action with this gun. Good.
  The Longshot- My favorite of all the weapons, the sniper in GOW2. The headshots in this game are 
 sick because theyre heads come off and its awsome.
  The Shotguns- The shotguns are very good for close combat ( duh__) but cool effects like blood 
 come spurt on your screen when you shoot someone closeby.
  Pistols- The pistols are good in this game compared to other games like Halo. Some pistol that 
 i forgot the name of give you like 500 ammo for it and its crazy.
  Flamethrower- Sweet new edition to the game (also give you a achievement if you kill 30 people 
 with it.... easy)
  and works well on everything but slow reload and fast on ammo and hard to find.
  Mortar- Another 
 new addition. My god, does this gun destory. But man is ever hard to use. You have to either calculate 
 or predict how long the shot has to go and then you put how many meters you want it to go and then 
 deploy it to kill things like Brumaks and loarge amounts of far away enemies. You also get a achievement 
 for killing 30 enemies with it.
  Close Combat- Like I said on the Lancer, The chainsaw on the lancer destroys on most enemies except 
 small ones. It literally takes on anyone in its path and probaly one of the most memorable moments 
 in Xbox 360 history watching the enemies get destroyed by a chainsaw. For other guns, you can hit 
 people with your gun, but the locusts are faster than you for some reason in close combat and are 
 likely to kill u fast, so not good there.
  Special Attacks and Locust Shield- This game has something new where it makes injured enemies crawl 
 for help, but if you can get to them before they get healed by someone else, you can do many things. 
 If you press X, you can curb stomp em and smash their heads off. If you press B you hit them with 
 your gun to take them down. Press Y to punch them and kill them. But, if you use Y, a whole new 
 tactic will erupt. If you press A, you can pick up the injured locust as a fleshshield. Pretty 
 sick nasty i kno. You carry the pistol around and shoot them while they dont shoot because you 
 got their enemie, but some dont care and go shoot right through him. When your done you can also 
 ring his neck.
  Grenades- When you get grenades, youll be like are these useful? But not really they arent in my 
 opinion. The frags are okay and the ink grenade is trash. But they improved on the grenades from 
 the first one, so at least they are better. 9 out of 10/
  
  Achievements-
  As all my other reviews, i have my achievement part.
  Campaign- You get 10 points every few chapters 
 you you should get well over 150-200 by beating campaign on causual or normal.
  Multiplayer-not nearly as many as last one, and most achievements that should have been online 
 are made into ANY MODE. The campaign Co-Op gives 10 for completing a level on coop, 30 for 10, 
 and 50 for all so 80.
  Throughout game- If you are a master reloader and Cog searcher you should have about 75 by the 
 end of the end of the game. If you keep playing live and campaign, you should get SERIOUSLY 2.0, 
 which is a big achievement, and if your good with weapons you will get 10+ for getting 30 kills 
 with the new guns in the game except a few. Achievements are slighty hard in this game to get, 
 but if you keep in your mind all the achievement progreesion you get during campaign and online, 
 you should do well.
  
  This game is pretty much a take cover game, or you get destroyed, so be aware of that when you 
 get the game. If you dont like that dont buy it. But its great and has great multiplayer so its 
 100 times better with live. But with or without live, BUY IT!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydog05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game with a great story if you own a 360 get or it will be the biggest mistake 
 ever. The graphics are amazing so are the weapons, so just get it. the multiplayer is amazing the 
 game modes are fun and all the new weapons are great to if your looking at new games to get, get 
 this one it will be the best purches of your life.
  
  This game is just like the first one it has a few new weapons and new vehicles it has better cover 
 and new heavy equipmenty you can use. I would buy a 360 just so I could get this game if i didn't 
 have one, you may think I'm exagerating but I'm not.
  
  You still need alot of cover in this one just like the first one, this game is action packed there 
 is constantly people shooting at you but it's not bad it just makes the game even better then it 
 already is.
  
  
  If you dont have a 360 get one and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  After beating the first level of Gears 2, I was worried that this would just be more of the same 
 with no real improvements. By the time I finished the game boy was I happy to be wrong. Gears 2 
 has some of the best level designs and set pieces I've ever seen in an action game. The new enemies 
 are all challenging and fun to combat and the set ups are all very interesting.
  
  The story isn't as deep as a game like GTA4 or MGS4, but considering how cheesy all stories are 
 in videogames this is no big loss IMO. Gears gives you reasons to fight and builds on characters, 
 all that is needed in an action game of this nature. Dom's character gets the most attention and 
 the emotional climax pays off in an unexpected way.
  
  The graphics and sound are the best ever seen on a console. The levels are gorgeous and the lighting 
 effects are stunning. The soundtrack is movie quality and fits the action perfectly. The voice 
 acting is great and while cheesy, fits what the game is supposed to be.
  
  As for multiplayer, the new maps are great as well as the amazing new horde mode. If you have 4 
 buddies you enjoy co-op with, horde mode will offer hours and hours of intense fun. The gameplay 
 is really tight and lag free and the host advantage seems to be a lot less of a factor. 
  
  Gears of War fans have a LOT to be happy about, as epic has really delivered a truly memorable 
 game that will offer as much if not more replay value than any other AAA game this generation. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Difahrint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I will compare this to Halo since it's the most over-rated series to date. At least in my opinion 
 and overall, this is MY review. Gears of War is one of the most under-rated games in the mainstream 
 right now. Where to begin? The ESRB has rated Halo M for what reasons? Blood and gore? Hardly any, 
 you don't see any flesh your characters end up losing nor any you shoot off from your enemies. 
 However, Gears obviously keeps up with a very down-right gritty and gore-tastic themed game it 
 deserves to be. 
  
  Gears of War 2 is of course the same thing as the last time around except it's just bigger and 
 better with a darker theme that delves into various Character's sub-plots and of course the whole 
 theme of human extinction. They're not too deep per say but the story writing has improved compared 
 to the original. If you're wondering, the main theme is essentially the same as Halo; an alien 
 race on a trip to send the human race into extinction. With the same sort of anti-hero with the 
 bad-ass feel and even looks. 
  Enter Marcus Fenix, a man whose genes contain two Y chromosomes and whose loins consist of more 
 masculinity than Crocodile Dundee. This typical anti-hero has all the bad-ass looks and lines and 
 scars than your regular anti-hero on a desperate attempt to save humanity. 
  
  With every hero comes a weapon and the oodles of weapons you can choose to fit your style. Gears 
 of War isn't about small, hi-tech laser beam weapons that instantly kill your enemies. It's about 
 ballistic weaponry that tear you enemy's flesh apart and burn their blood. The weaponry is huge, 
 even something as simple as a grenade is just as big as the main assault rifle; the Lancer. This 
 weapon is a very ingenious tool, not only does it just shoot bullets, it has a chainsaw built-in! 
 Gears of War has a unique reloading system, when reloading the weapon interface on the top right 
 of your screen prompts you with a bar and a slider chasing from left to right. If you time the 
 slider's movement precisely when matched up against where the bar is the thickest, not only do 
 you reload faster but you also gain a damage boost which is more bang for your bullet.
  
  Traversing around the environments in Gears of War has been fun and remains as fun. You move around 
 and pop over sources of cover from enemy fire until you push them farther back and melee down the 
 ones who have fallen behind. Those who are down give you several options to choose on how you want 
 to kill them, either:
  A) Smash your boot over their head
  B) Smash your gun over their body
  C) Take your chain-saw and grind 'em up.
  D) Use them as a 
 meat-shield.
  Given that they aren't dead and crawling for their mothers those options will be available. Otherwise 
 you'll be running through their blood and flesh accompanied by some very distinct sounds that tickle 
 your ear.
  
  I could scream more about how this game is awesome but I know it would be too much and overall 
 this game is a must for anyone. Gears of War 2 has delivered so much more than the original has 
 done. With more carnage than before, darker themes and more plot-twists than before this game has 
 left me pleading for more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkVengeance51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, I love Gears of War 1... and I loved the shotty, and how powerful it was, in this game it 
 is not as powerful, and they made the lancer more powerful. The story is great, the multiplayer 
 is okay, but the matchmaking takes forever, and it is really laggy. I hate Halo and I always will, 
 they made this too much like Halo. They didn't change the gameplay up too much, but it is changed 
 enough where I can say this isn't like Gears of War 1. One great addition they put on this game 
 was Horde Mode, this will take up alot of your time and its super fun. Disappointed with them changing 
 it up, and not keeping it the same as GOW1, but I guess I will get use to it. The new weapons are 
 okay, I really like how you can use the smoke grenade to stun your opponent. The graphics are great, 
 and the sound is also great... After all this said, it's definitely worth buying, and a great game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't even know where to start. This game far surpasses the original. I don't know why people 
 are saying that it's exactly like the original. Yeah, maybe the characters are the same, but there 
 are a helluva lot more characters you see. You even get to see Anya up-close-and-personal!! Colonel 
 Hoffman even joins the gang. You other people don't know. You're missing out on some great gaming 
 right here. EPIC went all the way with this one. You other people probably didn't even play all 
 the way through and you're already judging it very negatively. The best part of the game, not only 
 more weapons, a shield, better executions, better graphics, more interaction, more places to explore, 
 the difficulty in finding COG tags, but you get to ride a frikin' reaver!! That's the most intense 
 part of the game especially on the hardest difficulty. The multiplayer is even better and you could 
 even practice before you get into the field. This is a great game everybody. Don't believe what 
 everyone else is saying about it. It's way better than the first, I think! I already know what's 
 going to happen if EPIC ever makes a third installment... PENDULUM WARS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is definitely the game of the year. The new multiplayer is way better than the first 
 Gears of War. The first one wasnt ranked, didnt matchmake, and had only 2 or 3 playlist. It was 
 just boring and impossible because it had way better players in it than it should have due to the 
 no ranking. The new multiplayer is a lot more fair because of the matchmaking. The Horde playlist 
 is the best multiplayer game ever. In my opinion it is way past Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4's multiplayer. 
 Halo 3 is dang near impossible to get your rank up. Gears of War 2 doesn't have ranking like Halo 
 3 and Call of Duty 4, but it has sort of a point system which is pretty simple. You get the points 
 you deserve. Its also an easy way to make new friends it your satisfied with the team you are matchmade 
 with. The campaign really is more clear than the first one. At the begining it starts off right 
 were the first one ended and reviews the storyline. The campaign is also more fun, and the chainsaw 
 is more needed than in the first Gears of War. In the first Gears of War the chainsaw you just 
 used for fun, now its more useful. A few small features also make the game a little better. Such 
 as the sound effects of the gun shots. They are more clear than the rattling noise in the first 
 one. Also the using Locust as human shields and snapping their neck when you're through with them.:) 
 Im glad I pre-ordered mine because the gold plated gun is soooooo sweet. Just another reason to 
 love Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmorrison2
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER is great. i think multiplayer sucks. im a halo hater, never enjoyed the game. think 
 this is way to similar to halo and ruined what gears made unique and great. never thought i'd be 
 trading in gears for tiger woods or other BETTER game but dam, these guys ruined this games multiplayer 
 aspects. im an official hater unless this **** grows on me. hopefully it will. gears 1 lover, gears 
 2 hater. Feel like all the quick reflex aspects that made it different have been take away and 
 made into a lancer battle. i woulda stuck with cod4 or gears 1, the things i was looking for were 
 better on those games than this one. Depressed as hell being a gears of war lover, my best game 
 ever just made me possibly regret not owning a ps3. They looked to IMPROVE a game in instead CHANGED 
 THE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchiefmegadethx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Well i gave Gears of War 1 a 10/10 but it was after i played the game for a year and realized it 
 was so amazing, after all that time...
  I hope gears 2 keep the flam burning!, i have good faith it will
  Single player is so AMAZING! 
 it was like WOW WOW WOW! and so fun!
  I loved the story "cried a through times, it really had me hooked!" Graphics are sick just like 
 1
  The Art direction is so great in 2, damn it so crazy...
  Game play is nuts... music is different but awesome!
  All new stuff is 
 
  Everything about this game is EPIC!
  
  One thing i thought could of been better was the destruction?
  But thats not enough to take away 
 from the game...
  Ive played couple of hours of multi
  Horde is great/insane, all the others are fun
  For now it's a 10/10 if mutliplayer ain't up to 
 standards ill be back to change my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: person2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Epic pretty much just did the same thing that Ubisoft did to rainbow six vegas... sure when it came 
 out everyone was like "omfg this is so awesome" but later people realized that it was just like 
 the old rainbow six vegas but with more weapons and better coop system. But this isn't a review 
 of rainbow six vegas 2, so how does this apply to gears of war 2? well it is the same situation, 
 they may have added improved lighting, a real half-assed destructible environment system, and more 
 weapons... but sooner or later, all the people giving it perfect scores will realize that it isn't 
 much different from the original gears of war... all in all, I'm disappointed.
  
  
  all games get way hyped up the day they are released, gears of war 2 is no exception, it's perfect 
 scores are just a result of over hype brought on by the game's release 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarveyDangeeR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  In the recent past, I admit that I have gotten sucked in by New release Gaming hype and bought 
 games that turned out to be pure crap. One thing that I have learned from spending my hard earned 
 money on crap that everyones all like "yEAAAH its Awsome!" or that gets a 9.8. Everyone plays different. 
 Some like alot of stratagy, some like just run around and shoot. So a game that scores a 9.8 on 
 gamespot by one person that loves to run and gun, might only score a 6.5 by a hardcore rpg fan. 
 I orginally was not going to buy GOW2 first day. Last 3 times I was seriously dissapointed. ( Army 
 of two, Medal of Honor Airborn, Hells Highway) . I even bought Halo 3 after the huge reviews. I played 
 it a little while, online and off, but could' nt really get into it. Call of duty 4 is one that 
 I can say I truly enjoy because its huge Replay value. I buy new game, play it for about a week, 
 and then usually end up right back on Call of Duty 4. With Gears of War 1, I played it couple of 
 days and really enjoyed the campaign ( up until the 3rd time through, it started to get old) . I 
 then tryed my luck with multiplay, which is probably what my 360 is used for 90% of the time. At 
 first it seemed really fun. After about the 2nd hour, I came to realize the online was dominated 
 by simply rolling and shotgunning. Very annoying. I beleive I spent a combine total of 5 hours 
 on the gears of war 1 multiplayer since I have had it. Gears 1 to me is a good first impression 
 kind of game, nothing more. Gears 2, I am very satisfied with. I can play online now and not get 
 rolled-shottgunned every 5 seconds*yAy they finally did somthing about it!!*. I must admit, the 
 match making could have used a little bit more work before release. (Takes about a minute and a 
 half, or somtimes more, to find and join a game) . But that so far is my only complaint. Horde mode 
 is great!. One thing about it that I abosolutly LOVE, is the fact that YOU can now add bots to 
 matchs!!! So now I dont even have to be online to get my daily shooter fix! And I must add that 
 the bots are freaking SMart!! No stupid AI that I have seen on here (so Far) . I foresee myself 
 wasting away many many MANY hours against the bots through all of the diffrent game matchetypes 
 and levels. I will prprabbly be updating this review somtime new week to fill in the gaps but for 
 now, Gears 2 Shines in my eyes.
  
  If you are sketchy about this game before buying as I was and love to play online shooter matches, 
 I can say with confidince that you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecooleo19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a w w w w w w w w w w w w 
 w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e eeee e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epapep
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is a great sequel, the single player is hard when you play on Hardcore or insane 
 difficulty, the enemy AI is smart and powerful.
  
  Single-player: I'm currently playing on hardcore difficulty and have not completed the game yet, but 
 so far it have been a challenge, the AI is really smart and tries to charge you in all kind of ways.
 
  Its not often you run into teammates but when you do, they often dies or gets lost.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer still got some lags, but its not as bad like it was in Gears1, more 
 weapons, execution moves and meatshield makes everything more fun!
  
  Horde: Is very hard even on normal, i have just reached to wave 14! And the bots are really smart.
 
  
  War journal: Great way to keep the game longer by collecting important info and COG tags, also a 
 way to unlock characters, you also unlock them by unlocked achievements from Gears1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2, it has everythigGears 1 had and more. This time around the campaign is way longer, 
 there are more weaponry and enemies, and the story has thickened, each characters personality (if 
 possible) has been extended in Gears 2. THe graphics are also much better, there is many beautiful 
 coloring and landscapes, plus it is deeply satisfying to hear the squich of a locusts head as you 
 curve stomp them. I have absolutely no complaints about this game so I recomend that all 360 owners 
 buy it
  THis review is short as there is no complaints section.
  So, I apologize and end with Headshots with the sniper are uber awesome!!!
  Oh yeah, I actually 
 do have one complaint, they kill off way too many characters just as they would start to grow on 
 you, and four player co op would have been nice. Thats it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvspartan36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I am very pleased to say that this is an excellent game. Epic has taken everything up a notch from 
 the original Gears.
  
  The Campaign mode is much better this time around. Though the story still isn't great, it is definitely 
 an improvement. New characters are interesting and new enemies are great additions. Be ready for 
 some tugs at the heartstrings when you play, though.
  
  The graphics speak for themselves. Whether it is making your way through an abandoned lab or a 
 sunken city, the visuals are astounding.
  
  The gameplay itself has not changed a whole lot. Veterans will be mowing down Locust quickly and 
 new players will pick up the controls easily.
  
  The multiplayer is still very good. In fact, the only three problems I've seen are long matchmaking 
 times, lack of a straight-up deathmatch, and people who insist on using nothing but the chainsaw 
 (but to each their own) . One of the most exciting new features is the Horde mode, which puts you 
 through wave after wave of increasingly difficult enemies (No, you wont fight any Brumaks) . It 
 is an immense amount of fun to get with some friends and just mow down Boomers, then scream for 
 help when you start crawling as a last resort. The Horde is also an excellent tool to get many 
 of the games achievements, because of the variety of weapons.
  
  In short, Gears of War 2 is a fantastic game that should be experienced by all action lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Just like, and perhaps more so than "Halo 2", GOW 2 is being considered a quasi-sequel. "Gears 
 of War 1.5" is how some would describe it. And perhaps they are right because the developer Epic 
 Games have recycled everything from a gameplay point-of-view. Graphics are slightly improved and 
 the online modes haven't been immensely expanded upon. But still, when you consider how great everything 
 was from the start, even slight refinements make a great game even greater. Alas, this sequel is 
 ultimately better than the first. 
  
  The first difference you will see is the locations (which are bigger and brighter) and the scope 
 of an ever raging battle which trumps the first in terms of the number of enemies and activity 
 involved. The story picks up six months after the end of the last game and more character development 
 has been added. Some new weapons and moves have been included to make the game a little more exciting, 
 but other than that, this is basically the "Gears" that you've played before. However, new maps 
 and two more new competitive modes will keep players hooked. "Horde" is a cool new coop mode in 
 which you and a few other players fight a never ending wave of Locust who increasingly get stronger.
 
  
  Overall, "Gears of War 2" is great fun. Any fan of shooters and action/sci-fi/horror movies will 
 love it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I have to start this off by saying that the first Gears was a blast! I played it up until 
 the new one came out and even though it had it's share of issues with online play, it was a blast 
 to play. Having said that, Gears 2 takes all the goodness from Gears and kicks it up to 11! Here's 
 my breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Sick sick sick!!! This game is overall sharper than Gears which is a huge plus. The gore 
 also looks better to. The environments are also very nice looking with debris floating through 
 the air.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is much tighter than the first Gears to be sure. The game is just a touch 
 slower which I think makes for a better experience all the way around. The shotgun has also been 
 toned down a bit which works out well.
  
  Audio: Yeah... the guns sound spot on and the voice acting is as over the top as ever! "It's cute 
 how they fall!"
  
  Overall, this game is amazing and even people that didn't play or care much for the first Gears, 
 owe it to themselves to give this one a try. Horde alone is worth the price of admission for sure! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  OK, I've got just the necessary energy to write this before going to bed 'cause it's been none-stop 
 since yesterday ... this game is too awesome!!!! The first one's just the tip of the iceberg, this 
 one goes deeper. Game-play has been improved. Using the chainsaw is easier and funnier. Bloodshed 
 is gruesome and eye-catching. Story goes beyond, leaves you with even more questions than it does 
 for answering but don't get disappointed here, for it's for the best since leaves room for 1 or 
 2 more entries (yeah!!!) . There are some breathtaking moments in the story that just makes the 
 whole experience even cooler than it already is just by playing through the game. I'm beginning 
 insane difficulty, it's more than insane yet fun-insane, cool challenge, specially if you're GoW 
 hardcore gamer since the first one. Please, u'gotta buy this one, renting is not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Isn't it just funny how if a game gets a 10/10 everyone is saying how it shouldn't of? Well, this 
 time you see people arguing with game spot how this should be a 10/10
  
  Honestly, I have never played something so awesome in my whole entire life. This topped Gears of 
 War 1 obviously, and tops a lot more. The online play is great. It's a good thing that they made 
 it 2 player co-op, because that would make the game wayyy too easy. That's why they stuck with 
 2 player. If you don't like that, oh well.
  
  One part I was a little disappointed with was that there couldn't be a guest when you played online. 
 It doesn't matter the game is still amazing. It also gets boring at points, but that's it.
  
  This game is worth it's money. I'm hoping there will be a sequel. This was amazing.
  
  
 IT WAS WORTH FULL PRICE!!! BUY IT NOW!!! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT ONE BIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevenyc1992
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games that came out for the 360. It is worth spending 300 dollars for the system. 
 C'mon 10 extra dollars for the limited edition we can all afford it. Great campaign mode, you sink 
 right into the story which is great. Challenging AI which makes you have to think. Game of the 
 Year Qualifier. BTW Stop comparing it to Halo or Call of Duty its none of them. I dont see why 
 you guys are crying. Yes this game is mainly for multi-player but the story is a must play. Sorry 
 PS3 owners this is over version of your Metal Gear Solid. This is a must have no doubts about that. 
 The campaign is a little short but just right. It may leave alot of questions open but its ok. 
 I just feel bad for Dom. I didn't expect that. (No Spoiler Ruined) It brings you more into the 
 story which is a plus. And the squad is no longer just people standing around there actually doing 
 something this time around. Just flat out this is a 10 not a 9. That pathetic gamespot can sometimes 
 under do it. Meanwhile the cover system is very much improved visually it is beautiful. AI very 
 much enhanced. Story is brillant. Multi player is very much improved. Horde a crazy concept but 
 i like it. Has replay value and its not intended for you to waste 60 or 70 dollars for you to trade 
 it morons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killaguru11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I never really got into gears, due to I was never a 3rd person shooter kinda guy, BUT with the 
 arrival of gears 2, that changed a bit. It offers up the same astonishing graphics, if not more, 
 of gears 1 and throws in a crap load of extras and buff ups. The campaign is amazing, and thrusts 
 you into incredible fights for survival if your into going down the hardcore/intense modes. The 
 movement is, imo, more fluid and the whole damage system has been upgraded. No more does it feel 
 crappy as hell to shoot down some dude as hes running rull force at u only to be randomly chainsawed 
 or shottied by his unharmed body.... woot stopping power. The weapons have been given a nice overhaul, 
 as the original group of killing toys have not only been revamped, but there have been a number 
 of very very fun killing tools added. And finally, Horde mode, nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gFog34
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The same unrealistic color schema as in the first part. What I'd like is just a naturally looking 
 environment where things are casting shadows, grass is green, sky is blue, textures are looking 
 material and lighting is a mix of sunlight and ambient. What I get is an animated comic book illustration. 
 I love illustrations but only while on paper. All of that brown or gray color tinted "style", flashy 
 "cinematic" effects, bloom and over-contrast lighting and also those grotesque funny sized shoes 
 and armor make me feel I am watching a cartoon movie with my eyes smeared by a lubricant. I just 
 don't feel immersion. 
  Where is that promised "realism" on modern consoles? Guess it don't depend of technologies but 
 just a matter of an artist taste so I actually don't understand why it can't be a bit more similar 
 to what I see behind my window. Even a gray day is full of colors comparing to any of the game 
 environments which looks like being painted by a single tube watercolor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalnickolai
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say maybe I set me expectations too high. 
  
  STOP TRYING TO BRING IN COD AND HALO PLAYERS. EVERYONE LOVES GOW BECAUSE IT'S NOT LIKE THOSE GAY 
 GAMES. THE RANKINGS ARE OK BUT THE PARTY THING IS DUMB. SO IS THE MATCH FINDING!!! YOU'RE GOING 
 TO LOSE PEOPLE PLAYING THIS GAME BECAUSE GOW ONE WAS MORE UNIQUE AND HAD AN ADDICTIVE AND COMPETETIVE 
 MULTI-PLAYER!!!
  
  
  Now that I got that out of my system...
  
  
  Online play:
  I spent so many hours into GOW (1) with multi-player matches that it was just different from other 
 games and had it's own unique style. It wasn't a COD or a HALO game. I believe everyone loved to 
 pick their own style. What I mean is that if you wanted execution with weapon swaps and custom 
 map cycles you had the chance to choose. Now you choose a stupid list that randomizes of of the 
 list and gives all players to vote on a type of game play you want. THIS IS PRY THE PART THAT RUINED 
 IT. I'm sorry but I loved to just join public matches and pick places to play and then invite my 
 friends. Not to mention if the other team got lucky and did win we could have revenge on the oppossing 
 team with the next match. Now you play a match and it kicks you back to the party menu after the 
 match was done. I would love to just play with all the maps or atleast let it cycle. I believe 
 this is dumb because I play with alot of different people and now I have to choose who to play 
 with and they will never be on the opposite team.
  I know they did keep the option with private matches but what's the point? I liked when people 
 would join and leave at different times. It gave you a chance to look at other players and to meet 
 new people. They really need to open that back up.
  
  
  
  Maps:
  The maps aren't the same! They opened up the playing field and these are not your typical GOW maps. 
 All the new maps are NOT AND I REPEAT NOT AS DETAILED AS THE OLD MAPS! I LOVED THE GRAPHICS IN 
 THE OTHER GOW and they were more for battling. You had a chance to fight up close and personal, 
 hide, snipe, and shotgun. Basically all these maps were made for is the lancer and the hammerburst.
 
  
  GUNS:
  I do like the new guns, don't get me wrong, But why change the guns that were present? The shotgun 
 isn't the shotgun anymore. It's delayed after you hit the trigger and it's the slowest gun out 
 there. It reminds me of the old boltok pistol. I love the new sniper scope but you might as well 
 of kept the active downs. WHY do I say this? Well in the old gears you would just stand back up 
 but now if you would of just kept downing people they wouldn't of been able to hit them because 
 of the new crawling action. If you chance one thing to fix a problem don't change other things 
 as well.
  
  
  Game types:
  I would love the game types if they would fix the SHOTGUN. Alot of the things are close combat 
 with HORDE and WINGMAN but the shotgun goes so slow it's not even worth using it. It's better off 
 to just chainsaw. Overall though I do like the new types of gameplay.
  
  
  Graphics:
  I'm sorry but the graphics could have been alot better. They just don't look as detailed and good 
 as GOW (1) .
  
  
  
  To make it better and the best game of the year::
  Let the GOW (1) players still love the game too!
  
  
  1. Fix the public matches. Ranked matches 
 can be with the voting crap. Let public matches be where you can pick execution, warzone, guardian, 
 horde, wingman and such. Let them have weapons in the social matches and have a custom map cycle 
 again. Let the people be able to get invited during the rounds and let the players have a chance 
 on revenge. If they want to leave they can always find a new match.
  
  2. Put the shotgun back to normal. Leave the active downs on because now you can crawl around. 
 Have the shotgun be more consistent. I noticed alot of the times you would shoot the other team 
 point blank and it had no effect.
  
  
  3. Put some different maps on there. Make them like the old maps and let's have some REAL GOW fun. 
 
  
  br / 
  
  
  IF YOUR A GOW EDITOR LOOKING AT REVIEWS TALK TO ME AND GOW 1 PLAYERS THAT PLAYED EVERY WEEK AND 
 ALMOST EVERYDAY. DON'T JUST TALK TO PEOPLE THAT PLAY GAMES. CONTACT ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oaklestat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  I have to agree with many others that this one has a lot more video glitches than the last. At 
 one point in act 4 I was standing on a bridge, my screen went black except my char and next thing 
 I know I am standing a couple hundred feet behind that location with my squad way ahead of me. 
 I also got stuck in a major gunfight while control was talking to me and all i could do was stand 
 there with my finger to my ear. This is very disappointing. One player yesterday mentioned that 
 you don't get wet in the rain. When I saw that I almost cried. Why not work on those little details 
 that made the first one so immersive. The gameplay will always be great with this game. Instead 
 of making the distant scenery look better they should have worked on the finer points a bit longer. 
 
  
  That being said I still love the game and will always love it. They worked hard on a story that 
 would keep you in the spirit of the game. I have not had any problem in multi-player. All of you 
 who are bashing the new multiplayer system, play it for a couple weeks and see how it is when everyone 
 else gets there copy up and running. Once everyone has had it and gets used to it, you just might 
 find that you like it more than the first. 
  
  As far as GOW2 vs. Resistance 2, give me a break. I foolishly spent money on the first resistance 
 and now the second and I traded them both back the next day. I think half-life was more fun than 
 resistance. At least my PS3 will get a break for a while as I am going to eat, sleep and drink 
 Gears for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster-1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  What more can you ask for in this game. Its just awsome game. Its addictive and cool and bloody. The 
 online is great.
  
  lest get to the real stuff about this game. First of it's a tactical third-person shooter game. 
 Anyways in the first game you bomb the cave with the light-bomb, and then the gears think that 
 they have demolished the locust. But in this new game, the locust have come back stronger then 
 ever. The controles are the same from the last game but there are alot more new elements in thw 
 game. Such as chain saw duel fighiting, grapichs and many many more. Online is never easy to play 
 on. People can demolish you, unless your an awsome gears online player. There are 4 diffuculty 
 mode, Easy Normal, Hard, Insane. Whatever you dp do not pick easy if you do you will have no fun 
 in the game. pick either normal or hard. INsane is locked untill you beat hard or normal mode. 
 
  
  Well I dont want to ruin the game for the people who still have to get it, All I can say its an 
 awsome game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionhart_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is finally here. The second go round of Gears is just as satisfying as the first and then 
 some. Epic took everything from the first game made it better and add to it as well. The graphics 
 are updated looking more stunning, better light and shadow, more characters on the screen and a 
 lot more gory with limbs and chunks of meat flying around. Let's start with the campaign mode. 
 First off veterans shouldn't start on anything else except on hardcore, but if your new to the 
 series normal should be a good starting point, unless of course you never played a shooter before 
 then casual should get you started up. In Gears campaign you can play through on your own or co-op 
 play which is always a blast. Gears to feels more cinematic then the first and is takes about 10 
 hours to complete, that's if you bother looking for all the collectibles, oppose to COG tags in 
 the first. I thought the story is a pretty good follow up from the first, developing older characters 
 and introducing new ones. The story takes place months after the first one where the COG think 
 they eliminated the threat of the locust, only the come back more powerful and in great numbers. 
 Humans have to hold out in their last city Jacinto and the COG are sent in on the attack hoping 
 to strike a critical blow to the Locust horde. All in all it was a great experience. All the old 
 weapons are back and have minor tweaks and they also added new heavy weapons that pack quite a 
 punch. Carrying the heavy weapons you lose agility but get a great about of fire power. They're 
 are also multiple ways to take out a downed player such as using him for cover or mounting him 
 and pound their face in. The downed player can now crawl out of harms way as they bleed or closer 
 to a teammate for a revival. You and a friend can now double team and chainsaw others. Also there 
 are chainsaw battles with the chainsaws locked up the person with the quicker finger pushing B 
 button repeatedly will win. I just hope there isn't a 360 controller out there that has a turbo 
 or super turbo button cause that would defeat the purpose. Also characters can be unlocked to play 
 in the multiplayer just by going through the campaign mode.
  Moving on to the multiplayer aspect. The first thing you notice is it's no longer 4-on-4 its 5-on-5. 
 I personally feel that it was a good move by changing up the multiplayer experience and not making 
 it feel quite like the first Gears and increasing the difficulty if your the last guy left. Although 
 I think they should of kept the 4-on-4 as one of the modes and named it "old school" or "classic 
 mode", much like COD 4 did, cause I'm sure there will be people will whine about having the maps 
 too croweded or not being able to take down 5 players if they are the last man remaining on their 
 team. Anyway Gears 2 has much more multiplayer modes. The first being Horde which pits your team 
 against waves and waves of locust each wave more difficult then before with a total of 50 waves. 
 I think that was probably the best multiplayer mode they added. Other added modes are Submission 
 which is a capture the flag but instead of a flag it's a civilian whose armed, Wingman which is 
 the basic two teams the fight tactically and revive each other, and finally Guardian which is where 
 you try to eliminate the other team by killing the leader everyone can keep respawning until the 
 leader is killed. All are fun to play and are a great improvement to the multiplayer frag-fest. 
 You also get to take pictures and upload them on Gears' website and share it with the community.
 
  This game is an overall a fun experience an multiplayer will definitely keep you coming back for 
 more. This game feels and plays like the original, which all sequels should, but it improves on 
 gameplay, more features and modes adding for a entertaining experience which you won't be disappointed 
 unless your expecting a revolutionary game or a totally different gaming experience (which I don't 
 think would be gears anymore) wouldn't be the same game. 
  Also on a side note, it's sad to see all the "fanboys" make a poor attempt at reviewing a game 
 they never played (only wished) and giving this game a bad review which they don't really possess 
 a life and everyone can tell cause their sorry reviews stick out like a sore thumb. Reviews like 
 oh I don't like the colors they use or the skies aren't blue. Sad, sad, sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-trades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  To start off I would like to say that I was a HUGE fan of the first game... It (gears 1) was GOTY 
 and was not even on par with gears two... Gears 1 had a lackluster story and many problems with 
 multiplayer servers yet still I have played consistantly 5-6 hrs a day on line up untill the release 
 of the sequel... with that out of the way heres my review...
  
  Gears 2 is a masterpiece, from the begining of the story you can feel something EPIC (pun intended) 
 is coming... The story is a great improvment over the first gears story... You feel an attachment 
 to all of the characters this time even more than before... Marcus trying to just end this war is 
 going all out... Dom desperatly searching for his wife Maria will kill any in his way to stop it.. Cole 
 (my fav. character) is more bad-a$$ than ever, and baird is just as witty as ever... there are your 
 other characters that you meet alont the way including.. Anya, Hoffman, Tai, Dizzy, and A. Carmine's 
 brother Benjiman. You feel a strong connection with the COG's and their struggle of surmount this 
 seemingly unstoppable enemy... with about 10hrs for the story mode to be completed, new online modes 
 (Horde has to be the greatest thing ever made IMO... so addictive its even fun to die...) and Huge 
 bosses that make every other boss ever seem small Gears two is sure to rack up more GOTY wins than 
 the original... and I cant wait untill the final installment of this game.... ill start waiting in 
 line now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butteman12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  WOW.... that is all i can say. This game, is the sequel to Gears of War 1. Gears of War 1 was so 
 amazing, that it was near impossible to suprass it... but EPIC GAMES has done it again. Gears of 
 War 2 is about an alien race called the "Locust" that fight against the humans. Humanity has struck 
 at the Locust in the first witha Lightmass Bomb. Now they are back and badder than ever making 
 entire cities sunk into their Emergence holes and their next target is the humans final safe haven 
 and you, as the COGS must strike them in the underground and save humanity. While the first gears 
 had some story issues, this one has an incredible plot and dialogue. 
  
  The graphics. Move aside MGS4. Go away Uncharted because there is a new graphics king. The first 
 gears graphics revolutionized the way we excpect games to look like. It was the first real next-gen 
 looking game that was out. Now Gears of War 2 comes out and boy is it a looker. The lighting, animation, 
 environments and detail are all top notch. NO JOKE. The textures in the game are also incredible. 
 There is this one parrt where you are in the cave and it actually looks like a movie. The little 
 things and details make it look so good. When you hae a flamethrower in your hands and you are 
 firing it, the tip of the gun turns red hot. The physics are also very good. This game really is 
 the true CONSOLE graphics king.
  
  I am sure all of you that are reading this review are now wondering about gameplay. The first gears 
 had an almost perfect cover system. Gears of War 2 HAS the perfect cover system. It works suprisingly 
 well. There are many new features in the game. you can now pick up someone as hostage when they 
 are down but not out and use them as a meatshield to protect yourself. Also, when you are down 
 but now out, you can crawl away to get to safety or crawl to one of your teammates to revive you. 
 THere are many more features to the game dont worry! Much more than just the two i gave. The new 
 guns are VER VERY fun. There are a total of 11 executions and all of them are extremely satisfying 
 and gorey. You can also have chainsaw duels now. When you ad your enemy charge at each other with 
 both chansaws reaving, you plunge into a duel in were the peson who mashes "B" the most wins and 
 cuts up their opponent. The scorcher has the most realistic fire ever in a videogame. It is a really 
 fun weapon to use. The Mortar is this huge weapon that when the more you crank it, the farther 
 the missles will go. This weapon shoots a shower of missles over your enemis and its really cool 
 to see your enemies EXPLODE. (BTW this game is NOT FOR KIDS its super gorey and violent) . The mulcher 
 is basically a huge turret that you can take with you and its very powerful. There are many other 
 new guns but it would take too long to describe how awesome they are. There are also destructible 
 environments in the game that actually affect gameplay and can kill your enemies. The scale in 
 this game is HUGE. It feels like an actual even BIGGER than a war. Its really amazing how EPIC 
 GAMES has done this! The SP in this game is about 3-5 hours longer than the first and you will 
 definitley want more when it ends.
  
  Finally, the MP. The MP is a bit of a letdown but not because its bad, its actually extremely fun 
 and one of the best MP's i have ever played, but if you can actually get INTO a game.... consider 
 yourself lucky. I takes REALLY long for the matchmaking system to find a game. But dont worry folks. 
 This can be fixed with a patch. There are about 7 game modes, and all of them are very cool. My 
 prsonal favorites are Submission mode. Its pretty much CTF except one great twist, the flag is 
 a human that shoots you with a shotgun and you must down him and take him as a meatshield to your 
 base. You can also steal the meatflag from your enemies if of course you kill the person holding 
 it. This mode also features respawning My other Fave is called Guardian. In this game mode, you 
 must protect your leader and if you die, you can keep respawning ONLY if your leader is still alive. 
 Once he is dead, you can respwan once more but keep in mind that this is your final life. The other 
 game modes are fun too, but i just prefer these two more. Now, its time for the Best part of the 
 game: HORDE MODE!!!!!!!!!! The most fun i have ever had in ANY VIDEOGAME EVER!! Basically, it is 
 you and 4 friends battling waves and waves of Locust. There are 50 waves and each one gets harder 
 when you level up. The enemies change, the AI is better, they have more protection, etc. It is 
 really an amazing mode that makes me really heppy that EPIC GAMES added in it. There are also bots 
 in the game. You can set their AI to easy, normal or very hard and it actually works. Whenever 
 one of your buddies leave, you can put a bot to replace him and its really cool. You can also do 
 this in co-op mode (btw, co-op mode supports only 2 people : () The maps in Gears 2 are much more 
 impressive than the first game. they are just alot more fun. Also, this time around its 5v5 and 
 not 4v4. Host advantage is gone so be happy and there is much less bullet lag/glitches i havnt 
 seen any lag whatsoever. 
  
  So overraly, this game is really incredible and VERY VERY VERY fun. from thegraphics, to the story 
 to the MP and the gameplay, it is all perfect. Kee in mind that i have only mentioned some gameplay 
 features and guns and stuff like that. There is much more content in the game. This is why i rated 
 the game a 10. and its definitley NOT Gears of War 1.5 IT IS Gears of War 2. So what are you waiting 
 for? Go get this game right NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  
  Being a huge fan of the 1st GoW game you'd have to be a mental not to excited at the prospect of 
 the sencond installment! I for one hungered for the my next dose of COG vs Locust butt kicking 
 action! Epic have had a few years to move the series on, develop the characters, use the 360's 
 graphical prowses to make it look twice the game, give us a detailed insight further into the story, 
 add new dimensions and plot twists, new gameplay methods and weapons etc etc. Was it to much to 
 hope for? In a word Yes! 
  
  To say I'm masively disappointed by the 2nd gears game is an understatement. Having spent considerable 
 time playing the game I left with the feeling of this being more of an expansion pack than a 2nd 
 game. Graphically its not a huge progression. The story is rough and under developed. The game 
 play and methods exactly the same. The original spark and hook of the first game is missing with 
 your character bungling around liner set designs, dull dialog and unengaging gameplay of running, 
 shooting and using a whole mag clip for one beastie, hiding. Now repeat. There are some real elements 
 of laziness in the programing too such a graphical glithces that defy belief during game play - 
 floating gun or random limbs 5 foot in the air anyone? Or when saving or loading levels. Its bloody 
 irritating. Still I love the GoW series so a 2nd flawed installment is better than no installment. 
 Epic need to thing about the next game long and hard. 
  
  The whole game smacks of cash in on the success if the 1st with very little thought give to delievering 
 a stella and genre defining 2nd installment.
  
  Epic? Hardly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  If you haven't figured it out by now, Gears of War 2 is what's going to sell Xbox 360s this holiday 
 season. It has non-stop action, fresh gameplay, varied environments, an engrossing storyline, multiplayer 
 that will have people busy for years to come, and some of the nastiest and coolest kills I've seen 
 in a videogame. It has its flaws when it comes to the technical side of multiplayer and the last 
 act of the campaign and the voice acting might turn some off. Still, none of that comes close to 
 holding back Gears of War 2 from its destiny: being one of the best games available on the Xbox 
 360.
  
  Gameplay: Some of the purest fun you'll have. Instant gratification starts at level one and never 
 lets up. It? s familiar for veterans of the first but throws in plenty to legitimize itself.
  
  Graphics: Fantastic looking characters inhabit splendid worlds that feel truly alive. You? d 
 be hard pressed to find a better looking game anywhere. Now if only they could fix the texture 
 and framerate issues.
  
  Sound: The sound effects bring you into the action perfectly and Jablonsky delivered on the score 
 in a big way. Voice acting could use some work.
  
  Value: Supposing they can fix the few multiplayer issues, there? s nothing stopping Gears 2 from 
 ruling Xbox Live for some time to come. The photo mode is a great addition, too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoobKiller1991
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I've only spent a few hours playing this game so far, but from what I've seen and played, it's 
 the best game I've played since Gears of War 1. Halo 3 is a good game, and I like to play it on-line, 
 but Gears of War 2 puts it to shame. I was addicted to this game from the first moment I played 
 it. Even the training kicked ass! Even if this game didn't have superior graphics, I'd sill give 
 it a 10 out of 10. New weapons, new characters, new moves, new vehicles... add these features to 
 the first Gears of War and you've got the makings of a Game of the Year! Even though I said above 
 that the difficulty was "hard", its a good hard. I love a good challenge and this game BROUGHT 
 IT ON! Right now I'm playing it on Hardcore, but I look forward to playing it on Insane! I really 
 hope that Epic makes Gears of War 3. This was supposed to be a trilogy after all. In fact, if they 
 made them all the way up to Gears of War 17, that'd be ok with me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  The fight between the Locusts and humans on the planet Sera continues in Epic's new "epic" game 
 Gears of War 2. The game takes place six months after the first and the introduction is outstanding. 
 You fight your way through the Locust horde and by the third chapter of Act 1, you will witness 
 an excellent speech by the President about the war. This is where Gears 2 begins. The story is 
 father better than the first gears. With Dom's wife missing and with the Locusts sinking entire 
 cities, this is a game that meant for anyone (if you are mature enough and if you are a fan of 
 the first) . I'm serious this is a fantastic game. Even player who didn't like the first will probably 
 enjoy this game. Now Gears 2 also comes with intense multiplayer matches. One of them is called 
 "Horde". This is when you and your friends (over Xbox Live) take on waves and waves of Locusts. 
 Teamwork is key if you want to get through at least 10 waves. I believe there are 50 waves in Horde 
 mode but I haven't gotten that far (I got to wave 12) . Every 10 waves the Locust will get stronger 
 so unless you have a four other friends who have beaten this game on Insane like ten times (which 
 means they beat it ten times last night) then have fun. I'll predict you'll be dead at the end 
 at wave 23. Now there's other matches that can be played but I don't want to spoil anything because 
 that's not nice. Now everyone that has sent e-mails about the shotgun being to powerful online, 
 I'll be the one to tell you that the shotgun has been decreased of it's power and the Lancer has 
 increased. It seems Cliff B. (the producer) has realized how to make the game that was supposed 
 to be played over Xbox Live. Gears of War 2 is a smash hit. It's better than the first in every 
 way. It I had to be picky sometimes the "Y" and the "B" buttons are a little confusing when they 
 are down but now I'm just being a little picky. The GOOD and BAD:
  
  GOOD: Excellent story, Horde is a blast to play with friends, Online play is better, Marcus is 
 still a badass.
  
  BAD: ........................ ummm I got nothing.
  
  Gears of War 2 is amazing. The best sequel in a long time. Like I said this game is not a 9.5 or 
 a 9.0 (GAMESPOT) but even better. Gears of War 2 comes out with a bang and an easy 10 out of 10! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Nothing new but a new plot. The story is deep and more personal which keeps it going. You get to 
 mix it up in a lot of different environments this time. The gameplay seems to be a little smoother 
 this time. It's simple to Snipe enemies now to where I recall having trouble the first time. Co-op 
 Play online is a lot of fun, The A. I. is good but when you go down they may not revive you to where 
 a co-op player would. Multiplayer has a few new editions to it but I think everyone is just going 
 to stick to the deathmatch. Something else new is the Horde. It's wave after wave of enemies that 
 you can take on by yourself or with a friend. The Achievements aren't as hard to get as last time 
 so if you're a Achievement hoe then you'll do just fine. All in all it's a great game but I was 
 hoping for some new weapons but thats life. I reccomend everyone to buy this game because of the 
 multiplayer, any game with multiplayer is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  For anyone that liked Gears 1 you will love Gears 2. This really puts Gears 1 to shame. The graphics 
 are greatly improved, specially the lighting effects. The new modes like wingman are a blast to 
 play, even when it's just you and bots. The bots for me are the best addition to the game, they 
 add so much for the times you want to play offline or to fill the room up when there are only a 
 few of you. Though the bots are a great addition, they certainly aren't as good as they could be. 
 From what I have seen so far bots won't flank you and sometimes they fail to kill even though the 
 guy is down fairly close to them. Horde mode is one of the best features, this is very tough even 
 on casual with 5 experienced players. For anyone that loves shooters this is a must buy, it's the 
 game I bought this year by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is freakin' sweet! The single player is longer than the first one and although I 
 loved the first Gears of War, I think the second Gears of War single player is a lot better. It's 
 better because it's longer and offers more to experience. The single player is a lot more fun if 
 you play with a friend. Although the single player is a lot of fun to play, horde has lived up 
 to its expectations. Horde is just endless hours of fun with friends. Although horde is challenging, 
 it's a lot of fun to play with friends and Gears of War 2 offers good maps to play horde on. Not 
 to brag, I'm a pretty good gears of war player having played A LOT of ranked and player matches 
 in the first Gears of War, but horde is definitely a challenge. I played horde on casual two or 
 three times during the first day I got it (Friday) and at first it was a little challenging even 
 on casual. Once you get the handle of it on casual it's pretty easy. But once you go up to hardcore 
 or insane, it is pretty hard on hardcore and almost impossible on insane. Insane just adds a whole 
 other challenge for horde in Gears of War 2. These are great things in Gears of War 2. As for the 
 bad, I played a couple public (ranked) matches with my friends and the games I played were fun 
 (wingman and execution) . The only bad thing I noticed it was it takes a little while to connect 
 to matches which I don't mind. Also, I might have not played the multiplayer enough yet but every 
 match I was in everyone was just rushing to the middle shotgunning or chainsawing and I didn't 
 see a sniper or boom shot or any other weapons you can normally pick up in gears of war 1 in any 
 of the maps. I played on security and avalanche. So in my opinion, Gears of War is an amazing, 
 all-around game because it offers a pretty long single player that is a lot to fun to play as well 
 as fun multiplayer in, execution, wingman, etc. Also along with the multiplayer, horde makes it 
 soo much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RightFromWrong
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Amazing~campaign itself is 110% improved with the most beastly artistic designs and graphics, unreal 
 engine 3 is greatly improved and delievers the best of the best xb360 graphics, cover system is 
 great as ever, gameplay is skyrocketing and is awsome, the weaponary in gears 2 still surprises 
 me, the skorcher is my fav and burns every locust to crap in an instant, with the improved hammerburst 
 and lancer rifle, this is the best shooter of the year, but sadly it doesnt really deserve the 
 10.0, the reason is becuz there was no 9.8, the gamplay, visuals, sound, and standard gaming technologies 
 are a perfect ten but the cons are that the storyline and characters, well... seem a little bit awkward, 
 boss fights are a little disappointing and the characters say a lot of cheesy things and it just 
 feels awkward also it does have a minor technincal issues such as visual effects that gets blurry 
 and there are facts where the gears 2 gives 360s the RROD, and it did happen to my uncle's but 
 overall its an almost perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielmbg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is simply PERFECT! I played the first Gears of War and the game was superb, but this 
 one is incredible better, everything is better, much more ACTION, a bunch of BLOOD, much more details, 
 lots of monsters on the screen, much more strategies to use in the middle of the combat, more weapons.
 
  The history, well they picked a NO STORY game and made a GREAT story, the intro looks like a movie, 
 the action on this sequel is much more intense from the first one, you will see lots of monsters, 
 and incredible giants ones too.
  Some parts you'll have to be fast to not die, others you have to thing a little more to pass, and 
 others just go shooting everything.
  The Weapons are great, it's really cool to go shooting with a flame launcher, and the fatalities 
 are great.
  The strategies, know before you die you have some seconds to go crawling to your friend to get 
 healed, but some monsters can do it to, there's a monster that when you kill you can use his shield, 
 or you go with it using a one-hand weapon or put it anywhere on the floor.
  Well a little long review but seriously this game deserved a 10 it's incomparable better than the 
 first Gears of War, for me it's the best shooting game i have ever played, deserves to be the GAME 
 OF THE YEAR, one of the bests games for the New Generation.
  
  BUY IT AND HAVE FUN WITH THE BEST SHOOTING GAME EVER MADE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  A great sequel for the Xbox360 all around...
  Anyway in short
  -----------------------------------------------
  THE GOOD
  - Gameplay is even better from the 
 previous game
  - Great single player campaign and a good story
  - Solid Multiplayer
  -----------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------
 
  THE BAD
  - Graphics are improved but by a little...
  - Some little bugs in some missions
  - Single player campaign is a bit short
  -----------------------------------------------
 
  CONCLUSION
  This is probably by far one of the best third person shooters for 2008. More weapons, more enemies. 
 better multiplayer the game is MORE in every area of the previous game... only the graphics are 
 a bit nothing new despite the improvements of the Unreal Engine 
  
  Graphics 8.0
  Sound 9.0
  Gameplay 9.0
  
  Final Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gow247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  All have to say is that you have to buy this game and just see how great it really is. This a great 
 reason to buy a 360 the guys in epic fixed this game in every single way possible. The new modes, 
 maps, weapons, and better longer storyline simply makes this game a good competitor for game of 
 the year. The cover system is less frustrating and the on rail parts of the game is a great installment 
 to the series and co-op is much better than last time. The only drawback that this game really 
 has is the fact that it gives you more questions to think about than answers but i think that gears 
 of war 2 is setting up all these questions for a gears of war 3. THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY FOR ANY 
 XBOX 360 OWNER OUT THERE!!! If you don't have this game you can't call yourself a hadcore gamer. 
 So i recommend you go out and by this game immediately this is a good reason to buy a 360 if you 
 don't already have. SO GO OUT AND BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leederf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  What a game. I just finished Gears last night and all i can say is i was impressed. The story is 
 more involved this time around, and a lot of questions are answered. With every question answered 
 a new one takes it place leaving the game open to another sequel. Unlike halo 2 however the story 
 feels complete. Gameplay has improved, but mostly the established system has been polished more 
 than new gameplay has been added. The boss fights are stellar complete and challenging as well 
 making them yet another step above the first gears bosses. all and all i give it a 10 cause it 
 is the most fulfilling game I've played this year. I am a gears fan so there is a bit of bias, 
 but even with that aside i still feel it is a game worthy of anyone's attention.
  
  I should mention my one and only con with this game just to be fair. It is a glitch issue with 
 cover that i ran into most in one boss fight. It wasn't a big deal for me but it could cause someone 
 frustration. Also I played the game through on hardcore the first time around, and that difficulty 
 is the one in which my review is based. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dielon_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I had a low expectation for the game, I thought it would be just more of the same stuff but I was 
 very pleased with what I saw when playing this game.
  
  All the weapons have been an amazing 'feel' to them. The sounds of the game are the best in any 
 shooter game I've recently played.
  
  Still a little glitchy now and then but its all around a great game. Must have.
  
  Fast Flying 
 Fighting Fish Flash Fright From Fridge Foliage
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best 
 thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best 
 thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
  Best thing in game is the neck snap....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morpheus1605
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  For some of you who said that the game really hasn't change and the graphics really haven't changed. 
 what the hell are you talking about. They have introduced new weapons, enemies, playable characters, 
 multiplayer game modes. This game has it all...... besides the waiting to join a party online witch 
 can take up to 5 min. What more could you guys want. I mean when your using your shotgun go to 
 the wall and just shoot it and watch it fall apart. next time your shooting someone watch the blood 
 and chunks of skin come off them. This is probably by far the best third person shooter i have 
 ever played. I just think now a days people expectations of videos games is way too high. I was 
 reading someones post and they said the campaign really hasn't changed since the first one WTF 
 are you talking about you must have not played the campaign at ALL. you fight way more enemies 
 and just the whole scale of the game is huge. I'm surprised this didn't get a perfect 10 cause 
 it should have but eh i say its godly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRYCELL21
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Here is the real truth. I picked up this game more for the online experience more than the campaign 
 mode. I will just review online experience. First off the game lobby takes FOREVER to load. I have 
 heard people waiting 30 minutes to enter a game session. On top of that if you want to just play 
 WARZONE, well sadly you can't. There is a set playlist that you have to vote for with other players. 
 Why change the interface from Gears 1? Stupid! The graphics online suffer from campaign mode. I 
 believe Gears 1 had better online graphics. Sorry its just the truth. Next the game is 5 vs 5 instead 
 of 4 vs 4. I am not complaining about more people playing but it does make it a lot more cluttered 
 and impossible to kill all 5 if all of your team members die. Gears 1 if your whole team died, 
 you had a chance of taking out the whole team. Very rare now. Maps are not as good as Gears 1. 
 One map you can die from the rain/glass/whatever the hell it is. Stupid! Overall I am very disspointed 
 bc I was looking forward to this title. Gears 1 is way better than Gears 2 hands down. See for 
 yourself. I love Gears 1 and thinking about selling Gears 2 on Ebay. I am going to purchase COD5 
 instead. Atleast the online will be more exciting and rewarding. Gears 2 is a letdown! Pathetic... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Gears of war 2 is a stunning unique game which can promise satisfaction and things you can't do 
 in any other game. it carries on 6 months after the 1st game on the planet sera. Humanity is on 
 the brink of extinction against the fierce locusts, the game is all about taking the fight to the 
 locusts underground and finding Dom's missing wife. while you are playing you will find new guns, 
 new tactic and new badass moves. if you down an enemy you have four choices on how to finish him 
 off. curb stomp him, punch him to death, use him as a meat shield and my personal favorite get 
 your gun as a baseball bat and hit their head off which is very satisfying (gore can be turned 
 of in the menus, a new thing that wasn't in the first game) .there are new characters such as tai, 
 a huge man with a big heart and small temper and dizzy who only cares about his precious vehicles 
 "betty". also there are new guns like flamethrowers, poison grenades, portable shields, and guns 
 from the 1st game which has been updated to cause for badass trouble.
  gears of war 2 is possibly the biggest and best game to come out this year so if you are looking 
 for a gruesome bloody game then this is the game that is going to change your gaming experience 
 forever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  The original Gears of War was a smash hit, and almost everyone who had a 360 had this game. Combining 
 run-and-gun gameplay, with a cover system that set the standard for most 3rd Person Shooters, wrapped 
 up in a great sci-fi/survival horror atmosphere and you have Gears of War. Now, Gears 2 is here, 
 and it delivers on all regards!
  
  
  The graphics this time around are awesome. Gears had great graphics, but mainly consisted of muted 
 colors including grays and browns. Now you have a full color spectrum, and it instantly shows. 
 Fire now looks like fire now, and there is much of it to see. There are several new additions, 
 while small, that gives this title a nice graphical polish. Like the barrel of your gun being red 
 for a few seconds before turning back to its original color after firing a few rounds. Now you 
 can penetrate cover, like wood, glass, and plastic, making the action seem more believable.
  
  
  The gameplay, taking the "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" approach, is largely unchanged 
 from the first. The buttons are exactly the same, save for some upgrades. When you shoot an enemy, 
 the have a chance of crawling away, this is when something new opens up. Instead of blasting them 
 with bullets, or curb stomping them, you have two other choices: bash their face in or pick them 
 up and use them as a shield. While not revolutionary, it works perfectly in the Gears setting. 
 Also, your grenades can now be tagged onto enemies and surfaces. When attached to a surface, it 
 acts a claymore. Sweet! There are even more guns and grenades to play with along with many, many 
 more enemies to shoot. 
  
  
  The multiplayer has been upgraded, and feels more refined. However, the time it takes to find teammates 
 and opponents are a tad bit on the long side. I clocked one loading at 5 min 32 sec. Epic doesn't 
 let their fans down, so I expect a patch very soon. The game modes are more varied now, and the 
 new Horde mode is a BIG challenge (50 total waves) that completionists and die-hard fans will dig 
 into. 
  
  
  The sound in the game is awesome, and is more varied now. Gears had dialogue, but was on the "huh?" 
 side, but was acceptable. Now the dialogue is better and is more prevalent. However with that, 
 comes even more swearing. Considering that the Gears are military, and the situations they are 
 put in, it fits, but some may find it overdone. However, is game does have an "M" rating for a 
 reason. All the weapons sound more power-packed, and actually have the stopping power to back it 
 up. And the new enemies sound equally as menacing. Gulp! 
  
  
  Now, since this is a 360 exclusive, special care has be given to the achievements, and this means 
 that they will take a while. One is called "Seriously 2.0" that has you killing 100,000 enemies 
 in any game mode! Another is "Party like its 1999" which has you playing 1999 rounds of any game 
 type. Those two alone with take the average gamer a very long time to get. Then there is the standard 
 beat x level on x difficulty. Overall, the list is expansive but fun.
  
  
  Gears 2 is everything that fans have been waiting for. Great graphics, improved story, action packed 
 gameplay that we have come to love, improved multiplayer, and more, make this a worthy sequel and 
 sets up a third installment without even trying. Even if you haven't played the first, and you 
 have a 360, you owe it to yourself to play this. Delta Squad out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  When i got Gears 2 the first thing i did was to play the campaign all the way through on hardcore.... i 
 was extremely pleased and shocked by how much effort had gona into this to make it a classic... after 
 this i decided to play horde mode which was fun for a while..... then the multiplayer came.... the 
 new matchmaking system has ruined the entire experience for me... you have no choice about which 
 gametype you play and whilst writing this review my xbox is "searching for an opposing team of 
 similar skill" and has been stuck on this for at least 8 minutes now.... and it it like this most 
 of the time.... which makes the multiplayer a real let down..... also epic decided that they would 
 make the shotgun completely useless and make the lancer a superweapon because some people didnt 
 like all the shotgun battles from gears 1.... however epic should have balanced the two weapons 
 instead of making one superpowerfull and the other about as usefull as hitting a lambent brumak 
 with a sponge....
  Overall: 9/10
  ps: im still waiting for the wingman match to start..... DAMN YOU EPIC GAMES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nugget2511
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  game play was solid to say the least but in co-op mode my buddy and i noticed quite a bit of glitching. 
 weopons floating in mid air people floating in mid air there was even a part where my buddy got 
 stuck mid air and was floating about 10 ft off the ground was funny but very dissappointing. over 
 all game was a little on the shor side but story line was bad as and the cinema quality cinematics 
 made up for some of the flaws hopefully the glitches will be fixed in the third one. new weapons 
 all i can say is great addition the mortars kick major ass and the grinder cuts down foes like 
 a knife through butter. new multiplaer maps are sweet love the environmet kills. wel play it and 
 let me know what u think.... oh yeah and one more thing for EPIC DONT KEEP US WAITING SO LONG FOR 
 THE THIRD LOL........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corteztk07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  What made me fall in love with the first gears was the multiplayer. Yes, the new campaign is much 
 improved and provides a much more gratifying experience but if you are like me, it was the multiplayer 
 that left you wanting more. The sequel does not even come close to creating that feeling. I do 
 not even know where to begin; Gears 2 is an unfamiliar interface that offers nothing of the old 
 standard that made the game an on-line classic for the xbox360. Instead of choosing from warzone 
 or execution players now have to choose from a set playlist. Upon choosing a playlist you will 
 then have to vote for the game type you want to play whether it be, warzone, execution, guardian, 
 or annex, king of the hill, and submission. Lastly you have Horde or Wingman, these are the only 
 types of gameplay you can select as is; the previous 6 types are grouped together and the player 
 is relegated to voting for the game type of his/her choosing. Overall Gears of War 2 provides a 
 better single player experience than Gears 1, however the multiplayer of Gears of War 2 cannot 
 compare to Gears 1, as the first Gears provided a much a more enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Im a shooter lover
  of course ive played GOW a lot of times
  im about to get Dead Space, Far Cry 2 and Fallout 3 but since the 1st GoW i ensured any sequel 
 to my collection
  
  sorprice!
  Now you see a WAR!, now you see explotions everywhere, now you see the bullet way!... tons of em!
 
  this game is awesome, why i think is better than 1st GoW?
  - More and better weapons
  - Much more and bigger escenarios
  - Action packed sequences
  - the story opened widely
  
 
  just to say some few
  ive not finished the game yet jeje
  but im loving it, its dificulty is just great and the new settings are just fine
  
  the new 
 weapons are great on GoW2, i rly wanted to see a Gatling gun and PRESTO now we game gatling gun, 
 mortar equipment, flamethrower...
  
  if u have a xbox 360 this is a must have... seriously.
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigi1991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I find this game simply good, not great.
  
  The reason being the lack of verity within the game makes it a try before you buy as far as am 
 concerned.
  
  This is mainly a 3 gun game, Lancer, Hammer, and Shotgun will be what you will have to use 90% 
 of the time.
  
  Next is the game types. Basically they are mostly 1 life to live games, which turns it into a overly 
 competitive game at all times. Every match is serious, no fun and laughs when you got 1 life and 
 if you die you'll have to wait about 3min+ to play again.
  
  Don't get me wrong the game good well-rounded game-play, graphics, and sound, but be prepared, 
 because from the first match you play online, to the last match you play online, you will always 
 have 1 life, and the choice of Lancer, Hammer, And shotgun.
  
  Ps: I bet everyone on your friends list stops playing this game within 1-2 months (-_-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theminininja
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  we all know gears 1 was great, this game takes everything good about it and makes it better, improved 
 chainsaws, better balance in the shotgun department, expended arsenal, more player models and even 
 returning favorite maps, whether you play bots or humans, this game will deliver in every respect. 
 served best with friends, you'll find that the multiplayer plays better than it ever did before, 
 period. and
  the single player.
  with a longer (or seemingly) campaign, it fleshes out the story of gears of war. from what happens 
 to doms wife to what exactly makes the locust tick. plus drop in out co-op doesnt hurt, it doesnt 
 end your game like it did in gears 1 to let in or let out a second player. it prevents you from 
 losing progress and this time, you dont have to play as dom to get the co-op acheivements, which 
 for me was a gripe with gears 1 because most of my friends also needed the achievements for playing 
 as dom, thus, i spent more time helping them than getting them myself. 
  and horde mode
  
  great game
  great sequel
  great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramerica101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  it has all the combination of a great game (story, graphics, challenging) this game was released 
 in Saudi Arabia on the 5th and here are my notes from playing the game for the last four days:
 
  1. the new maps are bigger in size and it's really made up for 10 players.
  2. Epic tried to solve the online lagging by making the match making process which gathers players 
 similar in skills and geographically close to each others, this feature is great if the players 
 reside in the united states where most of the Xbox consoles and better internet connections but 
 the rest of the world it's still lagging and time consuming tell the process gathers the players 
 and starts the game .. and let me tell you the lagg is worse than before.
  3. the game ending was not expected!! a brumak!!.
  i would give the game a 10 if i got my Flashback 
 map pack when i bought the game, it turned out i'm in a region blocked by microsoft (regional block) 
 so i can't get the new maps!! why? i never know why, microsoft is just turning into a nazi regime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingz77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just perfect. I love everything about this game. meatshields, chainsaw battles, etc. also 
 my favorite character (in different form) was brought back, this is ben carmine. in addition to 
 the new cogs there are all new enemies such as the kantus. their r new weapons such as the gorgon 
 pistol, they also improved the hammerburst greatly. the graphics in the cutscenes are made perfectly, 
 and there is also Bessy... overall a beautiful game.... i hope ben carmine isnt shot in the head.............. 
 greatness perfection excellence (any other great word that u can think of fits this game) now i 
 just need to waste space a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y and z now i know my 
 abc's next time wont u sing with me fdhggjhgjhk dgljkflfkhl fhkjfk jkkhfkhj khfjk kjgjkjhk hfghjgfsdag 
 dfgd dfgdfh hyrhfgh fhfgh fhfghjfg hfgr hfgyyt u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tattoo04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  man this game is so amazing it's not even funny gears 1 was awesome but gears 2 is just sick my 
 heart is still pounding after playing this game it's everything i expected it to be and more this 
 game is so beautiful too look at and even more beautiful to play if every game could look this 
 good im not gonna sit here and tell you how good this game is cause it speaks for itself if you 
 don't have it go get you won't regret it this has got to be the game of the year again epic really 
 out did themselves of this one multiplayer is awesome but haven't played it that much the campain 
 mode is so fun it's not funny my heart pounds with excitement like no other game the weapons are 
 better than before the story line looks to be more exciting than before everything about this game 
 is just al, ost perfect haven't found not one thing bad about this game it's just 
 
  if you don't have this game yet you shouldn't even own a 360 period best 60 bucks you will ever 
 spend.
  JUST IN AWESOMEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE GAMEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMidgetxxJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Gears 2 is much better then gears 1 in many ways. From the tedious repetitious and dark boring 
 levels that you had to go through in some chapters of gears 1 there's none of that here. It really 
 feels like a war you go here take cover and boom there's 10 guys on screen from small to huge ass 
 brumaks your always in the action.
  
  The GRAPHICS are incredible. They're just like the first and then some, with realistic looking 
 blood trust me when you play the level I'm talking about when their covered in blood you'll be 
 like eww and ahh at the same time. The cover gets destroyed and looks every bit as real as it can 
 be.
  
  The GAMEPLAY is simple. Cover pop shoot come out with a shotty melee and shoot. Yea its simple 
 but its incredibly fun. The aiming is far more improved from the last game much easier to aim with 
 machine guns and snipers but imo shotgun takes 2 shots to kill point blank and is just terribly 
 weak, just stay behind cover with a lancer its better.
  
  The SOUND sounds just like it would in real life. Makes you feel like your in the war yourself 
 and the voice acting is enjoyable believable and who doesn't love Cole? From throwing grenades 
 into buildings then waiting for some Grub to scream you feel like you've achieved something hearing 
 that sound knowing you cleared the place.
  
  Whats lacking? I believe Story lacked last year and the Story in Gears 2 talks about Dom finding 
 his Wife and some other stuff and other unanswered questions to be answered in next game. But the 
 story isn't terrible and it isn't incredible at least its good and believeable when you see people 
 die and you can see the emotions on the cog soldiers face and their expressions. 
  
  Multiplayer: I played alot of rounds with my bro against bots it was a hell alot of fun and I'm 
 glad you don't even need online to enjoy this game. I also tried all the modes and they were all 
 great but still my favorite was Warzone I just love to woop some ass.
  
  Horde would be a lot more fun with 4 other friends then your brother but nonetheless it was great 
 versing so much locust without a bit of a lag.
  
  Overall: I would give this game a 9.8 as a person who never had online this game fulfilled my needs 
 with having bots luckily i have online and I'll go see how it goes tomorow. Campaign is packed 
 with tons of enemies and tons of cog soldiers its 2x better then gears campaign.
  
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I never belived that a game deserved a 10 out of 10. I thought that the only game that deserved 
 a 10 out of 10 was a game so great that you can go inside of it and play as yourself while it tracks 
 every bit of movement you do and allows the player in the game to do that movement. Well my Gamespot 
 friends, I have seen the light! This may not be somekind of virtual reality game, but oh my god 
 this game is just as great! The story is deeper, the graphics are better, the enemys are stronger, 
 the missions are harder and the game is just flawless. Like any other game you will find a glitch 
 or bug every now and then (maybe more than others) but besides that little thing wrong with it, 
 the gameplay makes up for it. The Xbox Live is more intense considering that it has a bunch of 
 new maps and modes and best of all weapons and characters. My favorite and almost everyone elses 
 favorite part of the game is horde mode. Horde mode allows you to team up with four people online 
 or a friend offline and battle 50 extremely hard waves of locust. When you finish the ten hour 
 story (Good luck on insane difficulty) Horde mode, whether you beat it or not will keep you occupied 
 for months to come. There is only one word to describe this game... AWESOME!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2, other of the greatest third person shooters of all time. In Gears 1 the locust 
 brought the fight to you, now in Gears 2 you bring the fight to the locust. Gears 2 has more features 
 than Gears 1 including more weapons, more multiplayer modes, more stuff to collect and new characters. 
 
  
  Since Gears 1 also came out on on windows and it had a Brumak battle, lots of Gears 1 360 were 
 angry (including me) but dont waoory now because Gears 2 has lots of Brumaks that you can kill! 
 gave Gears 1 a 10/10, but, Gears 2 is so good I would've had to give it a 15/15.
  
  Epic used their bots feature that was most known from their Unreal franchise and made it so you 
 don't need to rely on your buddies to chop 'um up. One of the new modes in Gears of War 2 is the 
 hordes mode. In hordes, you and a few Gears make your way through 50 waves of hordes. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  At first, this game looks like Gears one, but you start noticing the difference very fast in a 
 good way. The weapons feel different, sound different and there are new additions that will not 
 disappoint all those skeptical gears fan who don't like too much change. Also, you will notice 
 that the graphics were revamped, and it just looks amazing. You will notice some game effects that 
 were not present in Gears one that have made this game almost a different type of game. For example, 
 now there are destructible environments but it does not affect your cover; it is just simply to 
 add a different feel when you are battling. The physics are a lot better that the first Gears. 
 The story is more engaging than Gears one as well and it will have you laughing at the jokes they 
 make and sad when there's drama. My only complaint is how the shooting changed with the shotgun, 
 which now it feels slower than the one from gears one. Everything else in this game that has changed 
 is great and no one should miss out on this amazing game. What you should do right now is stop 
 reading anymore reviews and go pick up the game at this instance. Go on! Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleD-luxe_22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This some good ole' shavey gameplay that'll keep you in front of your TV for AT LEAST 24 hours 
 at a time. For those who don't have XBOX Live, don't fret, they's gots bots of doom to keep you 
 entertained 'til you gots some subscription! Marcus is back in Delta 6 months after the detonation 
 of the Lightmass Bomb. He and Dom meet the rookie to Delta, Benjamin Carmine, brother to the dearly 
 departed Anthony Carmine. Tai will be a new character added as well. He seems much more down to 
 Sera than the other characters do, but also has his rough side as well. Of course Cole and Baird 
 will be making their return appearances, but they'll have a storyline along with Dom. I'll let 
 you paint the rest of Campaign Mode with Locust Blood. Multiplayer has made some major upgrades. 
 every mode has been enhanced to make the player feel like he's not a worthless piece of donkey 
 punch Along with the addition of Submission Mode, a game where you take a Stranded Hobo hostage 
 and use him as a meat shield, like Capture the Flag; you'll get a brand new addition to Gears, 
 Horde Mode. 50 waves of coninuously relentless Locust charge at you until you and your entire team 
 are dead, once and for all. That's the gyst of it, I hope all y'all have as much fun with this 
 as I already have... A definate pickup! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddpetitt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't see the big disappointment, yeh there wasn't a big change, in alot of the game, 
 but there a few subtle changes in the multi-player as well as being able to unlock characters from 
 achievements in the first GOW. Over all the game the game was great, worth the wait. One thing 
 that was different, is that it took you through a story line, unlike the first GOW, which was pretty 
 cool. The weapon line was not changed all too much, but it was still changed. You had the mortar 
 launcher, the scorcher, a few other cool weapons that could have been useful n the first Gears. 
 Also, for the Gore in you, there is more than one way to take out your enemy when he is down, which 
 AWESoME! That takes the game to a higher level when when you use your enemy as bullet stopper or 
 just snap its neck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loudensspam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Could be a great game if they just fix it. The lag I get while using a cable modem is pathetic! 
 Please patch as soon as possible. You used to be able to see if the game you were joining had a 
 good ping level - not anymore. We'll see how it is when there's more players in a week or two, 
 but for now, it's really tough to play online warzone.
  
  Other than that - Hoard play is excellent. That will become a great new feature to be copied over 
 in many new games. I just wish it hat a bit more variety. New Locusts are great, and when they're 
 tough to kill on the higher levels of hoard, it really keeps you on your toes.
  
  I've only played the single player for a bit, and I do agree - it's overly melo-dramatic. I can 
 see that they were looking to draw some people in, but maybe they should work with Hollywood a 
 bit better and get something more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2, one of the greatest third person shooters of all time. In Gears 1 the locust brought 
 the fight to you, now in Gears 2 you bring the fight to the locust. Gears 2 has more features than 
 Gears 1 including more weapons, more multiplayer modes, more stuff to collect and new characters. 
 Since Gears 1 also came out on on windows and it had a Brumak battle, lots of Gears 1 360 were 
 angry (including me) but dont waoory now because Gears 2 has lots of Brumaks that you can kill!
 
  
  There are also more types of enemies one kind of new enemy looks like one from unreal tournament 
 3 but that doesnt bother me and some are BIG! they make the Brumak look like a baby bear.
  
  I gave Gears 1 a 10/10, but, Gears 2 is so good I would've had to give it a 11/11.
  
  So 
 if you have a Xbox 360, this is a must buy game, its an absolute masterpiece with a strong story, 
 great graphics, awesome voices, more features and Gears 2 is Bigger, Better and Badder!
  
  So gear up and save humanity! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _JPH_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is THE 360 game of the year, no doubt about it. One of the most challenging task to do 
 in a video game is to improve the game of the year 2006 to a better game. I mean how much improvement 
 can you put in a game? This game delivers more than Gears 1 easily. Graphics are better. Characters 
 are more detailed. Even the environments look nicer and more realistic. Gameplay did change a bit. 
 Newer weapons, better enemy AI, good tough looking monsters, and there is more to the story. And 
 every few moments, there are those funny moments where some charavter says something and you just 
 laugh instantly, either in game or in a cutscene. Multiplayer is good. I really liked idea of Horde, 
 where you defend against waves of Locust. It is best played when there are at least 2 people playing 
 it together. I mean all the stuff that you see in the trailers are basically GoW2. Nothing else 
 is added.
  And I also have one last thing to say. Those people that are rating the game 1 or 2 or 3 out of 
 10 TRULY either didn't play the game because they might be Resistance 2 fans and they want to see 
 the User Score of GoW 2 less than R2, or they are plain stupid. I mean if you don't like the game 
 and like the first one, you dont put a 2 or 3 out of 10. I mean imagine me putting MGS 4 1/10 just 
 because i say it sucks. MGS 4 is an awesome game, but too long cutscenes and you tend to forget 
 the game after a while because it doesnt have much replayability. But still one of the best games 
 this generation. Same goes here. You put let's say 7 or 8 because there is something in GoW2 that 
 you didn't enjoy, but not rate it 2 or 3 out of 10. And you guys dont have a good review to back 
 up yuor score. All you say this game sucks and bla bla bla. You criticize it for everything. The 
 game deserves great score for gameplay, sound, graphics, and AI. Multiplayer is good, but the Horde 
 type is just awesome fun. So please GoW 2 haters or Sony fans or whoever you are, please don't 
 rate the game. We don't need your kind here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the first Gears of War, it was only natural to want to get the second.
  
  Gears 2 was worth the wait in every aspect of the original. First you'll notice that the game 
 does looke better, and there are more enemies on the screen than before. The sheer landscape of 
 the game is also immense, and wonderful to look at. Every little detail that was added just adds 
 to the overall look of the game. Easily one of the best looking games for the 360 to date.
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to the original, which is good. Cause why change a great thing 
 right? They have added some new stuff to combat. Like using the Locust as meat shields where you 
 can walk around with a Locust as they soak up rounds or simply break there neck. Just little tweeks 
 to make the combat even more better. Still has all the weapons we've grown to love, with some new 
 added "Heavy Weapons" a mini-gun and mortar gun. While both do great damage given their size you 
 move slower.
  
  The story pretty much picks up where we left after the Lightmass bomb was dropped. The story progress's 
 nicely while answering a few questions but adding more. I guess this was intended for another sequel. 
 Overall the story is great, a bit more character develope was nice to see. I think the real attention 
 grabber for Gears 2 has to be all the multiplayer options and games you can do. Theres 7 types 
 of multiplayer on top of Horde mode. Which up to 5 people take on waves and waves of Locust, each 
 wave getting harder. This alone makes Gears 2 such a great game.
  
  Overall the game is great, the real strength lies in the multiplayer. I can't really find any complaints 
 for this game. Cept for maybe the soundtrack isn't as good as the first. But then again I couldn't 
 hear it over all the gun fire. Any fan of Gears of War needs this game. As well as any action/fps 
 fan needs this. 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joedadieo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Once you pop the disk in you know right away that Gears of War 2 is a full on masterpiece filled 
 with everything a third-person shooter fan needs. From the very beginning of the training to the 
 outlandish multiplayer maps, Gears of War 2 was worth the wait. In Gears of War 2, Epic used their 
 bots feature that was most known from their Unreal franchise and made it so you don't need to rely 
 on your buddies to chop 'um up. One of the new modes in Gears of War 2 is the hordes mode. In hordes, 
 you and a few Gears make your way through 50 waves of hordes. This alone will keep you up for hours 
 and hours. The campaign story is lush and full of rich details and fantastic scenery. It's games 
 like this that make companies like Epic "rule the world." In my opinion, Gears of War 2 is a must 
 buy for anyone that loves a great story, shooters, and a lot of blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warj87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing for about 5 hours and i just love it. So far I've on played the campaign 
 only which has impressed me so much. so far its just amazing. The Graphics are just out of this 
 world every little detail is just amazing. If you ever want gory crazy combat you know where to 
 look and that Gears 2. there is so much action in each part. you're always encountering different 
 enemies. The storyline that it's based off of is just amazing. there is a reason for everything 
 that happens to you or others. The controls are pretty much the same from the first gears as what 
 i remembered. One thing that really suprised was that i really didn't like the first gears that 
 much. but i just love the second one. It's really not hard to learn how to maneuver through levels 
 which is good for people who didn't play the first gears as much. The sound effects around you 
 are just amazing, it makes chaos a lot better. If you don't get this game than i don't know whats 
 wrong you. It's just that amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovakainePuNK
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War 2 is really the true child of the first GOW, mainly because its the same DNA, with 
 some added features that really make it a sequel... New levels, new guns, cooler and faster enemies, 
 and they took it a new and more fast-paced direction when they made the sequel into a more "battlefield" 
 type of game. All of those things are things I love, and people that say it didn't live up to the 
 hype... What the hell were you exactly expecting??? If it was totally different, it wouldn't even 
 be Gears of War. Here's a tip for you... don't ever buy sequels if you don't want a "similar" game, 
 because that's what sequels are. Basically, Gears of War 2 is an amazing shooter that keeps you 
 on your toes and makes you love to smash some locust head in. And it may be a little easy on "normal"... 
 but that's what hard's for ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I got Gears of War 2 today i thought it was great. The campaign was pretty good, but the multilayer 
 is amazing.
  
  Gameplay- (9.5) GoW 2's gameplay is definitely very similar to the first one. But i think that its 
 still very fun, they've added some nice touches like new finishers on enemies, the control is more 
 smooth and better. The campaign is long then the first and pretty average length. But what really 
 made the game great was the multilayer. Horde is really good, its basically just you and 4 people 
 defending against horde and seen how long you can last till everyone dies. There's still Warzone, 
 Execution and Annex etc. There is still some lag that shows online but the multilayer is very addictive 
 and alot of fun. 
  
  Graphics- (9.7) The graphics are very good. I was impressed, i was expecting better then GoW's graphics 
 but some of the environments look really nice. I think that the original was ahead of its time 
 on terms of graphics, Gears of War looks great for today's standards and 2 looks amazing. 
  
  Sound- (8.6) Sound is also really good. Voice Acting is really good and dialogue can be quite 
 over exaggerated at times, but the sound is still pretty cool.
  
  Overall- (9.3) Gears of War 2 is a solid action package that no one who likes shooters in games 
 should not gets this. This is definitely a must buy for xbox 360 owners and one of best games. 
 There are still a few gameplay flaws that need to be fixed but definitely get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocho666
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Although, the graphics and multiplayer has improved, the gameplay and weapons are the same. Nothing 
 really excited me when first played the game. I switched it off after a couple of hours. Normally, 
 a game has to make the player want to play more, this game failed on that. I believe gears 2 spent 
 more money on advertisement than on actually improving the game quality. I never liked the gears 
 multiplayer, it is too challenging, especially when you're up against pros. This is worth renting, 
 not buying. The only thing I find useful in the single player is that the player could choose their 
 own independent difficulty and play together with friends. Another key factor that separates this 
 game from any other is the fast past pop and shoot action. When I first played Gears 1, I had the 
 most fantastic feeling the I have never experienced. I did not get that same feeling with this 
 game. The developers did not improve much on the guns. I thought the submachine gun would rock, 
 but I was wrong. Also they did not put 4 player co-op with was a huge disappointment to the game. 
 Overall, this game is just the same as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is in most ways better than the first, with better friendly AI that actually helps instead 
 of getiing in the way, and improved colors, unlike the first when the only colors you would ever 
 see were dark and dull gray and black.
  As usual graphics are off the charts surpasing the first installment in every way. There are no 
 glitches or frame rate issues in this game witch makes it even better and realistic.
  Their also are new mini games to play with your friends insted of the split screen campeign mode 
 in the last game, although they could of put a four player campeign in also to enjoy with even 
 more friends.
  Over all, gears of war 2 is great game thats probably the best exlusive that the Xbox 360 has ever 
 had, and is definetly better then the first. I give it a 9.5. Great game, and a must have for all 
 thried person shooter fans!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  ok so i got this game today and i am feeling like it's the best day of my life!! god has truly 
 smiled on us with this game. my brother has a ps3 and swears up and down it's the best. but i find 
 that very hard to believe. because gears 2 is amazing. you not only have the greatness of squad 
 combat like in the previous game. but also bigger, badder weapons! this game is a sight to behold 
 for sure. there's nothing like a good chainsaw kill to make your day. i love this game and i think 
 you will too. just to get into a little detail. you start the game off in some kind of ruined city. 
 you must fight your way through the locust hord. you must also find other ways to move on in the 
 game. i am at a part where you have to shoot down an alien spacecraft. it is hard but the rewards 
 are great. once you have destroyed the alien spacecraft you can move on. the production values 
 for this game are great. i have seen the best the ps3 has to offer and it doesn't compare to this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofanjp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Gears Of War 2 is a great game to play. The new Features like crawling when downed, Locust body 
 shields and killing them while on the ground with a kick make the battles seem a little more like 
 a war situation then a game but the story seems to be shoved down your throat when you don't need 
 it. Now the story seems to focus on 2 things, Dom's search for his wife and the full @ssault on 
 the Locust hive.
  Controls are the same as the last GOW (Gears Of War) so this makes playing easier but remember to 
 show Carmime the ropes with the "Train Carmime" options so you can get that achievement. Speaking 
 of achievements some of the achievenments show your progress towatds unlocking it like the kill 
 100,000 enemies achievement. The graphics seem a little lower quality the GOW, mainly in the faces 
 of the characters and in the stage with the rain in GOW2 the rains doesn't bounce off the armor 
 or make them wet like in GOW. The games has some new weapons but you'll be quick to stick to the 
 same ones from GOW you used before, in my case the Lancer, Longshot Sniper Rifle and the Boltok 
 Pistol. Teammate A. I is still pants on head retarded when you need them and shot like their from 
 the A-Team and enemies A. I seems to have improved (not Resistance : Fall Of Man smart) and some 
 of the newer Locust seem to be able to handle a sniper bullet to the head, but after 2-4 they go 
 down... except the barbarian $tyle Locust with the shield. The games isn't so dull in colour and 
 the environments looks good so atleast it's not so bland on the eyes.
  All and all it's a great game designed for the fans of GOW and it's more of the same with a story 
 that tried to drive the game but made me wish Dom would grows some balls and just get back to killing (in 
 between being run by a stupid A. I) and the razor rain is a good idea but punishes you too much 
 in harder difficulties when your going where your suppose to. I recommend it to all GOW fans and 
 newcomers should get GOW before considering GOW 2 since they play the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  First off I own all three systems and enjoy games on all the systems. This game though took the 
 cake with me. It really blew me away! The co op smoothness, the mulitiplayer and the amazing gameplay 
 and graphics. All very good points to this game. Now some people don't like the 3rd person views. 
 I think it is utilized very well in Gears of War 2. The story of the main game is really, really 
 good and kept me on my couch when I should have been off to bed. I enjoyed the mulitiplayer and 
 the varying maps and game types a lot. It will keep me involved with this game for a long, long 
 time. Also knowing how Epic is, they will have this game updated constantly with new maps and game 
 modes. The new weapons are very cool and the vehicles are just fun to be in. The enemies are smarter 
 this time and the new melee killing options are especially fun. I particularly enjoy the enemy 
 shield. Very cool. The game in my opinion deserves game of the year. I have played all new games 
 from Metal Gear Solid to Fallout 3. This game is the real deal! Don't even hesitate in the purchase, 
 just do it, you won't be sorry, unless you don't like sci fi, then I don't know what to say other 
 than too bad for you.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Stunningly huge and very detailed environments and every single character looks better so if 
 you thought the first gears of war had good graphics wait till you see this.
  
  2) The sound will make you squeal when you get a headshot, the voice acting is good, and the music 
 gets you pumped.
  
  3) Deeper and darker storyline that will put your emotions to the test so everyone who complained 
 about the first gears not having a story try this one out it is epic and it is longer than the 
 first.
  
  4) The gameplay has been refined greatly and hardcore gears fans will notice that when they first 
 get a chance to play.
  
  5) The game is a blood bath with 12 new executions you can pull off, the classic curb stomp is 
 still there aside from the other 12 or you can just finish them off with a quick melee attack and 
 now you can also use downed opponents as shields which redefines cover for the game.
  
  6) The multiplayer has gotten a lot better by taking off the sniper active reload advantage, the 
 host advantage was greatly reduced, and all the new maps and modes are a blast especially horde 
 mode.
  
  7) New weapons are awesome my 2 favorites are the gorgon pistol and the flamethrower.
  
  Cons:
 
  1) Nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is the best game I have ever played!! Horde mode is ridiculous, the campaign is ridiculous, 
 online play is ridiculous! The graphics are better than Gears 1! Its amazing how much better they 
 can make it after many say Gears 1 was pushing the 360's limits. Thats statement has now been proven 
 to be false. This game is smoother, the controls are better, the enemies are smarter, faster and 
 bigger. This game is simply amazing! I have lots of fragging to do and many enemies to kill. I 
 also bought Resistance 2 this week but I simply forgot about that game already! Gears 2 snapps 
 Resistance 2 in half!! I own both consoles, 360 and PS3 but lets be honest here, Gears smacks down 
 Resistance 2 in EVERY way! Resistance graphics look outdated, Gears 2 look amazing. All the crap 
 about PS3 pushing all this more power??? I dont see it! I have been comparing games since they 
 both came out and I am sorry, nothing beats the 360! Halo what???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Gears 1 was and is, to this day, one of the greatest titles and experienced ever played by gamers. 
 Epic comes through again and gives us more with Gears 2, which continues the story and adds improvements 
 to really polish things up further and make the experience much better.
  
  From the start, I noticed that the environments and atmosphere didn't feel so claustrophobic as 
 they did in Gears 1. They are much more open areas and wider battlefields. The battles take place 
 in underground caverns, icy mountain areas, and even on moving trains cars and Rigs. It is truly 
 an epic and dramatic experience throughout.
  
  The locust are back in force and they not only seem smarter, but tougher to kill. If you do not 
 finish off a downed locust, they can revive each other and send you to a world of hurt.
  
  If Marcus goes down, now you can make him crawl towards Dom for a revive. Once in a while, I noticed 
 Dom wouldn't respond. He would just stand there and take shots in the face as I was crawling to 
 my death. It only happened twice so it was not a huge concern.
  
  The graphics are much of the same but they still look fantastic. There were areas where I noticed 
 some strange issues, such as floating rocks, and a weird cutoff area in the sky when looking up 
 at the rain. Also, the rain this time around does not create the wet effect on the textures as 
 it did in gears 1. Or at least i did not notice it. I was a little bummed that they removed the 
 video options for Lucid, Vivid, Default. Not a huge deal, but I did like the Lucid look in Gears 
 1.
  
  The game play feels great and the battles and firefights are awesome of course. The mulcher is 
 by far one of the most powerful weapons in the game. Although you walk quite slow with it, it does 
 massive amounts of damage once it spins up and fires away. The good thing is it doesn't take up 
 a weapon slot. So you don; t have to worry about losing your precious torque bow or sniper rifle. 
 
  
  Using the locust as body shield works great! It's very strategic when you needs some extra protection 
 in open areas and you just wanna run in and get head shots with the pistol. It's quite bad ass. 
 
  
  Overall, the game has been a very action packed, and I recommend this to anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tibisay
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Hello Friends, i buyed this game and all is Beautifull really, The History es very exciting i love 
 the combat face to face, the use of sniper is my favorite, i love the Weapons.
  I recommend you use with a 5.1 Sorround system i have it and have absoluty deep sound.
  One Part 
 that i have to agree is the part of Maria (wife dominic) it did make almost cry
  
  Absoluty Brilliant, you have a nw HORDE MODE is a excelent and funny gameplay In cooperative is 
 perfectly nice
  
  conclusion YOU MUST BUY IT
  NOT RENT IT FIRTS BUYYYYYYYY
  Greetings
  Joseph
  
  Highly Adicctive, scenes, graphics, cutscenes
  the variaty of Hordes 
 is great you can ride a great monsters the cars scene is better than the first GEARS OF WAR, you 
 have new friends like a TAI gear
  you have IA better than the first
  Guys you will not lose your time and your money believe when i say that i think is not the better 
 game of this year but is a GREATTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT GAME BOYS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  this game look great. game play is better than number one. over all i think alot of time and effort 
 wnet into this game and the payoff will be felt for the year to come. gears does one thing that 
 halo never seemed to learn. this game is gears 2 not 1.5. what i mean is the game got better. i 
 know that i'm playing a better game than the first one. halo NEVER did that and i'm not the only 
 gamer who knows this and is not scared to tell the thruth about it. i've only just started the 
 game and it is already the best fps for the 360. by the end of the week i'm sure that for me at 
 least it'll be game of the year for the 360. today i plan to get my feet wet with the online witch 
 to many is the only way to play. i can agree to some part of that but there times when we all must 
 go it alone. if you are going to buy only one 360 game this year and youlike fps or if you stil 
 have the first gears then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimbuster90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I waited in line to get it and am not one bit disappointed. The graphics are a lot sharper (reduce 
 the brightness a little first though) and the gameplay is improved. There's still pop-in (textures 
 not loading in time) , but they fade in this time for a better effect.
  
  I have also notice a lot of the tweaks. You are no longer stopped when stunned, you just lower 
 the chainsaw or get slowed down. Grenades don't stun either, so no more sitting duck moments. You 
 can also finally jump off cover more responsively and even cancel out of a jump from cover to cover. 
 The little tweaks are noticeable, and they help A LOT. I don't find myself wall bouncing nearly 
 as much either.
  
  And no more one shot sniper downs makes the game so much better. Oh, and NEVER let everyone die 
 so that it is AI bot versus AI bot. They are pretty good in a normal match, but 1-on-1 they usually 
 play until the time runs down. 3 min matches are good though.
  
  Overall, everything is improved. The larger color pallete makes it more appealing, the vistas (aka 
 larger levels) are brilliant and beautiful, and the effects (bullet trails, gooier blood animations, 
 destructible environments, more precise chainsaw animations, etc.) just make you feel like you're 
 in the game. If you loved Gears 1, this is better in every way. It even has the flashback DLC so 
 you can play some of your favorites from the first. Personally, I miss Rooftops, but I'm sure I'll 
 find my new favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEALR
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Well Im't not going for the long review because I simply don't have to.
  Those of you who played the first GOW just need to know that the sequel is bigger and better in 
 every way although it remains the same game.
  
  Good: 
  
  Action became better, more intense and less frustrating.
  
  Story is still very engaging and 
 very well told.
  
  Main characters and enemies are highly appealing to the public
  
  Great boss fights.
  
  Training missions are fun / Good multiplayer
  
  
  Bad: 
  
  
 I don't think the game is short but somehow it feels like it although there are plenty to do after 
 the game ends.
  ----------------------------------------------------
  
  Reading the review by gamespot I noticed they said the story had too much loose ends. I don't agree 
 even if they could've done more. The story evolves as you discover knew things as the character, 
 so you know what they know and the story will end in the third game (surely they will make it) . 
 Also they gave a nice touch after the end credits playing the voice of Adam Fenix saing: This is 
 Adam Fenix. What did you do!? (it gives an nice feeling that there will be more terror to come)
 
  
  Gears 2 is just a great game with a great and varied 
  action at same time giving you great story. What else do you need.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outkast1978
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  
  I thought when the first Gears of war came out that they toke it to the limit in terms of gameplay 
 and graphics but i was wrong, Gears of war 2 has much better graphics better weapons and smarter 
 enemies its just plain fun. If you loved the first one you will fall in love with this one. I hope 
 its not the last gears of wars. the main point of the game is the online. online play is so addictive 
 so i am warning you now because you will be spending alot of hours playing it. there are thousands 
 online so you will never have a problem of finding someone to play with. the single player compagin 
 is good but you will be able to finish it in one day but you can always play at harder difficuly 
 level for a good chalenge, i couldn't becaue i can't take dying every 5 seconds. Overall this will 
 be one of the best games of the ever, if this game don't win the game of the year award then there 
 must be something wrong. Don't wait and just go buy the game if you havn't already trust me you 
 will not regreat this, it is the best 60 dollars i have ever spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  It's actually Gears of War 2 yes it's finally here. This is the game that brought you the chainsaw 
 gun and the curb stomp. All your favorite characters from the first game are back. Everything you 
 loved from the game is back. Which is a good thing why change something that wasn't broken. What 
 Epic did was just re-create the first game and just improve it by making it longer, bigger, and 
 even more FUN to play. 
  
  The game starts you off 6 months later after the first game. It seems like the massive bomb you 
 laid on the locust wasn't enough to wipe them out. So the Locust decides to strike back with massive 
 force. So this time the locust is going hard at the last standing city called Jacinto. I'll leave 
 it at that because I don't want to spoil the story too much. 
  
  The graphics in the game didn't change much from the first, but that's not mean that this game 
 isn't a gorgeous masterpiece to see in action. There are a lot of colorful environments in this 
 game compared to the first Gears. The controllers are about the game the only differences are the 
 finishing moves now instead of curb stomping your enemy you can beat them to death or use them 
 as a meat shield. There's also been an improvement on your friendly AI. There were times that my 
 AI Buddy Dom had saved my life. Remember he wasn't the smartest AI buddy in the first game. You 
 constantly had to go out your way to save his life. This time he's more helpful and may take out 
 some enemies here and there. 
  
  Now the multiplayer this is where everyone will spend most of their time once they've beaten the 
 game there's 10 maps and 5 additional maps from the first game are back. Co-op is back as well 
 from 2-5 players online. Also the new Horde mode where you get just waves and waves of locust that 
 will help you get the craziest achievement available in the game called Seriously 2.0. If you're 
 a fan I'm pretty sure you have this game already. If you're a first timer I would definitely recommend 
 this game. This has to be one of the best action games out there on any platform. This is a game 
 that nobody shouldn't miss because is that good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innerfiree
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I don't usually have the motivation nor desire to post my personal opinions on video games but 
 this one is THE exception. This game took everything that was gears of war and vamped it up! You 
 can tell playing it that improving every aspect of the original was Epic's primary goal in creating 
 this sequel. 
  
  Graphics-Amazing. It's easy to say this and exaggerate to a certain point but not in this games 
 case. Epic managed to squeeze every drop out of the Xbox360s system capability and then some. All 
 the textures are spot on. All the Environments are meticulously crafted to be both iconic and realistic 
 at the same time. Basically, they didn't cut any corners and made this game look better then any 
 that have come before it on the 360.
  
  Gameplay- They have done a lot of work in this category as well. If you've watched any of the videos 
 before the game came out you'll notice that the aiming cursor and mechanics of the shooting seem 
 different. I know i did. Well after playing the single player for about 4 hours so far i can safely 
 say the aiming/shooting does function differently then the first, but for the better. It feels 
 smoother, more precise and a lot more gratifying. You have to hand it to Epic for making this game 
 very intuitive and satisfying to play-perhaps more then any other game ive played on the 360. That 
 alone should be merit enough for GOTY.
  
  Sound-Spot on as always. The voice acting is superb but I have to say Marcus voice still kind of 
 annoys me but thats just my personal grip and holds nothing against the work Epic has done in this 
 category. You will not experience a single second playing this game where there is complete silence. 
 If Marcus isn't trying to contact someone or barking orders then you'll be hearing constant gunfire 
 and explosions. Basically it is a treat to your ears and you will be stimulated to the max! 
  
  Multi-player- I got this game at approximately 12:40 am on Friday morning and im writing this 
 review only 4 hours later so I haven't had a chance to play the multi-player but considering the 
 amount of different modes and the time/resources Epic has obviously put into it im sure it is as 
 good as the single player is so far if not better.
  
  Conclusion-Sorry if this is long and probably horrible in format and grammaticality, but its late 
 and ive been kicking ass! To sum up everything I've mentioned here, GoW2 is an absolute front runner 
 for GOTY and if it doesn't sweep that award from most if not all reputable gaming sources then 
 that is truly a travesty. GET. IT. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullah_10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  I thought when the first Gears of war came out that they toke it to the limit in terms of gameplay 
 and graphics but i was wrong, Gears of war 2 has much better graphics better weapons and smarter 
 enemies its just plain fun. If you loved the first one you will fall in love with this one. I hope 
 its not the last gears of wars. the main point of the game is the online. online play is so addictive 
 so i am warning you now because you will be spending alot of hours playing it. there are thousands 
 online so you will never have a problem of finding someone to play with. the single player compagin 
 is good but you will be able to finish it in one day but you can always play at harder difficuly 
 level for a good chalenge, i couldn't becaue i can't take dying every 5 seconds. Overall this will 
 be one of the best games of the ever, if this game don't win the game of the year award then there 
 must be something wrong. Don't wait and just go buy the game if you havn't already trust me you 
 will not regreat this, it is the best 60 dollars i have ever spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishbrain8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Okay I'll start with the graphics. Well we all know how good the graphics were in the original 
 Gears of war game, don't we? The graphics in Gears 2 are better than that. I didn't think it'd 
 be possible but it is.
  
  The audio was great as well. In the previous game and this one explosions sounded like explosions, 
 gun fire sounded like gun fire etc, etc. 
  
  The environment was also spectacular. You can throw a grenade and everything blows up and gets 
 destroyed. Chunks of rock from your cover even get blown away. 
  
  The story was okay. The main story line was really good but if you pay attention all the characters (especially 
 Dom) have their own little story line. They don't tell you enough about these though. 
  
  Anyway, The best thing about this game I think is the weapons. The Original Gears didn't have enough 
 weapons! This one though has tons of them. More machine guns, more assualt rifles, more pistols 
 and more types of grenades. You even get a shield!
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  When Gears of War first hit the scene, it showed that the Xbox 360 was a force to be reckoned with. 
 It showed that the 360 was a true next-generation system and not just another Xbox with prettier 
 graphics. Today, Gears of War 2 saw release and rest assured, it not only matches but exceeds the 
 original.
  
  You re-assume the role of Marcus Fenix, the hardened soldier from the first Gears game. It takes 
 place a few months after where Gears of War left off. Humans are facing extinction and the only 
 hope for mankind is to attack the Locust Horde on there own ground. In taking the battle to the 
 enemy, we are exposed to a vast world that is much more detailed and organic in feel than that 
 of the original game. Don't think there isn't plenty of destruction though. This game definitely 
 has the same graphical style; it just feels like it has graduated to a new level of detail and 
 gives us more environments to enjoy.
  
  Speaking of graphical style, this game is an amazing sight to behold. The use of the Unreal 3 engine 
 is apparent in every nook and cranny of Gears of War 2. Textures are crisp and the lighting and 
 level of detail are amazing. Looking at this game in motion, you'd swear you were watching a high 
 end PC game. How Epic was able to squeeze this kind of power out of the 360 is a mystery. Not only 
 is everything crystal clear, but it runs silky smooth with no hiccups in frame rate. Characters 
 facial expressions are lifelike, even though they still look like steroid poster boys. Wreckage 
 and clutter are all around but it all looks sharp and detailed. Another thing that might be taken 
 for granted is the background movement. Something is always going on beyond the main action. Helicopters 
 are flying in the distance, fire and explosions blaze. It really gives the player the sense that 
 this is a real war going on all around and Marcus Fenix and Delta Squad are not the only ones fighting 
 the Horde. All of the action and the level of detail will leave your jaw on the floor.
  
  In a game like this, personalities are made for each character by good voice acting. What was true 
 for the first game is true for the sequel. Gears 2 features an incredible level of talent in the 
 acting department. John Di Maggio give Marcus Fenix his gritty war-torn vocals and attitude with 
 gusto. The other retuning characters feature their same voice actors and it is really clear that 
 they take these roles seriously. This game could easily be given a cheesy feel that would make 
 it an altogether different experience. But because of the great writing and voice acting, we are 
 treated to a level of quality that few games enjoy but more should take advantage of.
  
  The story here is much more significant. The original game was great but if it lacked in one area, 
 it was story. It wasn't bad, it just wasn't as developed as it could have been. Gears 2 fixes that 
 and makes the experience feel more significant and full. In the first chapter, Dom (Marcus Fenix's 
 partner and friend) is searching for his wife. While efforts are made to locate her, they fall 
 flat and Dom's emotional moments set the tone for the game. He's angry, he's upset, and he feels 
 hatred and pain. Those are just some of the beginning moments of the game. The story only gets 
 deeper for each character and you really get a connection with them and their plight; something 
 that was sorely lacking in the first game.
  
  The score is back and it really adds to a game like this. Symphonic pumps of warlike cinema are 
 ever present and could give John Williams a run for his money. When the action gets going, the 
 music keeps the gamer enthralled with its raw energy. It's not an improvement over the first game, 
 but it doesn't need to be. The first game had a great soundtrack and it's the same level of quality 
 and feel in Gears 2. 
  
  The action is even more intense than the original game, if you can believe that. The enemies are 
 plentiful and there is a larger variety of Grubs and other monsters to kill. Everything about this 
 game is like that of the first except it's bigger and better. The fights are huge. Stomping enemies 
 when they're down is back, but you can also just plain beat the hell out of them if you want to. 
 Chainsaws, guns, grenades, and a whole slew of weapons make this game even more fun that the original 
 one. The main campaign is longer and more fulfilling this time around due to the scope and added 
 level of quality in every area of the game.
  
  While the single player game is a blast, that doesn't mean the multiplayer has taken a backseat. 
 Multiplayer is bigger and better this time around too. Co-op gaming makes the main game even more 
 fun but the multiple modes and maps of online versus make this Gears of War 2 one to compete with 
 the likes of Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. There are so many different types of multiplayer that getting 
 into each of them would take forever to explain in full. What's great is that there are both private 
 and public matches so you can choose who you want to play against. Warzone is Cogs vs. Horde and 
 basically just kill as many of the enemies as you can. Guardian makes one member a leader and it's 
 up to the others to protect him and for him to stay alive as long as possible. Wingman is where 
 teams compete against one another in close range battles. These are just a few of the many different 
 types of multiplayer modes in the game. If you are looking for a game to keep you busy with friends 
 for well into next year, look no further than Gears of War 2!
  
  Everything action gamers could want in a game is right here. Gears of War 2 is poised to be game 
 of the year. Everything you loved from the original game is back and is better this time around. 
 Even if you're not a multiplayer aficionado, the single player campaign is enough to keep you coming 
 back for more. Gears of War 2 is a game that does everything right. Epic might have just given 
 us its magnum opus. This is one of the most graphically beautiful and detailed games out there 
 for any system, bar none! Its scope is huge, its story is engaging, and the voice acting is top-notch. 
 After playing this game, it leaves any gamer with nothing wanting. To sum it all up, if one were 
 to describe Gears of War 2 in a word, WOW!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
