-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Golden Axe: Beast Rider
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/goldenaxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brutal dismemberments.
 Campaign is reasonably challenging and long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No cooperative mode a la classic Golden Axe.
 Many, many invisible walls.
 Combat system rewards inaction.
 Lame sound effects deflate dramatic moments.
 Beasts handle like plodding mechs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 297 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Secret Level
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 14, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This half-hearted revival attempt leaves Golden Axe lifeless and dull. 

  A flashy hero with formidable combat skills sets off on an epic adventure through fantastical environments. 
 Sound familiar? These basic elements are the framework upon which countless action adventure games 
 have been constructed. While many games seem to expand and embellish far beyond this rudimentary 
 foundation, Golden Axe: Beast Rider does not. All of these elements are functional at best, and 
 even the one stab at originality, the eponymous beast riding, is merely average. The result is 
 a disappointing game that, while not broken per se, is so thick with in-your-face mediocrity that 
 the only thing you'll take away from it is the strong desire to play something else.  

  The face of Golden Axe is Tyris Flare, a woman who, reprising her role from the original Golden 
 Axe, wears an outfit is every bit as fantastical and cliched as the adventure she embarks on. On 
 her journey to avenge the slaughter of her people and slay the archfiend Death Adder (or Death=Adder, 
 if you prefer the erratically used alternate spelling) , Tyris will travel through rocky mountains 
 and dry wastelands peppered with enemy strongholds. The limited color palette gives most of the 
 levels a similar feel, though the ancient ruins and massive scenic elements (like the bones of 
 giant beasts) add a bit of variety. Any immersion the setting might engender is negated when you 
 realize that Beast Rider has more invisible walls than a mime convention. At best, these barriers 
 will put a disappointing end to your exploration; at worst, they will shunt you off cliffs or into 
 environmental hazards. So, your adventure ends up being very linear, and the occasionally interesting 
 scenery youll see really doesnt do much to help.  

           Riding a flame-breathing dinosaur through ancient ruins should be a boatload of fun.  
     

  Most of your attention will be focused on the myriad enemies you'll be hacking apart. Gory deaths 
 are the order of the day in Golden Axe, and when you land a death blow you'll often chop off arms, 
 legs, heads and torsos and be rewarded with geysers of blood. This can be quite satisfying, but 
 the limbs pop off with an incongruously muted clipping sound, and the blood and bodies soon disappear, 
 leaving no evidence of your passing. Once the dust has settled, your only reward is tribute (points, 
 essentially) that goes towards unlocking a few spell upgrades, as well as new swords that can be 
 used when replaying levels. You can increase the tribute you earn by fighting flawlessly, but saying 
 this is difficult would be an understatement.  

  Beast Rider is not an easy game. Many enemies can be dispatched with a flurry of quick and strong 
 attacks, but you'll need to work in blocks and parries if you hope to survive tougher encounters. 
 When enemies attack you, their weapons flash with a colored light. Blue strikes must be blocked, 
 while orange strikes must be parried. These evasion moves are not interchangeable, so parrying 
 a blue attack will get you a face full of sword. Attacking directly after a successful evasion 
 will do much more damage, and it's the ebb and flow of evade and strike that makes combat initially 
 engaging. These maneuvers can also trigger particularly brutal counters, though the unclear timing 
 and precision requirements make these a frustrating rarity.  

  Against more difficult foes, post-evasion strikes are the only effective way to deal damage. Tough 
 foes will be armored, which means your attacks will not interrupt theirs until you manage to chop 
 away their protection. To weaken them, you'll want to attack, but while straight-on assaults may 
 work with lazier enemies, they are tantamount to suicide when facing vigorous foes. It's like this: 
 Though you can theoretically interrupt your own combos with evasions to avoid your enemy's strikes, 
 you can't reliably interrupt your own attack animations, so you're sure to get slammed if you go 
 in swinging. This means you are better off just waiting for your enemy to attack you and then evading 
 and countering. What kind of action game rewards running up to your opponents and standing still? 
 To make matters worse, the spotty enemy AI will sometimes wait for you to attack first, so you 
 can find yourself hanging around with a bunch of murderous goons waiting for someone to make the 
 first move. There's certainly a challenge in restraining yourself, perfecting your evasion timing, 
 and trying for high tribute bonuses, but just because it's hard doesn't mean it's fun.  

           This little fella will tear you in half without breaking a sweat.      

  Magic is 
 also a reliable way to dispatch foes, but mana refills are rare enough that you won't be able to 
 use your spells too often. Thankfully, beasts are more prevalent, and you'll spend a good amount 
 of time clomping around on the backs of these hulking monsters. Each can be easily mounted with 
 the press of a button, but you'll often have to unseat enemy riders first. Your best bet here is 
 a jump kick; attacking the beast directly can force it to throw its rider, but then you'll be mounting 
 a weakened animal who is closer to gory, blood-spouting death. Setting your enemies alight with 
 the fire-breathing Abrax or tearing through a large group of unsuspecting enemies with the Lynth 
 can be quite satisfying, but using some of the beasts' special attacks will drain their health. 
 Still, these powerful maneuvers are helpful in a pinch, and using a berserk Mirigore to rend everyone 
 limb from limb is some of the best fun Beast Rider has to offer.  

  Unfortunately, these thrills are tempered by the fact that every beast sounds and handles like 
 a giant, clunky robot. This awkwardness forces you to attack in very specific and limited ways, 
 especially when confronting the aforementioned armored foes whose attacks will still proceed unblocked 
 even when five tons of Krommath comes crashing down on their heads. Though these bungling beasts 
 offer a few moments of fun, they ultimately add to the feeling that the whole game was a missed 
 opportunity.  

  At the very least, the campaign is fairly lengthy and will likely take you upward of 10 hours to 
 complete. There are level-by-level replays and combat arenas if you want still more action, but 
 these bonus modes only highlight the conspicuous absence of the cooperative play that put Golden 
 Axe on the map back in 1989. This baffling omission is par for the course in Beast Rider, a game 
 with lofty potential that ends up wallowing in mediocrity.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TReamin
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:00 am PT
Review:  When i first heard that a new golden axe game was going to be released i was happy about it cuz 
 it brought me back memories of my genesis days, the game that came out in 1989 had amazing graphics, 
 gameplay, epic music that really combined with the game beat up style.
  Now onto the xbox version, well the story is uncreative to say the least, some dudes stole a dragon 
 and a cute chick has to save him, and to do that she has to find all the pieces of the golden axe, 
 very creative right?
  As soon as the game starts i noticed the graphics, i mean God of War had better graphics and it 
 was a PS2 game, the game play is very frustrating, not like Ninja Gaiden 2, i mean that game was 
 frustratingly awesome but this game is frustratingly bad, the combat system to block and dodge 
 based on the enemy's attack colour is just a terrible idea manly because when there's 15 enemies 
 around you there's no way you can block more than 2 enemy attack's it is better to run and throw 
 fire balls or other spell at them and this is not fun.
  The beasts are main event in this game, that's why its called "Beast Rider" ,they are very cool 
 to handle at first but most of them are weak, cuz if someone strikes you with magic or sword you 
 will fall down from the beast and they can use it against you, the guys with the magic are very 
 frustrating when you are in a beast, they attack you from miles away and if they strike you you're 
 down, yhe levels are monotonous manly because they are always yhe same, not to mention the enemies 
 there's like 5 different kinds of them and that helps make this game even more boring, the music 
 is just not catching at all and cant save this very bad excuse for an adventure game, i love adventure 
 games but this game is so bad that after 5 hours i felt i lost value time in my life that i can 
 never get it back, i would recommend Conan instead of this ,its the same style but allot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jitza02
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely not the newest it game by all measure, however, it seems to be called totally 
 broken by many gaming sites and magazines. This is not so. Of course, while not stellar, everything 
 works like it should. Hit detection is pretty solid, as are the controls. There is a slight delay 
 when parrying, but when got done it works well. It takes just a little bit and then it is possible 
 to string a combo with evades and perrys mixed in competently. It will draw comparisons to both 
 God of War and Devil May Cry, but remember that those games came from this, the original (of course 
 back in the 90s) . While it would have been great to see an evolution in gameplay (not to mention 
 multiplayer) it is a hack n' slash of yore but with better graphics. Play for nostalgia and the 
 occasional mindless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angryinvalid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of the original, when I was little, so I thought I'd pick this up.
  
  I found it to be a lot of fun. Once you get the hang of the combat system, you'll be tearing through 
 crowds of enemies, and having a lot of fun doing it.
  
  your enemies attack with moves that should either be blocked or dodged. There's a colored flash 
 of light indicating which. After which you have an opportunity to counter. If your timing is good 
 you'll perform a "brutal counter" which does a lot of damage, and is pretty fun to watch. Also 
 you'll get a Titan Bonus, which multiplies the Tribute Points you earn.
  
  Tribute points are totaled up at the end of the level, and put towards upgrades.
  
  Unfortunately 
 the upgrades aren't very satisfying. Early on you get some upgrades to your spells, and from then 
 on you just get items that you're not allowed to use in the real game, just in little challenge 
 events after you beat the game.
  
  The beast parts are alright. Though to be honest I often wanted to hop off, and just get back to 
 my fancy sword slashing and countering.
  
  and the little potion and food thieves are back to smack around, always satisfying.
  
  
  
 In Summation:
  
  If you're a fan of challenging, fairly sophisticated melee combat, you'll enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2will2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game to check out the hype that had been developing on it for some time. However, 
 when I started playing the game I quickly realized how misplaced the hype was.
  
  Visually, the game is beautiful. The backgrounds and areas you travel through are deeply detailed. 
 The characters are well designed and provide a useful update to the characters from the classic 
 series. Even many of the voices are well done.
  
  Now that the good points are out of the way lets get into the meat of the review, the gameplay.
 
  
  Golden Axe Beast Rider was to focus on two main details of gameplay: combat and beast riding. The 
 game fails miserably on both fronts.
  
  The combat in this game focuses on one-on-one combat, however that rarely happens in the game itself. 
 I found myself surrounded by four to five emeies at once and unable to free myself without loosing 
 lots of my imposibly valuable life or dying completely. Magic is mapped to one button, but it was 
 easy for me to hit the button accidentally and waste my magic on nothing or one distant, weak enemy 
 and leaving nothing for me ot use when I really needed it.
  
  Then there is the beat riding. I found it easier to use the beasts to get through barriers to advance 
 the story and then ditch or kill the beast as the controls were too awkward and unweildy to use. 
 It was too easy for enemies to circle behind the beast and attack from behind knocking me off. 
 Rather unusual that when the enemies used the beasts they didn't have the same problem...
  
  Now these flaws I could forgive if one of two things happened: 1) there was a hidden (or not 
 so hidden) easy level for players to get used to the new game mechancs, or 2) there were more ways 
 to replenish your life to help you last longer. However, none of these were present and I found 
 myself frustrated with the game after only one day.
  
  Now, I had read on this website that the game gets better when your get further into the game. 
 That may be good, but if you can't get further into the game, how is one to enjoy it??
  
  Overall, I have to say this is a very dissapointing game and Sega as well as Secret Level should 
 be hanging their heads in shame for creating a game that weakened the Golden Axe franchise.
  
  Say what you want, this is only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpspawn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it was released, but it was really hard not to take notice of alot of negative 
 reviews. Let me just say this game is very playable, and it is not broken. It requires the player 
 to understand the combat system to appreciate this game. At first I was frustrated but I got better 
 with practice. 
  
  PRO: The combat system involves light attack, heavy attack, jump, and magic. Also when enemies attack 
 their weapons will be highlighted as orange or blue. By using the left top button or right top 
 button, you can block, parry or dodge. This requires timing and if successful you can use a counter 
 attack and possibly hit multiple targets. Understand this technique and you will survive. Simply 
 attacking with light attacks will work on the smaller enemies, however this is tiresome and it 
 will not work on the more powerful enemies. Its good to take breaks from this game and come back 
 later refreshed.
  
  PRO: I have played this game to the end. It is a reasonably long game and it is not short. The 
 game has some really challenging levels which will require the player to retry several times. This 
 can be frustrating as every time you die you start from the beginning. Thankfully boss fights are 
 actual levels.
  
  PRO: The beasts are very cool. They are simple to control if you make them run and charge and because 
 you are moving fast they turn quicker. Move slowly and the enemies have a better chance to dismount 
 you. In open spaces beasts are fantastic. They have special attacks that will drain their health. 
 In small spaces as you would expect they are differcult to manouver. They really give the edge 
 in combat and can tear up hordes of enemies.
  
  PRO: There are some elements from the classic golden axe games. Bonus stages where you beat up 
 Gnomes for food and potions. The background and setting is similar. The enemies are similar, though 
 I wish they had a closer likeness to the classic games.
  
  CON: The story is to bland. More details involving history and characters would of been welcome. 
 Its there but very basic. Major focus on Tyris Flare, the other characters, the dwarf and barbarian 
 only make cameo appearances in the story. This was expected, however they should of made an appearance 
 later in the game even if they are not playable characters. 
  
  CON: Did not like the teleporting summoners, giant demon wings, flying undead and exploding gnomes. 
 
  
  Overall I enjoyed this challenging game and played till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfossil
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have no complaints about the combat system -- like a previous reviewer said: DEFENSE! The beast-riding 
 IS definitely the high-point of the game, though I do enjoy the standard hack n' slash and the 
 boss fights as well so far. I thought the game really picked up in the middle of the 2nd level 
 and I'm really enjoying the Wasteland level right now, especially riding the Mirigore -- tearing 
 other large beasts and jobbers to shreds while it is enraged is one of gaming's simplest pleasures! 
 I also must defend the background music, but that is a personal choice as I am a percussionist 
 and vocalist. Primal grunting, drums, and simple instruments and arrangements? Good enough backdrop 
 for hacking and smashing things, I say. Graphics are fine. I went into this expecting a HACK N' 
 SLASH and that's what I got, with a lot more emphasis on the defense portion than most are used 
 to. I like the game and I do think it has received undeservedly low scores both by critics and 
 gamers. Frank Zappa once declared: Most rock journalism is people who can't write, interviewing 
 people who can't talk, for people who can't read." There are some gaming journalists whom I respect, 
 such as Dave Halverson of Play Magazine, but I can't help but wonder if Mr. Zappa's comment can't 
 be transposed into the current state of gaming criticism as well? When EVERYONE is a critic, what 
 separates a professional from an amateur anyway? Food for thought. I recommend Golden Axe to fans 
 of the original and who are also patient and don't mind dying and restarting a challenge or level 
 once in awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say after being a golden axe fan for years I have been following the development 
 of this game and bought it as soon as it came out. Now I wish they'd spent more time on development.
 
  
  Golden axe beast rider is kind of a prequel and it's own seperate story and goes into tyris's trials 
 and what drove her to fight against death adder. I always played tyris in the original GA so having 
 her as the only playable character didn't bother me. 
  
  The graphics start off looking pretty average, they do get better later on though. There's alot 
 of desert in this game so there's not always that much to look at and the colours are generally 
 dark and forboding. It's alot like the conan world, violence everywhere, there's plenty of strung 
 up multilated naked corpses. There's plenty of blood and gore with decapatations and limbs you 
 can severe even if the blood looks somewhat cartoony like mortal kombat.
  
  The music is more atmosphere kind of tribal music, sound is the usual clanging of swords etc. 
 
  
  The real problems with beast rider is the inconsistency of combat
  
  I spend about a few hours just practicing combo's and I noticied even when I pressed the button 
 in successive order at the same speed, like X+X+X about 1/2 of the time I wouldn't get the brutal 
 strike happening. It's very unforgiving as the attacks must be chained pretty much to the microsecond 
 to pull them off.
  
  incoming attacks can be either parried of dodged but the window of opportunity to do it in is very 
 small but it's more noticeable with parrying as the parry animation isn't held but only lasts a 
 second so you have to time it exactly to pull it off. This kind of becomes a problem with you are 
 facing multiple enemies each as there is 4 different colours and the wrong block for the wrong 
 colour results in an ass kicking.
  
  I also found particularly with the groups of enemies that are all bunched up if you parry or dodge 
 an attack then go to counter attack from behind often another enemy is in the way and you don't 
 do any attack because you are a bit off the centre.
  
  She also lacks a decent aerial attack for clearing groups, and I felt there should have been some 
 type of roll maneuver.
  
  pulling off a correctly timed counter attack gives you a very nice cinematic where you do a brutal 
 attack and massive damage. But due to the clumsiness of the system it's just pure luck as to when 
 you happen to time it right.
  
  the rest of the gameplay is just basic puzzle solving by throwing your axe at certain targets or 
 lighting certain objects with your fireball to open doors.
  
  The beast riding is certainly an enjoyable part to the game as creature points usually respawn 
 your creature if it dies. You get knocked off easily though and you'll spend most of your time 
 just using the basic attack since special attacks drain your creature HP which I thought was unnecessary.
 
  
  
  The game is also very basic content wise. There's some costumes to unlock which you'll get automatically 
 as you finish each level but nothing in the way of upgrades, or ways to improve your character. 
 You can't change weapons in the story game, there's nothing to upgrade, no talent points to spend, 
 no armor to get. You can spend accumulated points on weapons but they can only be used in the challenge 
 and trail modes which are seperate. There is also very few combo's and they don't even have a list 
 of them. 
  
  
  if you want a hack and slash game with character customization i'd get Force Unleashed.
  
  
 The only reason I really stuck with this game was 1. it has Tyris 2. It's somewhat connected to 
 golden axe. 
  
  I really wanted to like this game but the combat is just far too cumbersome to recommend unless 
 it hits the bargain bin
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjb659
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Though it's not a looker, Beast Rider delivers on the hardcore action. Brutal gore mixes with a 
 parry/evade system that appears on the surface to be a Heavenly Sword clone... but after a couple 
 levels of getting your ass handed to you you begin to understand the DEFENSE is the name of the 
 game. A thinking man's actioner... slow and steady wins the race. Pay close attention to your Titan 
 Bonus to get massive amounts of Tribute (gold) and unlocks. For those willing to give it a chance 
 like me you will quickly see that this is a game made for YouTube boasting... flawless A+ ranked 
 level runs and speed runs. Those uninitiated to the likes of DMC and Ninja Gaiden need not apply; 
 the learning curve will be too steep for anyone who doesn't understand the point of "canceling." 
 Or perhaps grab the strategy guide if you can find it. Beasts are just like the original: easy 
 to steal but hard to keep: you'll need them though to stay alive and to rack up the massive points. 
 Obviously co-op is missed, but I'm reviewing the game I got and not the game I wanted. Under-appreciated 
 by an ignorant press... hopefully this game earns respect over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManaElement
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I am having quite a lot of fun with golden axe. If you like games like Viking, or even god of war 
 or heavenly sword, give this game a look. It might not have as much flare or hype but this is definitely 
 a unique game in its own. I like how it kept the overall golden axe feel with the beasts and the 
 gnomes, and even though you cant play as Gillius or Axe, they do make appearances in the games 
 cutscenes. The controls are fine, the beasts are a little bit hard to control, but it makes them 
 feel like they have weight and are quite powerful in battle. The combat is simple but fun, attacks 
 from enemies come in different colors and if you time them correctly with an evade or block, you 
 can really tear them up. The game gets a bit hard when a group of enemies are all around you and 
 different color attacks are coming at you, but then you can use your magic to free up an opening. 
 I like how you can get power ups from the gnomes, thats just as fun as it was in the original goldenaxe. 
 Overall the graphics are good, sometimes kinda bland to other times stunning. When i saw the turtle 
 skeleton for the first time, i was blown away. Overall my only disappointments are no co-op, no 
 playing as axe or gilius, and the music is boring, except for some of the original golden axe themes. 
 Overall i had more fun with Viking (with those massive battles) , but i liked the locations, graphics, 
 characters, gnomes, and beasts in golden axe. Give it a shot if you like hack n slash games. It's 
 a lot better than the Conan game, thats for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwaiho2003
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I had fun playing this game. It's reasonably difficult. Characters and the monster 
 design are outstanding. The enemies creatures are creative enough on each level without being repetitive. 
 The game has great potential however it feels somewhat unfinished. The length of each level varies 
 too much. Some levels are too short and some level are too long without save game. I like the fact 
 that it allows you to adjust the distance of the close up and far away camera angle. The game kept 
 enough originality of Golden Axe which attracts old gamers like myself in my 30's. I can see it's 
 being a lesser game compare with the PS3 "Heavenly Sword". If HS worth a rating of 8.0. This would 
 be a 7.0 game. 4.5 is a bit harsh. I can see some effort being put into this game, unfortunately 
 they ran out of money mid-stream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty much not what I expected. I wish Gamespot would have given a valid review 
 before I rented it so I could have gotten something better.
  
  The game plays ok, but the game is too tedious to care about what is going on, which makes it harder 
 to defeat the enemies I don't even care about. I just want to beat the game mainly on the basis 
 of not wasting nine dollars. The action is just push the x button and dodge every now and then. 
 The levels are pretty much the same until about halfway through the amount of sand is increased... 
 wow.
  
  It does look ok, but then again I recently played fallout I again and I could care less how it 
 looked... because it was fun. I played the original golden axe games and those were by far more 
 fun. I wish sega included those in this game, maybe as a bonus for completing the game. It would 
 be a reason for me to finish. 
  
  So overall my only complaint is that it is boring and not my idea of fun. However, if you enjoy 
 boring and mindless hack-n-slash games then this will appease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquarius_D
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  A great and fun game for Hack and slash fans.
  
  Parry and evade systems help make battles more fun by allowing Tyris to evade and deflect attacks 
 and follow up with a slash on many opponents or an awesome fatality move!
  
  Magic is done nicely too with slight variations to choose from. Beast riding is a lot of fun but 
 with a learning curve. Each beast has their own abilities allowing for variety in gameplay.
  
  This game is not Devil May Cry nor is it God of War. I too enjoy those games, but this is Golden 
 Axe and should be appreciated for being what it is; A Golden Axe Game!. I salute Secret Level for 
 preserving key elements of the franchise such as hacking and slashing, magic, beast riding and 
 the gnomes and giving them a nice modern day update and feel.
  
  Overall it's a good fun Action game! Good Work Secret Level/SEGA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  I've played the first few levels on this so far and I've actually enjoyed it. I had purchased the 
 game after watching some of the demo video and some of the "Making of..." videos; however, once 
 the reviews started coming out I got nervous because critics were slamming it hard. (At that point 
 I Hadn't started playing it yet) . So I immediately unwrapped it a started playing it to see if 
 it was as bad as they were saying. Needless to say I was pleasantly surprised to see that once 
 again the critics had misrepresented a game. I saw that it was being compared to God of War and 
 Devil May Cry (which I have also played) , and I would agree that it measure up to those games; 
 however, the creators made an intentional decision to move away from the complex button-combo style 
 of moves and move to a simpler system of attack and parry. It's very gory, which is great. In that 
 respect it reminds me of Conan and God of War. It looks great. The first few levels are manageable 
 and the puzzles are interesting. However, about half-way through the game the combat system becomes 
 more of a hindrance than an help. The main problem with primarily defensive combat is that... it's 
 defensive. You have to wait for your adversary to make the first move. In this kind of game, players 
 want to be more action oriented rather than reaction oriented. This brings the game down significantly 
 in my book because it takes away from all other aspects of the game. At some point you just get 
 real frustrated and start to question whether it's worth playing the game at all. When a player 
 gets to that point (especially an experienced player) then there's something wrong with the game. 
 I'll probably try and finish this game at some point, but in the meantime I've got more interesting 
 things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  The Golden Axe arcade game was a simple concept that transcended into a fun experience for the 
 quarter-crunching adolescent crowds of the local pizza joints (myself included!) . Beast Rider carries 
 on the Golden Axe tradition by its own merit, and engineers it as an entirely new medium that deviates 
 significantly from its source material. That said, it's very different from the original arcade 
 game and the subsequent sequels that followed it. But that's not to say it isn't a good thing. 
 
  
  By ushering Golden Axe in an entirely new direction (in this case, next-gen) , Beast Rider takes 
 many risks. In the long run, the result is a fun, bloody romp through the Golden Axe world as the 
 unstoppable Tyris-Flare, the Amazon warrior-princess. Throughout the course of the game, you not 
 only get to hack and slash through hordes of ugly enemies and monsters, but also harness the power 
 of beasts that you ride on. The system is similar in part to the original arcade game -- where you 
 got to ride animals and used them to attack your foes. Same deal here -- only you have more flexibility. 
 The beasts each have individual attacks such as tail whipping, lightning spits, ram attacks, even 
 the good old fashioned flame breath. Sadly, there's no Chicken Wing in this one, but the Beasts 
 here look pretty cool.
  
  The combat system in Beast Rider is standard hack-and-slash fare with a bit of an interesting twist. 
 Taking a page from Heavenly Sword, Tyris Flare has two different defense mechanisms; blue and red. 
 Corresponding with enemies' specific attacks, she can immediately answer back with either a very 
 strong counterattack or a quick cine-kill that's about as bloody and violent as it gets. The Mature 
 label is no joke -- when it boils down to the violence and the blood (not to mention some nudity) 
 Beast Rider earns it, and earns it good. You can nab Titan points as an incentive for getting better 
 rankings at the end of each "Challenge" -- as well as Tribute points, which can be used to unlock 
 new weapons and costumes for the other game modes.
  
  Supposedly, the story takes place before the Golden Axe arcade game. We are given insight into 
 Tyris Flare's history, and how she became a figure in the Golden Axe saga. Cameos from Gillius 
 Thunderhead and Ax Battler (known here as Tarik) are a nice touch. Even those pesky Gnomes are 
 back, and they're much harder to hit here than they were in the arcade game.
  
  The only disappointments I can see in Beast Rider are that there is no multiplayer (online or offline) , 
 nor is there an option to play as Gillius and Ax Battler. They are just as important to the Golden 
 Axe mythos as Tyris, and it would have been great if they were playable characters. But I suppose 
 if the story is centered entirely on Tyris, this kind of thing is somewhat forgivable. Perhaps 
 they'll consider Gillius and Tarik for the sequel should Sega decide to give it the green light.
 
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Beast Rider. It didn't really give me a sense of nostalgia for the arcade game, 
 but to its credit, it is a fresh experience and a well-to-do re-imagining of a classic game that 
 I've loved for years and continue to love. By all means -- give this game a look. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodbaneOpskyr
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The game-play reminds me a little of some of the PS1 and PS2 medieval action titles like the Might 
 and Magic series. The controls are sometimes challenging but not horrible. Picking off the right 
 enemies with ranged attacks and then followed by any combination of hack and slash works best when 
 you don't have a beast. Evade followed by a counter is easy but blocking attacks has to be timed. 
 I had fun trampling enemies while on top the different beasts but you will easily be surrounded 
 and knocked off if you sit still.
  
  If you like the gritty goriness of Viking you'll probably like this game. The game isn't perfect 
 but I wouldn't give it a low score either. This game goes back to the days when video games told 
 a story of dark mindless murder that demands retribution and revenge. Any combination of buttons 
 will do the job in this game as long as they are mashed enough times. I like the game's simplicity 
 as well as it's dark themes. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
