-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/grandtheftauto4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb character-driven story.
 Liberty City really does feel alive.
 Multiplayer modes that let 16 players go wild across the entire city.
 Genuinely funny radio and TV shows, comedy acts, and character dialogue.
 Controls are much improved over previous games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional problems with friendly AI.
 Some minor visual quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 10
Critic Score: 9.6, 83 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 21,701 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Apr 29, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A superb single-player story mode and online support for up to 16 players make this the best Grand 
 Theft Auto game yet. 

  Stepping off a boat in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic as he arrives in Liberty City 
 at the start of Grand Theft Auto IV, you can tell immediately that Rockstar North's latest offering 
 is something quite special. Yes, this is another GTA game in which you'll likely spend the bulk 
 of your time stealing cars and gunning down cops and criminals, but it's also much more than that. 
 GTAIV is a game with a compelling and nonlinear storyline, a game with a great protagonist who 
 you can't help but like, and a game that boasts a plethora of online multiplayer features in addition 
 to its lengthy story mode. It's not without some flaws, but GTAIV is undoubtedly the best Grand 
 Theft Auto yet.  

           Liberty City has changed a lot since 2001.      

  One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City, which is more 
 convincing as a living, breathing urban environment than anything that you've seen in a game before, 
 and bears little resemblance to its namesake in 2001's GTAIII. Liberty's diverse population believably 
 attempts to go about its daily business, seemingly unaware that several criminal factions are at 
 war in the city. Niko has no such luck. He's compelled to start working for one of the factions 
 shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin Roman has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing each other, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does 
 whatever is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately 
 give him the means to complete his own.  

  Actually, Niko doesn't have to do everything that is asked of him. On several occasions as you 
 play through his story, you'll be presented with decisions that afford you the option of doing 
 what you think is right rather than blindly following instructions. You don't necessarily have 
 to kill a target if he or she promises to disappear, but you have to weigh the risk of your employer 
 finding out against the possibility that the person whose life you spare might prove useful later 
 in the game, or even have work for you in the form of bonus missions. To say anything more specific 
 on this subject would be to risk spoiling one of GTAIV's most interesting new features, but suffice 
 it to say that every decision you make has consequences, and you'll likely want to play through 
 the game at least twice to see how the alternatives unfold.  

  Grand Theft Auto IV's story mode can be beaten in less than 30 hours, and there are so many optional 
 activities and side missions to take part in along the way that you can comfortably double that 
 number if you're in no hurry. The majority of the story missions task you with making deliveries 
 and/or killing people, and play out in much the same way as those in previous games. With that 
 said, most of the missions are a lot easier this time around, partly because Niko is a more agile 
 and efficient killer than any of his predecessors, and partly because the LCPD seemingly has better 
 things to do than hunt down an illegal immigrant who's gunning down undesirables all over the city. 
 Some of the more imaginative missions sprinkled throughout the story include a kidnapping, a bank 
 heist, and a job interview. The cinematic cutscenes associated with story missions are superbly 
 presented and are the sequences in which the game's characters really shine. Without exception, 
 the characters you encounter benefit from great animation, great voice work, and superbly expressive 
 faces. They're not always so impressive when they join you on a mission and refuse to do what they're 
 supposed to (for example, not following you on an escort mission, or failing to negotiate a doorway) . 
 Nevertheless, these problems are few and far between, and they're made less painful by the new 
 "replay mission" option that you're presented with whenever you fail.  

           He's a gun for hire, but Niko Bellic is the most likeable GTA protagonist to date.    
   

  New abilities in Niko's arsenal include scaling fences and walls anywhere he can get a foothold, 
 shimmying along ledges, and, most importantly, taking cover behind objects. The ability to stick 
 close to walls, parked cars, and the like at the touch of a button makes GTAIV's gunplay a huge 
 improvement over that in previous games, and, in tandem with the new targeting system, it also 
 makes it a lot easier. Enemies are rarely smart enough to get to you while you're in cover, and 
 given that you can lock your targeting reticle on to them even when they're hidden, all you have 
 to do is wait for them to poke their heads out and then pick them off with a minimum of effort. 
 Locking on to enemies targets their torso by default, but you can use the right analog stick to 
 fine-tune your aim and kill them more quickly with a headshot or two. Playing without using the 
 lock-on feature make things more difficult, but youll need to master the technique so that you 
 can shoot blindly at enemies from positions of cover when you dare not poke your own head out to 
 line up the shot.  

  Given the amount of trouble that you get into as you play through the story mode, it's inevitable 
 that the police are going to get involved from time to time, even when their presence isn't a scripted 
 feature of your mission. Liberty City's boys in blue are quick to respond when you get flagged 
 with a wanted level of between one and six stars, but they're not nearly as tough to deal with 
 as their counterparts in previous GTA games. They don't drive as quickly when pursuing you, they 
 rarely bother to set up roadblocks, and you'll need to blow up practically an entire city block 
 before the FIB (that's not a typo) show up. Furthermore, you're given an unfair advantage in the 
 form of your GPS system; when you're not using it to plot a valid route to any waypoint of your 
 choosing, it doubles as a kind of police scanner. Any time you have a brush with the law, the GPS 
 shows you the exact locations of patrol cars and cops on foot in your area, and highlights the 
 circular area (centered on your last known whereabouts) where they're concentrating their search. 
 To escape, all you need to do is move outside the circle and then avoid being seen for 10 seconds 
 or so, which is often best achieved by finding a safe spot and just sitting there. It's not a bad 
 system in theory, but in practice it makes dodging the law a little too easy, especially when your 
 wanted level is low and the search area is small.  

           The new cover system makes gunplay much easier than in previous games.      

  When 
 you're not running missions for criminals, taking part in street races, stealing cars to order, 
 or randomly causing trouble, you'll find that there are plenty of opportunities to unwind in Liberty 
 City. Some of these optional activities offer tangible rewards that can prove useful in missions 
 later on, whereas others are just a fun way to kill time and take in more of GTAIV's superb humor. 
 For example, you can watch television, listen to numerous different radio stations, check out some 
 genuinely funny shows (including some big-name acts) at cabaret and comedy clubs, and use a computer 
 to surf the in-game Internet.  

  GTAIV's Internet is filled with spoofs of all the kinds of Web sites that you'd only ever look 
 at accidentally or when you know there's no danger of getting caught. Some of them can be found 
 only by clicking on links in spam e-mails, whereas others are advertised prominently on the search 
 page. There's plenty of amusing stuff to find if you spend some time in one of the "TW@" Internet 
 cafes, but the most interesting site by far is an online dating agency through which you can meet 
 women who, if they like your profile, will agree to go on dates with you. Dating and socializing 
 with friends is something you can spend as much or as little of your time doing as you like, and 
 though the people you meet can occasionally be demanding to the point that they become irritating, 
 keeping them happy invariably benefits you in some way.     

   

  Keeping friends and dates happy means spending time with them and doing things that they enjoy, 
 and all of them have different personalities. Some friends like to join you for minigames such 
 as tenpin bowling, pool, or darts, whereas others prefer to go out for a meal, get drunk, or take 
 in a show. Of course, dates are much fussier than regular friends, and their opinions of you are 
 influenced not only by whether you pick them up on time, where you take them, and whether you try 
 your luck when dropping them at home, but also by a number of much more subtle factors. Dates will 
 comment on stuff like the car you drive, how you drive it, and the clothes you wear. They'll even 
 notice if you wear the same outfit two dates in a row, though not all of them will be bothered 
 by it. The rewards that you get when another character likes you enough vary depending on who it 
 is. Without wishing to give away specifics, befriending a lawyer can prove useful if you're having 
 trouble with the cops, for example, and having a nurse on your friends list can literally be a 
 lifesaver.  

           GTAIV's friends invariably come with benefits.      

  You'll keep in touch with your dates, friends, and some of your enemies using another of GTAIV's 
 great new features: a cell phone. It's hard to believe that something as simple as a cell phone 
 could add so much to a game like this, but it's implemented so well that it's hard to imagine leaving 
 any of Niko's safe houses without it. If you've ever used a cell phone in real life, you'll have 
 no problem operating this one and, given that it's controlled using only the D pad and a single 
 button, it's easy to call up acquaintances and take calls even while driving. There's no unwieldy 
 conversation system to deal with; you simply choose which friend you want to call, what you want 
 to talk about (it could be work, a fun activity, or asking for a favor) and then, assuming that 
 he or she answers the phone, the conversation plays out. Incoming calls are even easier, though 
 they occasionally come at inopportune (or amusing) times; hearing your cell-phone's signal interfere 
 with your car radio is the least of your worries when you consider the possibility of a date calling 
 you while you're with a prostitute or embroiled in a gunfight with the Mafia. Incidentally, new 
 ringtones and visual themes for your phone can be purchased via the in-game Internet, which is 
 typical of the incredible attention to detail that you'll come to take for granted as you play. 

  To give you some idea of just how much thought has clearly gone into the crafting of GTAIV, even 
 the act of stealing a parked car, which is still achieved by pushing a single button, can now result 
 in any number of different things happening. If the door is locked, as is often the case, Niko 
 will smash a window with his elbow or his foot to get inside. Once inside the car, he may need 
 to hot-wire it to get it started; you can speed up the process slightly by using the shoulder buttons 
 on your controller. If the car has an alarm, it'll sound for several seconds and cause the headlights 
 to flash on and off as you drive away -- practically begging any nearby cops to come after you. Stealing 
 cars with drivers and/or passengers inside opens up lots more possibilities, the most amusing of 
 which is someone (possibly you) getting an arm caught in a door and dragged along as the vehicle 
 speeds away.  

  Most of the vehicles in GTAIV, like those in previous games, have very loose handling that makes 
 it easy for you to perform Hollywood-style U-turns, skids around corners, and the like. You can 
 play through most of the missions without ever violating a traffic law if you really want to, but 
 you can get away with (and will have a lot more fun) driving like a lunatic, provided that you 
 don't collide with any police vehicles or mow down too many pedestrians. A neat touch when driving 
 with the default camera view is that the camera, which is positioned a few feet behind the rear 
 bumper of the car, centers on you rather than on the vehicle, effectively offering the vehicular 
 equivalent of an over-the-shoulder view. When you take the control of something sporty, the camera 
 also positions itself much closer to the ground, which adds to the sensation of speed.  

           The police are rarely far away, but escaping from them is easy for the most part.     

  The vehicle handling is difficult to fault, regardless of whether you're in a sports car, a garbage 
 truck, a motorcycle, a speedboat, or a helicopter. However, while driving, you might notice one 
 odd quirk that has been a constant ever since GTAIII: When taking the controls of certain vehicles, 
 you'll suddenly notice a  lot  more of the same vehicle on the roads. It's not a big deal, and 
 it isn't detrimental to the gameplay, but it's a little jarring if you get into one of the more 
 unusual vehicles in the game -- for example, the equivalent of either a Ferrari or a pickup truck -- and 
 suddenly find that the city is filled with them. That particular quirk is pretty common in some 
 of the multiplayer modes as well, though you'll likely be too busy keeping an eye out for other 
 players to take any notice when you venture online.  

  Getting online in Grand Theft Auto IV couldn't be easier. You simply select the multiplayer option 
 on your cell phone, choose which type of game you want to host or join, and then enter a lobby 
 and wait for the game to start. You won't be getting bored staring at a list of names while you're 
 waiting, though, because when you enter a lobby you actually enter an online version of Liberty 
 City in which you and up to 15 other players are free to do anything. There are weapons scattered 
 all over the place to ensure that things don't stay too friendly for very long.  

  There are more than a dozen different multiplayer modes to choose from, and although some of them 
 are variations on similar themes, there's certainly no shortage of variety. As the host of a multiplayer 
 session, you also have the freedom to greatly customize all of the game types with variables such 
 as friendly fire, police presence, weapons sets, traffic levels, radar functionality, and many 
 more. You can choose where you'd like your game to take place as well, considering that many gameplay 
 modes can be played either on a specific Liberty City island or across the entire map.  

  Even conventional 16-player modes such as Deathmatch and Race feel quite different than anything 
 that you've played before. And in addition to those, there are objective-based games in which you're 
 tasked with completing missions similar to those in the single-player game: a team-based Cops 'n 
 Crooks mode, a Turf War mode in which teams compete for control of territories, a carjacking mode, 
 three cooperative missions that support up to four players, and more. With the right group of people, 
 there's no reason why you can't have a lot of fun with every single mode that's available. We experienced 
 a few frame-rate issues and lag that caused other players and their vehicles to jump around the 
 screen at times, but for the most part GTAIV's online play is a real treat. One especially neat 
 touch is that, as a passenger in a vehicle being driven by another player, you can mark waypoints 
 on the GPS system for your driver using a map that tracks the locations of other players and objectives. 

           Multiplayer games are an opportunity for up to 16 players to get together in Liberty City. 

  If you're wondering about differences between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Grand 
 Theft Auto IV, the truth is that there aren't many. The PS3 version can only be played after a 
 mandatory install that takes around 10 minutes, and its load times are a little shorter and less 
 frequent as a result. The visuals, which don't always hold up to close scrutiny but are impressive 
 during typical gameplay, are comparable and feature the same quirks (shadows that flicker, for 
 example) on both consoles. Likewise, the audio, which can take a lot of the credit for why Liberty 
 City feels so alive, is exceptional regardless of which console you have and how many speakers 
 it's hooked up to. True to form, GTAIV's soundtrack has plenty of great licensed songs and, unlike 
 other games we could mention, it doesn't force the artist and track information down your throat 
 with pop-up windows that detract from gameplay. However, if you  want  that information, you can 
 simply dial up a song-recognition service on your cell phone and, after a few seconds, receive 
 it in a text message. Genius.  

  In case you haven't guessed already, Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that you simply have to play. 
 The single-player game, which you can still play long after you complete the story, is the series' 
 best by far, and the multiplayer features are good enough that you'll likely have no problem finding 
 people to play with for many months to come. The minor flaws that you'll experience are no more 
 difficult to overlook than those in previous GTA games, and they're greatly outnumbered by the 
 features that will impress and surprise you anytime you think you've already seen everything that 
 the game has to offer. There's lots to see in Liberty City, so you'd best get started.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1494 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bigblack118
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome! this game has everything you ask for in a game. The new york graghic's 
 are very identical to the real new york. Don't let people tell you that saintsrow 2 is better, 
 because they are wrong. The game opens up with one of the funniest characters in the game. His 
 name is roman and he's your cousin. I'm not gonna lie though, the game's car control needed work 
 and the story mode does hit a boring turn, but the game picks up. you get to make choices during 
 the game that determine the route you take in the game. Weapons sound better than ever. The people 
 on the street are one of the realist things i've seen. I don't thing i've seen the same person 
 twice. Guys, don't rent it..... GO BUY IT NOW !!! I guarantee you will want to play this game over 
 and over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  OK, let's kick things off by stating that i think this is an amazing piece of work. 
  
  Here's why:
  - massive scale. detailed environment. i mean when you play, you live live there. 
 
  - cool looking cars. lots of variety.
  - interesting relationship stories.
  - choice.
  - some humour.
  - good graphics and lighting.
  - thank goodness for all the cabs, 
 as i criss-crossed the city to meet some guy or other.
  
  What didn't work for me (a FPS guy, admittedly)
  - poor vehicle control. sloppy, sloshy.
  - 
 so so weapon feel.
  - jog, jog, jog, jog, run out of breath, walk walk, jog, jog, and so forth...
  - a lot of work 
 to do a fairly unimpressive errand.
  - bowling, darts, not executed that well...
  - a feeling that i'm not a good guy. i'm just a lousy crook. 
  
  as i was stealing cars, punching 
 cops and running over poor pedestrians on their way to fake offices, it suddenly dawned on me that 
 the snail's pace of the game and being an errand boy for criminal immigrants had turned me into 
 a real jerk. frustrated, lashing out at my virtual society, with my only joy in life reduced to 
 punching elderly people i don't know and crashing stolen cars off freeway ramps. i wanted to be 
 a small time crook (through no fault of his own) who made the best choices he could in tough world, 
 but that was just no damn fun.
  
  so in summary: GTA IV is monolithic and ambitious and deserves praise for trying to create a rich 
 and varied experience, right down to the most mundane things in big city life. but it's that very 
 thing that makes it do a whole bunch of stuff kind of poorly. no one activity is best in class, 
 which is something that single minded games can accomplish. obviously, millions feel differently 
 than i do about the game, and that's great. hey, i even kept my copy. just in case i might get 
 an inkling to pop it back in one night. it probably deserves another day in court. get it? sorry.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedfreak48t5p
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 9:49 am PT
Review:  In Grand theft auto 4, you play as an immigrant named Niko Bellic who steps off the boat in Liberty 
 City expecting to live the American dream. That is what his cousin Roman has told him anyway. He 
 quickly finds out he wasn't exactly honest about his life in Liberty City and he is in debt to 
 a bunch of mafia leaders.
  
  Story
  
  The story is one of the best parts of the game. You care deeply about Niko and his motivations 
 for what he does. He has a soul that many other protagonists lack in the previous game. The characters 
 you meet along the way are fun and equally likable.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game play has changed since san andreas. The driving controls can take a while to get used 
 to, but once you do, it becomes a lot of fun. There has also been improvement in the control department. 
 Targeting is better than previous games in the series and you can also auto-aim. One of the biggest 
 changes is in the cover system. You can take cover behind anything in the game which makes a lot 
 of missions a lot easier.
  There is plenty to do outside the story. You can go bowling, go get drunk, perform police missions, 
 deliver packages, and much more. One of the best parts of the game is just messing around and blowing 
 everything up.
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphically, this game's great. There are some great lighting effects and good character models 
 in the cut-scenes. Cars have fantastic damage to them. The best part of the games is how immersive 
 the world is. It is pretty cool to see the different things the people of Liberty City do.
  
  Audio
  
  The game has fantastic audio from the awesome voice cast to the varied soundtrack. 
 Again, hearing little things around the city is a real treat.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  This game also has a great online multiplayer component. After you have created your character, 
 you can choose between 14 different modes including death match, cop's'and crooks, turf wars, free 
 mode, and several co-op missions. Multiplayer will keep you coming back for more.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Let me state this one more time. Grand theft auto 4 phenomenal experience you 
 shouldn't miss. A compelling story, immersive world, refined gameplay mechanics, and great online 
 play make this one of the best sandbox games around.
  
  Final Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotaz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  The game took out a lot of the stuff that made it famous they took out alot of the clothes selection 
 but the main thing they took out was the cheats i mean what the F!!!!!! thats what makes grand 
 theft auto grand theft auto The game took out a lot of the stuff that made it famous they took 
 out alot of the clothes selection but the main thing they took out was the cheats i mean what the 
 F!!!!!! thats what makes grand theft auto grand theft auto The game took out a lot of the stuff 
 that made it famous they took out alot of the clothes selection but the main thing they took out 
 was the cheats i mean what the F!!!!!! thats what makes grand theft auto grand theft auto The game 
 took out a lot of the stuff that made it famous they took out alot of the clothes selection but 
 the main thing they took out was the cheats i mean what the F!!!!!! thats what makes grand theft 
 auto grand theft auto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  After being one of the best reviewed game's in history, one of the most expensive game's ever made 
 and one of the most profitable too then surly GTA 4 will live up to its hype (not quite) ...
  
  GTA 4 offers a huge New York city imitation that finds a way too look both stunning and ugly 
 all at the same time. Making a huge city is not an easy task but despite the cars, street-walks 
 and people (for the most part) looking fantastic and infact at night the city can look stunning, 
 it still has problems. However the cutscene models do look a little off due too the game engine 
 which fails to focus on the little details and goes for the big picture instead. My biggest gripe 
 however is the blur effect used for distance viewing, which sticks out like a sore thumb and is 
 well UGLY. I am so sure with the power of the 360 they could of done better too extend it or hide 
 it better and don't get me wrong making a whole city must be one of the hardest tasks in gaming, 
 but its so noticeable especially during the day.
  
  GTA is the master of the sound department and creates a city that sounds so alive and real. The 
 way the people sound, the radio stations, the cars, guns... everything feels so fantastic. Voice 
 acting is simply superb and easily beats any other game ever made with GTA sounding more like a 
 Hollywood movie than a game, with not only great written dialogue but top notch voice acting from 
 everyone involved in the game.
  
  Gameplay is what brings down GTA 4 in my opinion, despite some great elements being in the game. 
 Cars have a more realistic touch to them but at a price and that price is the turning, which feels 
 heavy on some cars and the brake just makes you skid all the time. Driving is what the game is 
 about and you can feel like your constantly fighting an uphill struggle when you get in a car. 
 Gunplay is great fun and is easily the best in the franchise's history, thanks to a solid aiming 
 system and a more then helpful cover system. Playing online is a fresh take on the series and while 
 its fun to play with friends especially in the open world mode, things can become boring quicker 
 than you expected and it needs more variety. The online mode does suffer from being watered down 
 with the removal of mini games and Trains in the subway. The police chases are still quite fun 
 but with the game taking a more realistic approach, it feels stupid too have the cops drive smack 
 into you instead of trying to nudge you off the road. Also the chases can be a little easy too 
 get away from though it's more annoying how the cops can start chasing you when you commit a crime 
 but their are no witnesses around to see you commit the crime. Due to GTA 4 going more realistic, 
 some of the mindless fun does not translate well anymore and the wanted star system is all wrong 
 with the helicopters coming out too early in my opinion.
  
  The AI is the best for the franchise but still lacking compared to other games though it's still 
 nice to see them taking a step into the right direction. The people do react well to your actions 
 though it would be nice to see more random people armed since its based on New York and set in 
 America. The enemy AI can provide a challenge and shootouts are fun though cop chases like I mentioned 
 earlier need work to improve. The most annoying feature of the AI, is the friend system due to 
 having them ring you up every 15 minutes because they want bowling, play darts etc... IT'S PLAIN 
 ANNOYING.
  
  GTA 4 offers a very good length single player which while fun can be extremely annoying at times. 
 Too many missions feel the same and car chases are hampered by some having preset non linear endings 
 so no matter what you do they will always reach a point that will make enemies get out of the car 
 so you have to give chase but because you didn't know that, you have wasted ammo trying to shoot 
 them off the road. The checkpoint/save system is seriously flawed so when you fail a mission you 
 have to do all the driving to the mission again... AGAIN ANNOYING. However despite that the actual 
 plot is funny, full of good action and the different endings is a nice touch. Online is an overdue 
 addition to the franchise and works well but needs being expanded upon. Since GTA 4 is such a huge 
 game, they have done a great job minimising any bugs in the game and you can't really argue with 
 the price on this one.
  
  GTA fans should pretty much love it, Casual fans or first time players should enjoy themselves 
 enough but its not the perfect game which was promised nor reviewed so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFreshPies
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out about a year ago, and before then I saw the Gamespot review 
 and I could not believe how good this game would actually be.
  After playing for about a year now, or close to it anyways I have to say that GTA IV unfortunatley 
 isn't the best GTA in the series (my opinion) .
  
  Of course, the graphics are fantastic. A great leap from the graphics we have seen in previous 
 GTA games. The thing that caught my eye the biggest was the reflection and details of the vehicles. 
 Very impressive.
  However, graphics do not make a game.
  
  The gameplay has changed, and is alright. But it feels very heavy and weighed down. It is still 
 enjoyable for certain missions though. It is easy to get the hang of it after an hour to two.
 
  
  The story has changed, and all characters are new. Niko is a very good protagonist, simply because 
 his character matches the GTA-style character the most (due to his past traumatic experiences and 
 war knowledge elegable with firearms and vehicles) , however his character shows some hypocrisy. 
 He discusses his hate with killing people, however that is mainly what the game is about in a sense. 
 But the bottom line, he is a good main character.
  
  Now, GTA IV is a great game and def should be tried by all next-gen players, however there are 
 some matters of consideration.
  
  I have finished the game only twice. Twice you say? Only twice? Well yes, because after you finish 
 the main mission, you really do not have that much to do. I mean yeah, there's a few cop missions, 
 street races and drug delivery missions. But these kind of missions are just so un-appealing.
 
  
  This is because of the city, Liberty City re-done. I admit I enjoy this city MUCH MUCH more than 
 GTA III and LSS' Liberty City, because it has a brighter, more fresh feel. However, like I said, 
 after you finish the main missions and have nothing to do, the city becomes very dull. It is just 
 city everywhere, no diversity in areas. Sure there's some bush and dirt area here and there, but 
 no enough to create a sense of exploration.
  I'm comparing this to other GTA games. When I started the other games, I was always so eager to 
 get to the other parts of the city and state, when I hadn't unlocked it yet. I would risk the 6 
 stars just to get to the casino in SA, or risk the 6 stars to see the Ice Cream factory in Vice. 
 Those maps just created so much more interest for me. Now in GTA IV, it is the same thing in every 
 part of the city. Yawn. Urban streets and highways. I just didn't really care. Which was very disappointing 
 to me.
  
  Also, the end of the game you can still hang out with your friends. Now don't get me wrong, the 
 friends are good characters (except Dwayne) , but I mean it gets to tedious and boring after doing 
 the same things over and over. Most of the time, you will not bother hanging out with them, and 
 that results in loss of respect for you from the friend. I mean what the hell ay.
  
  I'll finish off with the last MAIN fault. And that is the removal of content from other games. 
 Now you cannot take out content especially from a successfull predecessor. This includes swimming 
 (as in underwater swimming, which I enjoyed from SA) , missions (fire truck, ambulance, etc) and 
 planes.
  Now let me first say, I was not THAT disappointed with the lack of planes. BECAUSE, of the city. 
 The city would not of been good for planes at all, because of size and the fact its just an urban 
 city. San Andreas' map was perfect for plane travel and exploration. So GTA IV would not have been 
 THAT good with planes anyways.
  
  In conclusion, I do recommend any next-gen gamer go out and pick this up, cause it is a great game. 
 However, it is not the best game in the series and not worth a perfect 10.
  
  *This is my first review ever, if anyone reads this can they take the time to write feedback to 
 me through the mailing system on this site, thanks* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  After years and years for a new installment in the wonderful, ambitious Grand Theft Auto saga, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV is finally here and does an exceptionally wonderful job on far outliving from 
 the other titles in the series. While Vice City and San Andreas, both amazing titles, were practically 
 add-ons and introduced new things to the series, GTA IV is finally a sequel to the pretty good 
 Grand Theft Auto III, which was released in 2001. While San Andreas brought in the ability to change 
 clothes and to eat from restaurants, GTA IV adds on the ability to go to places with friends, go 
 on dates, multiplayer, and much, much more. Anyways, let me get started on the actual review.
 
  
  GTA IV lets you play as the role of Niko Bellic, an immigrant from the "Old Country", as he arrives 
 to Liberty City, and meets up with his cousin Roman, who promises Niko the life of the American 
 Dream, which includes mansions, money, and girls. Niko finds out that those were lies, and as the 
 story progresses, Niko is pulled deeper and deeper into trouble by trying to help his cousin to 
 reach the potential of the American Dream. The story has truly epic and powerful moments that will 
 suck you in until you finish the story, which has a run time of approximately 30 hours, depending 
 if you just free roam, or if you aren't experienced with the game.
  
  The characters are very believable here, as each one has his or her own thoughts and actions that 
 makes them each individually unique. Some are funny while others are completely serious, and you 
 may love or even hate some of them, they go into that much depth for each character. As you are 
 walking the streets of Liberty City, it is highly unlikely that you will run into 2 people that 
 will look the same, except for the cops, showing that Rockstar gave a humongous amount of time 
 to put into this game. Characters will also react if you push them on the streets, or run away 
 or fight back if you attack an innocent bystander, giving a more realistic feel to it.
  
  Newly added here is a cover system that works in a lot of parts during the game, especially since 
 you will be running into tons and tons of gun fights throughout, and it helps you by saving a great 
 chunk of your health. The cover system isn't as good as in GoW, but it still does a very good job 
 of being added in to savor up the fun in the game.
  
  The sound and music is good here, as you will be hearing spraying of bullets as you try to find 
 and rush toward some cover, or the amazing songs on the radio stations that are all classics. The 
 voice acting is also amazing here, and sounds like a 5 star movie script. 
  
  The graphics here are some of the high points in the game, as you can see the sweat off of people's 
 heads to the almost perfect lip syncing of the characters. The water graphics are among the best 
 as you can see the white water splashing up onto the boat you are sailing on. If you are shot, 
 there are bloodstains all on Niko's back or front, giving it a really realistic feel, and they 
 stay on your clothes until you either change clothes or go to sleep in your safehouse. 
  
  Another extreme highpoint in this game is the physics system. Jumping out of cars, buildings, motorcycles, 
 etc. you tumble through the air or on the ground and your body interacts with anything you hit, 
 like signs, cars, and poles, and may send your body zooming in circles or just straight up into 
 the air, it is very fun and never gets old. 
  
  The weapons in the game are really cool from bats to knives to pistols to M4's, your entire arsenal 
 is here, and the gun mechanics work really well and make you feel like you are firing an actual 
 gun.
  
  Niko is more agile in GTA IV than the other main protagonists of the other titles, and he can run 
 more human like instead of unbelievable speeds, he can climb higher walls, and get into cover when 
 in combat, and is also more realistic than the other characters.
  
  Another feature added into the game is the friends and dating system. In GTA IV you can make friends 
 during the main story line and as you progress with the person's mission, or do stuff with them, 
 their likeness of you goes up and sometimes unlocks things that the friend can do for you, like 
 sending a cab, picking you up in a helicopter, or the ability to sell weapons to you at a lower 
 price than the gun shops that are scattered throughout the city. You can now go bowling, drinking, 
 darts, pool, comedy and cabaret clubs, and a few others. You can also drunk drive which is real 
 hard since you are mostly stumbling through the streets, and you might even get pulled over by 
 the cops, or you can just take a taxi and get out of police custody. One more feature is that you 
 can take taxis now instead of driving to wherever you need to go which helps because its faster 
 and doesn't take the risk of dying on the road or running into the cops. You can now access the 
 internet in the cafes and go onto the fictional websites which are very creative and are also really 
 funny.
  
  While there are no ambulance or firefighter missions, you can now go into police files and look 
 up criminals and take them down when, and however you feel like doing it, which is pretty fun throughout. 
 
  
  The multiplayer looks fun even though I never had the chance to play on it since I don't have XBOX 
 Live, but I do hope to try it out someday.
  
  The story, as said above, is really good here with the type of script that can be easily made into 
 a 5 star movie, bar none, and will leave you hanging on the edge of your seat until the very end 
 of the game, only leaving you into wanting more, which definitely works here. There are also some 
 truly epic moments here as well, especially the Bank Heist mission, which is now one of my favorite 
 video game mission I have played in my entire lifetime, just because it is so fun, and so real, 
 that it makes you feel like you are there.
  
  There are only 3 small flaws in this game. One is that the game has a few occasional bugs or glitches, 
 like getting stuck in a corner or a building. A second is that the game can be really hard if you 
 are not using cheats, and will leave people getting angry with the game. The third one is the worse, 
 I just couldn't stand all of the chase missions that this game had, I literally did what seemed 
 like 30 chase missions. Though most of them had their own uniqueness, they just started to get 
 repetitive after continuously doing them. The major highpoints in the game keep the game from getting 
 a 9.5 because of the flaws, just because it is so good.
  
  GTA IV is definitely the most realistic game I've ever played since the look and feel of Liberty 
 City and its inhabitants give it the feel of a real live city. People react to you realistically, 
 you can drink and drive, see shows, eat food, go clothes shopping, go on dates, hang out with friends, 
 shoot guns, and so, so much more, which gives this game the very fun factor and the very realistic 
 factor, and I'm glad that Rockstar decided to stick this way instead of the most fictional type 
 of story and game like the other installments in the Grand Theft Auto series, and I hope that they 
 will stick to this format. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the best games I've ever played in my entire lifetime, and I'm glad 
 that it sucked me in and that I decided to finally pick it up along with my 360. It is a game that 
 definitely shouldn't be missed by fans of the GTA series, people that are looking for a fun action 
 title, or the people who are looking for a perfect 10 game that will be talked about for years 
 to come. I hope that number 5 will be just as good as this when it comes out, if it comes out, 
 and I hope that the rest in the series will live up to this one. A perfect 10 out of 10. 
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REALpyrodark
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Why am I Russian now? 
  Maybe I've been playing Saint's Row 2 for too long, it spoiled me to this, I don't think a second 
 of time I spent playing was enjoyable. uck I never want to see this again, boring, awkward driving 
 control, and you will never come close the god-like status you can reach in Saint's Row 2. I don't 
 care how bad the graphics are in that it's loads more fun then this. why do people stand up for 
 this? I say Grand Theft Auto had a good run, I'll always thank the series for all previous installments 
 but this is just not fun at all to me, when a game causes me more stress then it relieves, I don't 
 need it.
  I gave it more than a 1.0, cause the graphics are pretty good, and the physics system was interesting. 
 Sorry I can't be more detailed in this review I'm just really annoyed I have this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBBYBEAR1985
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game, I had to get the obvious out of the way, and it is for good reason that 
 this is the best in the series. 
  
  The GTA series has been known since GTA3 for great voice acting and doing a great job with the 
 characters, this GTA is no different. Star power is lacking with the main story characters but 
 the actors doing them all do a great job. Some characters in GTA are meant to be serious while 
 others are meant to be cheesy stereo types and the lesser actors pull it off nicely. But wait if 
 for whatever reason you become bored or want to take an NPC to a comedy club for laughs you will 
 be greeted with a show from the likes of Katt Williams, Richy Gervais and others. Katt is especially 
 funny and my favorite.
  
  The visuals are top notch and I had no complaints what so ever. I have heard of some having loading 
 problems and other bugs but to be honest my Used copy of the game never had these. I eventually 
 did just download it to the HDD anyway. If you do have any problems with a GTAIV disc downloading 
 to the HDD should eliminate those problems.
  
  Another great thing GTA has always been known for is the music collection, since GTA3 anyway. I 
 will say this is my least favorite of the music collections but that may just be personal taste 
 and I'm not saying the music was bad by any means.
  
  The controls are on the same level as they always have been. I like them others do not.
  
  
 A great story line to go along with all the other great GTA story lines. Deceit, treachery, crime 
 but this time with a likable character trying his best to live the American dream and get away 
 from his violent past and put his ghosts to rest. I really enjoyed this story line it was serious 
 as almost all the GTA story lines have been. Plenty of fun is mixed in the story as well.
  
  Oh by the way the Multiplayer is EXTREMELY fun and has many modes. If you come to enjoy the 
 single player game and finish the missions moving on to the Multiplayer you will never be bored. 
 Even free roam is a blast.
  
  All in all I have to give this game a 9 or better. Just keep it away from the kids and don't ruin 
 our fun America! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesiercat
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  One of the prettiest games on all systems, This sequel again redefined the logic and chaos that 
 make their formula for making games so much fun. If I could side track for a moment and bring up 
 my one problem with the game and that is not enough pedestrians. A modern day remake of New York 
 and the Times Square area has almost no foot traffic. I know how good this game is and sure maybe 
 I am nit picking but come on. More people on the streets. Is it also to much to ask for a co-op 
 component or a create a character? Other than that I loved the whole game and sure I like everyone 
 else couldn't wait to get my hands on the game after seeing the first screen shot but come on. 
 More more more and that's all it ever needs. Just more. I would love to get a 4 person co-op.... 
 but still great. In addition to that thank you for adding a multi-player online component and the 
 original content and radio talent make this video game series what it is and thats pure gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  What kind of GTA fan are you? If you're the type of GTA fan who only really ever cared about the 
 missions, didn't really get into exploring the environments, didn't bother with the hidden packages, 
 didn't really bother with all the cool fun side stuff the game had to offer, then this is the GTA 
 for you. Basically, other than missions there is not much to do in this game. Really the only things 
 you can do is call your friends to see if they want to hang out and play pool, darts, or bowl..... and 
 this is pretty boring. So if you only ever played GTA for the story missions then GTA 4 probably 
 deserves a 10.
  
  If your the type of player that loves doing all the side stuff and only does the missions to free 
 up more stuff, and more locations, then this is the worst game in the franchise. I happen to be 
 the later. I can not get excited to play this game anymore. At first when I started the game I 
 did the same thing I always did when playing a new GTA game..... looked for stuff to find, and just 
 explored. After exploring area, after area, I found NOTHING!! Only once did I find one weapons 
 cache. I was so bored. 
  
  I know everyone praises GTA: SAn Andreas, but it was not without flaws neither. I didn't like in 
 GTA : SA that they decided to force you to find every hidden thing or you get nothing. I missed 
 the find 10 get a new weapon. I really missed that. And I thought GTA : SA had too many dead spaces 
 with nothing to do in them. I also really missed the Rampages, the multi-player rampages sucked. 
 
  In GTA : bore (4) rock star has gone even further. No more rampages at all, and now you have to 
 find all 200 pigeons to get anything. The pigeons are so small and hard to see that it makes it 
 not even worth trying. Seriously who actually tried to find all pigeons? I imagine everyone just 
 cheated and looked up the locations on the Internet. If they had done the find 10 get a weapon 
 like the used to I would have at least been more encouraged to search for them.
  
  I think what always made GTA enjoyable for me is that it never took itself too seriously, it knew 
 how to have fun. GTA 4, has become so realistic that it has sucked all the fun out of the game. 
 The cops are just annoying now. Having to pay a toll every time you cross the bridge maybe realistic, 
 but it slows down the game and the pacing . /flying through your windshield was funny at first 
 then proved to be annoying. If they want to be realistic then how about giving me a seatbelt option?
 
  Gone are the ambulance and firetruck missions, which I always enjoyed.... I loved being fireproof 
 ! I understand why they removed them though, the city is so congested and claustrophobic it would 
 have been impossible to do those sort of missions without getting frustrated, especially with the 
 car mechanics now. Cars drift a lot more then they used to, making them hard to handle. 
  I really didn't like the look of the city, I just found ot too congested. There was way too much 
 stuff crammed into too little a space. It made sections unrecognizable. I also didn't like that 
 nothing in the game was familiar with GTA 3. You won't recognize anything!! Which I though was 
 a shame. 
  Another thing I didn't like is that gang members are totally indistinguishable from ordinary citizens. 
 I felt the city design needed to be more "open", why waste so much detail on a city that has nothing 
 to do or find in it?
  
  I also didn't like that you can no longer purchase houses. There are less guns, less clothing stores. 
 This game just seems to have more of less in it.
  I'm totally disappionted and hope this is not the future of the GTA franchise, or else this will 
 be the end for me. I've played every GTA game atleast twice, some more (that includes both GTA 
 : stories games as well) , but I can't even bring myself to finish this...... shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfdc
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  when i first got gta4 in my hands i was really excited about it! i thought i was about to play a 
 new series of san andreas with new stuff going on at the gameplay section!
  but what i expected wasn't really what i finally got! i liked it at the beggining, it has great visuals, i 
 found the cell phone mode really nice, i loooooooooved the multiplayer mode, especially the team 
 mafia work (rocks) but the story mode wasn't quite great for me! i liked niko belic as a new character, he 
 has a lot to offer i think and i would like to see him as the basic character in the next series 
 maybe! but i think.... san andreas had almost everything!
  from gangs, gyms, turf wars, was one of the most complete games ever... its hard to make a game like 
 that again!
  i don't believe gta4 is such a complete game...
  actually i think is saved by it's great multiplayer mode! i was disappointed when i tried to enter 
 to the first building i saw and i couldn't! i just hope the'lost and the damned'expansion has a 
 lot more to offer! can't give more than an 8, sorry all gta fans but i was expecting a lot more! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwzy13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is sooooooooo overrated. the multiplayer sucks, i've experienced glitches, and the story 
 line is pretty much the same as others. This will probably be the last GTA game I play. it is not 
 worth 60 bucks at all. Saints row 2 is a better purchase than GTA 4. I stopped playing it after 
 a week. it got so boring and repetitive. the only nice feature is that you can fly out of your 
 windshield when you hit something hard enough, but that gets old pretty quickly. Do not believe 
 the hype around this game. it's easily the saddest GTA game in its franchise. I can only wondor 
 what city the series will be set in next, chicago maybe? Hopefully it will be better than this 
 game...... even though i won't play it. Whats with achievements getting blocked when you use cheats? 
 i honestly don't know anybody who doesn't use cheats in that game. The shooting and movement of 
 the people were sketchy. Sniping was nearly impossible in this game. my sight would be right on 
 their head and i would somehow miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintmatty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  Lets just say this, Gta 4 is a top game. 
  It is one of the best titles on console and it's a must for your game collection.
  
  Pros:
 
  : Some of the Best Graphics on the 360 if not the best
  : Long story
  : Great selection of weapons, especially if you get TLAD
  : Hundreds of vehicles
  : Stunt jumps, 
 pigeons and others to collect and do if you're into that stuff
  : You will get many hours out of this game
  : Some fun minigames like darts and bowling
  : 
 Good detailed driving
  : Huge, detailed city with loads going on in it.
  : The game is funny
  : A good buy , if you buy
  : Good DLC
  
  Cons:
  : Can Feel like 
 a let down after playing a couple of hours of the game
  : Multiplayer is not all that good when you are playing with people who you don't know, if you 
 are playing with friends then it's a different story.
  : Sadly R* obviously focused on graphics other than gameplay
  : I had a loads more fun playing 
 san andreas as you could do just about anything in that game
  : R* should of added a local game type, like the san andreas one, but sadly they didn't deliver 
 as i loved the san andreas 2 player local mode.
  : There are some lame "not fun" cheats for GTA4 compared to Vice citys and San andreas fun and 
 crazy cheats.
  
  To sum it all up, Grand Theft Auto 4 is a Fantastic game, but it is not as Fantastic as San Andreas 
 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShroudedEagle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has never disappointed me, sure it's had a few bad sides to it before that I didn't 
 like but overall it has never disappointed me. This one is no different, in fact there is even 
 less bad things, and I just simply cannot understand why some people say that GTA: San Andreas 
 is better than GTA IV. About the only good thing that GTA: San Andreas had that GTA IV didn't was 
 the airplanes, but I can live with not having them. We still have helicopters, after all.
  
  The story is a huge but warmly welcomed change for me, you play as an Eastern European called 
 Niko Bellic and he came to Liberty City to see his cousin Roman Bellic, who was supposedly living 
 the American Dream, mansions, sports cars and women. When he arrives, Niko learns that Roman was 
 lying, and was actually in a lot of debt. So you start off helping Roman out, then there are some 
 great plot twists along the way. This beats the usual "rags to riches" story in Grand Theft Auto 
 games, it is a darker, grittier and more realistic story.
  
  The game world is huge and at the same time is filled with life. At first you can't fully explore 
 Liberty City because like the previous Grand Theft Auto games, the bridges to the other islands 
 are closed, this time because of terrorist scares. But once you've unlocked all the areas, you'll 
 have miles of city to explore, each location with it's own unique look. The amount of detail Rockstar 
 has put into this game is amazing, they've just made the effort to put every last bit of detail 
 into the game.
  
  The graphics are incredible, there are reflections on the vehicles, water and the windows reflect 
 light from the sun. You'll also notice the effect on everything when it gets dark, or when it rains. 
 Also the physics are great, you get realistic damage on your vehicle if you crash it, and the ragdoll 
 physics are hilarious.
  
  The sounds are pretty good for the vehicles, voice acting and soundtrack, although it lacks a bit 
 with the rock tracks (my favourite type of music) , and some of the guns don't exactly sound good 
 when fired, the pistol for example sounds like a supressed pellet gun, but that's easily forgivable 
 in gun fights because they never get boring. For me anyway.
  
  The gameplay has definitely changed altogether just about in this game, the cars and bikes handle 
 realistically, you have an interactive phone, where you can actually call people yourself on some 
 occasions, or you can invite friends to play Pool or go out drinking. The gun fights are more realistic 
 and you can now take cover behind objects, lock on to your target and aim for your enemy's head, 
 and Niko will exit cover to successfully get a head shot, just don't do it while people are shooting 
 at you.
  
  The cop chases are good but only when you get a three star wanted level or above, they're not so 
 good when it's two or below. The reason why that is because Rockstar introduced a new way of getting 
 rid of your wanted level, the way it works is simple, your wanted level is in the area the cops 
 last saw you, it will follow you if the cops are chasing you, but if you manage to lose the cops, 
 the area will stay where you were last spotted, and you can drive away from the area, stay out 
 of the area for a few seconds and your wanted level will vanish. However, if a cop sees you while 
 you are out of the area, the wanted level circle will center on you again, and you'll have to try 
 and lose them and get out of the circle again, or just go to a nearby pay and spray, the old fashioned 
 way of getting rid of them. Word of advice though, you can't just simply drive in the pay and spray 
 right in front of the cops like you could before, this time you'll have to make sure you weren't 
 spotted going in.
  
  You can do quite a few things that you would be able to do in real life, some people call this 
 pointless but I call it effort. Effort because like I said before, Rockstar actually took the time 
 and put detail into the tiniest things. You can watch TV, check your emails, hang out with friends 
 and go on dates. When it comes to hanging out with friends, there are plenty of things you can 
 do. You can go bowling, go eating, drinking, play pool or darts or go to a strip club. This gives 
 you plenty of things to do even if you've completed the game, which has quite a long story by the 
 way.
  
  In short, I can't think that anyone would get bored of this game in a long time, but if they do, 
 they can always go back to San Andreas, since some of them are so willing to say it's better. What's 
 my opinion? Isn't it obvious... GTA IV is a winner. It is genetically different, baby! (Inside 
 joke there) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DkzH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:00 am PT
Review:  I bought GTA 4 a few months ago. Before I bought it, I read a lot of reviews. Those reviewers described 
 GTA 4 as one of the best games, they had ever played. At some points I agree, but this game is 
 not even close to being as good as San Andreas. 
  
  At first I was pretty impressed about the graphics, gameplay and the new improvements. Everything 
 seemed good, and I got sucked into it. But after the first 20-25 missions, I began to get a little 
 bit bored. The missions seemed pretty repeatedly, and I soon stopped playing the game for a week 
 or two. Then I started playing again, and I got to admit.. The game seemed far better now. The 
 story improved, but it was over in a flash. 
  
  But, if you own a 360, PS3 or a PC that can actually run the game - you should really spent the 
 few bucks, and pick this game up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is surely not an usual game, it was ambitiously executed and offers plenty of 
 stuff to be done. The game mechanics aren't usual either, you have arguably more freedom in what 
 you're up to do or not than any other game. And adding an incredibly engaging story that stands 
 as one of the most amazing ever created along with interesting characters full of personality and 
 realism make this an incredible achievement and a fantastic game.
  
  If you're not familiar with the GTA-kind of gameplay and game mechanics you might feel a little 
 lost at the beginning, you are presented with a game with no menu, only an initial loading screen 
 that will load the game and from there the action will begin. You can have various save files and 
 even set to auto-save, but to choose any of these the game will have to be fully loaded already.
 
  
  When you're through with the entering scenes you'll have witnessed the arrival of Niko Bellic, 
 he's an European guy coming to Liberty City to pursuit the "American Dream" kind of life. His imagination 
 of such dream was fed by his cousin, Roman Bellic, who lives in Liberty City and told him a bogus 
 story about his life in the city, when he finally arrives and meet up with his cousin Roman, he 
 starts to realize that life in Liberty City will be no dream at all. Actually life in Liberty City 
 will seem pretty much real, at least in the eyes of a law-breaker. The story stands as one of the 
 best stories told in video-games, it will look so much plausible if you also think that ever since 
 Niko stepped into the city he as well started to befriend with the wrong kind people, and when 
 I say wrong kind people I mean the kind of people your mom wouldn't want you to be friends with. 
 They sure seem the right ones for Niko and the game itself.
  
  Niko starts as a small-time, he just drives a taxi for his cousin to help him with his business, 
 you stay quite a while in the game doing jobs for your cousin by driving people from one place 
 to the other, but just as it starts to get boring things will start to brighten up. By driving 
 around you meet people, and meeting people will get you new contacts, one of these contacts will 
 be Little Jacob, he's just a Rasta-guy that enjoys listening to Bob Marley and of course also doing 
 some gangster stuff here and there. By meeting up with Jacob he will sympathize with Niko and that's 
 the beginning of a good friendship, and also the beginning of Niko's troublesome adventure through 
 Liberty City underworld of criminals and gangs. What is most amazing about the story is that it 
 flows gently and many twists will happen, the story is anything but predicable and the craziest 
 missions will be presented to the player as the game advances, even some points that will be up 
 to you to decide what to do, wither kill one guy or the other, different thing will follow depending 
 on your choice.
  
  Throughout the game, Niko will find himself involved with several peculiar beings, they are bad 
 guys of all types; gang members, killers, drug dealers, corrupt cops, and so on. Of course Niko 
 is not the good-guy type of individual, so he makes a good anti-hero, not only that, one of the 
 most believable anti-heroes of all time. He shoots people, he robs them, he robs banks, he steal 
 cars, he brakes the law in a daily basis, he swears, he does everything wrong, but a certain charm 
 involves the character, a certain charisma makes you like Niko the way he is. So much that as the 
 game flows and the story unfolds, you'll cheer for Niko's personal redemption.
  
  Niko came to Liberty City looking for a better life, or in many cases a "dream life", something 
 that constant propaganda makes people believe that it exists and can be achieved. Niko represents 
 a believable character, someone that isn't hard to find in many rich countries in the world, someone 
 that you may relate to someone you really know or met. Liberty City represents New York City, the 
 whole city is based on various parts of the actual modern-day New York City. Some locations are 
 iconic and resemble an actual location right away. It looks almost real as there are always people 
 in the streets going from one place to the other, the night has less people but there's still some 
 people walking around, including some night-time jobs like the hookers, which you can always request 
 services from whenever you'd like. When it rains it's funny to notice people running away form 
 the the rain holding newspapers upon their heads, then the city gets temporarily deserted, it's 
 only a matter of time for the rain to stop pouring and the city will be filled with people again. 
 The cars are also based on real models, there are several types of cars to be found in the game, 
 each received a different name rather than the name of the car it represents.
  
  Driving in Grand Theft Auto 4 is of extreme importance, for you to get yourself a vehicle you just 
 need to spot one you like, stand near it and press one button, Niko will automatically steal the 
 car and start driving around. Don't sleep on the wheel though, if you rob a car by taking someone 
 out of it, some people might try to retrieve his lost vehicle and you might get in an unnecessary 
 fight; also if there are police cars around a pursuit will follow, it's up to you to get out of 
 the search perimeter and wait for some time to cool down the situation. There are six pursuit levels, 
 they are represented with stars; with one star you're fine, just one or two cars behind you and 
 a small perimeter, but if you manage to do enough bad things to raise your wanted level to six 
 stars your life will become a living hell, with helicopters equipped with machine guns that will 
 blow your car in seconds, along with road blocks and lots of police cars and cops with high artillery, 
 and of course an enormous perimeter to run away from.
  
  Liberty City is big, it takes some time to go from one place to another, and that, after many hours 
 into the game, can become a frustrating task; to get over this you can also take other kinds of 
 transportation, like subways, trains and taxis. The train and subway have various stations scattered 
 around the city, but your secondary transport vehicle of choice will certainly be the cabs, you 
 can easily call out for one and get into it, for just a few dollars you can skip the whole trip 
 to your destination and perform a fast-travel to wherever you wanna go.
  
  The interface of the in-game menu is full of information with maps, missions, career numbers, anything 
 you might wanna know can be found there. You also is presented to a cellular phone to organize 
 your contacts and receive calls from the friends you made throughout the adventure, some will bypass 
 the line of being a mere acquaintance and forge a more connected friendship, when this happens, 
 they will call you from time to time to do some non-gangster stuff, like going out on a strip-club, 
 playing darts, playing pool, eating a lunch or maybe a hamburger, sometimes even going to a restaurant 
 or a cabaret show. Each person you know will have different tastes in which place they would like 
 or not, for instance, it's not a good idea to take a woman out and go to a strip club, you would 
 have better chances at a restaurant or going for a billiard game.
  
  When in a fight you can take cover in basically anywhere, then use your gun as blind-fire or aim 
 exposing yourself to damage. You can also shoot from a car moving, by pressing one button Niko 
 will break the windows of the driver's side and you'll be able to shoot out from the window of 
 the car, many missions will require you to neutralize cars by pursuing them and shooting them down. 
 You can also drive motorcycles and helicopters, you are able to shoot with your weapon from the 
 motorcycle but the helicopter will only allow you to fire missiles found in the helicopter itself.
 
  
  If you're caught by the police you'll have to go down to the district and pay a fine to get released 
 from prison. If you're a hard ass and refuse to give up even in the most lost cases, you'll ultimately 
 die and will have to pay the medical costs for your recovery. In any case, locked in prison or 
 shot to near death, you lose money.
  
  Another great thing about this game are the radio stations, when you're inside a car you have the 
 opportunity to browse through various radio stations, each has a different type of music going 
 on and different kinds of subjects spoken. For example, if you're into some hardcore, you can easily 
 turn on the hardcore station to listen to some great hardcore music. If you're not much into hardcore, 
 and reggae is your thing, just go switching until you find the reggae station, be sure to find 
 some Bob Marley in there. It doesn't matter what kind of music you like, you'll surely find a radio 
 station that suits you tastes, if not completely, at least a little. You can even find Jazz and 
 Electronic Music stations. The music aren't the only attractive in them, you can find several dialogues 
 talked by the presenter of each station, most of them are funny and mock various aspects of American 
 pop and social culture. Even some guests will happen to participate and make the dialogs even funnier. 
 You have another way of communication at your disposal, and that is the internet, you can easily 
 go to an internet cafe and rent a computer to browse the internet, there are dozens of linked websites 
 in the game, and again comedy will have a special place in most of them, but you can also check 
 your e-mails that friends will send you or schedule dates with anyone in the dating website, just 
 send an e-mail and see if the person is interested.
  
  Dating is another option if you're tired of shooting people or driving around the city, the game 
 will present you two girls that are potential girlfriends for you, the rest can be obtainable through 
 the internet dating website. It works like a real date, you call her, or she calls you, and you 
 set up the date, go pick her up in the time scheduled and take her somewhere, depending on her 
 likes and dislikes, she will like you more or less, so you shouldn't only take her to a place she 
 enjoys, but also not kill anyone in the way, not drive fast, not have your clothes with marks of 
 blood. Each girl also has specifics cars that she likes less or more. When you're done with the 
 date, take her home and try your luck, depending on how good the date went and the relationship 
 in general she'll let you go upstairs and spend the night. After sleeping with her, you can unlock 
 certain abilities for you character whenever you call her, like Carmen that is a nurse and will 
 help you with your wounds whenever you call her for help, be aware that exploiting this system 
 won't be an option, you must date the girl and keep her happy before using any of the girls' special 
 abilities.
  
  Two things stand as potential flaws in the game, the first would be the number of activities you 
 are allowed to do with your friends, for a city that big there should be a lot more activities, 
 even though there are various restaurants and clothing shops where you can dress up Niko the way 
 you'd like. Another one is the restart option, it's a good system and will certainly help you not 
 feeling frustrating when restarting some missions, but it should be better, some missions deserve 
 a momentaneous restart from right before the action, it doesn't even need to be a saved one since 
 it can jeopardize the entire game in case of non-sufficient ammo, but driving to the place of the 
 action every time you fail at a mission can become a frustrating task throughout the game.
  
  The multiplayer delivers good fun, it's up to 16 players online at once, and online only, since 
 no split-screen multiplayer is found in the game. There are 15 game modes and they go from the 
 usual deathmatch to groups missions for the mafia. Also race modes and co-operatives too. The online 
 multiplayer can be really fun and will surely keep you playing for a while after you finished the 
 game.
  
  In the end Grand Theft Auto shows itself as a great and unusual game, it brakes the chains from 
 the average-field found in many games today and bring a style of open-world roaming that is very 
 interesting. With its amazing story and non-stop action the fun factor is never a problem; and 
 whenever you're tired of the main missions of shooting, killing, dealing and robbing, there will 
 be several side-tasks waiting to be performed. This game should be played by anyone interested 
 in a fabulous game, that even though violent, its primary focus is the quality, quality of story-telling, 
 quality of game mechanics; and of course, the alluring charm of Liberty City, with no doubt one 
 of the most amazing locations to be found in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanabriacr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJackpotter
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  PARENTAL GUIDE:
  
  Are you sure Grand Theft Auto is just a game where you are a cop in search for criminals?
  Well, 
 your son lied to you!
  It's a game where YOU'RE the thief and you can make whatever you want, from killing people with 
 a machine gun, to go watch a lapdance and to steal cars!
  
  Violence:
  As I mentioned before, this game contains LOTS of violence! You can choose between killing a person 
 with your bare hands and feet, or to catch a gun and headshoting that person! There's also a lot 
 of blood in this game! And you can also burn people with Molotov Cocktails!
  
  Sex:
  This game doesn't contain nudity whatsoever. There's a mission where you enter a porn shop and 
 there's a TV showing porn! But who wants to see some naked girls, will be very desappointed. There 
 are stars censoring the nipples and we don't if they are with granny panties or with a G-string, 
 since that only shows from the belly button up. You can also get a prostitute and go to an empty 
 place, but the prostitute and the man you control will always be dressed.
  
  Drugs/Alcohol:
  There aren't any type of drugs in this game, but there are alcohol and tobacco 
 references. There's a Jamaican man, called Little Jacob, who is always smoking. You can also call 
 a friend and go to a bar. The game also simulates the drunk experience (distorted view, drunk walking, 
 drunk talking...) but when you let your friend in his house, the effect passes.
  
  Actual review:
  I don't like this game! There aren't as many features as there were in previous 
 games!
  Please respect my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperB56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Hi and welcome to my review thanks for reading, I have been gone for quite a while, but lets get 
 down to business. Okay, I first heard of Grand Theft Auto when San Andreas came out, I at first 
 was not really keen on the series, I saw it as a complete evil game, because of the violence, the 
 language, and the all around reputation of GTA. But, I just thought to myself, well I have played 
 other games, by Rockstar, Bully. So I thought, I think I'll try it out. That night I tried it out 
 with my cousin, who is also a gaming genius, and was amazed by the graphics, the action, and everything 
 about it. I said quote"Wow." The number of things you can do is nearly endless, from hijacking 
 motorcycles to helicopters, using guns like pistols, and rocket launchers (All-out Warfare) . I recently 
 have even driven a motorcycle off the empire state building. I love the action though, it feels 
 like you are actually Niko Bellic. Like, you are there. You also can do other interesting things, 
 like get drunk and go driving with your cousin Roman. or Go bowling. Even go out and get some food 
 at The Cluckin' Bell. The Sound comes out great, car collisions sound real, just like clocking 
 someone in the head with a baseball bat. Now, that I have taken the time to talk about the good 
 its time for the bad. One thing that aggravated me was that, like bully, you must unlock certain 
 sections of the city, which honestly is extremely lame. But so far, I have not yet seen any other 
 issues or complications with it. I believe that it is a good solid game that is great for the whole 
 family... Or maybe not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_vader787
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  Now before people start thinking that I'm bashing this great game I want to tell you that I'm not. 
 This game is very fun and addictive but I don't think it deserves the perfect ten, that's all.
 
  
  So let's get the negatives out of the way, first of all let's look at San Andreas for a bit, now 
 that game was amazing, first of all it's sheer size, it covers a flipping state, somehow GTA IV 
 only covers a city, quite a step back. Also the fact that you had a fully customisable CJ was really 
 cool, e. g the fact you could turn him into a bodybuilding chick magnet or even turn him into the 
 flabbiest gangsta since big smoke, unfortunatly another step back with GTA IV, with the only thing 
 you can change with Nico is his clothes. Another thing is that you could probably explore all of 
 San Andreas and mess around before you even complete the first mission, whereas most of the place 
 is closed off in GTA IV, forcing you to do missions, now I like doing the missions, but I have 
 loads of friends who just love causing mayhem and tearing around the game and unfortunatly aren't 
 able to have as much fun on this game as San Andreas, speaking of chaos, GTA IV gets rid of jets 
 and tanks, not to mention flamethrowers and miniguns and it seems stupid that on a six star wanted 
 level all liberty city has to offer is a bloody hummer!
  
  But that's when the negatives end, yes in a lot of ways the game takes many steps back but when 
 exploring Liberty city you'll find there's so much fun to be had you'll probably forget the bad 
 things. First of all the games graphics are amazing, they are so detailed and realistic when the 
 game shifts from day to night it's quite un-noticible like real life. Also the storyline is great 
 like always, the game follows a guy called Nico who has had to move from his home country to liberty 
 city to escape organised crime in his area and to find out about the man who betrayed his unit 
 while he was in the armed forces. I won't spoil the storyline for people who have yet the buy this 
 great game but it is seriously worth ploughing through all the missions. But the characters in 
 this game are amazing, the side missions are very enjoyable and at the end of the day this is an 
 amazing game, it's basically Vice city but bigger and far less sillier.
  
  So GTA IV is an amazing game by far and is definatley an enjoyable game, it's not the best game 
 of it's class and I would recommend it's competitor, Saint's row 2. But for people who want to 
 experience something different to all it's predecessors it's definatly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XvX_Fear_XvX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Gta IV is a very fun game.. the missions are pretty cool and there are many things you can do. 
 when you are bored just go on a killing spree or drive a car and hit random stuff. eatherway its 
 very fun. many different cars, bikes, and guns and stuff. i like doing stunts with motorcycles 
 and doing backflips and stuff when the cops are chasing me. i would reallyy recomned this game 
 or AT LEAST rent it. the xbox live is cool too beacuse you can play with more then 1 other person 
 and just do whatever you want. just like in 1 player but with mores =D . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:33 am PT
Review:  I have to get this off my chest. The Grand Theft Auto series has got to be the most overrated games 
 in gaming history. They are highly praised everywhere you turn and there doesn't seem to be a decent 
 gaming site to give the games what they really deserve. 
  
  I was shocked but not surprised that this game got a perfect score and it really pissed me off. 
 If they asked me to review the game I would honestly tell them I shouldn't do it because I would 
 give it the score it deserves.
  
  I came to expect GTAIV to be a great improvement from its predecessors and in many ways it is. 
 I downright hated Vice City and even though I liked San Andreas I still wasn't that impressed. 
 I'm the kind of gamer who enjoys an exciting game that has an excellent story and great characters. 
 That is something I never got from the GTA series. 
  
  Ask yourself, if you don't like the character you're controlling how are you going to feel about 
 the game? Gamespot claims that Niko is best-developed character in the whole series. In some sense, 
 yes, that is true but Niko is not a suitable protagonist. The phony accent was a real joke and 
 I couldn't get over how ugly he is. Those problems aren't major but the real problem is I couldn't 
 sympathize with him. Niko can be a real dick sometimes and I can't overlook that.
  
  Gamespot also claims that this game has a fantastic character-driven story. I highly disagree because 
 a great story means you like the characters, and in GTAIV's case most of the characters were unlikable. 
 A lot of them were really shallow and none of them had a very good vocabulary. If I had forbidden 
 the writers to use the "f" word they'd be left with nothing. I appreciate how it mixes into the 
 tone of the game but that doesn't excuse the excessiveness. Not to mention the sex in this game
 
  
  As far as game play goes GTAIV really shines. The game greatly improves the shootings by letting 
 the character duck behind walls. The driving is very convincing because it isn't that easy to handle. 
 Just like a real car would act if being pursued by the cops. The amazing how natural the physics 
 are for the characters. If Niko goes flying out of a car he'll crash and land the way a human would 
 and every time he does it looks different. Being able to hold the gun at the trigger and shooting 
 the legs is very satisfying. If a pedestrian is shot in the leg he or she will react in a realistic 
 manner. That is all very well done and makes the game a blast to play.
  
  Liberty City is an outstanding achievement in artistic design. The fact that we can travel the 
 entire city without loading times is phenomenal. Then again that is how we expected it to be. I 
 love that we can just chill out in a taxicab and listen to the radio because I don't feel like 
 driving. The radio stations are great and a lot of the talk shows are very funny. All of this adds 
 up to being a great video game experience.
  
  The bottom line is that Grand Theft Auto IV is a great game that deserves every penny it makes 
 and though it doesn't deserve all the praise it's still a game worth your money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV Review (3/24/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Great Story/Characters- An immersive, violent tale of revenge, betrayals, and broken dreams. Niko 
 Bellic and some of the supportive cast can be considered some of the best new characters book/movie/game 
 characters this year.
  
  Liberty City- Huge, immersive, detailed, and incredibly realistic depiction of New York City. The 
 city is the main star of the game, you may play as Niko but the citizens of LC continue on with 
 their own life.
  
  Combat- Heavily improved over the past Grand Theft Auto's, GTAIV's combat has been reworked as 
 an over-the-shoulder third person shooter. The cover system is a welcome addition, something the 
 series always needed. Best played with the auto aim turned off. 
  
  Great Value- The main quest will take you over 30 hours to complete. With that you also have side 
 quests such as assassination missions, races, and playing darts/pool/bowling.
  
  Great Presentation- The graphics, cutscenes, music, menus, and atmosphere are all blended into 
 one polished package. 
  
  Cons:
  
  Different Tone- Although not a bad thing, GTAIV has a much more serious tone, and therefore doesn't 
 include some of the crazier aspects of past GTA's such as flamethrowers, katanas, and jetpacks. 
 This also means just disregarding the main story and going on a killing rampage isn't as fun as 
 it used to be. If you want GTA San Andreas 2, you're better off with the Saints Row series.
  
  Some Repetitive Missions- Some of the missions are repetitive, don't make much sense in the 
 story, and are there for no reason. Should have been left out.
  
  No In-mission Checkpoints- If you die in a mission, you have to start from the beginning. Can get 
 annoying in some of the longer missions.
  
  Multiplayer- Although it sounds amazing on paper, multiplayer can be entertaining alone for awhile 
 but is only fun with some friends. 
  
  Overall: A (Another great entry in the series, although not for those who are looking for a San 
 Andreas 2)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llyte_1up
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Well, the graphics, for 360 standards are pretty good, for GTA standards are excellent.
  
  
 The sound is great, period.
  
  Same GTA feel and mechanics. New cover system helps a bit. Realistic driving physics. 
  
  Game 
 offers different missions based on your decisions.
  
  You can use a taxi to fast travel around Liberty City.
  
  Getting drunk is funny as hell!
 
  
  
  THE BAD:
  The story is worthless. The characters are worthless.
  
  There are only about 60 vehicles vs. over 200 on GTA: SA and you can't even modify them.
  
  
 The game map is only roughly 3/5 the size of San Andreas.
  
  Missions are bland and unoriginal. No fun outside of missions because the activities seem pointless.
 
  
  All your friends and girlfriends are predetermined.
  
  
  SUMMARY:
  All in all this is not a great installment in the GTA series, but I would say it's worth playing. 
 You still have the freedom to roam the city doing all the violent and indecent things that made 
 previous GTA games so popular. But it seems like Rockstar either forgot what they were doing so 
 well or they just had to take all the fun out to make room for the graphics, sound and multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudeaz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  just finished it. much like a really good book made into a movie
  with nothing left out, very pleased. so many bonus side missions make it very addictive. though sometimes 
 i felt let down by all of my choices coming back to haunt me, and why can't Nico keep a girl, a friend, a 
 job, etc. And since when is the mafia so unorganized? i spent more time cleaning up their messes 
 than my own.*regardless i had more fun with this game than i have in a long time, i haven't shaved 
 in a long time, and i have developed a strong distrust of foreinors in ugly jackets. but HEY, its 
 just a game.
  .i will finish T. L. A. D today and
  let someone know how i feel. well then the man just informed me that
  i did not use enough words 
 so i am gonna use some more ,cause i said what i feel its a great game anyone can see that.
  this is 76,20 more to go. REMEMBER when you start the lost add on
  TURN OFF NOISE EFFECT.
  this 
 only took 30 min. to type hells yeah!
  too much atmosphere must escape.
  
  
  
  
  
  * (my wife was pissed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  Well, Gta 4 is one of the best games for X360, not the best. I think is a bit overated game. It 
 doesn't woth the total 10.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very improved since Gta San Anderas. However, I think the graphics aren'y enough 
 for X360 standards. When you have a console with woths 300$ you demand something more, something 
 incredible, something amazing. But the graphics are not the game.
  8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Gta IV is an very good game. The ps3 version is much better because of motion controls.
  10/10
 
  
  Controls:
  The controls haven't changed a lot from San Andreas. The controls are very easy to use. I have 
 got used to them for the 1st time i played it.
  10/10
  
  Overall:
  We can expect much more from this console with ''real-looking'' graphics. This game doesn't use 
 smartly the ability of x360 throught HDMI. Almost, but not enough. You can buy better games, in my 
 opinion.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  GTA IV takes the series in a new direction with more realism, better physics and breath taking 
 graphics. However with that comes less side missions, annoying phone calls and overall less enjoyment 
 when playing the game. Suffice to say this game is nothing like any other GTA game before it. 
 
  
  In some ways that's a good thing and in others it isn't. The story is better but the weapon selection 
 (without lost and damned anyways) wasn't anything spectacular neither was certain gameplay aspects 
 such as getting a phone call every five minutes and having to worry about your reputation with 
 niko's friends. Not to mention watching TV in the game on the tv your playing it on was one of 
 the worst waste of times i have almost ever seen in a video game. 
  
  What this game lacks in side missions, it makes up for with the main missions and physics. However 
 after the main story line is done there really isn't that much to do and the game starts to get 
 really repetitive. 
  
  If it weren't for the annoying aspects of this game such as having to do a mission all over again 
 just because you get arrested, accidentally die or all of the annoying phonecalls and reputation 
 with friends the game would have been much better. The cheats in GTA SA made it a lot more fun 
 and another disappointing thing about this game is that the cheats are weak and you have to dial 
 a number over and over to activate them.
  
  No planes either which is one of the things that made GTA SA much more fun. Your health also doesn't 
 regenerate either so if your health is low your going to have to go take niko to get a hotdog or 
 burger. In my opinion it just adds more annoyance to the game especially if your just starting 
 the mission and you take a accidental fall or shot gun bullet cause you know you wont be able to 
 complete the mission without dieing and having to restart unless you find a health pack
  
  Overall the experience of the GTA storyline is great but the little things that make this game 
 annoying add up and bring it down quite a lot. Lack of side missions will have you putting this 
 game down more and more within the first few weeks of getting it. 
  
  To me this game is more of a rental but if your a huge GTA fan and want to play on xbox live with 
 friends then i suggest you buy it. 
  
  *With lost and damned i give this game a 8.5" 
  
  
  P. S: The game is highly overrated do not trust the 10/10 reviews.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roseph-Chisholm
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: IV is the ninth installment of the GTA series. In this game you play as Niko 
 a refugee that gets pulled back into some bad things again.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are amazing. As to be expected from one of the most highly anticipated next-gen games 
 so far. 
  
  STORY-LINE:
  The story line is great and actually pulls you in. This is something that a lot of "Almost there" 
 games lack. The characters all have their own personalities. You can gain friends throughout the 
 game and if you do you may gain some perks. This maybe annoying because it takes away from your 
 free-roam time. The story line lets you interact at some moments, for example there is a point 
 in the game where you decide to kill one of two people. Depending on who you kill the story line 
 changes.
  
  GAME-PLAY:
  The game-play is great! If you have been following the other GTA games you may be accustomed to 
 flying at mach 10 in the worst cars even a moonbeam. Now the driving is extremely more realistic 
 compared to its predecessors.
  The shooting compared to the last games is extremely easier to play with, especially for the FPS 
 (First Person Shooter) players. The game has an actual challenge to it now!
  The online game-play is extremely fun. In the next couple releases call of duty and Halo may have 
 a new competitor. There are several game modes available to play with... So find the mode that 
 fits your style most!
  
  SOUND:
  The sound in this game varies from the music in a store, the radio, or just voices. The voices 
 are into character and are believable. The music in stores is like how music in stores should be! 
 Peaceful and hardly noticeable. The radio is great, it has decent songs and you can even use custom 
 tracks since it is on a next-gen console!
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is a buy. It does have replay value, decent online gaming, and a good story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutilatedBunny
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  I was really excited when I found out GTA IV was being released. While it offers so fun, like most 
 GTA games have, over all its fairly boring. The biggest annoyance is your "friends", that will 
 call you ever 5 minutes, even during missions, to just piss you off. If you don't go do boring 
 pointless activities with them, they get mad, and you will lose some of the special perks they 
 offer. The AI in the game is also pretty buggy, as I often would have to restart missions because 
 friendlies would get stuck running into walls or blowing themselves up with explosives. GTA IV 
 also focuses on "realism", which really takes away from the game a little. Cars become much more 
 difficult to drive, and shooting from them is even harder. Its also filled with long boring drives 
 across islands to deliver vehicles to a shop, and eventually becomes so repetitive that any joy 
 you had begins to be sucked out of it. Also the "Multiplayer" if you even want to call it that, 
 leaves very much to be desired, and feels as if it was tossed into the game at the last minute 
 just to put it on the box.
  
  This doesn't mean GTA doesn't have its upsides. The graphics of the game are very well done, and 
 it has some really interesting affects. One of my favorite little additions is the ability to place 
 bombs onto vehicles and then call a number on your cell phone and blow them up. This can make certain 
 missions that require you to blow up specific vehicles much easier (especially when the person 
 is trying to run) . GTA is fun, but it really lacks so much in what it could have been (even with 
 the release date pushed back 2 or 3 times) . So far San Andreas was the best in the series for me. 
 GTA IV just seems to take so much of that freedom you had in the previous games (Vice City, San 
 Andreas) , and put it into a small little box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crispyo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  While I can't say it's the overall best out of them, it's still great and has some step ups, but 
 also step downs.
  
  First and foremost, and I'm sure the most praised and talked about thing, the graphics. Absolutely 
 stunning. The diversity and range to the whole town, city, world, whatever, is just amazing. There's 
 just so much detail, even into some of the most unnoticeable things. Though, unfortunately, that's 
 the only 'better' thing. And I think some people got too drowned into this and missed a lot (ahem 
 GS) .
  
  The biggest thing the game lacks are the side missions/after story things to do. Where'd all those 
 quick to do taxi, police, ambulance, fireman jobs go? I really liked them. This lost the game a 
 lot of replay value.
  
  I also feel the series needs something new. The game is just the same thing everytime. It needs 
 a whole new layout, because it's becoming very repetitive.
  
  Overall, on its own it's still an amazing game. I just hope the next one is different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM-XP-L9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  Great Big City With great Cars and the best graphics in the series but San Andreas was more, there 
 was more shops more tricks more city's but bad graphics compared to this.
  
  I really loved cars and the damage is which is very realistic, shooting guns and flying helicopters 
 was fun and multiplayer was the best.
  Cops in this game are not as good as I thought as an example: when someone on the road attacks 
 you with gun and you shoot him cops will chase you, escaping from cops was easy though. Buying 
 property going to the barber, Tattoo shops, Casinos and flying airplanes, driving on a mountain 
 road discovering mysteries are all missing.
  
  Graphically this game was awesome And I think that's what Rockstar wanted to show. However, there 
 are some bad things I don't know if it's because it's the Xbox 360 Version...
  
  Story Is too short Compared to San Andreas you can finish it with just 15h if you wanted.
  
 
  I think That's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Story: an illegal immigrant and veteran of the Bosnian War. After persuasion from his cousin Roman 
 who immigrated to America years prior to the game's opening, Niko leaves Eastern Europe to come 
 to Liberty City, where he hopes to forget his criminal past and pursue the American Dream. After 
 his arrival, however, Niko quickly learns that Roman's tales of riches and luxury were lies concealing 
 Roman's struggles with debt and gangsters. Niko aids Roman in his troubles while hoping to carve 
 out a new life for himself in the city.
  
  Missions: The missions are quite simple, mainly chase and kill but there are a few missions here 
 and there that are different and fun. I won't give any spoilers. 
  
  Features: Huge open world, Alot of weapons and vehicles, great story and emotional attachment to 
 the characters. 
  
  AI: The AI is pretty good in the game. The police work against and learn your move to make a tactical 
 decision to take you down. The gang AI fails at time, running into walls and not shooting are common 
 problems throughout the game.
  
  Graphics:. The graphics in GTAIV are quite detailed. The character models all look different (for 
 the most part) The car models are glossy and pretty and the weapons look detailed to. Im quite 
 surprised the level of detail put into this massive game. 
  
  Audio: The audio is another on of the many highpoint's of this game. Hundreds of songs to listen 
 to on the radio to the guns everything sounds great and gives a great ambient, making you feel 
 like you really are in the middle of Liberty City. 
  
  Requirements: Xbox 360, Xbox Live, 
  
  The Good: Amazing Story and Graphics. Lots of great 
 songs to listen to.
  
  The Bad: A few lock up's here and there but nothing to really complain about. A few bad AI moments.
 
  
  The Ugly: N/A
  
  Replay Ability: Medium. There are 2 different endings. 
  
  The Bottom Line: An amazing 3rd person free roam shooter that everybody should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  A 10...
  All I can say. There is absolutely no mistakes with the game, not even one little minor detail 
 issue that drops the game to a 9.9.
  
  GTA4 is a solid game, but there are some things, in my opinion that don't make it so deserving 
 of the 10.
  
  You play as Nico, some Russian guy. I really didnt care who I was playing as, it really wouldn't 
 effect me. Thats one of the issues that come about is that the story line doesnt grab your attention 
 enough and make the missions seem worth while. A lot of the missions seem more like chores that 
 the people you meet along the way are too lazy to do. A lot of the missions never really feel like 
 your doing it for Nico, its always doing something for the other guy.
  
  The city in which you drive around in is great and the fluidity in which everything within the 
 city moves is great.
  
  The driving was well designed and it does feel like your going fast when you steal some of the 
 faster cars.
  
  Another issue I had with the game, was the constant nagging of the friends you meet along the way. 
 There is a "likeness" scale on each of the main friends and when you disagree to go with them, 
 you lose points, and if your going for certain achievements, you need the points possible. Its 
 not so much the fact that they call, its more they always call at the worst possible time. Instead 
 of when your a couple minutes away, they wait until your on the other side of the map, just about 
 to start a mission or right while your doing something important.
  
  The traditional GTA cop chasing system is in place, but its extremely easy to get away from them. 
 You can kill people outside of missions and easy get away with it. And whats with getting 6 stars 
 then just walk into a mission start and all the stars are immediately gone. Or you just walk into 
 one of your apartments and they automatically leave you alone because the cops are not allowed 
 to break into someones room even if they have just killed 50 people.
  
  The weapons are good and killing is fun, but it does take a while to actually unlock the ability 
 to buy the better guns.
  
  All in all, GTA4 is a good game. It is fairly long, good gameplay, but for me anyway, it not hard 
 to feel disappointed. With the new DLC's the game should be much better. Still not a 10 though.
 
  
  St0k3d
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I know I am real late with this review, but I don't usually write one of these until I feel I know 
 the game inside and out. With that being said let's move forward. 
  
  I have played all GTA's since its free roaming part 3 incarnations on the PS2. I loved that game 
 and couldn't see why some one would ever trade a game like that in. As with other GTA's the same 
 could be said, but not only for the game play, but for the memorable characters as well. The only 
 GTA I didn't care too much for was GTA: Vice city. Anyway not here for that just thought I'd give 
 my experience on playing GTA. With all that being said I'm no stranger to this franchise if that's 
 what you wish to call it. I got GTA 4 because my cousin and I often play on XBL and he wanted me 
 and two other family members to get into it. The results are a mixed albeit good bag of thoughts.
 
  
  As far as thoughts on the game over all it is what you would come to expect from GTA. Good story 
 with well written dialogue and memorable characters. It has tons upon tons of stuff to keep you 
 busy. It even has things I didn't expect from it. It's one of those games you could own for a long 
 time and still not see everything it has to offer. 
  
  Story -- Lets start here....... Well Roman has come to America to get a new lease on life of sorts. 
 He meets with his cousin who is already established in the US of A. With that the game starts and 
 as usual you meet all types of people who take you every which way but right. The characters are 
 great and you start to care about them, but the catch seems to be two things. You can't please 
 everyone so don't bother and that it's so much stuff to do the main quest is often an oversight 
 when you start the game. Here in lies its great strength and weakness.
  
  Graphics -- Well GTA as far as I know always got criticism in this area. I think it's a good job 
 and with a game like this I didn't expect it to be as good as it looks and appears, but it is great. 
 It's not high up there in with like GEARS or Bioshock, but it gets its point across. You notice 
 subtle things like when you hit someone with a car it depends on how fast you hit them who they 
 react. If you're going slowly then they hit the hood while still standing. If you're blazing by 
 they fly off the car accordingly. 
  
  Sounds -- This was always one of my favorite things about GTA. On one hand you have great dialogue 
 and music. On the other hand the radio station chatter seems to get weaker and weaker from game 
 to game. In GTA 3 I couldn't stop laughing even though the stations would repeat themselves often. 
 It was memorable though and all tied together. The inside jokes that came about were great, too, 
 Once again the big problem is there is too much to listen to and you often don't care about it 
 cause lets fact it when running from the cops or trying to do a mission I don't have time to listen 
 to the radio show finish up. Oh and I got a lot of other games so to sit and just listen to the 
 radio would be a waste of my time these days. 
  
  Game play -- Seems Gears of War started something big with its cover system which is aptly used here. 
 The weapons and targeting are on point, but using the 360 controller for something like fighting 
 and executing combos SUCKS and SUCKS hard!! In any light and on any game I have played doing fighting 
 combos or entering quick button presses always seem to be a chore and it's no different here. I 
 still love the free roaming and the Police chases, but it is a lot to ask for these days. I'm not 
 15 or 16 where the bulk of my life is spent sitting around gaming. I need wow and I need it now. 
 It's great to have so many things to do, but it's not for me so much these days. I'm not bashing 
 it just illustrating a point from an older gamer's perspective. Over all the game play is right 
 where it should be. GREAT!!
  
  Online -- Pure Chaos.... don't know how to put it better than that. I always thought the way to make 
 GTA a good online game was to just make a world where anyone walking the street was someone in 
 real life and while you could still have AI control most of the characters the Game would be more 
 fun in this light. Imagine you're jacking a car and then someone jacks you. This would give you 
 some incentive to track them down and would act as a mini game of sorts. You could have gangs or 
 clans form this way and stake claim to certain parts of the city. There are many ideas that would 
 have worked well than what they did. This is run around a portion of the city looking for someone 
 to kill and hoping someone doesn't cap you from behind. The races are kind of convoluted... the 
 whole thing seems contrived in retrospect. 
  
  The bottom line is it's a great game no doubt, but it wasn't one that kept my attention for long 
 and going into it I knew that, but I bought it anyway. When there is so much to do you get side 
 tracked and end up doing something else. This worked well with Fallout 3 because no matter where 
 you were going what you did along the way always fit into a big picture. In GTA 4 what would going 
 on a date or playing pool have to do with the main game??? This is why I guess some Achievements 
 were tied to them or I wouldn't even otherwise bother doing those things. It was cool to see TV 
 shows like Katt Williams doing stand up or that one show with the muscle guy and his effeminate 
 accomplish, but once again you can't sit around all day watching that stuff. My over all assessment 
 is a 9. PEACE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moondog808
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game really didn't look too great when first saw it. But wow. Was I really blown away. I have 
 never seen such a work of art since MGS 4! This game is not just a game, but will make you think 
 about life, and the way you live it. First of all. You play as Niko Bellic, a Russian illegal who 
 has come to live with his cousin Roman, who has told him of his riches. All is well until Niko 
 arrives, only to find out that all of that is a big fat lie. I won't spoil the story for you after 
 that though. The controls feel just right and well planned out. You never need to really think 
 about what button to press because it comes so naturally to you after about your first hour of 
 play. There are also greatly better graphics and a much larger scale than other GTA games in the 
 past. The city really feels alive during the day, and it's beautiful to see it light up at night. The 
 negatives are that some parts of the game seem a little easy compared to the rest of the game. 
 Also that the game focuses heavily on selling to a strong mature audience, so you might want to 
 consider who you're getting it for. Other than that, there are some pop ups in the texture, and 
 
  some minor frame issues, but those are really small problems. Sadly, they're enough to earn this 
 game a 9.5, and not a 10.
  
  Graphics : 9.5
  Story : 10
  Gameplay : 10
  Control : 10
  Value : 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The story is "well ehm hmm bad". I didn't care about nico and I wanted to kill all his wacky friends 
 after the first time I met them. And what is the big idea with the friends system. You help somebody 
 suddenly they are your friend meaning they will call you and b**** about why you haven't played 
 a stupid mini game with them. And no nothing you can do about it cause then they will start crying 
 and you will loose rep with them. Jesus f'ing christ talking about a stupid idea. The combat is 
 standard, the police stop chaceing you once you have driven a bit, the story is bland and filled 
 with bad cliches not good ones like vice city, For each good character there are 10 awefull ones, 
 repetitive missons that all in all feel pointless, but the voice acting is really good. Well all 
 in all the game is borring, pointless and has totally forgotten what fun in a game is. Vice city 
 was the last good gta game. Rockstar do something else you have completely run out of ideas do 
 something new and stop making theese s**ty games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidisbest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  There are two big things that must be discussed when talking about GTA IV.
  
  #1 - This game deserves a lot of credit. Liberty City is the best character in the game, and with 
 next to no loading screens, it is very impressive what Rockstar pulled off with this game technically. 
 The graphics are beautiful and there is a ton of dialogue. The story is pretty good, but drags 
 at times. And this is what brings me to point number two.
  
  #2 - GTA IV takes an excruciating amount of time to get going. I don't think I even got a gun until 
 about four hours into the game. I played the game diligently for about 15 hours then just got burnt 
 out on running back and forth for no apparent reason. When I did pick it up again, it took another 
 five more hours for me to start to really enjoy the game.
  
  With all that said, GTA IV is a great game, there is no chance that it should be receiving 10/10 
 reviews, but it is still really solid. The game is also massive, but you probably already knew 
 that.
  My experience with GTA IV was satisfying and I enjoyed the well-written, and mostly fun game, but 
 it took a long time for it to get to that point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  This was actually the first GTA game I ever played though I did own the other 3D ones before it 
 too. But hearing all the hype and positive reception for this one just made me have to play it 
 right away and I just ended up loving this game to death. While originally starting as a 2D game 
 franchise, where some games get worse in 3D or are good but not as good in 3D, this one became 
 perfect when it made the jump in my opinion. But let's get to the addiction that is Grand Theft 
 Auto IV.
  
  STORY:
  Past GTA games had decent stories and some nice characters but most of them were simplistic for 
 the series to just give you enough to play an awesome game an truly be one of those criminals as 
 if you were them in real life. But GTAIV's story is MUCH deeper and the characters are more complex 
 and memorable. In fact the whole game is like a well made movie. The story is about Niko Bellic 
 who is a badass european who comes to Liberty City claiming to want to live the American dream; 
 but there's more to his motives for being in the US then he originally stated but I won't spoil 
 it except that it involves a part in Niko's time in the Yugoslav wars. Other characters include 
 Niko's obnoxious and idiot cousin Roman who is actually a fun character to have around to lighten 
 the mood. It may seem like Roman was just added into the game for nothing more then comic relief 
 but as the story keeps moving on, there's more depth to Roman then you may think. Thanks to Roman, 
 Niko makes many other friends like Jacob who is a Jamaican arms dealer and Brucie who is a steroid 
 taking macho man. There is a lot more I could say but I won't spoil it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is what you would expect from past GTA games but this one goes back to basics from 
 the San Andreas game. The RPG system and things like training at a gym and betting on races as 
 well as dancing are gone. But there are still many games like bowling, darts, pool and a couple 
 of others. There's also some other entertaining features like going to clubs. The option of weapons 
 is also toned down as you can't use weapons like a chainsaw anymore and a few others, nor is a 
 tank one of the vehicles you can use anymore I believe. So yes, this feels like a step back but 
 there's many new steps foward that make up for this. One thing I want to mention is that this GTA 
 is not meant to be an RPG like San Andreas is, it's meant to be a regular 3D GTA game so it improves 
 upon what it can be AS that. Where there are steps forward here is what I can figure out. There 
 are a lot more side missions to do if you want some extra money, by making more friends, you unlock 
 a lot more great features then in previous games, the vigilante missions are more well designed 
 to help you choose how you want to handle criminals or who but this is mostly the only thing in 
 this version of the game that you can do with cars over the last ones where you could be a cab 
 driver or a medical ambulance driver, but the side missions I mentioned previously are what makes 
 up for that and they are MUCH more fun...... Actually I retract one of the comments I said, you 
 can do cab driver missions in this game as well in the beginning of the game if you call Roman 
 on the phone, but only that way and not by stealing a cab, but I think that works better to make 
 it easier for you to get a job. One thing I know some people complain about is that you can evade 
 the cops more easily but I actually prefer that and unless you know what you are doing, it can 
 still be a challenge. That's another thing I want to bring up, the difficulty. This GTA game is 
 a little easier then the past ones I played but it's still one well rounded and challenging game. 
 I think the difficulty is more well rounded in this version where in the first one I felt it was 
 at times a little too unforgiving and harsh. I like a challenge but it needs to be fair and in 
 here it was very fair. Another thing I like is the cover system, it makes the shoot em up missions 
 a LOT more fun and realistic. So while I mentioned there are a lot of steps back, there are also 
 MANY steps forward that help make up for it.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Thanks to the HD tech of the 360 and PS3, this is one sweet looking game. You would think there 
 would be worse graphics then what we got with the free roaming open world of this game but nope, 
 the graphics are still pretty real and impressive.
  
  SOUND:
  The high quality sounds of killing people as well as shooting make this one realistic and fun experience 
 and the music added into the game just help make it all the more entertaining. The voice overs 
 from what I read are not as well known as they were in past GTA games but it doesn't matter as 
 the cast we got did an outstanding job. Niko's actor was my favorite. All the sound and vocals 
 in this game made me feel as if I was really in liberty city.
  
  OVERALL:
  If you own a PS3 or a 360 then this game is a must buy for your collection and the the inclusion 
 of episode expansions like The Lost and Damned on the 360 version which makes that one superior 
 for replay, I can promise that you will not be tired of this game anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1musketeer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the most addicting and fabulous games I have ever played. That said, 
 I will jump straight into details. Through a satisfying, long story line, you go through obstacles 
 of betrayal and hatred, moments of trust and friendship, and fights and chases. It provides those 
 "moments that everyone craves in a game. It just has to be the most realistic games I've ever played, 
 too. Not many games make it so that if driving too fast and crash, you fly out your window. Not 
 many games have such a complex ragdoll system. Not many games have so in-depth covering systems 
 and shooting systems and movement systems. However, its the gameplay that intrtuges people; not 
 mere looks. Long, fullfilling missions, great mini-missions, and a collection incouraging you to 
 kill 200 pigeons add up to a great sequel in the GTA series, and is by far the best game in the 
 GTA series. Adding an array of weapons, vehicles, and character, this game is a total must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majid2000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  GTA driving always takes some getting used to. Once you figure out the quirks, and each car's little 
 thresholds, it's pretty damn fun.
  ---
  Oh, meltdown. It's one of these annoying buzzwords. We prefer to call it an unrequested fission 
 surplus.
  The Controls for the everything in this game takes getting used to. I got it the week it came out 
 off playing saints row for a month. I didnt play GTA 4 for another 4 months till i got used to 
 the controls. Other than that This game rocks love the bike physics in IV, hate TLAD bike physics
 
  You like flying off our bike when you merely bump into a car or mailbox? Interesting. ---
  GTA driving always takes some getting used to. Once you figure out the quirks, and each car's little 
 thresholds, it's pretty damn fun.
  ---
  Oh, meltdown. It's one of these annoying buzzwords. We prefer to call it an unrequested fission 
 surplus.
  -Mr. Burns
  love the bike physics in IV, hate TLAD bike physics
  You like flying off our bike when you merely bump into a car or mailbox? Interesting. 
  ---
 
  "You DON'T infiltrate, and rebuild, then destroy what you rebuilt! Who the hell would do that!?" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXChronopolis
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  What a big **** hunk of **** I must apologize for the profanity because I know I shouldn't, but 
 this games worth it. I feel the world should know how ****ty this game is.
  
  I have always been a big fan of the GTA Series, honestly, who hasn't. And when I heard about GTA: IV, 
 I was pretttty stoked. But oh boy was I ever let down. To anyone who says this is a good game, 
 **** YOU. Just **** you, I can't think of anything else to say about this game. The one cool feature 
 in it was that when in a collision, you would fly out of your windshield. The lack of features 
 in this game is abysmal. Compared to San Andreas, which had the car customization, the bicycle, 
 the actual planes. Overall the previous games were just a lot better. Sure the ragdoll engine is 
 cool but not enough to make this game worth. Get it once its like 20 bucks, like Assassins Creed. 
 So all in all Story sucks. Characters suck. Vehicle control sucks. Kanye West is in the game so 
 that says it all about the music. K that is it. Stay away from this game. Instead of buying this, 
 whip out your PS2 and play San Andreas, or 3 or best of all Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  In Vice City, you started off as a common thug and worked, stole, and killed your way to be the 
 undisputed kingpin. And when you returned to San Andreas, you were a gang-banger gone clean, dragged 
 back into the street wars by events beyond your control. And as much as I like Niko Bellic, the 
 protagonist from GTA IV, I just don't think his story is as compelling as the previous games. Niko's 
 quest for the American dream is often a little convoluted and confusing. Sometimes I wasn't quite 
 sure why he was working for who he was, or where his motives were bringing him.
  
  Technically speaking, GTA IV is the best game yet. The improvements upon nearly every aspect of 
 the game from graphics to controls is better than any GTA game before. The ability to instantly 
 retry a failed mission is a long-needed feature, but it is still disappointing that there are no 
 checkpoints on some of the longer and more difficult missions. It's not a perfect game and there 
 are things that will frustrate you, but there is nothing game-breaking to ruin your experience.
 
  
  There is no lack of things to do in GTA IV. You can spend dozens of hours completing every main 
 and side mission, and spend dozens more on all the other activities in Liberty City. You're never 
 too far from a laugh-out-loud moment with some of the game's more absurd, and fun, pastimes. Though 
 sometimes you wonder what would compel Niko to scour the city looking for glowing red pigeons to 
 shoot. Plus there's an entire lineup of online play just waiting for gamers so inclined to join 
 up with friends for some multiplayer mayhem.
  
  If you are a fan of past GTA games, you don't want to miss this seminal chapter. And if you are 
 a fan of open-world driving, shooting and general mayhem games, but have never played a GTA before, 
 this is a perfect time to jump in. GTA IV is a great game in my book, and you can't go wrong picking 
 up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjawz321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:01 am PT
Review:  Ok, I have to admit, when I saw the GTA IV magazine cover for GameInformer I was a little skeptical. 
 After lackluster, non-GTA quality games like Liberty and Vice City Stories, who wouldn't be. When 
 GTA IV came out about a year later and I played it, I was completely blown away.
  
  The Good:
  Almost every aspect of this game was amazing. This is not the Liberty City you have 
 loved an expected to see; it's better. The city is huge and has a lot of detail. It's not as big 
 as San Andreas was but that factor is not at all a problem. The story is strong and compelling 
 as always. It has some humor as always with some very funny guys like Brucie and even Niko. There 
 are also a lot of things besides missions to keep you entertained like bowling, going to comedy 
 clubs, playing darts, or even playing pool. The physics engine is great too. I love how Niko reacts 
 when he gets shot, run over by a car, or even how he reacts to falling to the ground off of a giant 
 building of out of a helicopter. I love the new cell phone and computer feature. The cell phone 
 really allows Niko to keep in touch with friends and "business" partners. The new cover system 
 is great too and allows gun fights to be more enjoyable than gun fights in past GTA games. This 
 is a Superb game and is easily the best in the GTA series.
  
  The Bad:
  The problems GTA IV fasces are minimal and not enough to make this game not worth playing. The 
 lock-on system is kind of clunky. I don't like how you can't lock-off of a person and onto a car. 
 Also, when a person gets behind you really can't lock-on to him before you die. The cover system 
 can be annoying at times. Say your taking cover on one side of a doorway and you want to just stop 
 taking cover. What will probably happen is you will go to the other side of the doorway. I also 
 found driving to be a problem as well. You can't go fast or else you will spin out or hit something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a gta fan, but gta4 hits the mark for immerse gameplay and its cinematic storyline. 
 The game lets you play as Niko Belick, a Eastern European looking to start a new life in America. 
 The game has you shooting down enemies, and driving around liberty city doing various tasks. While 
 not perfect, the experience here is still worth trying.
  
  The game play for GTA 4 takes a 3rd person perspective. There is a better targeting system, and 
 now you can take cover. You will spend most of your time driving around picking up friends, and 
 doing jobs for cash. The combat in the game is a simple, and satisfying, but still challenging. 
 Driving in the game is a lot more realistic, but in my opinion, better than previous games. The 
 cars, have a weight to them, rather than the slip and slide feel of past games. The game has a 
 greater emphasis on story than messing around too. You will find yourself to be frequently doing 
 main mission, after mission, rather than blowing up civilians, and chasing down cops in previous 
 installments. Is the trade off worth it? Well, no... but what is there is still great.
  
  The graphics for the game are top notch, and very realistic looking. Niko Belick isnt the most 
 attractive guy, but it isnt because he wasn't rendered well, its because he is just unattractive. 
 Cars take damage realistically, getting dents based off of wherever you crashed, water shimmer's 
 and has a realistic movement. The time of day is very easily displayed based on the hue of the 
 city, blood stains remain on Niko as he takes damage, and the rain slicked streets have a very 
 realistic look. 
  
  The music of gta4 borrows from many genre's, and the selection for them is top notch as well. It 
 isnt very often that you hear the same song, and thats a good thing. The ridiculous radio stations 
 are hilarious to listen to as well. The voice acting is also superb in this intallment, making 
 the tense seens, and comedic ones come to life in great storytelling fashion. 
  
  The storyline is more serious and adult than previous games. I wont get into any specifics, but 
 the content is more heavier, and certain actions do have an effect on how things turn out. Deciding 
 to kill someone, or not may have ramifications later, ramifications that you have to think about. 
 As well told as the story is, it would've been nice to have something more lighthearted, this of 
 course is preference, but the very realistic feel for the game takes away from the over the top-ness 
 we have come to love.
  
  A few other complaints have to do with the lack of things to do. You will have to do a considerable 
 amount of main story in order to get to some of the other parts of the city, so that need to fool 
 around will not be present until later in the game. Also, you will be getting phone calls from 
 some of the characters, a lot... and having to go and play darts with cousin, or drinking with your 
 girlfriend, or playing pool with your homeboy all just start to get really annoying after awhile. 
 Pretty soon, you'll just be waiting for the next moment to shoot someone.
  
  Even though GTA4 did substitute a lot of the fun stuff in order to make a more worthwhile experience, 
 its still a fun game worth owning. You wont like everything, but the things done right are well 
 worth the price to play. Overall GTA almost pulls it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davoski182
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  This game... It's good for the attempt and the continuation of the GTA world has been a brilliant 
 idea, yet imagination is lacking in this... I mean, yeah, okay... Sex scenes makes a nice spice 
 to add to this merangue... But it's still crispy on top and creamy inside.
  
  Simple to say... It's all hard and tough and difficult on the outside, but the whole storyline, 
 as far as I've seen, has no real substance. All I've done is go about escorting guys from one place 
 to another via taxis. Yeah, okay, maybe steal a few vehicles and ram a few cops up the beehind... 
 But still, that's really the whole concept for GTA... Is do the main mission then you're left with 
 stealing cars and causing destruction.
  
  As I said, the attempt was good and I'll give them credit... But I think they've done that little 
 bit too much with GTA. It's a popular game, given the right kick and the proper players... But 
 really... It's kinda pointless.
  On the XBox 360 it has more subsance, with achievements and stuff, therefore giving more to do 
 and also giving you a lot more attempts to do it and stuff... But I just can't get into it because 
 it's simply... To be honest?
  Good try... But back to the drawing board.
  
  Also... The multiplayer system? Doesn't quite suit the GTA-single player option. All other GTAs 
 have been left single player for pure, individual pwnage. So therefore, although entertaining things 
 can happen, like using helicopters and shooting your friends while driving a semi... It's really 
 quite a pointless introduction.
  Sorry RockStar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8rlink
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting patiently after San Andreas hit the shelves, personally I couldn't wait 
 for GTA IV but did the wait pay off, sadly for me it didn't, although the game boasts beautiful 
 graphics, great story and memorable characters, Rockstar forgot about why you play a GTA, to have 
 fun, to go crazy in a crazy town, not go crazy in realistic town; I would have let it go if they 
 had added the super fun cheats to the game, but where did flying cars, crazy clowns and riot mode 
 go???, maybe to Saints Row 2, but well who knows, on the side of the feel of the game, the controls 
 are nice but come times a bit unresponsive, many times I found myself falling of a building because 
 Niko didn't move the way I had wanted, also variety was missing, with only 2 sets of weapons and 
 3 different bikes i think there was a space for more fun. The last part of my review goes to the 
 disappointing multiplayer, many people like it but I found to many people using glitches, bad connections 
 and just really sore losers on the servers. All in all I recommend the game, even though I ended 
 up selling it to a friend, but don't buy it expecting GTA original crazy unreal mayhem, because 
 you'll fell disappointed like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhawkins03
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  The map is huge, the missions are huge and best of all the multiplayer is fantastic.
  In the map you have various amounts of pidgeons to kill and ramps to jump.
  Also you get to go 
 on the statue of liberty.
  Plenty of vehicles, like cars, buses, helicopters and boats.
  there are so many side missions to do as well as story missions if of course your mates.
  The 
 best part about multiplayer is you get to go round the whole of liberty city causing havoc for 
 the rest of liberty city.
  You can choose the options for the multiplayer game if your host, like weopon selection and where 
 abouts you respawn.
  The weopon selection is awsome because youve got rpg's, uzi's, macine guns, pistols (not so great) , 
 knives (lol) and sniper rifles.
  The reason i started to enjoy it was because me and my friends started making up our on games and 
 having competitions. If you have friends with the game start gong mental on multiplayer. It has 
 a great range of songs from rap to rock, i would recamend liberty rock.
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  Brandon H 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaramishimoZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  It's nearing a year since it's release, but I believe now would be a great time to review Grand 
 Theft Auto 4, especially with the DLC out now (which I will review later) . The new Grand Theft Auto 
 4 ditches the toony, zany, antics of GTAs of olde. This sequel is set in a new sprawling, gritty 
 Liberty City that almost looks as real as if you looked out your window at the city that lay behind. 
 But what truly comes along with this new take on GTA, which injects the zany gameplay with... realism.
 
  
  Firstly, the story as stated before takes place in Liberty City, though it's not the same Liberty 
 City from three, that makes it more like New York than ever before. The story shoves you into the 
 shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic, an interesting storyline given the games record. Not only 
 are you free to commit crimes such as murder and larceny, you are an illegal immigrant committing 
 murder and larceny. Which raises a question about Liberty City's deportation laws should you be 
 arrested. Anyway, Niko arrives in Liberty City in pursuit of the American Dream, you know, the 
 make millions while sitting on your butt one. Though at the same time he is "pursuing" someone, 
 which gives him even more of a reason to destroy American lives.
  
  The storyline is enthralling. The story itself is filled with mysteries and betrayals all around, 
 from who Niko is looking for and why, and helping your "lovable" cousin out of his oh-so-many jams. 
 Hey, gotta help out the family right? Over the course of the very beginning Niko meets a bunch 
 of people and quickly gets swept into the criminal underworld of America. And, unfortunately, thats 
 where a few snags are hit. Niko seems to quickly forget his goals upon reaching America, his whole 
 search and destroy agenda, to be specific. Though I understand he's doing work for most of the 
 people for any information, he doesn't seem to fixated on getting what he wants, and pretty much 
 just goes about his business as the Liberty City Merc. And let's face it, being on so many peoples 
 payrolls at once is bound to garnish some sort of Vendetta. Why the story would have him work for 
 so many people that obviously harbor some hatred towards one another is questionable. And as a 
 character, Niko didn't have that great a personality. In Europe, it is alluded that he was a stone 
 hard killer, trying to protect his family. In America, however, he seemed to be this soft-as-ice 
 cream soldier of fortune, who could easily be swayed and forced to forget his true intentions, 
 even his cousin makes him doubt himself often.
  
  And that's where we get into the characters. They're all pretty repetitive, especially if you hold 
 Roman and the McReary family together. It's obvious Liberty City is the most corrupt city ever, 
 but did nearly every character really have to be self-absorbed jerks looking only advance their 
 own personal goals in pursuit of money? And how long can one really work for rivals that want control 
 over the same land without finding a bullet in the brain?
  
  The gameplay is interesting in itself. The game offers plenty of activities to distract you from 
 the game. Like watching television, going to strip clubs. And guess what makes an appearance.... 
 DATES! That's right, you can still date a few women in Liberty City, and you can also have some 
 man-dates with a few other characters. Dates can introduce you to other types of places you have 
 not noticed such as Comedy Shows and Cabaret shows. Dates are not required, and sooner or later 
 they become tiresome. Going on man-dates gives you perks such as discount weapons, free cab service. 
 But, most men are happy with going to strip clubs, and how many times do you need to see virtual 
 mammaries before you get bored? And the perks aren't exactly that great to warrant the constant 
 man-nags you will get if you don't call him back two hours after your date (though the women seem 
 to care less about you and will seem to call when they're thinking of going to someone else for 
 a good time) . Dressing up is also back, but it's quite mediocre compared to San Andreas, and quite 
 frankly Niko doesn't look that great in anything he wears. And you can also participate in street 
 races, meet random friends that need a hand out, take a tour of the city, work as a police vigilante, 
 collect vehicles for off shore accounts. In short, Liberty City his a big city that tries its hardest 
 to make you forget all of life's troubles.
  
  They tried their best to fix the targeting system in the game, but even then, the target reticule 
 didn't always want to aim at the person you wanted dead. More times than I want to count, the reticule 
 would aim at someone I didn't know existed instead of aiming at the person shooting me point blank 
 with a shotgun. Another gripe was the camera, no matter what I did, the camera seemed to think 
 it's wants were law, if, while in behind the back view, I tried to look around the camera was dead 
 set to look at Niko's backside. The cover system was all right, seeing Niko jump to cover was always 
 interesting. But, of course for the sake of realism, if you were hugging a wall and trying to get 
 a shot on baddies through a doorway, if Niko doesn't know they're there, then you can't aim at 
 them, though its not at all hard to peak around a darn corner to get a scope on the situation.
 
  
  The cars were made to be replicas of actual beasts in the real world, which is also another addition 
 that is neither good or bad. Much of the cars handled on good standards, but a large amount of 
 them couldn't turn without spinning out, accelerated well, but had horrible top speed, and some 
 were just plain weak.
  
  The Wanted system has also been rehauled, but is also, sadly a bad deal. The game abandons the 
 need to JUST go into a pay-n-spray to rid yourself of your wanted level, instead the closest cop 
 has radius that you must escape and remain out of to fully get rid of your wanted level (as if it's 
 really that easy) . It doesn't sound, or seem, all that bad. Heck, at 1-2 stars its easy to get 
 out of the radius, but cops seem to have this annoying habit of spawning directly where you don't 
 want them to be, especially when they've been chasing you longer than what is fun anymore, and 
 it gets worse when they call in air support.
  
  Graphic-wise, the game is fantastic. The city, as gritty as it is, is a beautiful utopia or gang 
 violence. The physics are great, when something happens, NPCs react to it promptly, should it be 
 hanging onto a car door while the vehicle is being stolen, to reacting to vehicular fires. And 
 speaking of fires, the explosions in GTA are wonderful, and never get tiring. And when you drive 
 fast enough, the word around becomes nothing more of a blur, you speed demons. Though, the graphics 
 seemed a bit too much for my poor 360 as the environments didn't always seem to stream well, though 
 that's no real strike against the game itself.
  
  The multi-player was a nice try. It's fun, but not completely great. Since they didn't decide to 
 make dedicated multiplayer map areas, multiplayer death matches can take up an entire island of 
 Liberty City. Which results in using much of the time in death match modes hunting down your enemies, 
 and should traffic be turned off, finding your enemies can take forever. And even when you find 
 your target, it's advised to go for headshots, as anything else can result in your own death, as 
 people can be anywhere and using others as bait. The races aren't that great as most players simply 
 ram each other to defeat instead of actually racing.
  
  All in all, GTA4 IS a great game, and I highly recommend playing it. Though after having time with 
 it and taking in all of it, the good and the bad, I'd say that its a great game to pop in and unwind, 
 enjoy some great art, but it's not the perfection that I once believed it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harjyotbanwait
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  Gta IV is simply amazing. Everything from the visuals to the improved gameplay. The soundtrack 
 here is fantastic and the immersion is unparalleled. I have played Saints Row 2 but the technical 
 prowess and solid story is just not there. Niko is quite an amazing character. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who owns a 360, ps3, or a pc. The gameplay tweaks really enhance the gameplay. 
 There are some gameplay and graphical problems so it is not the perfect ten all the sites have 
 been hyping it as, but it is still superb nevertheless. The visuals here are beautiful considering 
 the scale and size of Liberty city. No other free-roam game this generation can currently offer 
 such a solid and compelling package. The soundtrack had a lot of diverse and amazing music including 
 some good Russian rap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar thought it would be a good idea to make the new Grand Theft Auto more realistic. While 
 it sounded like a good idea, the game was a bit of a letdown. Now don't get me wrong, GTA IV is 
 a great game, but it just doesn't feel like Grand Theft Auto. Where are the airplanes, the tanks, 
 the chainsaws, all the things that made Grand Theft Auto what it was? What happened to the protagonist 
 that was a one man army that even the S. W. A. T. team had a hard time stopping? Niko Bellic is a 
 bad ass, I'll say that much, but he's no one man wrecking crew out there. Cops can take him down 
 in a couple of shots. In fact, they can take anyone down in a couple of shots. The story-line is 
 great, but not GTA-like. It is too serious and too dramatic for it to be a GTA story-line. Online 
 free mode with your friends was an awesome idea, but it gets old fast. C'mon, shooting cops and 
 driving helicopters around does get boring after a while. Now I'm not saying that Grand Theft Auto 
 IV is a bad game. It is not a bad game. It was just so hyped up that they made it sound like it 
 was going to be the best thing since sliced bread. The way they made the game sound, Grand Theft 
 Auto IV was a bit of a disappointment to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomaster08
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up the controller I couldn't put it down! This was one of the best games ever. 
 It took me awhile to adjust to the controllers but I got used to it. I liked spawning cars and 
 motor cycles. Starting riots was really fun. Since I had the shotgun jacking cop cars was pretty 
 easy. I got killed a couple of times put I still enjoyed myself. Shooting mechanics are amazing 
 and the graphics are not that bad either. The one thing I did not like was the camera controls 
 on the vehicles. That got me killed a few times but at this point I have been able to adjust to 
 that function of the game. I really would recomend this game to anyone who likes hot cars, guns, 
 bloody death, and causing sheer mayhem in a random act of violence to the law of people of the 
 city. So with that go to a game store, get out your wallet, and buy Grand Theft Auto IV!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algaeisgreat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:06 am PT
Review:  GTA is like a favourite pair of slippers - you know exactly what you are going to get, and it's 
 good. Aaaaaaaah.
  
  When GTA 4 was announced you think I would be upset by the fact there was going to be no 'breakthrough 
 gaming' with it's release. Wrong - if it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
  
  The new incarnation of Liberty City is greatly detailed, and the graphics are suitably polished 
 with water amd rain effects coming up trumps too. There are a few lovely explosions on the eye 
 treats list and Rockstar have done a great job with all the characters - Nico and his cousin Roman 
 are designed very cleverly and generic Eastern European accents quite good.
  
  Gameplay format is the same as previous games, with just a few additional side missions in police 
 cars etc, and sandbox very much still the order of the day.
  
  What really makes you realise this is the new GTA is the magic M word - oh yes, you guessed it 
 - multiplayer. 1 word. AWESOME. Let's face it, anyone who is a gamer worth their salt will have 
 this game, and that means you can have huge teams of friends in a bit of a scrap.... XBL is great 
 fun for meeting new people, but in my opinion you can't beat the cameraderie of a bunch of mates 
 playing together.
  
  Overall, another excellent effort from our friends at Rockstar North, and this game will keep you 
 entertained for months. Well worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1sea5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good considering it could only hold so many features. if you want a GTA game 
 that comes on the top of all the other GTA games and if you are looking forward to play this game 
 for a long period of time and/or play it after you beat it this game is not for you.
  
  graphics and physics: very good, it looks and feels just like New York city.
  
  features: it 
 had a fair amount of features but only to some new players and forgiving fans. if you want a GTA 
 game with lots of features get san andreas.
  
  story: decent like the other GTA games ( you start of as a man who came to liberty city to start 
 a new life away from crime) .
  
  multiplayer: average, only because it is the first GTA to make an official multiplayer mode. it 
 only has turf wars, it can be glichy and slow making it boring after a while.
  
  map design: they redesigned Liberty City making it a lot bigger and a lot more like New York city. 
 Although most of the features are the same in the original Liberty City. if you played in the original 
 you will enjoy playing in this one because you can compare the design of both models of Liberty 
 City.
  
  this game is good for anyone who likes GTA or crime simulators 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slypher22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game it is better than what i have thought it would be i really suggest buying it 
 because of its great fantastic graphics, The game is bit too short but even after you beat the game 
 there are more fun things for you to do even with out the downloadable content. the multi player 
 on this game is just ecstatic you can race and make your own character its just a great game i 
 just wish the story line would be longer. it is just wonderful i do not know if a better game could 
 come this game is purely addictive it is the best game in the series rite after the first few minutes 
 of playing it is a must have game if you have an xbox 360 or a ps3. you realy must have this game 
 you should realy consider the game for the gameplay story line multiplayer content and grapics. 
 the only thing wrong is the short storyline its short but fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Now, I'm not going to go greatly in-depth with this review. The game sets out to be a game in which 
 you're playing the odds as Nico Bellik, and that's that. It's sandbox, as were the prior Grand 
 Theft Auto games, and it does almost nothing to improve that I've noticed. Even with the DLC, the 
 game's still over once you find everything, do everything, and have gotten every achievement. 
 
  
  Do I think it's worth buying? More or less so. It's a solid game. I've never once had it freeze 
 my console, and it always looks quite nice. If you loved the prior Grand Theft Auto games, you'll 
 love this one, too. If you didn't... well, you may like this one. It's more user-friendly than previous 
 Grand Theft Auto titles, is the best thing I can say.
  
  Play it if you wanna. If not, then why the hell are you reading my opinion? 'Cause my opinion is 
 that I prefer the Saints Row series of bizarreness to Grand Theft Auto's wanna-be-serious tone. 
 
  
  (Play it if you like it. If you don't, GTFO.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatDeeJayGuy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  Firstly i have to say.... THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER!! I not long finished my second play through 
 to refresh myself on Johnys role in the game (i needed refreshing because i finished it after 3 
 days of solid play after the release date) every mission you do is different evan if you had to 
 do 10 assasinations Rockstar somehow mixes it up so as not to be boring. While there is alot of 
 violence Rockstar dosent cheapen the game with massive amounts of gore its classy, while still 
 having its shock moments it dosent set out to make violence a gimik it is what it is a violent 
 world and your part of it... the use of euphoria engine sets the standards for game animation in 
 the future with every character in the game reacting very realistic to their surroundings if you 
 bump into a pedestrian he will shift his weight move his foot evan grab a ledge to stay upright 
 and its not a scripted animation so its different everytime depending on how you bump them... Alot 
 of time can be spent trying new things with the animation and really blurs the line of reality. 
 There are to many points to this game to delve into and must be experienced by all who are old 
 enough to play... please no 12 year olds... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanG642
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  There is only one word for this game. Overrated. The story mode is Very short (Unlike other gta 
 games) . You start off as a polish guy thats just entered the country. He wants to start a new life 
 and decides to join his cousin in Liberty city, the settiing of some former gta games. The games 
 city is clearly modelled on new york. The driving takes a while to get used to and some of the 
 cars are a bit frisky. The cover system also has its flaws but the worst thing in the game is probably 
 the fact that your character runs incredibly slowly. The story mode is as I said short and with 
 not much to do I say rent it. The game characters are also very very very very annnoying. But still 
 it is a good enough game. The story mode willl give you a few hours of fun but overall its eight 
 out of ten. As I said-Rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusachillgamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is Awesome!!!!!!! It's everything it was hyped up to be. And I'm so glad I finally got 
 my hands on it. This is the true essence of a perfect 10. The story is great the voice acting is 
 terrific and everything is put together very well. While the graphics aren't completely great in 
 every character It's still great for the main ones. The weapons are great as well you haven't truly 
 played Grand Theft Auto IV till you've blown up a car with an RPG or repeatedly shot some in the 
 neck with a shotgun till blood starts flowing out ( I know I'm a sick **** Or set someone on fire 
 with a firebomb or blown someone away ( I don't think they blow into many pieces) with a grenade. 
 The vehicles are great and handle well for the most part. It's really fun to see yourself go flying 
 off a motorcycle when you hit something. There's also so much to do you can **** a prostitute, 
 go online and date people, do side jobs for friends, **** around with the cops, be a vigilante 
 for the cops, and many more. So as I said before this game is Awesome!!!!!! And it is a true perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alonsoefs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  Game physics are really good and I love them, when you crash or run into somebody almost always 
 looks like you would imagine that will happen in real life LOL. When I bought the game I was expecting 
 a much better San Andreas, but all the funniest stuff are missing:
  
   Car tuning, I mean come on.....................
   Flying, they just have a lazy asssssssssssssssss 
 helicopter
   Parachuting ...... : ( that was fun
  
  By the way graphics are really good. I haven't finished the game, but I guess there would be nothing 
 to do after, not like San Andreas. I hope the lost and damned comes with something extra rather 
 than more story, I know some new cars are coming but I really hope they add the car tuning again.
 
  
  Another thing, bike driving is lame I like better the other GTA's bike driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBreadstick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I have played every GTA game since the PS1, and never while playing 
 them have I felt like I was living back home with my mom nagging me to do house chores, that is 
 until I played Grand Theft Auto IV. 
  
  The game starts off bu putting you in the shoes of a Russian war vet named Nico who has come to 
 America to live with his cousin, who has promised great things. When he gets there he realizes 
 that his cousin is a liar, and his life in liberty city is a tough, hopeless grind. Its funny because 
 thats exactly what happened when I bought the game! 
  
  The game takes place in the "revamped" liberty city (the city we played to death in GTA3) . This 
 is a real step back from previous GTA games, which began incorporating various different types 
 of terrain and land settings that you could visit. Did you enjoy climbing mountains, trekking forests, 
 and raiding large farms in GTA San Andreas? Well if you did Rockstar laughs at you because they 
 strip it all away in this one. Instead they stick you in a drab "realistic" city that has very 
 little to offer in terms of, well, anything really.
  
  Not only is this game a step back when it comes to environments, its also a step back in nearly 
 every other aspect imaginable. There is a severe lack of any interesting vehicles. There is a very 
 wide and boring selection of cars and trucks, most of which look so similar to each other that 
 I could have sworn that there where only about 20 different vehicles in the entire game. There 
 is only one pilotable aircraft (a chopper) , which is a letdown considering san andreas had a nice 
 touch of aviation in the game. At least they didnt take away our motorcycles right?
  
  The single player feels like a real drag. They havent added anything new to it, other than this 
 annoying cellphone system. In which your friends call you every 5 minutes to play a boring game 
 of pool or darts, and if you reject the offer you lose friend points with them. Nice try at "realism" 
 Rockstar, but I have my own life outside of gaming, I dont need the hassle of maintaining friendships 
 in the virtual world too. Apart from the nagging cellphone, and the boring "same ol" missions that 
 every gta player has done a million times, the only thing the single player mode really has to 
 offer is the excellent voice acting. I must say even in its most disappointing of games, the voice 
 actors rockstar chooses never fail to disappoint. As for the characters in the game, most of them 
 are a rehash of characters you already met in other gta games. 
  
  The only real upside that I can see to this game is its multiplayer. If you ignore all of the annoying 
 bugs and the horrendous lag you sometimes get regardless of your internet connection, it can actually 
 be pretty fun. The death races, and co-op missions can be a real blast if you are playing with 
 the right people. Just pray you dont run into those whiny little brats that yell into their mic 
 when you dont turn on auto aim. You will run into those sniveling little milk suckers nearly every 
 time you play.
  
  
  In a nutshell, this game is a graphical update to GTA3, a game in which everyone has already played 
 to death, plus some annoying additions and a good multiplayer. This isnt at all worth its 60 dollar 
 price tag, as you mill most likley get bored quick if you are a veteran GTA player. However if 
 you haven't played any GTA games in the past, or you want this only for its multiplayer then you 
 might enjoy this one.
  
  
  On another note, it really get so me how tainted Gamespots reviews are. This game got a 10? REALLY? 
 Fable2, which is a HUGE step up from its predecessor only gets an 8.5, while this time capsule 
 re-run gets a 10? Can someone say bribery? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamieTallica
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Everywhere I look, Grand theft auto 4 is getting 10/10 ratings and winning game of the year awards. 
 I really don't understand this. I was so excited for GTA 4, but from the off I felt really let 
 down. The graphics are ok on objects close by, but anything in the distance has a horrible pixellated 
 blur, the cars are boring, and it just seems that Rockstar have decided to transform GTA into a 
 'serious' franchise. Back in the day, GTA was all about the laughs and the freedom, but the newest 
 installment lacks greatly on both parts. The only funny aspect of GTA 4 are the hilarious rantings 
 from a steroid addict gym freak on the TV who hosts a talk show (the guy that re-enacts punching 
 people in the face) . The city is large yes, but very barren and dull. There are 2 different clothing 
 shop brands, which means almost zero character customisation, and the mini games are tedious and 
 unrewarding (fancy another game of darts for the 58th time??) The story is boring, Nico is boring, 
 the guns are boring (and there are hardly any may i add) and its ridiculous that you rack up thousands 
 of dollars, but cant actually spend it, because there is nothing to spend it on. It seems the majority 
 are hailing GTA 4 as such a good game as a gesture of denial. ADMIT it to yourselves people, this 
 game is a let down. The game is empty. it gets a 2.5 because I like the front cover of the box. 
 Thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j_skin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV
  Where to begin... 
  Rockstar have done it again! Another revolutionary title to add to this amazing series. Make your 
 way through a giant, brand new Liberty City as Niko Bellic, a Serbian refugee with a dark past. 
 
  
  First off I will have to start with the story line. I loved it. For once our main character is 
 involved in a romance with a NORMAL woman. Not a homicidal maniac as it was for CJ in San Andreas! 
 GTAIV's storyline seemed to go much deeper than previous titles, even though San Andreas had a 
 sensitive story line, I just didn't quite feel it as much as this one
  
  Secondly the graphics and map. WOW. I don't want to think how long it would have taken Rockstar 
 to complete this realistically sized city! Just jump in a helicopter and get a 360 view to get 
 a glimpse of the Liberty City horizon, which is guaranteed to take your breath away! Hundreds of 
 high-rise buildings and apartments with a mixture of garbage trucks and a few residential homes 
 on the outskirts give Liberty City the feel that you are in a real world!
  
  Multiplayer. How could I forget! The highly anticipated new feature in this game did not disappoint! 
 Finally we all got what we wanted! Up to 24 players' let loose in Liberty City to fight to the 
 death! Team up for massive gang wars in the streets, race each other in the fastest sports cars 
 there is, or just free roam around with your mates. I found this new feature to be extremely addictive 
 and action packed. The only downside was the simple ranking system. Which was only 10 ranks long. 
 But who needs ranks in GTA right?! 
  
  Last but not least, the transportation. Not a lot new here with the cars and boats apart from the 
 new patriots which resemble Hummer's are very cool! I was disappointed that all forms of airplane 
 had been removed from the game, but hey who knows, maybe in the DLC we will see some wings :D
 
  I would also like to comment on the ability to now throw grenades out the window of a car. Eat 
 this pigs!
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a solid game. Great visuals, impressive scale for Liberty City, lots of minigames and 
 the good old GTA we love. But it does not revolutionize anything! In fact I was bored with the 
 game quite quickly and even annoyed especially with the girlfriends calling you or your cousin. 
 Sometimes you just want to play a game where you can kick around some people, blow something up, 
 and then go bowling without someone calling you every 5 minutes. It's a virtual nagging game and 
 in your cousin's case a virtual babysitter game just you don't get paid to do it and you can't 
 just watch TV and ignore him (well you can but it won't do much for the story if you do, not to 
 say the TV shows are not good lol) The minigames and interactive parts of Liberty City are one 
 of the game's saving graces. There's always loads to do in town. You can hit the strip club, go 
 to the internet cafe, go bowling, hell even catch a comedy show there's quite a bit of content. 
 But the mission variety is limited to the usual GTA styles and as said before sometimes you just 
 need a game where you can run around causing mayhem without too much consequence. Hence why I am 
 a fan of Saint's Row 1 and 2 hehe good times. Gamespot was very generous with giving this game 
 a 10 especially compared to games like Fallout 3 which only got a 9 for some reason but is worth 
 more in my opinion then this game. If you are a fan of GTA like I am then you will not be horribly 
 disappointed, but don't expect to be floored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesquigio
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first played GTA IV, I thought it was going to be the bomb. After a while, i realized that 
 the whole game was overrealistic. Yes, the graphics were great, but the gameplay was sluggish and 
 it was hard to figure out what was going on. and sometimes when i went up to a car, i would back 
 off for no apperent reason. and it was extremely difficult just to land a helicopter ON A FREAKING 
 BUILDING. I'd rather have it unrealistic. i think what the producers biggest mistake was undermining 
 the people that just play the game for fun, to mess around in the city.
  
  nevertheless, i found driving cars and smashing into people quite fun, especially with the ragdoll 
 effect, and it was extremely entertaining just to fly up in a helicopter and watch nicko fall to 
 his death. also, standing on buildings sniping people was very entertaining too.
  
  basicly, an overall good game, but some of the classic gta fun was abandoned for realizm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakckl
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:33 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV really is everything you dream about in a video game, and then some. Everything 
 about it is new and refreshing, and the great elements from previous games have been reworked to 
 perfection. Whether it's the change in character, the lengthy and immersive storyline and some 
 awesome graphics, Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game of the Grand Theft Auto series. 
  
  The first thing you will notice is that GTA has landed (or docked) back in Liberty City. And what 
 a city it is. It is a breathing, living metropolis. People are buying hot dogs from vendors, answering 
 calls on their mobile phones, taking helicopter rides, etc. To get around, you will play as Niko 
 Bellic, a man fresh off the boat with a shady and troubled past. To start off with, Niko runs errands 
 for his cousin, Roman, in his cab company, after he has learned that Roman has landed himself in 
 quite a bit of trouble after taking out loans from local criminals that he cannot afford to pay 
 back. Therefore, you are forced to help these criminals, (and in traditional GTA style) , work your 
 way up this criminal society in the hope that your own motives can be fulfilled. The non  linear 
 storyline means that during certain missions, you are presented with a few 'morality decisions', 
 i. e. help a man you have been told to kill who is hanging on to a balcony by one hand, or let him 
 fall to his death. It doesn't change the story by a whole lot, but it does make for an interesting 
 twist to gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok, before I start the review I must say that this is first GTA I ever played. So my opinions can 
 be amissed comparing to previous GTA series.
  
  Graphic: The character model and the texture is not perfect however if you look the city on helicopter 
 it's quite fantasy and amazing. Even there is frame rate issue; it's not horrible and decent enough 
 to ignore it. Although there are couple minor glitches.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is simple and unique. It's like an action movie. You are Niko Bellic and 
 you came to the Liberity City to find the "someone" for revenge. So to find him you requested certain 
 people to find him and you do the job they gave. This is the point of this game. There are a lot 
 kind of missions such as chasing, shooting, stealing, etc. However as you progress, the game is 
 feeling repeative later on. Also this game can be hard and can be frusrate because if you die while 
 doing mission - you will transfered to hospital and lost half of money you own... and you have 
 to start mission again... this can be quite annoying especially when you have to go certain place 
 that are far away.
  
  The characters of this game is fantasic and they are pretty funny too. Niko's fatso cousin Roman, 
 Little Jacob with twisted tongue, Tough and also idiotic Brucie and more characters that you will 
 love them. 
  
  Now here is my favorite of this game.... this game is quite funny. For example I blocked the way 
 and the cars are lining up and yelling to get out of the way then I took out the baseball bat and 
 hit all cars... then all people in cars are pissed off and chasing me... I run away.
  
  This was quite funny scenes and there are many countless more scenes that you can find.
  
  
 Multiplayer is great and it's pretty insane... I mean, you are in the Liberity City and everyone 
 starts to killing each other and blowing stuffs with rocket launcher. What do you more need?
  
  
  GTA 4 is quite unique and very realistic game and I enjoyed this game pretty a lot. So 
 if you own Xbox360 or PS3 then I recommand this game highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest here. The reason why your interested in the game is because it's name has "Grand 
 Theft Auto IV" in it. Don't let it fool you. If you've been a long time GTA fan, you might love 
 it, like it, or even be disappointed. There's nothing too wrong with it, but it just feels like 
 the same game, but with major graphical improvements. I'll explain my opinions about this game 
 below.
  
  Story - 7.1/10
  You are Niko Bellic, a fresh off the bat immigrant arriving from Europe to North America, the place 
 of oppurtunities. He meets his cousin, Roman, and he starts to work for him and his cab service, 
 until he expands his service to other employers, such as a gangster family member, a jamaican, 
 and even more crazy mission givers! As you progress through the story, you'll realize that Roman 
 is searching for two military buddies that he suspects for treason, which killed many of his friends. 
 Expect some few plot twists in the way, and an interesting cast of characters. I've got to say 
 though, the story isn't that great. It doesn't match up to Liberty City Stories, San Andreas and 
 the others. It's not bad or anything, but they could've had some originality atleast. The overall 
 decent story is made up for by the large vast likeable characters you meet throughout the game. 
 You can also choose choices throughout the story which supposedly effects which ending you get 
 out of the two possible endings. Overall, I give the story an average 7 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay - 8.0/10
  Ah, the gameplay. The charm of the GTA franchise, and it's much more polished 
 now. With a new aiming system, physics, and cover system, you'll experience a new way to kill your 
 enemies. The two I listed are pretty much new abilities you use for combat, and I also forgot to 
 mention that you can use a cellphone to go out with people. Whether it's chilling with your cousin, 
 Roman, to a strip bar, or going to a bowling alley with a love interest, it's all here. What even 
 makes it more interesting is that you get these car conversations as you drive your way to these 
 destinations (missions, and going out somewhere.) . You can even dial 911 to call the police, fire 
 department, or the ambulance at your location for fun. The missions are the same as the other GTA 
 games, where you complete objectives for your employer. The variety of missions involved will absorb 
 you for more than 40 hours, plus the sidequests, such as hidden packages, flying rats, and stunt 
 jumps. If your a 100% junkie, expect more than 70 hours or 60 of gameplay. The thing I didn't like 
 about the gameplay was that the few amount of weapons. It's like they only wanted to give you weapons 
 that you really need to carry out. You don't get to use chainsaws, flamethrowers, or jetpacks which 
 were included in San Andreas. Even so, it isn't much of a problem, but they could've added more 
 weapons to add more fun. Another disappointment I had was the multiplayer. I'm not a fan of it, 
 actually. There are variety of modes such as Deathmatch, Cops' and Crooks, Free mode, and many 
 more. What I felt disappointed for were the deathmatches, because it was basically the same thing 
 as single player, but with real people playing. I found that it was slow pacing aswell. The only 
 thing I liked about the multiplayer were the races. The races are pretty fun, and you can race 
 up to 16 people. Whether it be Motorcycle races, sports car racing, or boat racing, you'll have 
 fun trying to be 1st place. Overall, I thought the gameplay was solid, and that you shouldn't expect 
 too much out of it.
  
  Graphics - 8.8/10
  Now, for the graphics. I can only describe them as stunning. They are drop dead gorgeous, especially 
 the water vicinity around the cities. The lakes and oceans have incredible details, and even currents 
 that rock your boats. The character models also look great, and detailed from face, all the way 
 down to thier fancy shoes. Everything is just detailed well, but I had a few graphics problems. 
 One time, I crashed into a gate, and fell down to a bottomless pit of nothingness, and came down 
 back to where I was. But trust me, that doesn't happen quite often. But yeah, I've got to say though, 
 that the graphical improvement surely has captured the feel of GTA's world.
  
  Sound/Music - 8.4/10
  The sound in GTA IV are very well done. You can hear honks as you whizz 
 by an oncoming traffic, helicopters flying around, and many more. The sound is done so well you 
 can actually experience what it'd be like if you did the crazy actions you'd do in GTA IV. The 
 voice acting is gold. They match the characters in the game perfectly, and the accent of Niko makes 
 him a great protagonist. What I actually didn't like about the music were the lame radio stations/songs 
 they picked. The only radio station I actually listened to was JNR, a jazz station. Either I have 
 horrible taste in music, or Rockstar does. Overall, I'd say that this section is pretty good.
 
  
  Final word -
  If my review has distracted you from buying the game, pay no mine. I expected too much out of this 
 game, but if your looking for a fun, free-roaming game, with lots of action, then this game is 
 the game for you. A warning for all GTA fans. Do not expect too much just cause it's the first 
 Next-Gen GTA entry. In conclusion, I'd say that I enjoyed GTA IV for what it is, and I'm looking 
 forward to it's downloadable contents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johonywuzhere
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  GTA games were good before, then I played GTA IV which was supposed to be the best GTA yet. I realized 
 it was highly overated. The campaign is boring because you do the same thing over and over. The 
 clothes and weapons are dissapointing and there is nearly no customization. You basically in the 
 campaign save your cousin from people who he owes money too. You also go on dates like bowling 
 and talk to your cousin while doing activity like bowling or pool which gets really boring. 
  
  A good thing about this game is the graphics. Nothing to scream about, but the best looking 
 game I have seen from any GTA game and better then most of the competition in this section. 
  
  The online multiplayer is the only thing that you customize. There is much less to choose from 
 then Saints Row 2, but there is some. The online multiplayer is basically a deathmatch using the 
 city as you map. 
  
  Although the graphics and multiplayer could make this a good game, the campaign is just so boring 
 and out creativity that it makes it a bad, boring game. I highly recommend Saints Row because of 
 the creativity and the fun missions. 4.5/10 is my rating for GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was one of the best best games I have ever played in my entire life.
 
  Thats no different from GTA IV.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV presents the new charactor Niko Bellic, a man sent by his troubled cousin Roman 
 who a group of men money.
  Niko gets involved and soon is running around shooting guys in the head.
  
  GTA IV not only 
 takes a great storyline and makes it their own but, also making it the best storyline I've ever 
 played. But their is one bad thing, once you beat the story, It is kinda boring from there on. 
 It lacks certain activitys unlike Saint's Row 2 (one great strength that game had.) but the multiplayer 
 will make up for this. If you have Xbox Live, your in luck.
  
  GTA IV has such great multiplayer modes that it looks at Gears Of War 2 and Halo 3 and says "What 
 the f*** you looking at, punks?" and they go "Your magical wonderland of fun."
  
  GTA IV features the following:
  Free Mode: Run around up to 16 players in Liberty City, no flaws 
 at all.
  Deathmatch: you've seen it before.
  Team Deathmatch: Also you've seen before.
  Cops N' Crooks: The ingenious thing since Kane & Lynch: Dead Man's online. Crooks must either get 
 their Boss to the escape boss (One for All) or everybody run away from the cops before they get 
 ya (All for One) .
  
  Those are just some examples, play this game, buy it, loath in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the best of 2008... sure u can beat it in like 4 days if u are really good, 
 but there is alot the do... I liked how this game is programed on Niko's cell phone so u can switch 
 from multiplayer to single player to your character... The games story talks about Niko from Russia 
 who is trying to live the American dream with his brother Roman... The two have a great relationship 
 and really drive the game... I loved this game the dialogue is fantastic, the graphics look great 
 on an HD tv and are bright and vibrant.... Overall u can pretty much play the story in this game 
 or just cause alot of chaos and type in the cheats.... It appeals to alot of people even though 
 it is controversial, but all well.... There are many stores some limited which is the only limit 
 to the game... I would have liked to see more stores then, bowling ally, clothing shop, bar, etc.... 
 I would have liked to see more characters at the end to replay the game, but thats when the multiplayer 
 comes the multiplayer is great if u can get one going.... It's really fun and having alot of people 
 shoot each other and run each other over is fun.... go out and buy this game it will soon become 
 a classic and its fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flacracker173
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  *********************Grand Theft Auto 4 
  
  
  While I was playing this game I thought it was very fun. I was great at the time. This is why I 
 will give it a good score. But after I beat it the game became nothing. No side missions really. 
 Nothing you can really do but kill people witch is very dumb in this game because of the cop system. 
 The cop system is dumb too.
  
  The cop system is so retarded. As soon as I shoot someones I get a star. Its because there are 
 like 200 cops right next to you at all times. Ive seen 3 cops lines up in a row on the street before. 
 In Saints Row 2 I can have some fun at least. I can shoot someone and not have a whole army of 
 cops on my ass in SR2.
  
  Then after you beat this game there is nothing to do at all. Killing people as I said becomes boring 
 itself. They should not have taken the realism route. SR2 took the fun route and it was great. 
 GTA4 not so much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1995_1996_1997
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  rockstar has outdone it's self with this game. niko bellic an italian imagrate coming to liberty 
 city to find woman , money and glory. a series of problems makes him and his cousin roman enter 
 the world of crime and at last they find that its not about the money and women but stay ato live. 
 this game is the best of the 360 and has beautiful graphics hard, fun, cold blooded missions and 
 gore. this game is shoter than sandreas but still long enough to be one of the fierce competotors 
 of best games of 2008. ther areseveral characters in the game that will on the edge of your seat. 
 this game will attract you to its addactive playing. there are charactersthat will anoy you in 
 this game like dimitri theres and jimmy pejerino . still this game has little mistakes like when 
 entering a cab and theres already a passengers he tell of a robery when he gets them out. game 
 is a one of a kind game and an essential one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzyblitz16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for a while so I guess I will review it. 
  
  Story- Alright but nothing I will remember I mean for some reason I think the makers paid the 
 reviewers to give this game a perfect score because I was not feeling those emotions they said 
 I would feel while playing this game. Niko is another cry-baby just like CJ! and he is EMO more 
 then ever! too much drama for a GTA game.
  
  Game-Play- Nothing newjust a lot of "follow him, kill them, chase him, save Roman and take this 
 girl on a date" in fact I thought the older games on the PS2 were better in my opinion. There's 
 no fun cheats, you can't mod cars, no gun skills, no bikes, can't drive trains anymore, less options 
 to pick from and you get a boring city with boring people who walk the streetwhat ever happen 
 to the gangs that would shoot at you if you came into their area of the city ? anyways I like 
 the new driving and the option to stay in contact with the people you meet in the story but you 
 have to take them out for the most boring things!.. what is darts, shows and bowling doing in a 
 damn GTA game ? lets rob some damn banks!
  
  City & AI- Alright but boringyour still the crime-rate meaning your still the only person jacking 
 cars, killing people and acting a clown. I thought the AI was suppose to be smarter and think above 
 the laweven worst half the city is closed off! you only get a few save-houses, food stores and 
 apartments to walk intoyou can't even go back into half the buildings you enter when your on a 
 mission after you beat the mission.
  
  Graphics- They look good! almost like real life sort of.
  
  Sound- Alrightyou may hear some 
 songs you may start to likethe bad thing is you can't interact with people who walk the street 
 anymore and Niko only has a few linesin shoot-outs he yells the same things over and over again. 
 
  
  Online- It's fun! but the problem is once someone's internet messes up everybody gets kicked off 
 the gamethat's dumb because you can't even enjoy the game when your too worried about who's internet 
 keeps messing up.
  
  The game is alright but don't believe the hype. It's just GTA:3 with out-standing graphics not 
 the best game ever madereviewers get over your self's.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Great game, recommend it for any GTA fan who loves a serious engaging story. Though is definately 
 for mature audiences.
  
  The game has lots of replayability (i've played through the entire storyline twice, on my third 
 time now) and the freedom within the game is amazing. The cars are fun to drive once you get used 
 to the handling and the radio stations are a blast. Every character in the game is unique from 
 the steroid junkie Brucie, to a crack addict that you meet on the street in a little side mission.
 
  
  Get the game, you'll enjoy it if you love GTA or if you are a fan of Martin Scorsese. Anyone who 
 has seen one of his movies will understand, that this GTA is a gritty experience (but with its 
 light moments) that shows people the dark underbelly of a city where people are the real monsters 
 that lurk around in the night.
  
  The game gets a serious 9.5/10 from me, and hey i don't review a game unless it is able to bring 
 me back to play it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is, in every way, an amazing sequel to Grand Theft Auto 3. The problem is that it is 
 only a sequel to GTA 3 and seems to ignore everything learned from Vice City and San Andreas. Gone 
 is the feeling of 'living a life of crime' and the series goes back to making you an errand boy. 
 Going into the game knowing this, you will still have a blast. Unfortunately, many aspects of the 
 game feel like a step backwards.
  
  The basic gameplay remains relatively unchanged. There are a couple new moves added to the 'on 
 foot' controls so it will take a bit longer for the average player to get the controls down than 
 in previous versions. The targeting system has been revamped and is much better than past games. 
 Targeting the enemy is much the same, but you can now fine tune your shot to go for location specific 
 hits. Enemies react quite realistically to where they get shot. They will fall to the ground if 
 hit in the legs, be unable to shoot for a moment if hit in the arms, and go down with one well 
 placed headshot. In an absolutely unheard of move in video games, if you shoot a guy ten times 
 in the foot, he doesn't actually die. He will fall to the ground and writhe around in pain, no 
 longer able to attack you, while begging you not to kill him. This, of course, is left up to you 
 if you do or not and doesn't have any impact on the game one way or the other. Another nice addition 
 is the ability to take cover behind objects and walls. This makes the gun battles much easier to 
 handle. I have heard several people say that the cover system doesn't work properly and glitches 
 quite often, but I never had any problems. I believe it is a similar situation to Kane and Lynch 
 where most people that complained just weren't using it properly.
  
  Vehicle controls remain relatively unchanged from other games in the series. The one major difference 
 is that the vehicles have been made to feel like there is much more weight to them. Some players 
 may not like this, but I loved it because it made the driving feel much more realistic. Pulling 
 off insane stunts feels more rewarding because it is a bit more difficult to do now. Speaking of 
 driving, you will be doing much less of it in this game due to a brilliant addition. You now have 
 the ability to hail a cab that can, for a small fee, take you to the mission destination or any 
 other key location in the city that you have already visited. You then have the option to ride 
 along, tell the driver to hurry, or skip immediately to your destination for another fee. This 
 completely gets rid of the monotonous cross-city driving that plague past GTA games. Although, 
 if you enjoyed all that driving, you are still more than welcome to grab a car and drive yourself.
 
  
  Now we come to the weakest part of the game: the story. It is unfortunate that the name 'Hitman' 
 was already taken, because it would be far more fitting. About three quarters of the missions send 
 you to kill someone and you do it with no questions asked. There are basically no car theft missions 
 like the title of the game would lead you to believe. There are very few unique missions and most 
 consist of 'go here, kill this person (or people) , and come back.' Many of the people I actually 
 didn't want to kill because I knew they would be much more valuable to me alive and their death 
 would cause problems later on. Sure enough, as soon as you kill them, your cell phone rings and 
 it is their former employer demanding that you do work for them to make up for it. The entire game 
 is spent with your character being an errand boy for completely random people that have really 
 no relation to one another. The main story begins impressively with plenty of intriguing twists 
 and turns. After the first 3-5 hours of gameplay, your main foe disappears and the storyline just 
 goes on hold for 20+ hours. Every time you think you are about to get back on track, you meet another 
 person that has nothing to do with anything and requires you to do missions for them. Your character 
 has no loyalty to any of these people and no reason to be working for them. All of the characters 
 you meet late in the game are very generic criminal stereotypes. Most of the cutscenes involving 
 them get to be boring and repetitive. During the game, you never make any real progress toward 
 a better life like in the last two games. You get a few crappy apartments and stay at the bottom 
 of the totem pole the entire game.
  
  The second major problem with the game is that money is completely worthless. Other than refilling 
 your ammo, buying some clothes, and some minor cab fares, there is nothing to spend the money on 
 in the game. Gone is the property to buy, garages to get custom parts from, or casinos to blow 
 money in. I have over half a million dollars and continue doing mission because the main character 
 claims he needs the cash during just about every other cutscene. Only being rewarded with money 
 that is totally useless to you makes much of the later game pointless. There was no incentive to 
 keep playing and the only reason I did was to see the ending. Even that wasn't very encouraging 
 because most of the people you go after in the end did things to the main character before the 
 game started, so I really didn't have much reason to not like them. In the last two games, you 
 actually saw your enemies screw you over and knew why you hated them. In this one, you are simply 
 told that they did and that is supposed to be enough.
  
  The secondary activities that the series is known for are back in force. At any time (while not 
 in mission) you can call any one of your expanding list of friends and hang out with them. There 
 is a wide variety of things to do with them: bowling, pool, darts, dining out, go to a comedy club, 
 and several others. The comedy club was my personal favorite. The stand-up is performed by none 
 other than Katt Williams. Even better, it is all recorded especially for the game. Some of the 
 jokes are from his past stand up, but there are large parts of it where he talks directly about 
 Liberty City much like most comedians do when performing in different cities. You can log onto 
 the internet from any computer and do anything from check your e-mail to checking the news to even 
 meeting NPCs on an in-game dating website. In addition to the now famous GTA radio stations, there 
 is also TV that you can watch. There are several different shows made just for the game and much 
 of it is fairly funny. The overall humor of the game does seem to be fading, though. While past 
 games were so cleverly offensive that you couldn't help but smile, much of the stuff in this game 
 just comes across as dumb. On top of this, the music chosen for this game isn't anywhere near as 
 good as past games. I put over fifty hours into both Vice City and San Andreas and never once turned 
 the radio off, but in this game it only took me a few hours to be tired of it.
  
  Graphically, the entire game is impressive. It won't compete with Gears of War or Mass Effect, 
 but everything looks far better than in other open world games. Not because the graphics are that 
 good, but the amount of small details make the game look amazing. Many games look unrealistic because 
 everything seems too clean. Here, there is litter blowing everywhere. Loose edges of wallpaper 
 on walls, potholes that are actually rendered in 3D, and smudges of dirt or dust on most everything. 
 Pedestrians don't wander mindlessly down the street anymore. They glance around, stop to look at 
 different things, and carry drinks or food that they will actually drop if you run into them. An 
 insane amount of work went into making the environment seem like a real city and their efforts 
 have paid off tremendously.
  
  There is no denying that this is GTA through and through. If you liked the other games in the series, 
 you will still love this one, as long as you go in knowing that it isn't the greatest game ever 
 made (I still can't comprehend how nearly every major reviewer gave this a perfect score) . It is 
 strange that Rockstar decided to call this game number four in the series when this is the first 
 one that actually doesn't feel like a full sequel but more of an expansion or spin-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombehhhh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, they've done it again! They have succeeded in making a game that will go down in history 
 books. Everything about this franchise has been rethought. They've polished the game to perfection. 
 Many of the other Grand Theft Auto games have had lousy gameplay and terrible graphics. That has 
 all been noticed. The visuals in this game are wonderful, rivaling games like Halo 3 and Mass Effect. 
 The gun fights are easier now with the new auto-aiming system and the cover system. Another thing 
 that I think that enhances the entertainment is the ragdoll effect. I spent nearly 2 days just 
 watching Niko Bellic jump out of fast moving cars and off of the Empire State Building. The whole 
 of Liberty City has changed completely. Cars are cooler, faster, and easier to drive. The new city 
 is also something to recognize. Driving across a bridge or taking a ride in a taxi is amazing. 
 They really made this city feel like a real place. Riding subways, buying hot dogs, getting e-mail, 
 taking a girl out on a date, and taking care of your social life with friends are just a couple 
 of things that contribute to this. They did great on this game and I hope they can make more like 
 this in Vice City and San Andreas. Also note that I think the multiplayer is fun but glitchy, that's 
 a whole other thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apdeadman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game, I've played the whole thing through two times and a bit. I really enjoy 
 the new style of game play (which is more realistic driving, new fighting style, and better shooting 
 with gears of war type hiding and shooting behind objects) , the new wanted level system is also 
 better. I would recommend purchasing this game. Overall the game has a very good story, it gives 
 you various choices throughout the game (which will lead to different missions and "perks") . The 
 story its self does not go by very fast, and is like an involved cinematic experience. I have not 
 gotten bored of this game yet, and I have come back to it several times after being in the middle 
 of other games (such as fallout and oblivion) . Graphics are outstanding compared to previous rock 
 star releases. The characters in the game all have very distinct personalities, which makes you 
 feel more involved in the game and the decisions made in the story. This game will consume your 
 time, and you should watch a clock when you play. A lot of fun, never boring. It is a tough game 
 to pick up and play for a short period of time, as you will want to keep advancing in it. If you 
 do not already own this game, I would recommend picking it up, but keep in mind that it will consume 
 a lot of your time.
  
  
  CHEERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid23455
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  WOW, i dont even know where to start. 
  Basically, unclassic. Poor people who paid 60 bucks for this piece of s***.
  Anyway, dont buy, 
 unless you find it cheap, and you can, i saw one on ebay for 15 bucks.
  The game starts off introducing you to a new character, niko bellic. It gives you such a crappy 
 description of him, it is pretty much pointless to even bother trying to find out the story. When 
 it starts, you will be astonished by the very stable frame rate and great graphics, and car handling. 
 There are so many little things, from watching television to looking through binoculars that make 
 this game special. The amazing graphics, though was too much. They should have gone with the variety 
 of all the things that made the previous games great. A train, great air combat, good sea combat, 
 it has decent car combat, and good foot combat. However, the game left out many inportant things, 
 like police missions, gangs, drug dealing, ambulane missions ( though questionable if this was a 
 good thing) , barely any helicopters, no jetskis, crappy boats, no tanks, no swat teams, and the 
 biggest, NO AIRPLANES. WTF! No hydra to bomb all the friggin cars going down the street, no real 
 internet play. Dont buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueCoopsy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  What a game! Deep, meaningful and unbelievably real. It may have steered away from its previous 
 titles (Vice City, San Andreas) in that it wasn't edgy and witty (and no fountain of blood succeeding 
 a head shot) yet amazing graphics and profound gameplay has helped GTA 4 climb to the apex of gaming. 
 A sandbox city has never looked so real.... full stop!
  
  I'll admit it lacks that push - whether this is the shortage of customization (clothing, character 
 add ons, cars, cribs) . But this minor factor is no reason to think this game as a "flop". 
  
  "GTA IV gives us characters and a world with a level of depth previously unseen in gaming and 
 elevates its story from a mere shoot-em-up to an Oscar-caliber drama. Every facet of Rockstar's 
 new masterpiece is worthy of applause. Without question, Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game since 
 Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" ........ IGN Review.
  
  GameSpot Score is justified as this game is the benchmark of realism.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: negativeions
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 24, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is buggy and broken. Rockstar is and always will be hacks. Since day one. They don't 
 make games. The make controversy and attention. That's all. What a slothing bunch of disgusting 
 hacks. Just like most developers out there. Pathetic children crying at the whim of the publisher. 
 Waaah, I need more time. Waah, what if we can't get our game published oh god. We must halt production. 
 You weak pathetic fools. Make a good game that kicks ass and blows everyone out of the water than 
 publishers will suck your balls. You're in control! ... This is exactly how not to make a game. 
 It was a good idea like 10 years ago. Now it's an old idea with better graphics. What a telling 
 sign of what's wrong with the industry. This game was rushed out by uncaring and lazy people. Period. 
 A new low in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiphy31
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I am playing through GTA 4 now and am alternating between fun and frustration. First off, it is 
 GTA, it is exactly like the other GTA games. I started playing GTA about 6 years ago. The series 
 is cool but is also getting kind of repetitive and old. There is nothing more frustrating then 
 getting 20 minutes into a mission, all the way to the end, only to die and have to start all over. 
 Do this 5 times on the same mission spending almost 2 hours to make no progress and you will want 
 to throw your controller through the TV. This has been my gripe about GTA since i started playing 
 them with GTA 3. They have to break free from this formula.
  
  On the upside the graphics and sounds are amazing and the storyline is very good. If they could 
 just let me enjoy the graphics and storyline without having to repeat a 20 minute mission because 
 I died at the very end I would like this game much better. I haven't tried multiplayer but it looks 
 like it could be fun.
  
  Buy this game if you a) loved the other GTA games, b) haven't played GTA before/in a while, or 
 c) want to experience some fantastic graphics in HD and surround sound on your console. Don't buy 
 this game if you have played the other GTA games and are sick of the formula.
  
  Sean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  GTA IV (4) REVIEW
  
  So you think this game will rule but after unlocking the second city you find yourself not doing 
 any missions because its all the same as in previous Gta's
  
  The graphics are Really good and the ragdoll effect is awesome (i like jumping out of Helli's)
 
  but soon all the things that you thought will be addictive for ages, gets boring in one day.
 
  
  what Gta iv really lacks is the real gta experience, gta sa was addicting for ages but this game, 
 well. i don't want to play as a Russian okay, if i was to have a second life i would not be a Russian.
 
  
  the multiplayer is nice, that is if you can join one, i realized that it is hard to connect with 
 gta mp and when you do it lags like hell
  but when you do get in and it does not lag its really fun, but everyones shouting into the mic 
 u hurt your ears so be warned.
  
  in the end buy this game if your really sure but keep in mind
  its not as good as you think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spooderweld
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphics: Graphics do not make a game but they do help. In Grand Theft Auto 4 the graphics were 
 not perfect but they were very good and that was the icing on the cake that completed the feeling 
 or immersion. 2. Physics Engine: The new physic engine means cars now handle much more realistically 
 which makes driving much more fun! Also the rag-doll physics given to all the characters make hitting 
 people with your cars, getting hit by cars, jumping out of cars, blowing up, and many other things 
 much funnier and fun!
  
  3. Story: As with all the Grand Theft Auto games the game has an extensive story with plenty of 
 humor and variety.
  
  4: Online Multiplayer: Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas had a multiplayer, but it was okay at best. 
 The addition of online multiplayer and tons of modes adds even more replay value to the game.
 
  
  5. Buildings: Yes, it's true! You may now enter a building without a loading screen! Also, cops 
 can enter buildings and so can cars! There is nothing more satisfying than blocking off the doors 
 of a building with a car and holding the place up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  It was an agonizing wait. But there I was in my living room getting ready to play a GTA title on 
 a console for the first time. We already know how beautiful the game looks... but how does it play?
 
  
  First, lets talk about what you'll inevitably find missing, using GTA: SA as a benchmark.
  - No 
 more properties to buy
  - No more vehicle mods
  - No more physique changing
  - Only a fraction of the clothing options.
  
  At first, I really felt these missing elements, 
 but over time I'm thankful the devs spent their time where they did. The car driving is beautiful, 
 and never has it been so satisfying to just drive around and smash into stuff. It is the essence 
 of GTA and it delivers two healthy scoops of awesome. 
  
  The story line, while still having those larger than life moments, is much grittier and less cartoonish 
 and also feels like it integrates all of the game's features in a much more satisfying fashion.
 
  
  Its not a 10, but its a very solid 8.5. While I genuinely miss the removed elements (properties, 
 vehicle mods, etc) , I'm also discouraged that the game STILL doesn't have a mission-replay mode, 
 forcing you to replay from the start if you ever want to do a mission over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buldog300
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto Series is by far one of the most entertaining and controversial gaming series 
 to ever grace video game consoles. Players in all shapes and sizes have loved to jump into the 
 shoes of hardened criminals as they climb their way up the scummy latter and take over the streets 
 of their respected cities. The game is so popular that it's spawned several clones, wannabes and 
 of course lawsuits.
  
  GTA4 is the newest chapter to the Grand Theft Auto series, and while it doesn't do much more than 
 it's predecessors, it still offers up an interesting and sometimes challenging twist on an old 
 formula.
  
  If for some reason you haven't heard the plot, possibly due to living under a rock or suffering 
 from a concussion that has wiped your memory, GTA4 is the story of Nicco Bellic and his 'make the 
 best out of a somewhat hopeless' situation. Though he mentions his past alot, this isn't a story 
 about redemption, nor is it quite about revenge. It's about surviving in the concrete jungle of 
 Liberty City, quite the counterpart to GTA's typical rise to the top style stories.
  
  The gameplay is fun... sorta. The shooting parts have adopted the cover system previously seen 
 on other popular games (this is not to say the cover system is exactly the same, but it is obviously 
 derived from previous title) . Shooting generally involves pulling out your strongest weapon and 
 unloading it onto enemy gangsters, with a bit more depth. You can throw grenades and of course you 
 have a variety of the usual weapons. Driving, when compared to previous titles, has been made more 
 realistic, and difficult. It takes some getting used to driving in liberty city, but once you get 
 the feel it will be as natural as breathing. 
  
  Technically speaking, GTA4 looks and sounds good. Weapons sound as they should, car engines rev 
 and even shift gears appropriately. Radio stations and television are humorous, albeit biased in 
 opinions. GTA4 captures the gritty and dirty feel of the urban area of cities, while still having 
 plenty of humor.
  
  GTA4 does the series justice. It is fun, but doesn't stray away from the gameplay and moments that 
 the franchise is known for. While many argue that it is this new, yet familiar charm that makes 
 the game perfect, I feel other than wall hugging and a few tweaks, this is the same game with a 
 new image. Niko is amusing, but definitely not the best character to carry this series. To put 
 it simple, the game is fun, not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pato-666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  it took me some time to win this game, but thats because of the difficulty of certain levels such 
 as the bank assault one.
  i put 9.5, because i had some problems, not in the difficulty, just in game failtures, on some 
 levels.
  FOR EXAMPLE: in the last mission, i died once just for falling on the water, on a video of that 
 mission, and on other missions the AI wasnt that good, in one mission, i had to wait for someone 
 to get in the car, but i was perfectly in possition for he to enter, but...
  he just didnt come inside...
  and i died once in a taxi just for the patetic driving skills of 
 the driver...
  so, it has some mistakes.
  the story line was perfect, i got involved and i liked the side missions, and the manhunt stuff 
 is great, some achievements are so difficult, but there are some that are not, so is a very equilibrated 
 game.
  gta4 is not a perfect game, but still a grate game, and for me, the best of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SympathySama
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game in the series after San Andreas, although, they could have added a 
 few more things that were missing! Tanks, Satchel Charges, Maybe even toss the Hydra Jet back in? 
 Never the less, it's still endless fun running around the city, starting bar fights, killing hookers, 
 blowing up N. O. O. S. E vans, knifing Hot Dog Vendor operators! You can NOT deny that this game doesn't 
 bring any interest because.. well.. it brings a LOT of interest! The only problems I found with 
 this, is a few glitches from time to time, and the people on free mode that kill like' it's Death 
 Match. I mean, come on, yeah. It's free mode, you can do what you want, but this is just overdoing 
 it. Then there's still the endless barrage of little kiddies that yell at you when you beat them 
 in a GTA Race, or kill them in death match. But blowing each other up with rpgs is still pretty 
 damn fun in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I find that San Andreas is better because the environment is not as confined as this GTA, I don't 
 own the game, but I was at a friends house and found this game to be sort of a let down, I swear 
 I thought this game would've been the smash hit, but that got thrown out the window when I found 
 out you cant drive tanks or a stinking plane. The AI is great, the world is very real, but its 
 basically the vehicle variety loss, loss of the one console multiplayer, and the map size. The 
 map is very well put, but it seems way smaller than San Andreas, plus the fact that you cant fly 
 a plane is outrageous in my opinion, and what happened to the tanks? I only played this game for 
 probably 3 hours and I already missed the Rhino tank from GTA San Andreas, also the Hydra (Harrier 
 fighter jet) was also something to cry about, (not literally) but I just got my hopes up for something 
 that wasn't what I'd hoped for in the past... I'm sorry to have disappointed anyone that would 
 die for this game, but, I'm speaking in honesty, when I say that Saints Row 2 is better than this. 
 I found this game difficult to get a good hand on, but San Andreas is (to me) the best GTA yet... 
 I just didn't enjoy the game as much as I'd hoped I would've... 
  
  Love, FakeFalse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiasa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The Game play and graphics have been upgraded in this latest installment of the GTA series. And 
 you can tell from the beginning that this is not simply an "upgrade". There's more detail in everything, 
 from road work to rain slicks. You'll have hours of fun running around mugging people, or simply 
 stealing cars and driving over ... well, everything. Be prepared for a few surprises as you'll see 
 people and objects flying around. 
  Using your spiffy new cellular phone; you can easily find missions and talk to those you meet in 
 your adventure. Take your girlfriend out for a sunset drive or better yet, go bowling, play pool 
 or toss a few darts. Take your Cousin out for drinks at the bar. 
  With a few mini games , entrancing radio stations and the television to watch in your off hours; 
 you shouldn't have any problem staving off boredom in GTA: 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Killer_66
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The culmination of top notch content and a story worthy of literary thematics results in absolute 
 perfection. I am glad to see that the series has finally matured past the mood of san andreas (which 
 has been picked up and improved by SR2, which is great fun in its own respect) and somehow, with 
 less customization, have developed a top notch experience. All the characters in the game are immaculately 
 developed, and the dialogue is, like almost everything else in this game, perfect. Niko Bellic 
 is by far the deepest, most complicated and interesting character in the history of video games, 
 and as the true star of the show, has propelled this franchise to new heights. The realism and 
 believability of both the world you are immersed in and the story is just unbelievable. This game 
 will be remembered as the stand out of the generation, and i have a hard time seeing how anything 
 can surpass what has been accomplished here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillkillv2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING 
 GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  EXTREMELY ADDICTING GAME!!!!! onlline is perfect, free rome is a success!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captyc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game to bits i love it and its my fav game i have spent hours of time on this and i 
 still its great after finishing it i can go out and cause mayhem non stop all the physics make 
 it so much different every time you play, if you havent played b4 (i doubt it) play it found it 
 alot different from the other gta but thats a good thing i still can speed with out cops coming 
 on me beat ppl up and go on rampages steal cars and get my moneys worth story plus the lost and 
 damned is gunna be awesome ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
  
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
 
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  v
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
 
  
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898
  8989898989898'
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny-21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV Has successfully filtered the good and bad things occurring throughout the series, as well 
 as taking in a few new things with it.
  Unlike the previous gtas this one brings to life the amazing graphics of the ps3 and xbox360, it's 
 amazing when you look back through the years and look back at this one.
  
  The weapons factor in GTA IV works much better than the previous ones, instead of losing all of 
 your weapons when you die, you keep them and only pay a small portion of your wealth.
  although when you are arrested you lose all of your weapons. although it is much easier to avoid 
 being arrested in GTA IV, as when a cop is holding a gun to you, and you think it's all over, you 
 have the option to run away. this is only inevitable when you are in a vehichle.
  
  As well as the magnificent graphics, the sound effects have had a complete makover, for the better. 
 This is completely noticeable when you run someone over at high speeds (when i first played it 
 i couldn't stop laughing) .
  
  although no game is perfect, that includes this one. the amount of cops in liberty city is unreal.. 
 literally, everywhere you turn you find a cop. everytime you shoot someone, a cop magically appears 
 out of nowhere in a matter of seconds.
  
  Apart from the odd problem here or there, GTA IV is a wonderful game that really shines a light 
 after a bad day, i would reccomend it to nearly anyone that enjoys a nice shootup, all the time, 
 or now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  Well, its missing some of the immaturity that the other games had. Maybe that sounds really stupid, 
 but thats what makes the GTA franchise so fun. In this latest installment they've gone for a more 
 realistic, mature experience; and i'm not fully satisfied with how its turned out.
  
  I miss the crazy stunts you could pull off, and how the cars could sort of slide around corners 
 arcade-like. And I miss all the humour, the wacky characters and situations, like driving the little 
 remote controlled cars that are bombs. What happened to all that fun stuff?? Its all replaced for 
 the sake of realism. If you look at Saints Row and Saints Row 2, for example, which are current 
 generation GTA clones. They have stuck to that over-the-top type of gameplay, and it shows by just 
 how different those games are now compared to the new GTA. The formular has been tinkered with 
 when it didn't need to be.
  
  But lets talk about whats good about GTA 4. The story for a start. Its much better than any of 
 the older stories, and involves choices you decide for yourself, an ending which will have an emotional 
 impact on you, and an interesting main character. This is one thing i'm glad has matured, as the 
 stories in the older games were never very good. Mostly they have just been about getting as much 
 money as possible, get as many houses as possible, and kill everyone in charge because your character 
 wants to be the biggest b*stard in the city. (though san andreas' story wasn't bad)
  
  The graphics are technically superb, because of how slick and high quality everything looks, even 
 though the city is so huge and so much is going on at once. The only problem is that everything 
 is quite dark and dismall. Its not really as bright and colourful as the other games, though GTA3 
 was dark too (and set in the same city) I thought we'd advanced from that into a better colour 
 palette. So now we've taken a big step back again. Though it may be quite a realistic portrayal 
 of the city its based on, it makes it less memorable and sometimes dull and washed out. The sheer 
 size of the game world, and the overall quality of the models and lighting effects are impressive 
 though. Never before in GTA has a city felt so alive. The physics also stand out as some of the 
 best i've seen from 2008. The game doesn't always run at a smooth framerate though, and never seems 
 to surpass 30fps or so from my observations (though its only guesswork) , and when a lot is happening 
 at once it can sometimes dip into some serious slowdown.
  
  In combat, I found the targeting system to be flawed. Sometimes it just wont latch onto the next 
 enemy when I move the stick, and sometimes it decides its better to aim at the person furthest 
 away from me than the person whos standing next to me putting bullets in my head. Taking cover 
 sometimes feels clunky too, and even moving around sometimes does because Niko seems to turn at 
 such a slow speed.
  
  Missions need checkpoints. Since GTA 3 its been my biggest annoyance to repeat a whole mission 
 right from the start. However, as always the missions are all structured well and they're great 
 fun to play.
  
  I enjoyed some of the activities and minigames, even though they are largely pointless, its nice 
 to unwind from all the killing and go and play pool or bowling or something. And they're well-made 
 enough to be good fun. It also gives you an opportunity to socialise with the other characters, 
 and in turn learn more about them and become attached to them. Its annoying how they call you every 
 20 minutes to go out but you can just hang up on them. Your friendship rating goes down but it 
 doesn't seem to have any effect on the game.
  
  Expanding on my comments before about the humour of the game, its still there. Its just more confined 
 and mature. The few funny stereotypes the game throws at you just feel like comic relief, not a 
 main part of the game like they used to be. Its much more focused on being taken seriously, so 
 they've gotten rid of all the over-the-top stuff. However, the radio stations are still as wacky 
 as ever, and they actually feel out of place in this new gritty world; and the music choices this 
 time don't really leave any kind of an impression or give an added atmosphere to the game like 
 some of the prior GTA games did well. There arent even many memorable tracks apart from a few classics 
 and a couple of catchy songs. Overall the stations leave a lot to be desired.
  
  Its still a very fun game that drained nearly 40 hours of my life, that I recommend everyone to 
 play. Its just not really what I expected from a GTA game, and its left me somewhat disappointed. 
 And even disregarding my fond memories of the last three major games, and my comparations of them; 
 the new installment still has some design flaws that stand out and should have been thought about 
 properly before it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game you've most certainly heard of. A large open world action game. Hell, 
 I wouldn't be surprised if most of the people reading have the games, Im just here to give my two 
 cent, so lets get on with it. Grand Theft Auto sets you in the large metropolis of Liberty. You 
 progress through the main story by completing mission that you get from various characters and 
 these missions can be completed in many different orders and fashions, making it a very open ended 
 (Why it's called open ended) . While it is for the most part an open ended game, don't let the idea 
 get to your head, it's not as if the game will craft an entirely different story for everyone. 
 Their can be some minor differences, but for the most part the game fallows one main story. Now, 
 that we have the basics down we can get the actual gameplay. When in combat, Grand Theft Auto IV 
 Plays much like Gears of War. You can get behind cover by pressing the Right bumper. Locking on 
 target is done by pressing the left trigger and the right trigger shoot. Most of this is pretty 
 basic stuff you've probably learned from other shooters, Gears of War and Call of Duty 4 especially, 
 and it all works very well. Combat wise my only real complaint is that sometimes you might take 
 cover behind something you didn't intend to on occasion, but it's no big deal. I also have to say 
 I think it's really strange that in a modern action game such as this that instead of recharging 
 health, you have the old fashioned health bars that you have to worry about, making you desperately 
 look for health pack, armor and vendors if your in a sticky situation. For vehicle controls, all 
 I can really say is that you'll either like it or hate it. The vehicle controls are more realistic 
 and in line with what you'd see in Gran Turismo Forza Motor sport. It takes more skill to drive 
 cars in this game than in the usual action game. It's not as difficult as the racing games mentioned 
 earlier, but don't be surprised if you spin out of control in same car chases. You'll either get 
 the hang of it, or you wont, and if you don't, may God have pity on your soul. In GTA IV, you have 
 a cell phone and while its pretty cool sometimes, It has it's downs as well, First I've gotta say 
 the text on that thing is to small, and I've got an HD TV. It's not unreadable, but you really 
 have to look hard. Then there's also your friends in the game. There's also your friends in the 
 game. At first you wont mind going out with them, but as you get further into the game it get really 
 annoying, but if you don't go out with your friend they'll start getting angry... I suppose it's 
 not a big deal though I guess. It's all optional and most characters wont really do anything if 
 they get angry at you other than maybe not assist you with some of their services, but I'm sure 
 it'll still bother people a bit. Really, it's nothing big, it's just a minor annoyance. Also, you 
 can only save in safe houses... which can be a bit inconvenient if your pressed for time. The game 
 looks fantastic really. It's hard to believe the game is so detailed based on it's epic scale (It's 
 the biggest game I have ever played) . The only problem is that there is some texture pop ups every 
 now and then, but the game is still rather impressive and it's easily one of the best looking games 
 I have ever had the pleasure of playing. I'd also like to note that the new euphoria physics engine 
 used for this game is utterly fantastic. The voice acting it's excellent and the ambience of the 
 city is perfect. The licensed soundtrack for the radio stations have great variety and are of the 
 highest quality and the original track for the game are great to. Honestly, if there weren't an 
 achievement for it, I wouldn't believe, but the game can be beaten in under thirty hours, but Im 
 sure the average is higher. Personally it took me around forty hours to beat the game. There's 
 a lot to do here. Once you've beaten the game you will most certainly have a lot of missions left 
 to do and some achievements to unlock. And considering the game has to ending and some plot points 
 that can be altered there enough here to go through game more than once. Besides the long single 
 player game though there is a pretty good multiplayer mode. To sum it up, just think of Halo 3's 
 multiplayer modes and most of them are here in GTA IV under a different name. There's death match, 
 team death match, Cops n' Crooks is basically VIP (you must kill a specific player on the enemy 
 team) , Turf war is basically territories and there are a few unique game type like Mafia Work. 
 There are also a few co-op mission, unfortunately it's only a few. Over all the multiplayer is 
 great and it's certainly formidable competition for Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. I just find it amazing 
 that it was possible to have up to 16 players all there in a huge map at the same time with cops 
 and citizens all in tact. It's truly an achievement. I may nit picked a lot, but Grand Theft Auto 
 IV is an excellent game. It may not be perfect like the critics have been saying, but that shouldn't 
 stop you from getting such a great game as this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingedHero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  After playing GTA IV for a few weeks, I gotta say that I'm impressed the way RockStar focused on 
 the story line, realism and the physics. The storyline is how the storyline of every GTA game goes, 
 you start off as a lowly criminal then work your way up to the top. 
  
  Story:
  This time you play as Niko Bellic, a Russian immigrant in search of the American Dream. He heads 
 off to Liberty City to meet up with his cousin Roman so he can start a new life , but, things are 
 not the way its supposed to be and it turns out that his cousin is nothing but a guy in trouble 
 who needs help from Niko due to his debt. He lied about having a mansion and Niko is fooled to 
 go to Liberty City. Trouble then comes to his cousin so Niko has to fend for himself and his cousin.
 
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay is great, you will really have fun shooting people when in a fight. There is also 
 some added realism to the gameplay. The gameplay sure is fun, but, once you finish the game you 
 will be wanting more. Luckily the multiplayer and the upcoming DLC can help ease the repetitiveness.
 
  
  Multiplayer-
  The Multiplayer is awesome with friends, you can have fun around and you can goof around Liberty 
 City. There are alot of modes so you won't get bored of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  
  I must say that the missions aren't really too much to get excited about but really folks, this 
 much detail in a game is outstanding! The ladies say something different every time you wear the 
 same clothes, and the people on the street are like actual living breathing people. The gun mechs 
 are a def improvement, Niko Bellic is the coolest guy in the world and his supporting cast are 
 just joy to watch. I'll tell ya this... Grand Theft could never make a good movie... cause the games 
 have all the great scripts. Without a doubt the best in the series and the expansion packs are 
 going to prove why Grand Theft Auto 4 had just as big of a splash, if not bigger, than the rest. 
 Please go get this game if you haven't played it, and if ya never played a Grand Theft game..... shame 
 on you! Or just wait til it goes on sale! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshy485
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  We've all been waiting for GTA 4 to come out and blow us away for the longest time. Its a game 
 that pushes the envelope of today's gaming standards to the limit. Its got it all, Great Graphics, 
 excellent Gameplay and an exceptionally Great soundtrack. Not to mention the size and scale of 
 the city... Liberty City that is. The story is Probably the best part of the game, it has you sucked 
 right into it at the very start of the game, and it won't spit you back out till you beat it. 
 
  
  GTA 4 introduces the Euphoria engine to videogames for the first time, and it really makes the 
 game that much more realistic. You'll never know what happens when you get hit by a car or run 
 over pedestrains.
  The game also has far more radio stations available than previous GTA games and better music too. 
 
  
  One of the things that will go through your head when you play this game is,... How did they manage 
 to make such a grandiose game and not screw anything up?
  Technical glitches are minimal, if not absent and everything about the game seems refined, down 
 to the letters on signs and the minuscule details on pedestrains incluing their voices and what 
 they say. You'll notice that you won't hear them say the same thing more than a couple times, throughout 
 the game. 
  The environments in the fourth GTA game are superb. The water is beautiful despite its filth and 
 as time passes the sun will rise and fall with great beauty as you ride your PCJ 600 down the Bridge. 
 
  
  GTA 4 is a great game but if you've played San Andreas you'll also be wondering... Wheres the airplanes? Jet 
 packs? Bicycles? Can I skydive?
  Where are the casinos, Drivable trains and remote control vehicles?
  GTA 4 is missing a lot of 
 really fun things! In fact its missing so many fun things I could almost say San Andreas was a 
 better game. Well i can say it was a funner game, but not exactly better. When it come to Quality 
 GTA 4 is the winner, but for downright fun... I'm not sure.
  
  As you can see GTA 4 is a truly exceptional game that must be played by all gamers alike, no matter 
 what. I can say this... If you haven't played GTA 4, you can't truly be a gamer. It will have you 
 playing over 100 hours at least and leave you with a new perspective of the gaming world and how 
 far its come since Gears of war... I mean Pac-man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orthelo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  For any of you that have played any iterations of Grand Theft Auto from GTA3 onwards, this game 
 should feel very familiar to you. The gameplay and overall feel of the game is similar.
  
  While I would not consider this game to be tops with current graphics in games, they are very good. 
 The draw distance is such that buildings rarely "pop" into view unless you are airborne or during 
 some instances where you are crossing large bridges during daytime. Shadows can look odd on character 
 faces at time, but are in general well done. The city is also VAST. It can take quite some time 
 to drive from one side to the other, and it is often best simply to take a cap and skip the cut 
 scenes.
  
  The depth of gameplay is enormous as well. On top of all of the missions and side missions are 
 a plethora of mini-games such as bowling, pool, etc. You can even surf the net and pick up dates. 
 It can be a handful keeping all of your friends and dates happy if you're not careful... not to 
 mention the characters chiding in with game missions on your cell phone, which can block out appointments.
 
  
  However, the general city AI is a bit to be desired for. While much of the fun in these kinds of 
 games is high speed car chases and bulldozing around the city, a player SHOULD also be able to 
 fully immerse themself by following logical traffic laws/rules when not on a mission. However, 
 I notice that the city AI only has vehicles follow stoplights, correct lanes, or other vehicles 
 about 50% of the time. Large accidents occur left and right.
  
  Also, I've had half a dozen times where a police cruise has hit ME and then all of a sudden I have 
 a Wanted level. However, I can knock over telephone poles, drive in the wrong lane at 80mph, or 
 smash through parked cars right in front of the cops and nothing happens.
  
  So while the GTA4 is certainly one of the better games on the XBOX 360, it does not warrant a perfect 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wombo194
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Its just so repetiteve, I haven't played saints row 2 but i know its better. Anyways here we go!
 
  
  Graphics: Good and realistic, HDR lighting and all that. its realistic but no parashoots, cant 
 even fly plains, sorta make it not realistic.
  
  Gameplay: Repetitive, yet i like to do some funny stuff like jumping off building for the randomness.
 
  
  Sound: Good
  
  Characters development: Not good, rockstar doesn't know how to make a good character. Basically 
 Niko is some guy from Russia that likes to kill random people and work for random people he doesn't 
 know to get some money and those tasks are killing people. REPETITIVE!!!
  
  Story: Go around killing people including innocent people, get some money, get a house, kill more 
 people, do some more stuff, blah blah. It gets boring after a while and all i like to do is get 
 a bike and drive it off the Empire state building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  LOVED
  
  Incredible Depth: Having a pletthora of different things to do is a staple of the GTA franchise, 
 and GTA IV does not disappoint. From street races, strip clubs, comedy clubs, vigilante missions, 
 billiards/bowling/darts, helicopter & boat tours, surfing the faux internet, watching hilarious 
 TV shows, to even online dating; There is just a ton of side-missions to do alongside the main 
 story missions. Or you can forget all that and just go on a crazy, murderous rampage in Liberty 
 City.
  
  Simply put, there is more side-mission content in GTA IV than most games have for their actual 
 game. It is simply amazing the amount of content Rockstar put into this game.
  
  Story / Ending (s) : I will concede GTA IV's story is not an epic tale, but it's still better than 
 most stories told in games. And I thought the endings did a great job of wrapping-up the story 
 . I played through both endings and liked the "REVENGE" ending better. **I recommend you save once 
 the "REVENGE" and "DEAL" choices become available in order to play them both. You'll know what 
 I'm talking about once you get there**
  
  Gameplay: Rockstar listened to its fans and really nailed the gameplay. Niko can take cover behind 
 objects (essential to surviving, BTW) , climb/jump over walls/fences/etc, dodge & counter during 
 fist fights, and the targeting system is highly effective. The new physics engine also made driving 
 a bit more realistic.
  
  GPS System / Taxi Cabs: This might be considered part of the gameplay, but the single greatest 
 addition was the GPS system. Simply pause the game, select the map, press 'A' on the location to 
 want to go, unpause the game, and now your in-game map will highlight the path to the location 
 you selected. Makes traveling in LC a breeze.
  
  And the taxi cabs, another much-needed addition to the series. Simply hail a cab and it will take 
 you whereever you want to go. Makes traveling even easier (and safer) . Oh and sometimes the cab 
 drivers make hilarious comments.
  
  Voice Acting: A terrific performance all around. Not one character's voice/accent seemed "forced" 
 by the actor. Even Little Jacob's voice actor sounds like an authentic rastafarian.
  
  Graphics & Audio Design: When you take into account all the things going on in Liberty City, GTA 
 IV's graphics are great. The animations are fluid. The lighting & shaders are spot-on. I was never 
 disappointed by what I saw on my 61" 1080p LCD.
  
  The audio design is superb as well, especially if you own a 5.1 surround sound system. A few times 
 my wife thought someone was honking outside due to the game. Liberty City feels more alive on a 
 5.1 system.
  
  Soundtrack: Another staple of the GTA franchise is an amazing soundtrack and again, GTA IV does 
 not disappoint. NEarly every music genre is covered. My favorite stations were Massive B & Tuff 
 Gong (reggae) , CL@SSICS (old-skool hip-hop) , WKRT (right-wing talk show) , and Integrity2.0 (non-partisan 
 talk show) . You'll find yourself wanting to drive more just to listen to the radio.
  
  Liberty City: I have never played in a virtual world that felt more "alive" than Liberty City. 
 A truly amazing accomplishment. You owe it to yourself from time-to-time to just simply walk around 
 LC and listen/watch the NPCs go about their business. You'll see what I mean.
  
  Online Multiplayer: While I admit I've only spent about 4hrs playing GTA IV online, the games I've 
 played were both chaotic & fun.... just as you'd expect. You can even just have some friend join 
 you and you guys just mess around in LC. 
  
  Brucie: Genetically superior alpha male, bro!! (my favorite character)
  
  
  HATED
  
  
 Dating / Hanging Out with Friends: Maybe "hate" is too strong a word, and I completely understand 
 why dating/hanging w/the buds is in the game. But I still found it annoying to be driving to start 
 a mission and I'd get called by a friend or GF to hang out. Annoying and yet understandable at 
 the same time. Kinda like real life!
  
  Useless Friend Services: From Brucie's helicopter rides, to Packie's car bombs, to Carmen's healing 
 ability, to Kiki's wanted-level-lowering ability; All of them are basically useless. The only friend 
 service I used was Little Jacob's gun delivery service.
  
  Online Community: ..... Or lack thereof. Unless you feel like Deathmatch or Racing, none of the 
 other game modes have enough players to fill a match. Disappointing and makes me wish I would've 
 played the game more closer to its release.
  
  Pop-Up: While not a problem for me, it's kinda annoying to see objects pop-up in the game. Not 
 a big deal at all though
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  GTA IV lived up to my expectations for it: A great story, awesome gameplay, rememberable characters, 
 fantastic soundtrack, a living city, and incredible depth. And to top it off; Online Multiplayer 
 that is a blast to play.
  
  About the only downside is that GTA IV gets off to a slow start. I was wondering what all the fuss 
 was about until I hit the 8hr mark or so. After that, it became clear why GTA IV was receiving 
 such high reviews. 
  
  A game to be played by any (mature) gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  After playing Grand Theft Auto for the first few days I was extremely impressed by the physics 
 engine, the graphics, and the similarity to New York City. The storyline is just like any other 
 GTA game, except your russian and you've just arrived to America to start a new life and mooch 
 money off your cousin, whom promised you mansions, vast wealth etc. But obviously after hearing 
 him say this, I knew it was not the case and I was going to end up making money myself by doing 
 missions just like any other GTA game.
  
  As for the storyline throughout the campaign, I believe it lives up to every other GTA game and 
 that it still captures the style that GTA is. However, after a week or two of playing, the missions 
 began to get tiresome for me. It was always "okay, I finished all the missions for this guy, oh 
 look another phone call from a random person" over, and over, and over. However, if you enjoyed 
 the missions in previous GTA games then these missions will surely appeal to you as well.
  
  As for the online play, I believe it was a great idea for Rockstar to implement a "party-type" 
 system. This makes GTA a blast to play with your friends with its Free-roam mode and various other 
 gameplay types and customizations. If your leaning towards more competitive type gameplay, then 
 GTA IV will provide decent, balanced gameplay oriented towards the more "casual" type of gamers.
 
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a great game to look into if you are a fan of other GTA games in the series, 
 or your looking to shoot random crap with your friends online. But in my opinion, it is NOT the 
 Game of the Year NOR a perfect score of 10, though it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Grand Theft Auto made its debut on PlayStation 2 with the titular third installment 
 in the series, the sandbox action series has been in the spotlight. Needless to say, GTAIII's impact 
 upon gaming both as a community and as an industry since then has been no small one -- indeed, the 
 term "GTA-clone" has become an accepted one among gamers and reviewers alike. Its influence has 
 supposedly even spread into society, with many pundits and officials claiming that Grand Theft 
 Auto as a whole is a contributing factor in the decline of our nation. Allegations of such a profound 
 impact aside, the series has remained one of the most popular for some time, and this shows no 
 signs of slowing down. Now, with the advent of the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, Rockstar has entered 
 the new console generation with the fourth numerical installment in the established series.
  
  The story begins with Niko Bellic, an immigrant from eastern Europe, arriving in familiar Liberty 
 City. He's greeted by his cousin Roman, whose tales of wealth and his new life in America have 
 drawn Niko away from their old home to escape the turmoil of his former life. Of course, Niko learns 
 within minutes of arrival that Roman's stories were almost entirely bunk, and he's living in a 
 grungy apartment in one of the less appealing areas of the city. It's also learned that Roman is 
 in deep with loan sharks due to a gambling problem, and from there the story turns toward Niko 
 and Roman's fight to escape from loan sharks and gangsters, while Niko also searches for answers 
 to his troubled wartime past.
  
  Veterans of the GTA series will find many core gameplay elements intact, though some obvious changes 
 to the tried-and-true formula have been made. In some ways, it seems as though, for every step 
 forward the gameplay takes, it takes a step back. This doesn't hold true across the board, because 
 in general the gameplay is stronger than all previous iterations in the franchise. Despite this, 
 it seems as though a great deal of the fun factor the GTAIII trilogy had has been toned down in 
 favor of realism, and this emphasis on realism may turn some people off to this particular iteration.
 
  
  Again, much of the formula is largely unchanged, except that shooting is no longer allocated to 
 one of the face buttons but is now performed with the right trigger. Driving has also been changed 
 fairly significantly, not only through acceleration and braking switching to the right and left 
 triggers respectively, but also in that the physics have changed significantly, both from vehicle 
 to vehicle and in general. The interface will feel strange and awkward to many at first, but after 
 a few minutes with the new system, it will begin to feel natural. Soon enough, you'll once again 
 screaming down the city streets and smashing pedestrians beneath your gigantic tank -- oh, but what 
 am I talking about? They removed the tank.
  
  Yes, the tank is gone, along with many other vehicles we'd come to know and love. Airplanes are 
 gone, bulldozers and bicycles, go-karts and jet packs -- virtually all of the vehicles in San Andreas, 
 and several from Vice City as well, have been removed entirely. In some ways, this isn't really 
 a bother -- or it shouldn't be -- and it doesn't really bring down the otherwise great gameplay too 
 much. And no doubt, in a discussion regarding this, the idea of how that "wouldn't be very realistic," 
 but gamers are also quite willing to suspend disbelief. As this usually doesn't affect overall 
 gameplay, it can't be counted as a true detriment to the game.
  
  Weapons and ammunition have been significantly improved for the most part; instead of punching 
 in a cheat, getting a set of weapons and that being the end of it, you can choose to purchase one 
 handgun or the other, one shotgun or the other, one rifle or the other, on down the line. This 
 doesn't sound like much of an improvement, perhaps, but ammunition for one will carry over to the 
 other, should you decide you'd like to use the other rifle or machine gun. Another large improvement 
 is that, when killed, you keep all your weapons and only lose some of their ammo -- although if taken 
 in by the police, you do lose all of your weapons and ammo, so it's advised that you either make 
 a getaway or put up a fight until you're taken down.
  
  As for the core mission-based gameplay, you'll find that this is essentially the same as it ever 
 was, apart from a few instances in which you're given a choice of what to do. This doesn't drastically 
 affect the outcome of most things, except one choice that takes place during the final mission 
 and an earlier one that determines whether or not you'll gain a certain person as your friend. 
 Actually, it seems as if the "choice" system is rather poorly implemented. You're given two choices: 
 one of them essentially makes you an awful person, and the other will always make you "the nice 
 guy," to use the term loosely. In a way, it seems as though it was included in a BioShock-esque 
 fashion, in which it was suggested late in development and someone thought it would be a neat idea 
 to include it. And it is a nice idea, but it doesn't seem to take it quite far enough.
  
  One of the biggest and most helpful changes to the combat system is the cover mechanic; gone are 
 the days of frantically running around and being quickly mowed down by twenty heavily armed opponents. 
 You can now duck behind furniture, doorways, pillars, and just about anything else that can conceivably 
 be used for cover. This greatly improves the odds of surviving a given mission, though it's definitely 
 not going to win the game for you (Rockstar isn't exactly known for making things too easy on us, 
 perhaps for the best) . Many missions are still quite challenging, and a lot of them have been made 
 to be greatly more entertaining -- one later mission has you and several allies in a shootout with 
 police and SWAT teams across several city blocks before a helicopter forces you underground and 
 you engage many more enemies. This is before you return to the streets, hijack an SUV, and then 
 lead the police on a city-wide car chase while being fired upon at several points.
  
  Hand-to-hand combat seems to have taken a bit of a hit in the transition into the new generation. 
 You no longer have the ability to chain attacks together for greater damage, and it seems as though 
 guarding has been removed altogether as well. Rockstar has changed things up a bit, however, with 
 the addition of an evade and counter move. You generally won't be using it, as it will by and large 
 prove useless -- it's not so much that it's ever ineffectual, but it's not needed to win a fist fight. 
 The new technique can, however, prove useful when you're without a weapon against an opponent using 
 a knife or a handgun. If nothing else, it's nice to have it as an option.
  
  One possible drawback to the gameplay is the idea of going out with friends. This can be both a 
 blessing and a curse, as you'll be called by friends frequently, and they're very needy; if you 
 turn them down, they'll be greatly disappointed with you and probably turn you down next time you 
 want to meet up with them. Of course, if you're able to keep up with hanging around with friends 
 and make them all happy, you'll gain unique effects from them that will help you in later portions. 
 Some can lower your wanted level, sometimes you can get discounted weapons and armor, and another 
 will send backup to your location to fight with you. These are great effects, and sometimes incredibly 
 useful, but keep in mind that if your friends stop liking you as much, you'll lose the effects 
 as well.
  
  As far as actually going out with friends goes, you have a fairly good variety of things to do. 
 You can go out to eat, get drunk, or go to clubs -- one of which features acts performed by comics 
 such as Katt Williams and Rickey Gervais, who actually came up with some original material just 
 for GTA4. You'll also have the options of going to bowling, billiards, and darts, all of which 
 pit you in a fun little mini game against whoever it is you're out with. These add a nice extra 
 touch to the game, and they mostly play rather nicely -- pool is actually quite enjoyable, and you 
 may find yourself calling someone up just to play these games (if you're into that sort of thing) .
 
  
  All told, GTA4 hasn't really taken a step forward, but it also hasn't taken a step backward. Fans 
 of the series are going to find a lot to love here, and even people who've never played a Grand 
 Theft Auto title before will find this game very easy to pick up and play, due to a good amount 
 of explanatory material offered to introduce each new and old piece of gameplay in a generally 
 non-intrusive manner. In essence, Grand Theft Auto IV represents more of a sideways step for the 
 series into unfamiliar territory, and it tackles the transition well, offering up a fairly unique 
 experience, even if it does show the series hasn't really taken any chances.
  
  The look and feel of Grand Theft Auto has changed a good deal in the transition to the next generation. 
 The graphics still aren't quite up to par with other games of today, as has been the trend of the 
 series, but in this generation, the margin has slimmed somewhat. Some of the character models don't 
 look great, but their appearance has become considerably more detailed and animation of all models 
 has greatly improved (this is immediately apparent when you start running people over in downtown 
 Liberty City -- and you know you will) . Surprisingly, things like trees haven't improved all that 
 much, and most of the smaller ones still look like cardboard cutouts you can roll over, although 
 if you try, you'll be sent flying through your windshield in a glorious slow-motion display.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a very technically proficient game, sporting a higher and far smoother 
 framerate than any of its predecessors, and there's hardly any slowdown, despite the fact that 
 the entire city is basically all moving at once. Cars don't randomly spawn and slam into you out 
 of nowhere when trying to evade cops, and you can almost always see them from a good enough distance 
 to avoid them. Of course, the poly count is significantly higher than in any of the previous GTA 
 games, and the entire map is loaded all at once rather than each island individually (though this 
 was also done in San Andreas, said game did so with less resources) . This keeps the action from 
 being broken up by annoying load screens and makes the game feel a bit more alive, especially when 
 a mission or car chase takes you across a bridge and onto the next island.
  
  The vehicles and environments themselves are rendered nicely, and textures are impressively done; 
 even minor details like iron sheets in the road to cover roadwork have been added. Cars reflect 
 light and the surroundings nicely and in a very -- dare I say it -- realistic fashion. Looking at cars 
 in GTA4, you can get a pretty real sense that you're looking at an actual car. When they get in 
 wrecks, they crumple realistically, glass shatters accordingly, headlights go out -- and of course, 
 they eventually explode in a giant fireball.
  
  Arguably the high point of the graphics, GTA4's particle effects are quite the visual treat. Steam 
 pours out from manhole covers into the cold night air, individual raindrops can be seen falling 
 and splashing to the ground, fire spreads throughout vehicles and eventually consumes them in an 
 explosion, lingering on the ground and billowing clouds of thick black smoke into the air, rocket-propelled 
 grenades leave behind swirling trails of smoke -- all right, so the descriptions may not sound that 
 great, but they look perfectly accurate as you're watching them. One other nice plus is that the 
 ridiculous lens flare that plagued the GTAIII trilogy has been toned down greatly, so that your 
 view is no longer obstructed by a massive wall of orange light as you face into the sunset.
  
  As usual, the sound design is terrific. Voice acting has improved some from the GTAIII trilogy, 
 and the dialog, of course, is as funny and out there as ever. You'll be meeting characters that 
 are as quirky as ever, like the roid-raging Brucie or of course Niko's cowardly (and self-proclaimed 
 ladies man) cousin Roman. Strangely enough, this installment seems to have taken a more serious 
 tone, and some may be turned off by the lack of "goofy" characters. Fortunately, the characters 
 are generally pretty amusing, often hysterical, and the dialog hasn't suffered any in cleverness.
 
  
  There are quite a few radio stations in GTA4, and the game seems to cover just about everything 
 this time around. The licensed soundtrack is a staggering blend of hardcore, classic rock, hip-hop, 
 reggae, techno, jazz, and pop music. And of course, the lovable screwup Lazlow has made his return 
 on Integrity 2.0, hitting an all-new low -- though I won't spoil the surprise.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV sports some terrific production values, and you can tell just by watching the 
 game that a lot of "love" went into it. It doesn't honestly offer much in terms of the main game's 
 replay value, unless you're dead set on seeing what a couple minor (and admittedly black-and-white) 
 alternate story paths will do, as well as achievements to show off to other people online. There 
 is a new online multiplayer mode that sports various different modes of play, which is something 
 a lot of people were craving. The online modes are generally pretty good and easy to set up -- just 
 open up Niko's cell Despite that the main storyline doesn't give you a whole lot of reason to replay 
 it, GTA has never really needed "replay value," being that it's one of the most addictive series 
 to date, and you'll almost definitely find yourself playing just to kill an hour or two even long 
 after you've finished the game.
  
  Overall, the fourth numerical installment in the series presents a similar and markably different 
 take on the proven formula, not taking the series to new heights, but keeping what worked for past 
 games and adding something new to the mix to keep things interesting. Grand Theft Auto IV is a 
 worthy installment to a worthy series, and most anyone can find something to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Procrastin
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  After seeing how well reviewed this game was I was expecting it to be a decent game, especially 
 as I've played other GTA's. This version however was rather lame, perhaps as it was trying to do 
 too many things. The way all the vehicles handled was ludicrous, can anybody explain why a motorcycle 
 requires an entire intersection in order to turn around? All other vehicles handled similarly badly. 
 The gun play was a real let-down and the positions that you had to restart failed missions from 
 if you wanted to retry them was often maddening. Overall this game was a real let-down from the 
 rest of the GTA series. I guess pick it up if you find it cheap.
  
  I am now writing more so that my review will be over the minimum 800 characters...
  
  I am 
 now writing more so that my review will be over the minimum 800 characters...
  
  I am now writing more so that my review will be over the minimum 800 characters... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is a game that many people expected to be the biggest game of all time. For me it was great 
 while it lasted but it eventually lost its shine over the past weeks. The story takes place in 
 New York City but in the GTA universe it is otherwise known as Liberty City. The main protagonist 
 is Niko Bellic who is a European illegal immigrant finding his way of life in America and trying 
 to pursue the American dream. The longer he lived here though he's starting to realize that things 
 aren't how he envision how America is after getting dragged into some criminal activities.
  
  First thing I have to say is that Rockstar has done a absolutely good job in the whole setting 
 and I'm impress on how well it resembles New York City. Everything is there, from the Empire State 
 Building, The Statue of Liberty, Time Square, and The Brooklyn Bridge. There is so many substance 
 in Liberty City that it almost feel like actual living breathing city. There are so many things 
 you can find in Liberty City like restaurants, comedy shows, bowling center, bars, hotdog stands, 
 car wash, ride in a cab, go on a helicopter tour, you name it!!!! Every street in the city even 
 has its own name!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is what you expect from a GTA game, free roaming around the city shooting civilians, 
 stealing their cars, and going on a killing spree. Unlike the past GTA games GTA4 has a new cover 
 system and over the shoulder shooting mechanic. The system is pretty much resembles Gears of War 
 but a bit clunkier and slower. The driving in this game is more realistic then the past franchises. 
 This means you can't go 100mph and crash only to be perfectly fine with a couple scratches on your 
 car. The developers made every vehicle more destructible as I can best describe it. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game isn't the best in the world but it again won't leave you 
 with an eye sore. Given the scope of the game, it is still quite impressive to see the whole city 
 from a helicopter point of view. 
  
  Audio:
  The music is good and the dialog is funny. Even listening to the radio in the game made me chuckle 
 a little. 
  
  Replay:
  While there is tons of hours to be had in GTA 4 it does get really repetitive as you progress through 
 the main story. Though the story motivates to progress forward the lack of variety is what made 
 it repetitive. Almost 85% of the mission were mostly driving a person to a destination, chasing 
 after another vehicle, or going to a destination to kill a group of people. There was only a handful 
 of mission in the entire story that I thought was worth a while (which involves robbing a bank) . 
 This expands our to around 25 hours depending on how much you play through the main story. If you're 
 done with the single player you could still hop onto the multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  The multiplayer can ranged from 1-16 players who can beat the crap out of each other throughout 
 the entire Liberty City. Yes, you heard me, the whole entire city is for you to fight in. There 
 are handful of gametypes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, cops vs criminal, and even a racing 
 mode. Along with this you the host can have the option to enable AI controlled civilians, cars, 
 and cops. Personally as much as how awesome this sound I found the multiplayer to not be up there 
 with the big online games like COD4 or Halo 3. At first I thought it was cool that you could roam 
 around through the whole city but I came to realize I spent most of my time searching for the enemy 
 or driving towards the enemy instead of engaging into firefights. You could limit what part of 
 the cities you could fight in which is helps a little.
  
  Overall:
  It is still a good game and it is a pretty long one too. The story was nice and action and firefights 
 are top notch. The only thing I had problems with it is the repetition of the missions and the 
 multiplayer didn't hold me for too long. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legohead15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  In this GTA you take on the role of Nico Belic, a Russian immagrant who finds Liberty City not 
 all his cousin said it to be. As his dark past comes back to haunt him, you will be doing various 
 missions to find a traitor and to get the russian mob off your back. But anyway back to the review. 
 
  
  Weapons and Aiming- You can use any weapon you want and it can be deadly, very deadly like the 
 weekest pistol can kill an enemy with one shot if you aim it right. All in all the weapons system 
 is perfect, and the aiming doesnt need any work
  
  Enemys- The enemys are not very smart but they will try to flank you and theyre aim is very good, 
 not perfect but very good.
  
  Street Fights- Street fight are very fun if you know the combos.
  
  Civilians- Civlians are 
 very funny, from the nonsense talkin street revrends to the crazy hobos talking about reptilians.
 
  
  Missions- Missions are very fun and sometimes difficult, there are a variety of missions the main 
 missions are alot more fun than the side missions, but side missions are very fun to. From street 
 racing to a personal hitman, its all fun.
  
  Story- The story is engaging and will whisp you away and suck you in, from Nicos dark past to Roman 
 and the loan sharks, and Romans boss Vlad doing you know what to you know who, its all engaging.
 
  
  Overall- This game is amazing buy steal it do what you got to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo_Gears_COD
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best that I have ever played. Almost everything about it is so realistic. 
 The audio on this game is outstanding and the graphics are just amazing. Liberty City is absolutely 
 immense and I love that fact. I love the vastness of it and just roaming around finding new places. 
 The story of this game is also very interesting. It is actually somewhat realistic too. The driving 
 part of this game is so much fun. The action and gun fighting was just intense. It really is jus 
 so much fun when you can just beat anybody and make them get out of the car. I loved that you could 
 take any car you want. I also love how realistic this game is. Eveything about this game was amazing. 
 This game is close to perfect, if not perfect. I loved this game and I still play it a lot. 110 
 out of 10 for sure. This game is a must play!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheq
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game had me thinking. I loved the idea of a "fresh off the boat" Russian character, Niko Bellic, 
 and him trying to live the American Dream. Now, the storyline is absolutely primo (great) , graphics 
 are supreme, bar the few glitches, but which game is absolutely flawless in its design. Voice acting 
 - was well done in parts, I disliked Niko's Voice Actor though, seemed to ruin parts, also how 
 Rockstar used the voices, with Niko yelling out during a drive or mission, as if to tell the gamer 
 that Niko is there, and we are showing you realism...
  
  I will give them that, the physics engine is absolutely perfect, with the exception of the high 
 speed rolling as you jump out of a moving car (great fun) . Driving could have a bit more work but 
 the human animations flow like a river.
  
  This game was recently given Gamespot's Game of the Year, which I can say was something I wouldn't 
 have done. On that same note I can't think of anything that SHOULD be GOTY, but GTA4 wasn't GOTY 
 material. Among all the realism is a very high level of barriers. For instance, all the planes 
 just sitting at the airport asking to be flown into another were, yes, not fly-able. The cellphone 
 was a great idea, but Rockstar could have done a lot better adding features. Built-In-Camera idea 
 was great.
  
  Almost no customizing available in game, with the exception of your protagonists clothing. Even 
 then not much clothes are available. But I would have loved to see car customizing.
  
  A great radio and tv setup kept me occupied forever. They were very funny, and the music was great. 
 Very well done in this aspect Rockstar.
  
  Final Say - If you were expecting a supreme leap from San Andreas storyline wise, in my opinion, 
 this is it. If you were expecting a supreme leap from San Andreas GAMEPLAY wise, then you may have 
 to wait a bit longer, for any step up at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerzone23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's start off with the crashing. I have a really updated Xbox 360, and I know that is not 
 the problem, Gears of War 1 amd 2 works just fine. Anyway, the game was fun for a little while... there 
 are a few graphic glitches in the game. It really sucks that you are not able to mod your car or 
 fly any other aircraft (other than a heli) . This game is a serious step down from the previous 
 GRand Theft Auto games, I would have to say San Andreas is the best over all.
  There was so much more they could do with the cell phone feature... it's sad... the car physics are 
 awesome so are the sound effects. The Damage I give a 90, it could have been a lot better. Niko's 
 shouts in the middle of some missions can be very annoying, ugh! Somehow the shooting is not fun 
 like Gears of War, witch really sucks. And the one thing that really upset me is the fact you have 
 to kill 200 birds for some stupid prize. That is just sick. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djdiddles77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  Like most people I picked up GTA 4 the day it released and started playing it immediately!! The 
 main character Niko is trying to escape a bad past by starting new in Liberty City! You have a 
 decent amount of missions to choose from the farther you get in the game and each mission brings 
 a various of side characters in. Most of the missions are your standard GTA missions. Fun to play 
 but with the huge map you can spend some time driving around. The main and side missions aren't 
 particulary hard to complete, with some exceptions. If you don't feel like doing the missions there 
 is plenty of exploring to do or you can date! Dating was kind of weird! Once you date someone they 
 text or call you all the time to go out even in the middle of mission, which was annoying! Overall 
 the game was fun but not as good as I would have liked. I felt the story line was kind of weak 
 and the ending wasn't very satisfing! I would recommend a this game but don't get to hyped up to 
 play and my might not me as dissappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Review: Grand Theft Auto 4 (Xbox 360)
  
  GTA 4 is the much awaited game that brings the most popular series of the last console generation 
 to the Next Gen Consoles, will it live up to the pedigree left to it by its stellar outings in 
 the last-gen, or will it fall as flat as many of GTA 3's clones did.
  
  Story :
  
  Meet Niko Bellic, a Western European immigrant fresh off the boat, with a dark past, and out looking 
 for revenge, now join him and his cousin Roman on their reunion, and subsequent dealings with the 
 underbelly of Liberty City 's society, on Niko's quest for revenge. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 looks amazing! How much so? There are people taking side by side photo comparisons 
 between Liberty City, and the city it was modeled after, New York City if that says anything, but 
 if you were hoping to visit some of the locals that were present at the series last trip to Liberty 
 City, like the Red Light District, you will be a little disappointed that it is no where to be 
 found since Liberty City is trying to emulate New York City so hard that it cant allow some of 
 the fictional parts of Grand Theft Auto 3 to be squeezed in. Graphically this game is more ambitious 
 than it's Predecessors, and Saints Row, the only real game to try to attempt an identical look 
 and style of the GTA series in the current generation. GTA4 has far fewer graphical glitches than 
 Saints Row, and while not nearly as large as GTA San Andreas, the series last outing, the scale 
 of Liberty City is both Larger than the world in Saints Row, by at least double in size and sports 
 at least 3 times the detail including some breathtaking views that border on the cinematic, putting 
 GTA4's competition to shame visually. Though there is this one point in the game that always pulls 
 a "Saints Row Glitch", Saints Row Had some glitches that would make your car disappear, the world 
 disappear, or bits and pieces of the world, or even drop you into a field well below the field 
 of play, while traveling on the East Borough Bridge when you hit the sharp corner the bridge can 
 disappear momentarily, or cars can disappear, but other than that the game its self is sharply 
 amazing too look at.
  
  Music & Sound Effects:
  
  While boasting a much improved graphical system, I think one of the biggest letdowns for me in 
 the entire game were the radio stations in GTA4, as the play lists from both San Andreas, and Vice 
 City boasted much better licensed Soundtracks in variety and quality in that no more than 2 or 
 3 stations had recognizable music to enjoy in Grand Theft Auto 4 often leaving you to listen to 
 3 stations, though the audio tracks that have been laid down for the commercials, and talk stations 
 are hilarious, making them easily some of the most enjoyable things to look forward to in this 
 game. The voice acting is top notch and each voice actor brings the characters to life (even some 
 of the corny dates) as effectively as some of the best characters in gaming.
  
  Control & Game Play:
  
  The Good news here is that Grand Theft Auto 4 doesn't try to reinvent 
 the wheel game play wise in that it controls much as it did in its previous incarnations, with 
 some tweaking and refinement, while borrowing some aspects from a few of its "clones" to aid in 
 the game play. One of the biggest and most recognizable changes was incorporated to alleviate much 
 of the confusion that came from not knowing the city like the back of your hand, a GPS system, 
 which helps you navigate, but as you grow to know an area, you all too often find that the GPS 
 gets in the way of finding faster routes, still it serves a purpose, and does it well. The big 
 surprise here is that the online modes are not the just tacked on feeling game add-ons that one 
 would expect, since we have gotten so many lately, and control as they would in an offline game 
 without sacrificing too much graphically, or with any huge amount of lag, making the game play 
 almost seamless as one transitions from offline to online gaming.
  
  Design:
  
  Well it is more than obvious that GTA4 was a labor of love for the development crew, from the look 
 of the city to the Script, to the game play, and the Multiplayer modes this game is every bit worthy 
 of the hype it received pre release and considering the mountain of hype that says a lot. Rockstar 
 Games are beyond a shadow of a doubt doing it's best to remain one of the top developing companies 
 out there. Though maybe they should consider paying residuals to their voice actors, considering 
 some of the YouTube videos that have popped up
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4:
  
  Pros:
  
  Amazing graphics
  
  Great story
  
  Improved Game play
  
  Great Multiplayer
  
  
 
  
  Cons: Thumbs up
  
  Soundtrack not up to snuff with rest of series
  
  A few glitches
  
  
  
  All and all this is a must play game if you are old enough to play 
 it so I give Grand Theft Auto 4 an enthusiastic Thumbs Up!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipeeb
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  The game can be top of the line, but if a developer keeps making games that randomly freezes the 
 machine or destroys cd drives its just takes out all of the good stuff.
  
  What i was able to play was great, the graphics look awesome and the controls feel fine. 
  
 
  Repeated 
  The game can be top of the line, but if a developer keeps making games that randomly freezes the 
 machine or destroys cd drives its just takes out all of the good stuff.
  
  What i was able to play was great, the graphics look awesome and the controls feel fine.
  The 
 game can be top of the line, but if a developer keeps making games that randomly freezes the machine 
 or destroys cd drives its just takes out all of the good stuff.
  
  What i was able to play was great, the graphics look awesome and the controls feel fine Repeated 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan6236
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to tell you that GTA4 is a bad game or anything, I mean it has a good story and some 
 of the missions make you laugh some, but really? A 10? How?
  
  See it's ratings like this that got me suckered into buying Fable 2. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto appeals 
 to so many people because you can drive around and crash cars and shoot random people. But it doesn't 
 give anyone over the age of say... 20 anything to do. Can anyone tell me what the money is for? 
 You can buy Ammo and Body armor. (food and clothes too but I haven't bothered yet in 10 hours of 
 playing)
  
  There are about 10 guns in the game and no real utility for any of them, just buy the most expensive 
 one you're allowed to and keep buying ammo... that's all the money's for anyway.
  
  There's only 1 type of body armor and no reason not to wear it, it's basically the other half of 
 your life bar. 
  
  There's no gang to customize, there's no businesses to buy, there's no turf to defend, there's 
 no rival factions to worry about reputation with, there's no equipment to mull over carrying around...
 
  
  It's just riding around shooting people.... which I guess is a ball for some people, but after 
 an hour or 2 it really just dull trying to see how many cops you can get to chase you.
  
  What MAKES this game is the multiplayer.... for some reason doing random acts of violence alone 
 was dull, but doing it with friends is a ball....
  
  But a 10 for a game I bought in a BOGO sale for 15 bucks with sega allstars tennis at Blockbuster 
 is a bit much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crocodile_Key
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It has a great story, plenty of extras, many things to keep you busy 
 for quite a few hours. You can expect to spend around 30 hours just on the main story, and still 
 only be about 65% through the game. The only complaint I have for this game is when you fail a 
 mission, you have to completely start it all over, from the point of when you accepted it. This 
 can get annoying on some of the harder missions that take a few times to learn. A great game well 
 worth the buy.
  
  When you want a break from the main story, there are plenty of side missions to do, not to mention 
 just stealing cars and messing with the cops. It's also fun to just go on a rampage sometimes, 
 see how many kills you can get before you get caught. 
  
  The game is very easy to get into, it slowly teaches you the controls and progresses from easy 
 to hard in a very well manner.
  
  I recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drir495
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  GRAND THEFT AUTO 4. what more is there to say. this game... is awesome. this game really brings 
 the video game industry up a notch, and definitely sets a higher standard for video games. You 
 are niko bellic. you just moved to liberty city to start fresh. Your cousin Roman has promised 
 you that in america there will be money and women and a huge mansion when you arrive. But, when 
 you do, there is none of this, and you must work your way up to the top in usual grand theft auto 
 fashion. one great addition (of the many) is niko's cell phone. this is a very useful component 
 to the game. this is how you access the multiplayer and many other things including texting and 
 calling your friends in the game. The multiplayer in this game is simply superb! my favorite game 
 type has got to be free mode in which you, and up to fifteen other players, may do whatever you 
 please across all of liberty city LAG FREE!!!!!!!!!! the graphics are good but what really got 
 me with them is the beautiful animation of everyone in liberty city. Voice acting is great and 
 everyone really nailed the accents. a few problems that i do have with this game are that...
  
  A. At some points in the game, it feels too realistic (believe it or not) and this may take 
 away some of the enjoyment for some players.
  
  B. physics can be very annoying during chase missions. BUT again just another sign of the extreme 
 realism in this game.
  
  C. too many missions where you will be chasing down people or escorting people.
  
  but this 
 could just be me being picky.
  
  other than those three problems, i have endless praise for this masterpiece of a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsp00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  IN THIS REVIEW THERE MIGHT BE SOME SPOIRLER
  
  When you first play you might think that the some sort that Roman Bellic is just a Fat F**k (but 
 Roman said saying that Niko Bellic is one?, is he?) , well beside that Vlad is a Russian Motherf**ker, 
 then comes Niko Bellic hes is a Well thinking guy, came to america not for the american dream also 
 to take revenge from his Decieved War partner, from that it tookthe whole Storyline, then just 
 about in the end he kills him, it's Darko Brevic. So that what Niko was for? then as the storyline 
 finishes then its all over but still you drivearound just like before but there are no mission 
 but remember keep calling your liberty city mates, and also now you can spend the time to unlock 
 some achievement's.
  
  So overall this game is a great game for ACTION/ADVENTURE/SHOTTER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calm_syrface
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I must say that the missions aren't really too much to get excited about but really folks, this 
 much detail in a game is outstanding! The ladies say something different every time you wear the 
 same clothes, and the people on the street are like actual living breathing people. The gun mechs 
 are a def improvement, Niko Bellic is the coolest guy in the world and his supporting cast are 
 just joy to watch. I'll tell ya this... Grand Theft could never make a good movie... cause the games 
 have all the great scripts. Without a doubt the best in the series and the expansion packs are 
 going to prove why Grand Theft Auto 4 had just as big of a splash, if not bigger, than the rest. 
 Please go get this game if you haven't played it, and if ya never played a Grand Theft game..... shame 
 on you! Or just wait til it goes on sale! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  GTA has changed the world of gaming. It was showed us that picking up hookers, shooting up anyone 
 that you see and using the sidewalk as your personal road can be fun. People were skeptical on 
 whether or not this game would live up to the hype - and it did with flying colors. Adding in a 
 new physics engine, new graphics, new characters and a new city, it is a hard game to disappoint. 
 Now... you may be wondering... why do I care about a new engine - well, I will explain later in 
 the review.
  
  Story -- 10/10
  
  Tell me, when was the last time a player played as a Yugoslavian immigrant? Never. That is why 
 GTA4's story is so unique! You are Nico Bellic. An immigrant looking to forget his past and live 
 it up with his cousin who tells him of the great life in Liberty City. You soon figure out that 
 Liberty City is not what your cousin, Roman, tells you. I will not tell you anything for about 
 the main storyline as it will be more fun to see for yourself.
  
  You may be thinking that this will be another "rags to riches" storyline but it really isn't. There 
 is not a major conflict with the main character. It is just a good ol' fashioned get rich story. Nico 
 works for various people around Liberty City, from your cousin to a steroid addicted man named 
 Brucie. The missions have also been improved greatly from the past games -- instead of far-fetched 
 events that happen... you are attacked with scenes that make you go "What just happened"? It is 
 great.
  
  This is also the first GTA I have beaten. I had been bored after a few missions with the other 
 games but with this one... I couldn't put it down.
  
  Gameplay -- 10/10
  
  You know what makes GTA4 a GTA game? The fact that you do not have to follow the rules. You do 
 not have to take that route to get somewhere. You don't have to kill that person. It really makes 
 you feel like you are in the game. The gameplay really deserves a 10/10.
  
  Besides all of that, the gameplay has been really improved. Controls have been remapped and reconfigured 
 to create the best experience. Rockstar has also redone how you converse with people. You can still 
 talk to them via mission but if you want to speak to them anytime and/or anywhere -- you can use 
 your cellphone. The cellphone gives you the possibility of calling people, receiving texts from 
 certain people and even taking a picture. Though the latter possible quite at the starting. It 
 also gives you the chance to call up a girlfriend to go on dates.
  
  Online has also been added. Featuring 16 game modes (including free roam and TDM) and a max of 
 sixteen players that can roam together all across Liberty City really makes GTA shine in the online 
 department. It was not just dashed off so we could have online, it really feels like they put effort 
 into it. There is a ranking system also. You level up by killing, winning races or completing goals. 
 There is a total of 10 ranks and each rank give you new clothing to customize your character for 
 online play. My personnel favorite is the gamemode "GTA Race" (which is like a normal race but 
 with guns) , because it is really entertaining and hilarious when you have to basically kill the 
 others or be killed. If you have your microphone on you will laugh a whole lot because of all the 
 people yelling, very entertaining. My only disappointment is that they did not feature splitscreen/local 
 multiplayer.
  
  Graphics -- 9.5/10
  
  When I first saw the trailers, I never thought that is what the game would look like. It is stunning. 
 I cannot believe how much detail there is in everything. And yes, Gears of War may look better, 
 but do they have a whole city without any loading times? No. That is why GTA4 really deserves a 
 high score in graphics. When you do get GTA4, promise me that you will acquire a helicopter and 
 just fly around the city. Look at how beautiful it is. It is breathtaking.
  
  Euphoria. The new engine. This really makes the game stick out from Saints Row and the past GTA 
 games. This engine introduces a new AI that actually is intelligent. If you get hit by a car, a 
 pedestrian will run out the car to see if you are alright, or if you steal a car from an unlucky 
 fellow and he attempts to take it back but you drive away right when he grabs the handle, the AI 
 will attempt to hold on to try to get in. It is quite humorous. They also do little things that 
 make them seem alive, like using ATMs, talking on a cell phone or even littering!
  
  My only complain, which has knocked off a .5, is that there is a little pop in. It seems to differ 
 depending on the Xbox. I have seen more pop in now that my Xbox is dieing but less when it was 
 fine. It is hardly noticeable, so do not let it worry you.
  
  Sound -- 9/10
  
  When you enter Liberty City for the first time, you will notice the crisp and clean sound of the 
 city. From far away sirens of police vehicles to peoples chit chat, there is a lot of things to 
 hear. There is quite a bit of funny dialog that is spoken by pedestrians. The cutscenes are also 
 very well done, the voicing is superb and they fit with the characters that speak them.
  
  My only complain is... the soundtrack. I mean, of course I run into a song every now and then but 
 really, I am not a big fan of it. There is no country, which is understandable but that is one 
 thing that I miss from SA. There is however some good rock songs that you can listen too.
  
  Replay Value -- 10/10
  
  Where can I start? Main missions. Side missions. Pigeon rats. 
 Online play. How can you get bored with this game? You can easily pump out 20+ hours on the main 
 storyline alone! And who gets bored with driving over thousands of random pedestrians? If you do, 
 go shoot some pigeon rats or help out the police with vigilante missions (which are accessed via 
 police computer in police car) . GTA4 will not let you go until you are at 100% and totally ranked 
 up in online... and even then, there is so much to do.
  
  Concluding statement / Pros and Cons
  
  GTA4 will not disappoint you at all. You will hear 
 of people trash talking this game and giving it terrible scores, which is perfectly fine as everyone 
 is entitles to there own opinion, but more than half of the time, it is just to get people mad. 
 If this review has not encouraged you to go buy it, read some other reviews or watch some gameplay 
 video because I really guarantee you will enjoy it.
  
  Pros
  + Compelling story
  + Awesome graphics and sound
  + City actually feels alive
  + Endless gameplay
  + Online play
 
  
  Cons
  - No customizing cars
  - Too much money and not anything to spend it on
  - No split-screen MP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerbot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a HUGELY known game that exposes players to hard, rough life as an immigrant 
 in Liberty City. The game is rated 18+ for its Violence and unending Strong Language. Instead of 
 the hard, anti-social ways of the games many predecessors GTA 4 is much more social. This said, 
 the game is no lighter on violence.
  The game is set in Liberty City. You play as Niko Bellic, a Foreigner in search of somewhere to 
 make a fresh start. You go to liberty city because your cousin has persuaded you to believe the 
 American Dream. You soon realise that the american dream is Not What Your Cousin Described and 
 you have to commit a series of crimes and felonies in order to move up in the criminal ladder. 
 
  Before coming to liberty city you were a soldier in a war in Nikos home country. This puts logic 
 into Nikos ability to use arms and abilities to drive/fly/sail any vehicles he finds easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabilla
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is by far the best GTA out of the series. A hell of a lot of fun, tonnes of 
 action and addictive!
  
  The GTA IV story is perfect. You play as Niko Bellic. Hoping to escape his past, Niko hopes to 
 build a new life in Liberty City. What's good about this story is that you can change the direction 
 of the story by the choices you make. You either choose one way, or another.
  
  The graphics are perfect in this game. They look so realistic and make the game feel look so real 
 and alive.
  
  I like the fact that Rockstar have made the game feel so real with an example of the cell phone 
 you have. You meet various people in the game who eventually become your friends and therefore 
 get added to your phonebook. You can then ring your friends up and organize a day out together 
 like going on a heli tour or eat out somewhere.
  
  The only downfall I feel that this game has, is the lack of spending your money. You earn boatloads 
 of money but you can hardly spend it on anything. Sure you can buy clothes, weapons and pay your 
 cab fare but what else?
  
  Overall I love this game. It is a definate must buy! A few improvements could be made to make this 
 game even better but for now, I absolutely love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series is one of the most popular gaming franchises in newer time, though 
 it's also been a controversial one, mainly parents have been complaining about the amount of violence 
 of the game and the fact that you can kill prostitutes and run over people and pretty much be as 
 violent as you want. With Grand Theft Auto 4, Rockstar is once again ready to piss of the world.
 
  
  Story
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You play as Niko Bellic, a veteran in the Bosnian war, who's coming to Liberty City, to stay with 
 his cousin Roman, who wrote letters to Niko about how great life in America is and how rich he 
 is. When Niko get's there, it turns out everything Roman said was a lie, he lives in a small crappy 
 apartment, having trouble and a mafia boss called Vlad. Niko decides to help Roman and try to earn 
 money. The story is more personal than any other GTA game and it's missing some of the controversial 
 humor the series is known for, but that's only a minor complaint, the story is really, really great, 
 you really get to feel for Niko and there's some great characters in there as well.
  
  10
  
  Gameplay
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay is the same as the other GTA games, your set lose in a big city where you can pretty 
 much cause as much destruction as you want, while completing missions, it's a formula that thankfully 
 never get's old and is so fun and addictive. GTA4 brings some changes to the gameplay though, there's 
 a cover system now, which works like in Gears of War, it's a good addition and it works really 
 well, it makes some of the combat a bit easier which is good, considering how hard previous GTA 
 game could be sometimes. Another addition is the car physics, which has been changed a bit, unfortunately 
 it's for the worse, driving around is actually a bit harder actually and it's easier for a car 
 to make a spin out of control and in races that's certainly not good. The police system has been 
 changed too, when the police is after you, a ring will appear on the map, indicating that the police 
 will keep coming after you if you're in this ring, of course the ring will expand as you get more 
 and more police after you. It makes it easier to avoid the police, and it certainly makes it more 
 realistic, if a bit easy to escape. Shooting's been improved, it's possible to free aim which works 
 really well, hell even the auto lock has been fixed, so it works a lot better than before.
  
  The missions in this game are all good, especially some of the later missions, they really 
 do give you the feeling that you're in a gangster movie and it just feels all cinematic and such. 
 Granted the game has a lot of great moments, which once again makes it seem like you're in a gangster 
 movie. The loading times have been cut down a lot too. As soon as you load the game, the game only 
 loads when you're going into cut-scenes and taking elevators, other than that, it never loads which 
 is impressive considering how big the game is.
  
  But there's more, you can also play various mini games like bowling, pool and various others, and 
 their all fun to play! 
  
  Unlike the other GTA games, GTA4 actually encourages you to hang out with your buddies, mainly 
 to keep them happy, you can go bowling with them, go watch a comedy show (which is hilarious BTW) 
 or even a strip club or you can just get drunk with them, however you have to drive home though, 
 and driving home drunk isn't easy, or you can just ignore them and watch TV back at home, the options 
 are huge and endless! While it can be good to hang out with your buddies, they will (almost) constantly 
 call you and ask you to hang out with them, which are really annoying, especially when you're on 
 the run from cops.
  
  On a few other complaints, most of the depth from GTA: San Andreas have been removed, there's no 
 RPG stats system anymore, buying clothes have been limited and you can't even buy your own houses 
 anymore. The only thing you need money for is to buy weapons and amour, and you'll quickly be able 
 to get a lot of money, even if the story let's you think otherwise. Some of the alternative missions 
 have been left out as well and the tank is unfortunately missing. There's also a lack of check 
 points in the missions, so if you fail, you have to start it all over, which is really a pain in 
 the later missions.
  
  After the single player has been finished (which takes around 30-35 hours) , there's multiplayer 
 for up to 16 players. Here, you have the usual deathmatch/team deathmatch; along with variations 
 of capture the flag and some escort missions. While it's fun to play, finding a game can take ages 
 sometimes and people mostly don't bother to cooperate together when they have to. One example in 
 one of the escort modes, where we had to escort a person to a safe house, one dude got in the van 
 with the guy and drove away from everyone else, refusing to help the others. It's moment like these 
 that had me switch over to the single player and play some of the side missions, which there's 
 plenty off and with an achievement for them all, there should be plenty of replay value.
  
  8.5
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Liberty City is huge, so you'd probably expect graphics to be around decent to nothing special, 
 however that is not the case, the graphics in this game are beautiful, characters looks nice and 
 the environments are really good. There may be a few frame rate dips, but it doesn't happen a lot, 
 thankfully.
  
  10
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sound effects are actually quite good, the city has a good atmosphere, which easily gives 
 you the feeling of a big city. The voice acting is great and the soundtrack is actually pretty 
 good, there are many different kinds of music in the game, so there's a lot to listen too. The 
 talk shows returns but some of their humor are a bit toned down from the other games.
  
  9.5
  
  Overall
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  All in all, this is a pretty good game, while it ain't better than GTA: San Andreas, it is as 
 good as that game. It's a little disappointing to see most of the depth removed from San Andreas. 
 It's a huge game and one of the best experiences you'll have this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Of all the games i've played, NOTHING comes close to this masterpiece
  
  
  The graphis are amazing, it's almost like you could reach out and steal a car yourself!
  
  
 Story, awesome! A good crime story.
  
  Gameplay, amazing!!! I've wasted soooooo many hours on this game it's not even funny, theres so 
 much to do!! 
  It never gets old running around mowing down crwods of people with an AK-47,
  beating the crap 
 outta some random person with a baseball bat, stealing a car and driving on the sidewalk, pretty 
 much everything about the sandbox-style gameplay is just awesome. And the story missions are fun 
 too
  
  in fact, the abilty to go do whatever you want in the absoutely MASSIVE and INCREDIBLY REALISTIC 
 Liberty City is so fun, i've has this game for 5 months and i still haven't beaten it!
  
  The only problems i had with this game were this: This time around we don't have the trademarked 
 massive list of crazy cheats that we've come to love in GTH (never fear theres still enough to 
 get by) , and theres not a whole lot of clothes you can buy for Niko
  
  Anyone that owns a 360 or PS3 should hav this game PERIOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsmith16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV does have some cool new features, like taking cover and hailing a Taxi which is extremely 
 useful, and that new cellphone pwns. But, the weapons choices are no where NEAR as wide ranged 
 as GTA San Andreas. The missions are REALLY frikkin reptative too. For 5 missions in a row. I had 
 to go find someone, chase them, and kill them. I got sick of doing car chase after car chase after 
 car chase. The game would be more fun if you did something else besides damn car chases. The storyline 
 would be interesting, if I didn't have to sit through 30 minute long cutscenes and listen to a 
 bunch of coke addict psychopaths rave about how they want someone killed. The Characters, well 
 most of them, are annoying as hell. Brucie being the most annoying so far, followed by that dickhead 
 Faustin. Roman wont stop frikkin calling and bugging Niko. The limited range of weapons sucks ass, 
 and the even more limited range of vehicles sucks more. The removal of flying airplanes sucks. 
 The new driving system is annoying and difficult to get used to. If you like a car, don't grow 
 too attached, because it'll most likely get destroyed during one of the annoying chase missions, 
 which there are several of. Also, the fact of that it's pretty much like all the other GTA games, 
 and there really isn't nothing new to it, you'll probably return it once it's finished. All in 
 all, I'm having fun with the game, the sandbox free-roam style is very fun, and physics and gameplay 
 are really enjoyable and realistic. It has great graphics, a pretty solid physics system, and a 
 few very good and useful new features. However, I'm really glad it gives you the option to skip 
 cutscenes, since they go on forever, and since more than half of the characters are unbarable to 
 listen to. The missions are repetative, and more or likely, unless you like chasing someone down 
 and killing them, the game won't keep you interested, unless you can whether through it long enough 
 to get to an actual mission that really is inventive. A good game, but way too overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guudgidga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is un-deniably one of the best next gen games ever to be released. If you enjoyed 
 San Andreas, you will definately enjoy this. It has the classic elements to a GTA game. Carjacking 
 people, cop shoot outs, business with hookers, drive drunk, etc. 
  
  Here are the pros. 
  
  -Liberty City is a real lively one and doesn't feel like any crap AI location
  -The new cellphone 
 is great
  -The graphics look great
  -Fantastic voice acting
  -Really funny radios, dialogue, shows etc
  -The story is not only suspenseful, but can actually 
 reach the players heart
  
  
  Despite the greatness of GTA 4, it does have cons.
  
  -The graphics don't look so good up close, especially in taxi rides
  -When in fast car chases, 
 the steering can get pretty slippery
  -It doesn't let you have NEARLY as much fun with the cheats as in San Andreas. No tanks, no jets, 
 no chainsaws. I thought GTA was about freedom.
  
  
  But still, you should check this game out. If you have approval of course. Or you could just sneak 
 it past your parents *sneaky laughs* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seminoleglory91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  GTA4 is an instant classic. The ability to choose your own way, the game's classic free roam, and 
 of course causing a little mayhem in the process is worth the 60 bucks you pay for this bundle 
 of joy. For the first time you play as a character you can actually enjoy and like. Missions have 
 variety and the storyline is near perfect. The new cell phone feature works as a main menu and 
 is easy to use. You can even prank call 911. The only complaint i have is sometimes there are "dark" 
 areas in the game when you can barely see where you going. Like for instance you may be running 
 down an ally and fail to see the door your looking for due to poor lighting. Plus annoying side 
 missions that keep coming in but you can always decide just to not pick up the phone. And sometimes 
 the multiplayer may take a few trys to get connected to a game, but all in all its worth it. A 
 must have for the year of 08. and wit an expansion pack on the way there's bound to be more fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabester666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I went into GTA IV with epic expectations, and unlike every other game I've eagerly anticipated, 
 they were NOT let down. The living, breathing city, the beautiful graphics, the cinematicness of 
 the whole thing. Every moment felt like something scripted out of an action movie; it was that 
 solidly put together and well made. I played almost every day for 6 months after it came out, only 
 pausing for a couple of months before the PC version came out. Only some control issues and multiplayer 
 problems prevent me from giving it a perfect 10. Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the best games I've 
 ever played. Those who think it has no replay value can't see all it has to offer. The Euphoria 
 physics engine is endless fun and amusement. The new car damage system has been a massive improvement 
 over the past GTAs, and the feeling you get from the city is breathtaking. GTA IV takes immersion 
 far beyond any other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colincancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  While Grand Theft Auto has been out for more than half a year, I only recently got this game, and 
 have had it for about a week. Seeing the great reviews and numerous awards it has received, I was 
 excited to play this game. 
  
  I started the single-player mode, and was immediately running around, beating up people and stealing 
 nice cars with ease. I like how the game doesn't limit you on what you can do from the start: there 
 are no skills you have to obtain before you are able to climb walls, no tutorials before you get 
 to shoot guns (although you have to find one first) and if I didn't know how to do something, the 
 game's hints were more than enough to make me proficient in no time at all. For example, I hopped 
 into Roman's car for the first mission. Having never played this game before, I didn't know what 
 the driving controls were. Fortunately, the game's text popped up and explained how to drive, and 
 I sped back to Roman's apartment in no time.
  
  The pacing in this game is very good. It eases you into the features of GTAIV, like using your 
 cell phone, through successive missions that don't really feel like tutorials. In fact, you won't 
 mind that the first few missions are exactly that, because they are well designed and fun to do. 
 The game has you pick up your first gun an hour or so in, which may feel strange given that shooting 
 is a central mechanic in the game, but I didn't mind, and it came at what felt like a natural point 
 in the story.
  
  The graphics are great, I guess, but I don't really care much about how my games look, as long 
 as they run well. I will say that the water effects in particular caught my attention, as well 
 as the detail that the devs put into the game: some cars you jack might be dirty, and you can see 
 scuff and blood marks after you run over people. This leads into a discussion of the physics, which 
 also has been done well. Riding a motorcycle feels like riding a motorcycle. and when you crash 
 at high speeds, you'll go flying, which is hilarious and awesome, and makes you want to hurt yourself, 
 even though you'll have to pay the hospital 10000 dollars when you wake up.
  
  The sound is also one of the shining stars of this game. The radio stations are done well, and 
 it theres something for everyone: rock, rap and hip hop, jazz stations, as well as the in game 
 talk and news (which is absolutely hilarious) . Everyone will find a station that they love, and 
 Rockstar even lets you set a station preset so that when you jump into one of your cars, that station 
 will be playing. Another thing that I love is the comedy club, which features real-life acts like 
 Katt Williams and is hilarious. Usually in games I'll skip cutscenes like that, because they're 
 a waste of time, but in GTAIV, I watch all of them. 
  
  So what are the flaws in this game? One of my only complaints is that the missions get a little 
 repetitive towards the end. It's pretty much drive here, shoot a bunch of people, maybe a car chase, 
 and then you're done. After doing this for the hundreth time you'll be completing missions just 
 to get to the end of the story (which is great) Adding to the annoyingness is that there are no 
 mission checkpoints, which i feel is a necessity given the length and multi-part nature to some 
 of the missions. For example, one has you trying to secure some lost money, which inevitably ends 
 in a shootout in a museum. I cleared the museum of all the thugs, then went outside, where i was 
 told that I had to lose my pursuers. I stole a car and drove off, and some of the hired guns followed 
 me, shooting my tires off, which made it pretty much impossible to turn. They then succeed in ramming 
 me into a wall, and since I'm standing still, they succeed in killing me. It took about 20 minutes 
 to get up to that point, and I had to restart the mission. Clearly, there should have been checkpoints 
 throughout the mission so i wouldn't have to do the whole thing over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Rockstar North develops brings us the latest addition to the popular GTA series.
  
  If you are a longtime fan of the series, the plot will not be anything new. It is about a man named 
 Niko Bellic, an Eastern European who has just arrived in America to live with his Cousin Roman. 
 Like most GTA games, it is not a safe new life and not even close to the American dream because 
 he is sent on many missions, not only with his cousin Roman but with the toughest Mob leaders.
 
  
  The story isn't exactly original when compared to the rest of the GTA series but it is definitely 
 entertaining enough to keep you going.
  
  What makes this game stand out when compared to the rest of the game is the graphics and the scope 
 of the game. This game is much bigger and much better looking then the rest of the series. The 
 graphics are a definite improvement over GTA 3-San Andreas. The city isn't exactly that much bigger 
 then San Andreas but just the amount of detail and the more places you can go to just makes it 
 feel twice as big. 
  
  One of the highlights in the game is just the enhancements they made to the freeroam mode. You 
 can do a lot more now. You can build relationships and you can make your own decisions in the game. 
 You now have a cell phone in the game, which means if your cousin needs help and he calls you, 
 you can say no or just not answer and it will effect the whole story of the game. 
  
  Another addition is an addition that is long overdue and that is the online gameplay. The online 
 mode is very, very fun, which i'm a little surprised by because Rockstar is not really know for 
 Online in their games so i'm a little surprised they did so well. 
  
  There are some negatives to this game, which is why i didn't give a perfect score. The first and 
 biggest negative goes to the people who don't have online. This game after you are finished with 
 100% of the story can be really boring without Online, this is a problem with most freeroam games 
 and has been a problem for the GTA series since GTA 3, and that is its replay value. If you can 
 afford it, i recommend getting online for this game.
  
  Another negative is some of the frame-rate. For the most part, the game runs fairly smoothly for 
 the 360 and PS3. But both versions have a tendency to freeze during the gameplay, they don't freeze 
 for a long period of time but in short burst, which get really annoying.
  
  The last negative is the soundtrack to this game. Usually Rockstar is pretty good on selecting 
 songs for GTA but this soundtrack is just hard to listen to when driving.
  
  There are two console versions, the 360 and PS3. I've reviewed the PC version in another seperate 
 review. Overall, the 360 and PS3 are graphically identical, both share pretty much the same minor 
 flaws. 
  
  Overall, a great sequel that adds some great new additions to the series. This game will please 
 old and new fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This is a game that got 10 out of 10 Editors Choice? 
  Why?
  
  Maybe it's just that it's starting to feel like the same game over and over but i just couldn't 
 keep interested in this game for more than an hour at a time. This game is designed so that you 
 can move just as well out of the car as you can driving. They achieved this by making the car more 
 awkward to control. 
  That's no to bad once you get used to it but then you get thought hand to hand combat... sort of. 
 The stiffest looking fights I've ever seen in a game since street fighter was arcade only. 
  Steeling cars & killing people are still fun for about ten minutes but no more so than in the old 
 games. 
  
  I don't mean to sound like an old timer but the top down GTAs were more fun to play. At least they 
 didn't have that annoying cousin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WCCobra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  It's another game in the Grand Theft Auto series. Shooting people, stealing cars, etc is still 
 there, but planes, trains, tanks, and most of the other FUN stuff is gone.
  
  Compared to previous versions, GTA 4 is not as difficult. Personally, for me, there was only one 
 or two missions that were very challenging. Other than that, you should be able to get through 
 them within two or three attempts at most. This is the first game in the series where I didn't 
 resort to cheat codes to beat the game. The Liberty City Minute is very attainable...
  
  Noticed a slight glitch in saving vehicles... the glitch being, sometimes they aren't saved when 
 you return (although it's rare) .
  
  You no longer have to eat to stay alive, only to recover health. It's nice, but at the same time 
 a little annoying. Places to eat are not as common as they were in GTA: SA. You'll have to do a 
 bit of searching or driving to reach the places.
  
  Very easy to make money, mostly after you no longer need it (Thanks RockStar) .
  
  Clothing 
 suck this time around, in my opinion. Oh, and forget about customizing your vehicle.
  
  Story line is pretty good compared to other games, but it's also pretty straight forward. They 
 tried to give you a bit of control over what happens in game, but realistically, it's all the same... 
 except for the end which you only have two options to choose from. 
  
  For the first time in the series (since GTA 3) , I have to say the soundtrack is horrible in this 
 game. Very disappointing.
  
  Missions were kind of repetitive. There wasn't a nice mix of missions as there were in previous 
 versions. A lot the missions are "hits" this time around, very few non-killing missions. Gets a 
 little boring after a while.
  
  I felt GTA: SA was the greatest version ever released in this series to date, and if you felt the 
 same way, this game won't put up much to contend with that. This game would have been a nice follow 
 up to GTA 3, or even GTA: VC... but just fell short after playing GTA: SA. I couldn't help comparing 
 every aspect of the game play to the previous version. This game might be worth playing for some 
 of the online play, but I'm not sure it makes up for everything they took out of this one
  
  By itself, the game is pretty good. It is fun and is worth the money. It is a step backward 
 in the series's progression, and this might cause some/most fans to be a bit disappointed. This 
 game is far from a 10/10, but you might be able to argue it's a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Dubz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Those who are looking for a next gen sandbox game may want to try Saints Row 2, as this game is 
 just one big disappointment after the next.
  
  I'll start with the good points - it's Grand Theft Auto. That's about it. If you like running around 
 and beating people up for fun (trust me, you're not alone) this game will provide plenty of that. 
 As fun as this is for 30 minutes maximum, the game itself lacks the staying power to go the distance.
 
  
  And this is because (this, by the way, is the "bad points" section. There are a lot of them) after 
 years and years of waiting, there just isn't a whole lot different from where we started. For starters, 
 the graphics are literally atrocious. Some may argue that creating a living, thriving recreation 
 of Liberty City comes at the expense of cutting edge graphics. The fact is, they did the same thing 
 years ago, on the PS2's technology. Secondly, the multiplayer is really really weak. Third, the 
 combat system is completely reworked, and they felt it was necessary to fix what wasn't broken 
 by giving it a Gears of War style combat system. It's a lot less cool than it sounds. Fourth, the 
 cheats are awful too - what's this about dialing a cheat into your cell phone? Then it will disable 
 cheats forever? Being able to summon tanks, turn invisible, and fly was what made GTAIII so fun 
 and Rockstar messed that up too.
  
  But the most important thing is that if we wait years and years for a game, we expect it to be 
 completely different. If this came out a year or two after the first one it may have been sort 
 of fun, different at least. I mean, this is Grand Theft friggen Auto. One of the biggest names 
 in gaming. Gamers this year got a slap in the face when this came out, the reviewers were paid 
 off to give it perfect scores, and we threw sixty dollars into the pockets of a company that tried 
 to see how bad they could make the game and screw gamers over. There is nothing unique about this 
 game. All I can say is that I hope to see GTA MMO sometime in the future. I don't care how many 
 years it takes to perfect.
  
  Gamers, take note, game sites are often paid off to give games high scores. You're better off reading 
 the user reviews, like this one for example. I could go on and on but Saints Row 2 is calling and 
 I still need to get the 100 nut shots achievement.
  
  Graphics - 2/10, has no where near the sheen that other next gen titles have.
  Control - 4/10, 
 combat system is pretty messed up.
  Fun - 5/10, boring and frustrating at times, but the sandbox is mostly intact.
  Story - 6/10, 
 decent but not worth writing home about.
  Replayability - 3/10, there really isn't any other than some slapped on multiplayer.
  
  TOTAL 
 - 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto had been around for many years. It has had good and bad runs but mostly good. 
 It has great gameplay and many fun things to do. And because it is on a Next-Gen Console the graphics 
 are amazing. They are many new characters in GTA4 and most of them are fun or cool. In this review 
 I will review graphics, gameplay, and characters.
  
  First on my list is graphics. Nowadays for a game to have good graphics it has to be on a Next-Gen 
 Console like the Xbox 360 which I have or on a computer. But most new games that come out on the 
 computer nowadays take up a lot of memory or you need a new computer with a good graphics card 
 because if you dont have the requirements for the game that is listed on the back then your better 
 off just buying a PS3 or an Xbox 360. Recent comparisons done by gamespot of course have proven 
 that most games that have come out for both Next-Gen consoles, the Xbox 360 will have better graphics. 
 So like I said before if you dont have the requirements you might as well just go and buy an Xbox 
 360. The Graphics in GTA4 are pretty amazing like most games on Next-Gen Consoles. They are very 
 detailed including the graphics on the more mature stuff in the game that im not going to mention. 
 So overall graphics in the game are better than any of the other Grand Theft Auto games.
  
  Now on to gameplay. Like most GTA's the gameplay is open. Meaning that you can go anywhere u want 
 in the city that your in. And do almost anything. Also like most GTA's the language and fighting 
 are mature. Meaning that your characters swears and other characters around you and theres lots 
 of blood. When you are playing the game it is long. And it will take you awhile to beat it even 
 if you dont do everything that you can. It took me 2 weeks to beat it and i did like 75% of the 
 game. And like all the GTA's there are lots of cars to steal and blow up including those hard to 
 find sports cars. Before I beat GTA4 I had a viper, 2 lambo's, a Porsche, a mercades and a Ferrari. 
 So over all gameplay is awesome.
  
  Third on the list is characters. Im not going to say much because there are already discriptions 
 about them. The Main characters in the game to me are Nico, Roman, and Brucie. Nico and Roman are 
 cousins and Brucie is a friend of Romans. Nico came to Liberty City because he was looking for 
 the man who betrayed him in the war. And Roman helps Nico sometimes with getting "the bad guys". 
 So over all the characters are good.
  
  Well there is my review to GTA4 and I hope you all like it and agree with it and what I said in 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  GTA 4, the 4th installment into the GTA world, and unlike its preidisesors.
  GTA 4 takes a dark, gritty and realistic look at it.
  But, is it a good change? or bad?.
  
 
  
  
  To me, my experience with Grand theft auto 4 was a.... er. fun experience so to speak. i found it 
 story mode quite addictive, and found myself griped by it.
  But with all things that are good, there are of course the bad. but i'll look into that later.
 
  
  The graphics.
  
  The graphics are quite impressive, the lighting is probably one of the best i have seen, the water 
 textures are spectacular. And the detail that has been given to by standers and other characters 
 has been improved a lot.
  Textures in the buildings have also been improved. giving them a more natural... realistic if you 
 will, feel to it all. The guns have also been improved. They are more detailed, textured and finally, 
 a GTA where the main character doesn't all of a sudden pop out with a rocket launcher out of nowhere.... although 
 grabbing one out of your jacket pocket isn't all that believable... but that's nothing.
  Dynamic lighting has given the game a serious and realistic look on everything. Although when it 
 comes to the brink of night... it's quite hard to see.
  Explosions are to *DIE* for, they just look spectacular, and it leaves you awestruck. and with 
 the ammount of memory a next gen has, you can now see buildings which are quite far away, which 
 makes a plesant releif.
  
  
  
  Interactivity.
  
  Like other GTA's in the past. there hasn't ALWAYS been that much interactivity. but in GTA 4... it's 
 pretty much the same. but of course you can interact with MORE things. 
  Water physics has now been added to the equasion, along with other physics.
  such as dynamic 
 car physics, which bend, crumple and dismantle depending on how you crash. Rag doll probably has 
 to be my favourite, it's so realistic, yet amazingly funny at the same time. And to be quite frank. 
 it just makes you wanna hurt yourself over and over!!!!!
  There are the odd other physics involved. such as some cupbaords may break if you shoot them, along 
 with news paper stands etc.
  One other good thing now, is you can go into more buildings. not many of course... but that's still 
 more... right?
  
  
  
  
  Vehicles.
  
  A lot of vehicles that you know and love, are still in the game, and with a little tweeking. they 
 are now handled to be quite realistic.
  BUT, this is quite bad to be fair, a lot of the other vehicles, such as the apachi styled military 
 helicopter, Jet fighter, quads, jet skies and others are sadly not included. 
  
  
  
  Story.
  
  The story is quite compelling, dark, gritty, and well dramatised, it's quite a nice 
 feel for the game.
  Voice acting has been improved, along with movement and emotion.
  The story is quite long, and will take you the given 20 hours *for the achievment* to complete 
 it, but if your the type which likes to mess around, take friends out, then your looking at over 
 100 hours of story mode gameplay.
  The story also gives you the use of choice, you only get to use this option a limited ammount of 
 times, such as which friend to kill, which route to take and so forth.
  
  
  Mulitplayer.
  
  The multiplayer in GTA 4, is also quite addictive. And with over 10 modes to 
 choose from, along with 16 player capability, it's very wonderous of the things you may achieve.
 
  
  
  
  OVERALL.
  
  To me, GTA 4 is something to be expected, i find the wopping 10 from gamespot, isnt to be given 
 to Grand theft auto 4. Sheer to the fact that i myself are a long time GTA fan, and although i 
 love some of the aspects of the game, i find it to be undesearving of it's score, most of the fun 
 has been taken out of the series since it took the realisitc and gritty side of the next gen world, 
 and to me, i'm dissapointed at that.
  no parachute, no cool vehicles, hardly any funny moments.
  Rockstar has wondered too far into 
 the world of the next gens, and it could infact be there downfall if they don't look back at there 
 previous fun games.
  
  But, i liked GTA 4. So without a doubt it's a must buy.
  It's fun, muliplayer is quite interesting. And that's all it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_sHarKs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the most hyped up game of the year, and possibly of all time. You play as a character 
 named Niko, who is the most emotional and most human of all the GTA protagonists. So you come to 
 Liberty City, expecting to live the big life, with your cousin Roman, but actually it's not what 
 he thinks it is. The promised mansion is actually a hobo-ish apartment and all the sports cars 
 are lowered down to cabs. So you have to start from the dirt and work your way to the top. The 
 gameplay in Grand Theft Auto 4 is fantastic. You never get tired of just running around and gunning 
 down thugs, or anyone you want, commting grand theft auto (bump) and exploring the living, breathing 
 Liberty City. The graphics are top-notch and live up to its system's standards. But in my opinion 
 GTA 4 wasn't the BEST of the GTA games, it was simply as good as all the other best games ever. 
 Now if the remade San Andreas, with better graphics, controls, more missions, and weapons, THAT 
 would be something else. But currently GTA 4 is still an amazing achievement and Rockstar are geniuses. 
 I also love to explore the myths of San Andreas and Liberty City , it's very suspenseful. Don't 
 rent this game because you won't be able to finish it as it is bery long. Buy the best game on 
 Xbox 360 now!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d33pak001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is back with a bang! GTA IV has all the makings of the game of the year. With 
 all the improved controls beautiful environments and total fun filled gameplay it cannot be better 
 than this. Niko Bellic is very funny is one of the best GTA characters yet. With over 30 hours 
 of gameplay, it is a big game and a story mode which is fun filled and exciting. There is much 
 to keep you busy even after you have completed the story mode as it is very tough to find some 
 of the things you need to complete the game (100%) . Liberty City is completely different from the 
 previous 2 games and is far more better. It somewhat replicates the present day NYC. And yes the 
 best thing about this GTA is that unlike its predecessors, it is based on 2008 which is present. 
 Great game to play. Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergod317
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  From the moment that I started to play this game I was facinated by the gameplay. I enjoyed meeting 
 the countless friends that you will meet during the game. That was very unique to see that in the 
 grand theft auto series. I also love the way that the game allows you to decide on actions that 
 your player has to decide from. 
  The graphics are another perk all in their own! I mean you should see the way day and night looks 
 like. Rockstar games did their job and took their time when making this game. I did not see one 
 glitch in the entire game and I have beat the campaign mode 3 times since buying it the first week 
 it came out. 
  I also enjoy how you can take Grand Theft auto IV online and team up with your friends. I think 
 that is exactly where Rockstar should take their games to. My first time playing online was a challenge, 
 but turned out to be one of the greatest option for the game! 
  Now the news of coming out with another version of GTA IV is like music to my ears. I also feel 
 like a V. I. P. because the new version will only be on the xbox 360. LOST OF DAMMED ........... I 
 can not wait to play this game all over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is not perfect. I only give it a 10 because it is to damm near a 
 10 then it is to a 9.5.
  
  Why? It is breath taking.
  
  People who play it straight through and beat don't play it again and might even sell it. They'll 
 tell you it was good, but not fantastic. It is fanastic. 
  
  I played it through, twice, put it underneath the rest of my games for a couple of months, and 
 one day, decided to give it another shot. The game has a tremendous replay value and it feels fresh 
 and new everytime you put it in. GTA is clever and somehow it sinks in to you and you may feel 
 like you are sick of it or bored of it, but playin it, will take that away. That is what makes 
 GTA 4 so special. 
  
  Its hard to explain but there is somthing the game has that sets it apart from other games. That 
 is why it won game of the year, my 10, Gamespot's 10, and several other 10's. They saw the same 
 thing I saw. 
  
  I say it is not perfect because no matter what you do, its impossible to make a perfect game. People 
 say 10/10 is perfect. Tech-ly, it is. But thats not the point. 10/10 simply put it above all other 
 games, which it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9DAWG
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV, It's most likely a great rpg shooter, but wont live up to its hype for more 
 than a year, the controls are a bit sluggish and frame rate will drop if massive amounts of explosions 
 are occurring and Niko's friends are the most annoying people ever, but besides that, its fun and 
 has an awesome multiplayer with a good play list editor. Free Mode is the most popular of them 
 all, it allows you and 15 of your friends or random gamers to roam around the streets of Liberty 
 City and do what ever you desire. You can come up with your own games that you create with your 
 partners and you can set up private slots within the 16 player slots so you can save spots for 
 your friends instead of always playing with strangers who are sometimes uncooperative when your 
 are just trying to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbart123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  well i love the gameplay and the story and the online is great over all 10/10 good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / ./ / / / / / // / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / // / / / / // / / / / / // // / // /// / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / // / / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / // / // / // / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / // / / / / / / / / / / / / // 
 // / / // / // / /// / // / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 /// / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taegre
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is not a good game, simple as that. You can't say that about a lot of games, 
 I could argue that Sonic Unleashed and Driv3r are really good games, and make a number of strong 
 points to support my statement in the face of negative reviews which also make strong points for 
 their case. That's called opinion. But there's a time when opinion crosses the line into fact, 
 and this is it. GTAIV is factually a bad, bad game. I mean Superman 64 bad. It's the desert mirage 
 of video games in that it approaches you with so much promise and spectacle that you've been thirsting 
 for in your long journey for nourishment, but as you dive into it, you are left with a mouthful 
 of sand. That's what I'm left with, hopefully this review will save other gamers fortunate enough 
 not to buy GTAIV at launch from the same fate.
  
  Normally, I try to focus on the good points of a game first, but then I might accidentally give 
 the impression that Grand Theft Auto 4 is a good game, which would make me a liar. I will admit 
 it: Yes you will have fun in this game. You'll be in awe at the game's opening cinematic. You'll 
 call your buddies over the first time you get two pedestrians to fight eachother. You'll chuckle 
 as you harass taxi drivers. You'll guffaw at your first few major car wrecks. You'll laugh maniacally 
 when you drive a gargantuan Patriot over lesser traffic like Big Foot (the monster truck) . And 
 you will sometimes love the multiplayer. For a while.
  
  Throughout the rest of your stay in Liberty City, you will be frustrated, enraged, confused, and 
 just plain bored. The story is hopelessly incoherent and chock full of "references" that would 
 make Limbo of the Lost seem like a work of originality (Gambetti is a carbon-copy of Godfather 
 II's Hyman Roth) . The missions have very little variety that range from chase a vehicle, get chased 
 in a vehicle, or shoot people in buildings, and the few unique missions are actually worse than 
 the norm. The driving mechanics which should be at the heart of the gameplay try to strike a balance 
 between Hollywood action and real-world physics, and fails at both (Driver got this right last 
 decade!) And all this will be constantly interrupted by all matter of freezeups. 
  
  Rockstar promised a lot with Grand Theft Auto IV's story. We were supposed to sympathize with an 
 illegal immigrant and get an outsider's look at the American dream. With the game's opening cinematics, 
 it would seem they've accomplished their mission. But this promise decays after you make yourself 
 at home in Liberty City and realize a few things. One: Niko Bellic's voice actor is terrible. It's 
 hard to decipher his sarcastic personality because every line is delivered with monotony that is 
 only broken about four times through the 30-hour story. Two: You have little motivation for doing 
 anything. Every mission gets you money, but you don't need money. You never have to pay rent, can't 
 buy cars or any better houses, and buying guns is very rarely necessary because they only become 
 unlocked in stores after you've already found them for free. Three: There isn't a likable character 
 to be found in this enormous city! Now, it's fine for a story to be pessimistic about humans. Fight 
 Club took that approach, as did Sweeney Todd. But both those books/movies had plenty of characters 
 you could fall in love with despite their a-holism. Not in this game. From your deadbeat cousin 
 to annoying drug dealers to whiny girlfriends you share no chemistry with, every friend, enemy 
 and boss in this game will make you wish for a b! tchslap button. When the games ugliest, meanest 
 most double-crossing villain actually has a more likable personality than your love interest, there 
 is something very wrong.
  
  Immediately after you reach this epiphany, Rockstar's story completely abandons its objective and 
 tries to mash every mafia/crime movie the development team has seen into one incomprehensible mash. 
 You'll be reminded of Godfather, The Departed, Eastern Promises, you name it. References are fine, 
 but not when you set out to make a game with such an original premise, and especially not in such 
 a great quantity that there's no time to give much plot development to any one sub-story. The average 
 side-story in the game has about 3-4 missions, versus 5-7 or even 10 in previous games. The difference 
 is staggering since you never get to know many characters (besides their jerk sides) , care about 
 their situations, or remember them when they're being referred to in later stories. It doesn't 
 help that there's so much generic or plain lame dialogue to help you remember these people by. 
 Lines like "If you marry a dragon, you have to expect some knights showing up trying to slay him" 
 coming out of a mafia wife are just weird (I'm sorry, but that's a terrible analogy no matter how 
 you look at it... who the f*** would marry a dragon!?) . Characters are so forgettable that by the 
 time you face the game's main villain in a showdown, you'll have completely forgot about his existence! 
 And this all leads up to an ending that makes very little sense and tries to disguise the lack 
 of closure as some statement about life in America, which the game should have already made halfway 
 through the story when it was busy copying The Godfather!
  
  Now let's assume you aren't playing this game for story. Well you don't have much to look forward 
 to here either. This is a free-roam game with very little to do. If you're not doing missions, 
 you can try going clothes-shopping, watching TV, bowling, darts, billiards, see a show, or maybe 
 just some sightseeing. You can also do most of this on a date, or an equally erotic man-date. Yeah, 
 the ideal Grand Theft Auto experience. Just without the unlockable tank... and fun. Bowling and 
 darts are a point-and-click affair where you would have to try to lose. Television is as entertaining 
 as ingame radio, meaning you'll be ignoring it most of the time. Pool is actually well-designed 
 and pretty fun to play, but it's not preferable to the free-roam sadism the series is famed for.
 
  
  During your more illegitimate activities, you'll spend a lot of time shooting. Or should I say 
 pointing and clicking. Or should I say pulling the R-trigger, since the game does the pointing 
 for you too. Auto-aim targeting is a major crutch of GTAIV's shooting, and it's a system broken 
 beyond repair. You can barely decide who Niko targets, and the system doesn't prioritize that big 
 shotgun-wielding Russian mafioso over the innocent fisherman standing at the dock fifty yards away. 
 A lot of times the game will actually target a random person in the complete opposite direction 
 of where you want to aim seemingly for kicks. And even when you're facing the right direction, 
 switching to the target you want is a nightmare, and hitting him where you want is a game of luck 
 as to whether you will get a bead on his head or just switch targets just as you pull the trigger. 
 The game claims you can aim manually, by pressing on the left trigger only slightly, but you can't. 
 The human brain does not allow you to press on that trigger just the right amount (it's a very, 
 very slim threshold) in the middle of a frantic firefight. Also, the godly accuracy of the targeting 
 system means many of the 12 weapons in the game feel identical in operation: There's shotguns, 
 rockets, grenades, and then everything else. 
  
  If there's a saving grace to GTAIV, it's in its multiplayer. Here, you can engage in the endless 
 rampage you dreamed of free of the scourge of auto-aim and an illogical police system. I'll be 
 honest, some of the most badass stuff I've ever done in a video game happened in GTAIV's multiplayer, 
 like when I shot at an incoming attack helicopter maniacally, only to realize the pilot was going 
 kamikaze on me, and literally doing a somersault underneath the copter's body as it plummeted into 
 the building just behind me. Having a room full of skilled or crazy players willing to make these 
 scenarios happen definitely helps. Otherwise, you won't find much more satisfaction in multiplayer 
 than you will singleplayer, though there's always the promise of finding that perfect game.
  
  There's so much still wrong with the game I haven't covered, such as how much this game freezes, 
 how it takes way too freakin' long to drive to your next mission, and how the save system makes 
 the last two problems I just mentioned into nightmares. I wanted to stop playing and shelf the 
 box ten hours into the game, but I ended up forcing myself to continue to the end, convinced that 
 somewhere deeper into the game was some miraculous aspect that was earning it all this lavish praise 
 from critics. It's not there, GTAIV only worsens the more you play it and will leave you wanting 
 $60 back in your wallet and 30 hours back in your life. At least in writing this review I can finally 
 wash my hands of this disaster of what should have been a great story and long-lasting game.
  
  A few comments on my ratings. For difficulty I put down "hard" only because each mission in 
 the game played out like I was on a severe time-limit, since I struggled to get to the next save 
 opportunity before the game froze again. The actual combat in the game is just finding a target 
 and holding the right trigger, so I would rate gameplay itself as "very easy". For Time Spent Playing 
 i put around 40-100 hours, though the game will say I spent 32 hours playing. That's because GTAIV's 
 statistics don't factor in the time I spent replaying a mission after restarting from a frozen 
 game over and over again. My final rating is 3.5. The anger I have over my time spent in Liberty 
 City makes me want to slide that down to 1 to hopefully cancel out another masochistic reviewer 
 who actually liked the game, but I have to factor in that I still have fun with the multiplayer 
 once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers_0708
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  This game is great, and has solid graphics and everything. There is nothing wrong with the games 
 graphics, gameplay, or nothing. It is that the game always freezes on me now, and it aint my system. 
 Cause I keep my system in really good shape. Rockstar better fix this problem soon, because no 
 one is pretty not gonna by their products no more. But overall this game is great, and it does 
 get boring sometimes. And it aint the games fault it is the companys, but the game has great missions 
 to do. And it wont bored you in the beginning, but once you get half way through the game it does 
 get really boring. Like me I am halfway through the game, and I aint telling you not to get this 
 game. I am telling you that it might freeze on you, even if you get it for the PS3. But this game 
 is great and you should definately rent this game first. Just to see if it freezes or not, and 
 if it doesent you should definately get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottumatic
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Shoot me if you will, GTA fans but this is one game which has a highly controversial ratings made 
 by critics that you will have to rent it in order to decide it for yourself.
  
  Personally throughout my time playing this game, I was bored the hell of going through the sloppy 
 dialogues; conversations which gets you to nowhere and sub-par voice acting. If anything that annoys 
 me much is the constant rantings made by Niko in his native language to stress that he is from 
 Eastern Europe. The plot is very inconsistent and difficult to follow; it often switches in-between 
 from the protagonist seeking his fortune to taking revenge on a former soldier who betrayed his 
 platoon during a war.
  
  Missions are the usual fetch-and-kill but without the jest you would find from previous GTAs and 
 that is contributed largely by the inconsistent plot line and sub-par script mentioned above. The 
 only mission which thrills me so far is the bank robbery and funeral mission which is damn funny 
 due to your Irish friend, Packie's funny swearing. 
  
  Weapons selection are reduced to the normal generic. No flamethrowers. No kantanas. No metal knuckles.
 
  
  Side-missions are reduced too. No paramedics. No taxi driver. No firefighter. 
  
  Acquisition of assets / businesses and safehouses are also eliminated.
  
  Those of you who 
 are rooting for territorial wars between gangsters seen in GTA: SA will be utterly disappointed 
 to see its disappearance. 
  
  As for the multiplayer aspect of GTA IV, don't hold your hopes high, you will be ultimately frustrated 
 throughout your time playing it because of the community. (What do you expect from playing with 
 people in a game where you're supposedly required to act as a jerk to win huh?) Hosts can be kicked 
 by participants and there is no lobby for you to browse what 'rooms' are available for you. And 
 I simply lost count the number of times I witnessed hosts getting kicked simply because they don't 
 like the selected game or they are just simply morons. 
  
  Good luck to those who wants to grind some achievements on the multiplayer portion of GTA IV. You're 
 in for some ultimate frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: live_Grenade509
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  You might as well be playing gta 2, underneath the flashy environmental and graphical effects, 
 its the same linearly scripted bs that they've been selling for decades. By now they should've 
 atleast added some flexibility to the series. The majority of the missions involve Nikko finding 
 a target, followed by a cut scene where he walks up to them without a weapon and formally announces 
 that he's going to kill them, then he stands there and waits while they run away. Your task then 
 is to run/drive/ride across the city to catch up to the criminals, which by some stroke of bad 
 luck/ gamedesign makes it so that they are always faster than the 99% of other citizens in liberty 
 city. If this didn't sound stupid enough, while you are catching up to them you also have to shoot 
 them using the garbage control system which makes it impossible to actually hit something while 
 in a vehicle. This incredibly bad type of gameplay is made even more frustrating by the ingame 
 AI of the other drivers who flip out and purposefully try to get in your way; if you're driving 
 on the wrong side of the road and you swerve to avoid cars coming at you, the cars will try to 
 swerve into you. The faults can be put up with most of the time, but there are missions where you 
 MUST use a motorcycle and hitting anything while riding one sends you flying, also the person/persons 
 you are chasing are able to 'escape' if you try and follow them from side streets, you HAVE to 
 follow the same general path that they do, meaning you are always behind them.
  
  I tried getting around these stupid chase scenes by blocking getaway routes, but the game instantly 
 resets everything when a cutscene takes place and the routes become clear, also if there is no 
 cutscene, the getaway vehicle simply pushes away the object blocking the path in seconds.
  
  The game also has a ton of other flaws with it's time system; time flys by too fast in game, 
 an hour lasts roughly a minute meaning that you have a minute to find a car and pick up your 'friend' 
 who is on the other side of town before he/she gives you a negative rating. You also have to constantly 
 take friends outside to avoid negative ratings from them which is kind of impossible to keep up 
 with while doing missions. 
  
  They should have made the passage of time match the driving speed. Sometimes you have no choice 
 but to find a taxi to get to an appointment on time, but then theres the times when you will not 
 see a single damn taxi for minutes. You can call roman to send you a taxi but you have to wait 
 for it.
  
  Overall the game is fun for just screwing around, but seriously trying to play it will have you 
 biting your nails; it's frustratingly repetitive and isn't worth paying for. Does not deserve even 
 close to a 10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longcat2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Whilst GTA 4 is very good, it is severely overrated and definitely did not deserved to recieve 
 a perfect score from most of the gaming sites. The graphics are solid, the design of Liberty City 
 is as close to New York as a game could get, and it has a nice storyline, however its missing something 
 that San Andreas had.
  
  The missions are good but not spectacular. There were at least 3 missions in SA that I wanted to 
 save so I could replay them but I found none in GTA 4 that I could do that with. Most of the missions 
 involve some a-hole who wants you to kill another a-hole who wronged him and then any of the three 
 follow: Chasing a guy and killing him, killing a guy's men then killing the guy or stealing a vehicle. 
 There was a lot more variety in the missions that SA had. The storyline is also not as engrossing 
 as GTA SA was, but still very nice.
  
  With the main negatives out of the way, the game is still awesome. The graphics, presentation, 
 look and feel of the city as well as some of the best cut scenes a game could have and some of 
 the most dynamic characters in gaming make this game spectacular, but not perfect. The game is 
 overrated, but that shouldn't deter you from buying it. If you own a PS3 or 360 go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHomind
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV "the greatest Xbox 360 game" not. The game feels like they took out all the 
 cool and unrealistic weapons from the PS2 games and added next-gen graphics. The only thing great 
 about this game is the graphics. 1st the story missions are bland and boring, traveling around 
 the city, taking your girlfriend on a date, how about following a car for 20 minutes, oh man sounds 
 fun sign me up. It wouldn't be so bad if you didn't have to play 60 missions to be able to travel 
 around the whole city. Also you have to play ten minutes before you get a knife ,not even a gun 
 a knife. The multiplayer also sucks play Gears of War if you want multiplayer. The actual story 
 is also great I love Nico he is so much more alive than other GTA main charcters. I would only 
 recommend this if your a huge GTA fan and must own every game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RightFromWrong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  amazing, i know this game has been 8 months old, but it still surprises me how great GTA evolved 
 from a crappy PC failure to a GOTY masterpiece. i don't really think it deserves a average score 
 of 10/10 perfect unicorn. it should be around 9/10, although rockstar's blockbuster lives up to 
 its hype, the too-much realism makes the world of GTA a little weird.... Gameplay: gameplay itself 
 is great with a cover system and an auto-target system that shows health, a lot of accesibility 
 to the world makes it awsome. 
  Story: a nice organized plot with a lot of surprises and a real-life affection feeling, definitily 
 a nominee for this year's story award. Graphics: good, PC and ps3 versions live it to the extreme, 
 but 360's textures and environments are a little too dull, and unlively. Technical: almost perfect, 
 the only problem i saw was a little character glitch when they touch something, rockstar did a 
 great job making this huge game without any tech failures. controls: excellent, running and physical 
 movement are easy and sensful, shooting and combat controls exceed a level of a thirdpersonshooter 
 , and driving controls are awsome, better than most driving games. online: a great idea to put 
 mulitplayer in GTA, tons of people are always playing, nice and creative modes, and customizable 
 characters and free mode rules! hype: it lives up to 100% and more series comaprison: best of the 
 series, gta san andreas sucked, with the fact that you had to eat to stay alive, and getting your 
 weapons taken all the damn time, with ugly characters and graphics, GTA IV improves everything 
 to a damn near"best game in the world" level, overall a great piece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerman6534
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's get started...
  
  GRAPHICS: These graphics are the best I have ever seen in any video game. For example, if you get 
 shot while in a car you can see every little bullet hole in the car. Also, when it is the day, 
 the sun reflects on everything perfectly. Every window, every car reflects the light perfectly.
 
  
  STORY: Remember the old GTA SA stories where it has unbelievable missions? (don't get me wrong, 
 SA is a 10 also) Well this story takes a huge leap from that. Most everything is believable, from 
 the shoot-outs to the car chases, except of course the idea of getting away from the police :) . 
 Anyway, instead of GTA IV being a "funny" story it is now more epic and serious. In some points 
 of the game you can feel sorry for Niko or anyone else in the game (particularly the people you 
 shoot from the street) .
  
  GAMEPLAY: Amazing. The new aim system was updated perfectly and it makes gameplay much funner. 
 Also, the physical design in GTA IV is hilarious. Run in front of an incoming car and watch your 
 body fly over the roof. The new driving system is also more realistic. I love how the car spins 
 out on certain times. It makes you have to actually pay attention to your surroundings while driving.
 
  
  MUSIC: Only bad part about this game: the music is kinda crappy.
  
  OTHER: Even after the game's finished you an still have fun. Go and jump some ramps with your friends 
 in a party. Go start a rampage in the nearest Cluckin Bell. Go explore some of the more mysterious 
 areas in the game. Or, my favorite, go to the strip club and get yourself a lap dance :)
  
  10/10 Rockstar has done it again! Can't wait for The Lost and Damned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackbeard269
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  The game is amazingly real. There is never not something you can do or try. RockStar just keeps 
 makeing great games. The rest of the Game makers should follow RockStar because they keep the gamers 
 in mind when making games that keep the attention of the gamer in the game! Even the Online play 
 is pretty cool. With lots of different things to do it keeps the gamer in the action and in control 
 of what they want in the action. The story line just gets better and better as you go through the 
 game. Freeplay well you get to do what ever makes your head spin. The price for the game is worth 
 it because RockStar puts thought and game play into al the games they make. I know parents out 
 there hate the language in the game but hey when kids go out side to play the language is there 
 everyday and nothing you can do to stop it. I am not saying its right but there s a partial control 
 on the game so if they buy it and don't read the box then its no ones fault but there own!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpmp777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  This Game Is The Best In The Series For Grand Theft Auto. If The Game Was I Bit More Longer I Would 
 Give It A 10. But Its Still Worth Buying If You Love Car-Jacking And Shooting. This Would Be The 
 Best Game For You. With 94 Missions In The Game, It Makes A Great Storyline. I Just Wish There Was 
 More Missions. The Game Is Still One OF THE BEST GAMES FOR X-BOX. iGUESS tHATS y gAMESPOT rATED iT 
 a 10. iN tHE gAME You Start Of As Niko Bellic. He Is Trying To Start Over A New Life After Being 
 In The War Back In His Country. His Cousin, Roman Bellic Helps Him Get Started. But He Couldnt Stay 
 Away. Next Thing You Know Niko Bellic Is Back Commiting Crimes. Then After Getting Scrambled With 
 The Wrong People. And Roman Gambleling, They Are In Lots And Lots Of Debts. The One That Gets Niko 
 Mad If Dimitri. Dimitri Is They Last Person You Will Face in the Game So Be Ready...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaguar210
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  When I recieved GTA 4 on the day of its release i was thrilled. I couldn't beleive i was finally 
 going to play the game that id been waiting for for a good year and a half. I was immediately immersed 
 into the plot, though at the beginning it was relatively slow but it picked up within the first 
 7 to 10 missions i beleive. The whole story, from start to finish was very cinematic. It was like 
 watching a long epic gangster drama. 
  
  The controls were also very easy to get along with and the targeting was much improved. The hand-to-hand 
 combat was also very updated making a street fight actually feel like a street fight. Another big 
 improvement was the euphoria engine which made the whole game that much more funny as well as realistic.
 
  
  Probably my biggest gripe about theis game is what they took out of it. Buying property and assets, 
 flying planes, exploring wilderness, and not to mention modding cars was all thrown away. That 
 was a big mistake. I didn't expect this game to be perfect, but i did expect it to be way more 
 deep and addicting that GTA: SA which it really wasn't. At least it had 16 player online but the 
 only truly awesome part about that was the free roam mode. There were just too many modes for its 
 own good. So much was cut out of the GTA formula just to have these extra modes that nobody even 
 plays anymore. Lets face it, GTA online is ridiculously laggy making player on player combat sort 
 of crap in a sence. 
  
  Its fun to play with your buddies and run from the cops or each other, and it's fun to turn friendly 
 fire off and go rocketing in times square, but all in all this game was very fun awe inspiring 
 and imersive despite the tons of crap that they ripped out. Hopfully the next GTA will have a more 
 veried map style not unlike San Andreas and hopefully we can have our Planes and jetpacks and hover 
 craft and assets and tanks and conspiracies and parachutes back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottlillie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  SPOILER ALERT
  
  The infamous Grand Theft Auto... Always amazing, not!
  GTA 4 was a HUGE disappointment. The initial trailers and previews looked amazing and bad ass. 
 The actual game fell way short. The story was weaker then any other story I have ever been apart 
 of. In a nut shell you arrive in liberty city do a mission for your cousin, bunch of filler mission 
 crap, get betrayed by Dimitri, more filler, find a guy the didn't betray you, (he's gay filler 
 filler filler, find the guy that did betray you. (he's a drunk) filler BS. THEN... you either kill 
 Dimitri now or you you kill him later, after he screws you over again.
  But I can get over a weak story if the filler is at least pretty good. It's not. It's lots of delivery 
 missions and running around for people. (the driving mechanic sucks big time)
  Finally... the worst part of GTA 4 is Niko, the **** head you play as. He is far too self righteous 
 to be in a GTA game, let alone the main character. He seems to be a bad ass, but he gets all whiny 
 and lame after he acts like a gangster, except when he saves Roman. When he does that he just complains 
 to Roman for getting in trouble. The game just isn't fun. There is no sense of progress throughout 
 the game, no sense of accomplishment. Even when you beat the game, you seem to be worse of then 
 you started.
  There is all of 3 ammu-nations in the game. You're supposed to spend time with Jacob and hang out 
 so he brings you guns in his car. I don't want to go play pool with thugs I've encountered, I want 
 to earn and work my way up in the mob world.
  Grand Theft Auto IV can't stand up to it's predecessors. Your better off spending $30 and picking 
 up Vice City and San Andreas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude30501
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  If you want to have a game that has a point to it, do not buy this game.
  All you do is basically screw around, this is not for serious gamers at ALL!
  
  EXAMPLE 1 - 
 When you are playing multiplayer, there is no strategy or skill to it, just move your control stick 
 to a player and hold the Trigger down or jump into a vehicles and do drive by shootings, it is 
 not that great.
  
  EXAMPLE 2 - This game is too repetitive, in single player you basically do the same thing way too 
 often and in multiplayer, you basically just shoot without any skill which means you hardly can 
 do anything to win a battle except just get lucky, 
  
  EXAMPLE 3 - In this game you cannot accomplish anything, just do the same things over and over 
 again and for what? A Rank? Nah... you just hold the trigger firing randomly at people and has no 
 competition.
  
  This game looks good or awesome but it isn't really.
  
  Even screwing around doing what you want is not as fun, E. G. No Tanks and driving helicopters is 
 annoying because or lack of aim and does not hover.
  
  So if you can put up with such a game, go ahead and purchase it. With some features they always 
 take away some others, which in most games bugs me the most, WHY couldnt they make a game 100% 
 better than the last? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malfarf15869
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, GTA IV is a lot like every other GTA game: a big city, lots of cars, plenty of 
 missions, and open end gameplay.
  
  And that's all this game truly is. There are a few new features, but it's essentially the same 
 as previous GTA games. You still kill people for money (or for free) , you still steal cars, pick 
 up prostitutes, and the like. While it's not a bad formula, it is kinda reduntant.
  
  The story is fairly interesting, but again similar to the other games: some misfortune falls on 
 the protagonist's lap, he fights to make things better, kills some people, makes some friends, 
 and then kills someone that ruined him somehow during the story. 
  
  Basically, if you've played San Andreas, Vice City, or even GTA 3, then you've pretty much played 
 GTA IV. It has some new twists, but nothing overly special.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dberg777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  "GTA IV has its flaws as a game." (1) "The flow of the game basically goes like this: you watch 
 a cutscene, someone in the cutscene says that someone has done them wrong, you're told they need 
 to be taught a lesson, and then you get in a car and go teach them the lesson. At that point another 
 cinema is triggered and the process repeats. ... it can definitely become a little repetitive." 
 (2)
  
  "It's not like previous GTAs, or most other sequels, where there are new stand-out features that 
 you can easily discuss and rate." (4) "GTA IV [actually] reduces the amount of activities when 
 compared to the previous game, San Andreas. You cannot go the gym to beef up Niko's muscles. And 
 eating a ton of cheeseburgers won't turn you into a massive, wobbly mound of lard." (3)
  
  "You'll probably be surprised to hear GTA IV has noticeably fewer weapons and vehicles on offer 
 than GTA: San Andreas did. ... Yes, this means San Andreas' more unusual vehicles like fighter 
 jets, hovercraft, go-karts and jetpacks are all absent. Don't expect to be wielding chainguns, 
 flamethrowers or chainsaws either." (4) "The world itself is smaller than the state-sized San Andreas" 
 (7) and in general the game has "a feature list that's a step back from its predecessors." (4)
 
  
  "Even though the plot line is simpler than previous GTA games, it still gets cluttered at times, 
 with a glut of characters entering the scene; it can be tough to keep track of exactly why things 
 are happening and to whom." (9) "There's still a clear difference between this and [even] a B-level 
 Hollywood production. ... Every story note [is] delivered by flat, to-the-point dialog [and] we 
 get characters over-explaining their feelings and opinions, leading to some awkward exchanges. 
 (8) On top of that, "Niko's Serbian ... is God-awful." (3)
  
  "Combat can be troublesome. ... When you're duking it out with enemies in confined spaces ... it 
 can be easy to get disoriented when the camera moves around." (5) "The sometimes problematic auto-aim 
 shooting" (1) means "you'll still die thanks to the odd lock-on screw up that has you looking at 
 pedestrians instead of the policeman aiming up behind you." (1) Yes, the "lock-on can be a little 
 finicky." (2) In general, "combat controls could be tighter." (1)
  
  "Cover mechanics don't always work the way they should" either. (3) There's definitely "the occasional 
 stickiness of cover points when trying to maneuver quickly." (7) and "times when attempting to 
 take cover behind narrow objects (such as columns) will occasionally result in Niko attaching himself 
 to the wrong side." (5) No, "taking cover may not always work the way you want it to." (3)
  
  "The squirrelly driving control takes a while to master," too. (6) "Some cars in GTA4 are especially 
 loose and hard to control when executing the kind of high-speed maneuvers required by the game. 
 Using the handbrake to execute hairpin turns and drifts is, in general, more difficult than before, 
 and you'll have to actually have to think about slowing down a bit before taking a tight corner." 
 (8)
  
  "Some of the control mapping is a little bit odd as Rockstar chose to do things its own way in 
 some respects." (2) There's "some clunkiness in ladder-climbing and vaulting objects" (7) and "some 
 of the other interactive features, such as shopping for clothes in several clothing stores, have 
 an awkward interface, making it a chore to try on different looks." (8) "The lack of analogue running." 
 is also off-putting. (4) "The analogue stick is there for a reason and having to hold the A button 
 to run and tap it to sprint, stands out as a little archaic." (4)
  
  "GTA4 also suffers from those little things that have always plagued the series, such as sudden 
 pop-in of objects in the environment and the occasional repetition of car models in your immediate 
 vicinity." (6) "The frame-rate also takes punishment throughout ... with noticeable pop-in in places." 
 (7) "I've [also] encountered a few odd clipping issues in certain obscure parts of Liberty City" 
 (3) and "some of the secondary characters look a bit like clunky PS2 holdovers." (8) "The distance 
 blur is also pretty heavy. ... It's ... a little disappointing to look at a distant skyline and 
 see nothing but a complete blur. The shadows are also distractingly grainy at times." (4) "You'll 
 definitely notice glitches." (5)
  
  "The continued absence of mid-mission checkpoints" is another sticking point." (7) "With missions 
 that can take an extended period of time, and require trips to several locations, not having a 
 save-anywhere system will turn off mainstream and casual gamers." (8) "I do wish that Rockstar 
 had added checkpoints in the multistage missions to cut down on the grunt work of frustrating retries." 
 (6)
  
  "GTA IV is very much Grand Theft Auto, which means that if you didn't like the last installments 
 you're probably going to have the same qualms with IV." (1) The game "doesn't reinvent the wheel" 
 (9) and "the game's missions will be familiar to just about anyone who played the last couple of 
 GTA games." (5) In general, everything is just "a little less brave and intimidating this time 
 around." (2)
  
  Sources
  (1) C&VG
  (2) GameTrailers
  (3) ActionTrip
  (4) IGN AU
  (5) GameSpy
  (6) 1UP
  (7) Eurogamer
  (8) GameDaily
  (9) GamePro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKarma5g
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I dunno i bought this game way back when , played it for like a few days but it just doesn't pull 
 you in. Beating people up on the street same old same old , get wanted ratings ya ya nothing new. 
 I've had every grand theft auto game but i always thought it was kinda childish i mean ya they 
 swear , ya theres sex , ya the music stations can be funny but its all kinda sleazy and once that 
 wears off and it does quick theres nut much substance. The graphics are pretty but they should 
 be in this day and age . And the characters can be ok but i kinda don't care what happens withem. 
 I think the best grand theft Auto was Vice City , then San Andreas , then GTA4 and finally GTA3. 
 Finally i started playing this again the other day trying to give it another shot but its the same 
 deal .. its just not fun for me . Sorry Nico 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoob22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I got this thinking it would be great, it was but I couldn't help but feel let down.
  The graphics, are great by far the best yet.
  The A. I is programmed really well and the city 
 feels alive.
  The missions are nothing really new if you have played the ps2 GTA games, but fun and challenging 
 (mostly) anyway.
  The characters didn't really interest me most people niko meets are idiots you want to kill (luckily 
 some you can) .
  The soundtrack is lame compared to vice city and san andreas, they could have done much better.
 
  What dissapoints me about this game is they have sucked alot of the fun out of it, No more character 
 customization like getting buff or becoming obese, no tattos, No skills like weapon levels like 
 in san andreas, no more propertys to buy basically nothing to spend your money on but clothes and 
 weapons (and there is a major lack of clothes shops and variety anyway) .
  There are no more fun cheats like flying cars, riots etc.
  Basically they could have done so 
 much more with the power of the 7th generation consoles. instead this game feels like one step 
 forwards and two steps back to me and Very Overated (perfect 10 reviews, Top 5 Rank on gamerankings)
 
  Now the only redeeming feature in this to me is the online upgrades, like the upcoming Lost and 
 the Damned, which for more money, can drag out your playing time a fair bit (there is nothing that 
 will make you want to come back to play the main game again, unless you are the type that wants 
 100% completion and everything unlocked in all games)
  Hopefully they do a better job with the next Grand Theft Auto and give the series a kick in the 
 pants, and add lots of new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The only other GTA game I've played is Vice City on the PS2. It was OK. I never finished it because 
 I got to this part where you had to snipe from a helicopter, and I was unable to do it. That being 
 said, this game has some difficult areas. It would be wise to seek out three important cheats so 
 that it isn't too frustrating (It still lacks checkpoints during missions meaning you have to do 
 the whole thing over again) . The cheats are: Weapons tier 2, Full health + Armor, and remove wanted 
 level.
  
  The cut scenes are stellar. The voice acting is grade A. This is a polished game through and through. 
 The story is extremely interesting. You really care what is happening with Nico Bellic.
  
  A word to parents. This game is NOT suitable for children in any way, shape, or form. It is filled 
 with the most vulgar language, explicit sexual themes and nudity (well, unless you count black 
 tape over nipples as being clothing) . It is replete with drug use. It is also completely chock 
 full of criminal activity.
  
  A word to Rockstar. Some improvements that should be made in GTA V: Checkpoints during missions! 
 Lighting, although great, could be better in the daylight. It is very difficult to see when in 
 the shadows during the day. Have a much brighter area in your safehouse where the clothes changing 
 occurs. I found myself repeatedly buying new clothes because I couldn't see what I was wearing 
 with the clothes I already had.
  
  Great game though. Well worth a purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f3895
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, GTA IV is a great game, however it seems that Rockstar rushed the game a bit as it 
 doesn't have as much content as it's predecessor GTA San Andreas. It lacks the variety of complex 
 missions and most missions are a bit straightforward - a shootout, or chasing someone throughout 
 the city and also as a small number of weapons, and lacks other items such as parachutes etc. I 
 would have really liked to see planes as well in the game as well. Also, when Rockstar announced 
 that GTA IV would have no loading screens, it was great, but in gameplay, I found that only a handful 
 of buildings were accessible without loading screens and that there were not as many restaurants 
 etc. as in GTA San Andreas. The ability to customize the player as in San Andreas would have also 
 been a nice addition to the game, but only a few clothes can be bought and there are no barbers 
 or tattoo parlors.
  
  The visuals in Liberty City are very good especially the amount of buildings which gives a perfect 
 example of New York. However, on my copy of the game, Star Junction (Times Square in New York) 
 is very blank, and there isn't much people walking around there as there would be in real life. 
 I would have expected that Star Junction would have been packed with traffic, but it only has a 
 bunch of cars which I thought was very unrealistic. But with some other things aside as well, the 
 GTA IV Liberty City is one of the best cities made in the series.
  
  Overall, GTA 4 is a great game. However I know Rockstar decided to go very realistic on this GTA, 
 which did take away some of the fun in it. GTA 4 is good, but definitely not worth a 10/10 as most 
 of the critics gave. Hopefully, most of these disappointments will be improved in a Grand Theft 
 Auto 5.
  
  Instead, I have decided to replay GTA San Andreas (and I'm enjoying so much more) after clocking 
 GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skytiger666
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  overly sophisticated graphics result in low FPS, lots of dithering, blur and terrible detail in 
 the distance.
  looking past the serious graphical faults, story is good, characters are good, plenty of gimmicks 
 but overall gameplay is very slow and boring and tedious - you are not going to spend hours exploring 
 and interacting in GTA4 because you will just get bored - this is no GTASA - they are trying to 
 get more and more money by deliberately limiting the game and then releasing the missing bits as 
 game add-ons for a price
  the production values for this game are all wrong - it is pure showoff-ware "look how clever we 
 are" but nobody wants CLEVER - everybody wants a game which is GOOD and has SOUL
  rockstar have manipulated us by not releasing a demo - they never would have sold $500,000,000 
 if we had a chance to see it in advance - now the PC version is generating global rage - hopefully 
 we have learnt our lesson and either R* sales will plummet or they will fix their junk
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paramore289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Peronally, I think this has been the best gta in the series that i have played. Ive been playing 
 and completing gta's since vice city. I liked the fact that the main character had more of a background 
 to him and it was a good storyline throughout the game. The game length of this game, i would presume, 
 is endless if you have xbox live. However if your like me and dont, its still worth the money. Ive 
 recently started playing it again and starting from the beginning and i am still finding myself 
 enjoying the whole story all over again. Some missions are a bit of a struggle without the help 
 of cheats and any other aids but after a couple of shots at them, your through and into the free 
 land again of more missions. The added feature of being able to choose at some points in the game 
 on what to do next is good as well because it unveils another sidetrack to the main story and makes 
 the player wonder what if i went with the other one. This is the best gta ive played and i hope 
 any more in the future is as good as this one, if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3dr0_0
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I like this game but at the same time I dont, sure it has great graphics but that dosnt automaticly 
 give the game a 10. I've played GTA3 series and out of all of them I mostly enjoyed San Andreas 
 out of all of them because of its creative missions. GTA4 had some great missions but alot of them 
 were dull most likely the wear-house shoot outs or chasing a car around the city, the only mission 
 memorable was the bank heist you do with some other characters in the game. I think they should 
 of gave it more customization on Niko's appearance and the ability to buy properties just like 
 its predecessors. They truly could have made this a great game but they choose to take some of 
 the things off like weapons, planes, chainsaws, parachute, ability to save your pictures you took 
 from your phone and raise hell with the tank. It's a good thing they took out the soldiers out 
 of the game since the cops and swat are hard enough in the game. 
  Calling this the best GTA is like saying San Andreas never happened beside GTA4 story wasnt as 
 good and it has two endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceSKYWALKER
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  We've been waiting a long time for a completely new GTA from rockstar but have they delivereld? 
 Yes to the power of a million. GTA 4 combines a great story, stunning graphics and sound and a 
 wirl wind ot outstanding gameplay in one cohesive package.
  You play as Niko Bellic the main protagonist. He's an immigrant from eastern Europe who's come 
 to Liberty city. Niko's cusin Roman told him that he had everything, nice cars, hot women, a luxuary 
 condo when in fact he had squatt and was lying through his e-mails to Niko. So you start off working 
 for various people to get money. These include crooked cops, mob bosses. gansgters and some other 
 random guys. The story takes some twists and turns and is really deep.
  The graphics and sound of GTA is surprsingly good. Although not quite as good as other games but 
 still when you factor in that you can do anything at any moment the graphics are extremely good. 
 The testures, lighting and facial expressions are done superbely just like the voice acting. Liberty 
 city looks as good as it sounds. The radio has something for every one and the crowds of Liberty 
 city always have something different to say.
  The gameplay in gta has changed dramatically. Sure you still drive and shoot but now there's a 
 cover system similar to gears of war. You can take cover behind anything but they can also be destroyed 
 by gun fire. Most missions require you to drive to particular points in the city and kill everyone 
 there. Its been done but thats not to say its not fun . There are also delivery missions and also 
 a bank job missions which is really entertaining. 
  Theres also alot of extra stuff to do like police missions from the police computer, car delivery 
 missions, assassination missions, and social activites which you can partake with oyur friends 
 via your sell phone. You can go to a cabaret club or a comedy club. There a re food shops, bars 
 and clibs you can go to. You can play pool, darts and bowling. 
  Overall GTA 4 is a must play for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have recently been playing this game a lot. The funny thing about the game is that I actually 
 get more enjoyment out of just driving around and killing people for money then being chased by 
 the cops for a while than actually playing the missions. 
  
  The most amazing thing about this game is the cars. There are dozens of different cars to steal 
 and drive ranging from fancy sports cars, SUVs of all kinds, ambulances and police cars, to garbage 
 trucks, 16-wheel trucks and more. Every single type of car drives completely differently than the 
 others and it is amazing to feel the difference. Personally, I think that the SUVs are the most 
 fun, but that is because my main goal is to mow pedestrians over and the larger the vehicle the 
 better. I typically steal a vehicle, hit as many people and things as possible until it catches 
 fire, and then watch it explode. Very fun.
  
  The missions are sometimes fun and sometimes mundane. Early in the game the missions involve driving 
 a taxi around to help your cousin with his taxi business. These are fairly dull unless you decide 
 to hit everything that you can on the way there and back so that you can hear your cab fair complain 
 about how crazy you are. As the game progresses the jobs become more interesting, such as missions 
 where you are essentially a hit man for your business associates. These are much better. My least 
 favorite missions are the timed missions, which require ridiculous speed and I find rather difficult 
 to finish in the allotted time.
  
  Overall, this is one of the most fun and addicting games that I have yet purchased in my 360 catalog. 
 I hope that more games of this quality continue to be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has been the best game to me since I first got my Xbox360, which wasn't too 
 long ago. I have had issues with the game freezing her and there, but I have come to the conclusion 
 that its not my system rather it is my memory card. I am going to be getting a 60GB Hard Drive 
 for Christmas which will be exciting. 
  
  Anyways getting back to the review. The graphics have improved so much since GTA: San Andreas as 
 well as the beginning of the GTA Series. The downfall to this game is its lack of things from San 
 Andreas. You cannot work out, go into stores, buy your own lot (s) , gamble, or anything that you 
 remember from GTA: San Andreas. This is very disappointing, and I hope that Rockstar fixes this 
 situation for when GTA 5 comes out, which I am fully assured that they will continue it. Because 
 why stop at it now when its just getting better (or worse) .
  
  I'm excited to get "The Lost and Damned" when its released on Feb. 9th, 2009. New character, cars, 
 weapons, and new places should be fun. Overall I give GTA4 for the Xbox360 a 9.5 out of 10 because 
 its not perfect and I still see improvements to more things to do in the game than just the story 
 line and its side missions. Honestly...... GTA: San Andreas feels much more real than GTA4 due to 
 the fact you can do much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawForceCOM
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  It's no surprise that a game from the GTA series tops the charts yet again. Being the only Xbox360 
 game that GameSpot rated 10 out of 10 was indeed a tad more surprising but not quite at "shocker" 
 level, to be honest.
  
  GTA4 is the most revolutionary game in the series. You play as a foreigner named Niko on his first 
 ever visit to the United States. He came under false pretenses from his cousin and now sees a need 
 for money and he'll do anything to get it. 
  
  The graphics are ridiculous! They didn't skimp on anything all the way down to accurate tongue 
 positions for words. Sound is great including voice acting. 
  
  I will say that there's a little bit of a learning curve when it comes to the new physics. The 
 cars don't quite handle like previous GTA games. In fact, oh my goodness, they handle like they 
 should be handling: realistically. It was a tad frustrating spinning out rather often when I first 
 started playing it, but I respect the realism being put into effect. Once you get the hang of it, 
 it just goes into the back of your head and no longer bothers you.
  
  The story line is much more innovative than the story lines from the previous games. I won't go 
 into detail about the story simply because its too brilliant to give you little teasers without 
 you sitting down in front of it and truly experiencing it yourself.
  
  Contrary to the past 2 GTA's, there is no property acquiring in this game. Yes, you get apartments 
 but only through the story line. At each apartment, there is a reserved parking space with enough 
 room for two cars. I haven't tested fitting a motorcycle in between just yet (sorry) . As for purchasing 
 properties, it merely doesn't exist in this game. In all honesty, though, you don't really have 
 a need for that much income besides for food to heal or weapons/ammo. Besides that, you're rich. 
 On a personal level, though, I'm kind of a big fan of acquiring half the city, forming a little 
 empire regardless of impact on the game. I don't care if it does absolutely nothing at all to own 
 a property, I just personally like doing it. (It makes me feel special)
  
  There are a few moments in the game where you are presented with a choice between two options. 
 For example, which person out of these two do you kill? When the first one comes along (there's 
 about 3 or 4 total) you expect it to have a drastic effect on the remainder of the game. Fact is, 
 they really don't. I don't care who says otherwise, the most that happens by choosing one over 
 the other might be eliminating some missions, merely advancing you through the story line quicker 
 (for those of you who have the game, I'm primarily speaking of the final decision you have to make) .
 
  
  I love the combat in this game, however it seems rather repetitive at times when you pick your 
 favorite weapon, mine being the carbine. After that, any time you get into a conflict, you find 
 yourself breaking out that particular weapon and mowing everyone down in a slightly non-challenging 
 manner. Don't get me wrong though, there are some pretty critical missions that can easily tear 
 you to pieces if you don't know what you're doing. There IS plenty of challenge in this game too.
 
  
  This is going to sound weird so bear with me. I both love and hate shooting while driving. Finally, 
 you can shoot in nearly any direction. No more "one side or the other" crap. You can shoot forward, 
 backward, diagonally, etc. in this one. The only limitations in directions you can shoot are the 
 positions your hand would be in reaching out the window and shooting over the roof. If you can't 
 bend your hand that way in reality, you can't do it in the game either. That part is brilliant. 
 Now for the part that I hate, and then love (or respect) . You need 3 more arms growing out of your 
 butt to handle all the controls needed to properly aim, maintain your speed, avoid collision, and 
 control your firing to shoot while driving. The reason I respect that, though, is because if you 
 were actually doing this in real life, it would be just as difficult. You try aiming accurately 
 and driving and tell me how easy it is, big man. Let me know!
  
  GO TO THE BAR!!!!! This game has the absolute best conveyance of being drunk I have EVER seen in 
 a video game. I swear to the big guy upstairs that you will actually feel drunk seeing Niko drunk. 
 He stumbles. He falls. His vision is all over the place, but that's not all. When you move the 
 camera angle, everything blurs with the motion, just like if you were hammered for real. The brain 
 simply can't process too much movement while under the influence, so your view of movement is highly 
 blurred. When you're riding in a taxi (yes you can flag down a taxi and have them drive you somewhere. 
 useful for when you're drunk on a date (yes she'll be drunk too) ) the movement of things flying 
 by the window is blurred as well. And this blur isn't the kind you've seen in previous versions. 
 It's like light being dragged behind the actual object. I don't know how to describe it best, but 
 that's the point. It was just a very very accurate depiction of the effects of alcohol and kudos 
 to Rockstar for taking the time to put that much detail on such a small aspect of the game.
  
  I have no complaints about GTA4. All of the things you could find yourself hating have a valid 
 explanation. Brilliant game and Rockstar: Keep up the good work. I look forward to your next GTA 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The most anticipated game of 2008 and has had rumors flying around since GTA: San Andreas revolutionised 
 gaming. But is it all true? keep reading and find out.
  
  Story:
  
  Niko Bellick was lured to the "welcoming" shores of Liberty city by his misleading cousin Roman 
 with the promise of: money, girls, sports cars, mansions Etc. Only to find Roman may have overexadurated 
 a little bit meaning you'r stuck driving a low budget taxi cab and sleeping in a crappy apartment.
 
  
  Presentation:
  
  Visualy Grand Theft Auto IV is beautiful that and the organic sound affects make one of the most 
 realistic virtual worlds ever. The sounds of gun fire and reving engines is incredibly satasfying. 
 And in true GTA style we are treated to astoundingly impressive motion captures and voicework performances.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As it should be with every game the magic is in the... well, the game GTA IV is no exeption. The 
 physics have really been piled on in GTA IV meaning cars manouver and handle like cars with actual 
 weight. Also people will react with the vehecles with satisfying and slightly twisted physics. 
 
  
  Their is no better place to try out and have fun with these physics then the metropolis that is 
 Liberty City. GTA IV's depiction of the famous Liberty City is the largest by far, based of todays 
 New York Liberty City is probably the most impressive feature in the game.
  
  New additions to the game such as the cell phone and Nikos social life all play a part in the over 
 all enjoment of the game but don't drastcaly effect the main objectives. As i previously mentioned 
 Niko can now cominlge with friends/dates at: pubs, clubs and evan strip joints. You will have the 
 chance to play: pool, darts, bowling Etc. The story missions don't have a lot of variety but enough 
 to keep you satisfied through the thirty plus hours of intense gameplay. With some interesting 
 missions such as bank heists and as said in the video review climbing into a moving truck. However 
 the majority of the gameplay is simply pursuits chases and gunfights. A new addition to GTA is 
 the cell phone it helps you keep in contact with friends activate cheats and revieve texts and 
 phone calls, but the main reason you will want the phone is for the insane new addition of the 
 online multiplayer. You will have the choice to pick from a vast amount of games from standered 
 deathmatch to races to cops and robbers, evan the standered deathmatch isnt so standered when you 
 have the whole of Liberty City at you'r liesure.
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  GTA IV is arguabley the best game of 2008 and arguably the best GTA game. You wont get more mileage 
 out of a $60 than you will with GTA its a must play.
  
  Score out of ten:
  
  10/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themvp15
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  when i 1st played gta3 vice city n san andreas the gave me a feeling inside gta4 didnt giv me dat 
 feeling ya the online was fun but i just dont kno i remember gta3 when it 1st came out it was the 
 most amazing thing i had ever seen then vice city it had motorcycles n helicopters n boats n a 
 good story the san andreas my personal fav i got 2 do wat ever i wanted in dat game ya in gta4 
 we can do all that but its just i been there done that how many times can u get the cops after 
 u n beat hookers wit a baseball bat the thing i hated was the cops the dont even chase u in gta4 
 the come up close 2 u n then they crash n disappear but besides all dat the online was fun as hell 
 but when u would be doin free mode n some **** would come in n just spawn killu the entire time 
 i hated dat
  the graphics were awesome sound good if u hav never played a gta game [wtf is wrong wit u] u should 
 defiantly get dis game but for the true fan rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel662
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  This game talking about niko russian man that came to live in america with his cousin try to live 
 the american dream but he and his cousin were getting in trouble and become part of mafias and 
 then the story becoming complicated
  
  graphics:
  
  This game got beautiful graphics and great details in all the systems X360, Ps3, PC 
  
  Gameplay:
 
  
  the site in this game is big and you got alot of things to do and alot of places to visit on them 
 you got new possibility you can meet girls date with them and you can go play and drink with yours 
 friend one more new thing in this game that you can get drunk like in the real life go to sex club 
 and alot more.
  
  My rank: i give this game 10/10
  
  What i think: this game is great not for little kids its M game but its game that every serious 
 gamer need to have, i recommend this game for every one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxter223
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest one you may ever play it contains about 30 hours of intense non-stop 
 action and a great-story line that take you in the heart of organized crime and makes you think 
 that you're playing a persons life from start to finish
  The games graphics also kicked butt and made you feel like you were behind Niko Bellic while he 
 was either killing Russians or running away from the cops ..
  Online play offers tons of options whether you're here to make it to the top or if you're here 
 to just have some fun popping some brains out you could always have fun doing whatever you want 
 in the beautiful scenic liberty city .
  And who knows you may also find some hidden secrets like :almost more than 100 enter able buildings 
 and of course the heart of the statue of happiness .And last but not least is the territory :whoever 
 said that its too small IS completely wrong ,one of the producers stated that to get from one point 
 of liberty city to another is the equivalent of going around San Andreas ONCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, So I'm pretty sure everyone and their mother has played this game. And I'm sure your mother 
 was disappointed in you when she played it.... just like the rest of us. 
  
  But here's the question.... did everyone and thier mother FINISH the game? I'm betting most of you 
 didn't. Well I did. So I can give a full blown review complete with first impressions, middle impressions, 
 and final impressions. 
  
  And I was impressed.
  
  .... mostly.
  
  Let's start with all the good things about this game. First of all, it's a grand theft auto game. 
 So it's stuffed full of violence, swearing, immorality, crued behavior, anit-social antics, law 
 breaking, hookers, and a general sense of anarchy. All of my favorite things. 
  
  The game takes place in Liberty City. Now if you have played Grand Theft Auto III, you'll recoginize 
 the name... but the city has completely changed! Where the original Liberty City was a sprawling 
 generic metropolis, this Liberty City is pretty much an exact replica of New York City.... complete 
 with landmarks, insane people, filth, madness, and tons of different cultures.
  
  And it looks SO authentic. It FEELS like New York. It FEELS like a real city. So many people going 
 about their different lives. Trash everywhere. Cars nearly killing you. The hustle and bustle of 
 a large depressed metropolis is captured perfectly here. And the City is HUGE. It's so huge that 
 it's easy to get turned around, lost, and then mugged or killed by some crazed local yocal... just 
 like the real thing.
  
  I'm not going to get into all the nitty gritty details of gameplay. But let's just say the aiming 
 and firing system is pretty good. There's a few glitches, but overall it's an improvement. Stealing 
 a car seems a little more involved, and outrunning the cops is a lot more interesting. So there 
 ya go.
  
  But my favorite thing about the game is the characters. Specifically, the main character... A commie 
 from the old country... Nikko Belic.
  
  I don't really know why.. but I felt almost attached to Nikko. I felt he was a real man who made 
 real choices and did some real killin'... even though he didn't want to. And some of the cutscenes 
 that developed his character were actually... poignant. Almost cinema quality. So, gold star for 
 GTA IV in this department. 
  
  And now for the bad things. First of all, as good as the story and characters and everything is.... the 
 game is LONG. It seemed to me that this is the longest GTA yet.. and while I'm surprised that I 
 would complain about such a thing.... I can't help it. Here I am getting around 100 hours of gamplay 
 for $60 and I'm complaining. What is wrong with me? Have I become an old man? A crotchety, angry, 
 bitter shell of a human who can't do anything unless it's guaranteed to take up as little time 
 as possible? Maybe so. But I felt that it just went on and on and on at a point. Even though the 
 final outcome was great.... it should have ended sooner.
  
  Also, there is this feature in the game. It involves a phone. And just like a real phone, it's 
 insanely annoying when people call all the time. And people call you.... ALL the time! Demanding 
 time with you! When you have other stuff to do! It's as annoying as real life and I just wanted 
 it to stop.... just like I want real life to stop sometimes. 
  
  And finally there are a few technical issues. Look, I know the city is huge and it looks beautiful, 
 but some things just look terrible and stick out like a sore thumb compared to the rest of the 
 city. All vegetation looks terrible. I mean, it looks like PS2 work. And the shadows are flickery, 
 fragmented, and are really distracting.
  
  But, despite the flaws, GTA IV is still a game that will knock your socks off and will make moms 
 and senators and lawyers lay awake in bed, staring at the ceiling, wondering how they will get 
 this evil out of our childrens 
  
  HA! I stuck in some soapbox opinionated crap! Take that intertubes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I may be a little bit slow on the uptake after all most people have bought GTA 4, played it to 
 death and then proclaimed to their friends that it's the best thing made since those funny shoes 
 with a wheel on the heel. So I'm going to put myself on the line here and say Grand Theft Auto 
 4 isn't that good. Ok now that the fan boys/girls have left in a huff planning the best way to 
 castrate me for my blasphemy the rest of us can continue onwards.
  
  The story in this game focuses around Niko Bellic a Russian immigrant hoping to live the American 
 dream that his cousin proclaims he is having. So he gets there and it turns out his cousin was 
 lying and so Niko does what we would all do in the same situation and gets involved with crime, 
 drugs and generally very naughty things. The story itself is fine Niko and friends are funny, likeable 
 and can inspire some genuine emotion but then again it's all a bit farfetched (not the pokemon) 
 and ever so slightly boring.
  
  So onto the gameplay and this is where Grand Theft Auto games should shine, I mean you know how 
 in Vice City we all built up a 5 star wanted rating with a tank, put in the flying cars cheat and 
 then flew off into the distance pushing the hooker out the door for the dissatisfactory job she 
 did and taking our money back? Ok just me then but my point is Grand Theft Auto 4 is when GTA stopped 
 been fun. First the driving is too realistic meaning high speed chases are gone, the auto aim is 
 too good making it impossible to miss if you have more than 3 brain cells, the colourful cities 
 are gone and Liberty City is more depressing than a night out in Bolton (insert crappy city for 
 your own country if you wish) and worse of all the missions are more repetitive than a series of 
 House. Sure it's bigger and more detailed with a gritty storyline but all I could think while playing 
 was how I wish I could be playing Vice City instead. 
  
  If I could meet the Rockstar developers I'd hunt down the one who thought it would be a good idea 
 to make me socialize with these characters to keep them happy. Sure playing a game of pool, going 
 bowling and going to a club may seem fun but after the 5th time I was fed up with doing it and 
 decided to ignore to ignore them but this makes them hate you (so murder seems to be fine with 
 them but heaven forbid I don't play a game of goddamned darts!) if I wanted to laze around relaxing 
 I'd buy Animal Crossing in GTA I want to blow stuff up. Also why would anybody want to watch TV 
 while playing a game surely this defeats the point of interactive entertainment and you can even 
 go on the internet but once again why should you want to after all without porn it's kind of pointless. 
 If you want to defeat the point of gaming a bit more you could take a computer character out on 
 a date before having hot, pixelated sex with them (complete with moans of pleasure but no hot coffee 
 mini-game this time) . I'm been mean though the core gameplay is perfectly adequate but of course 
 it is after all it's basically GTA 3 with added crappy TV shows.
  
  The graphics in this game are truly fantastic, the level of detail that has been put in is just 
 incredible and around every corner there is a bit of satire or a landmark you'll recognize. The 
 most amazing thing though is that this detail is constant throughout and when you consider the 
 size of Liberty City it is quite something. As mentioned above though I just wish it wasn't so 
 depressing everything is really dark and overly realistic that some of the fun of exploring is 
 removed as it's all so miserly. The soundtrack is top notch as always with some recognizable tunes 
 and others that will grow on you plus the DJ's are hilarious also and this makes me sad that the 
 driving is so puke-tastically crap as I enjoyed just driving around listening to the stationswhile 
 commencing the murder of course.
  
  The big new addition is the Multiplayer modes and to give Rockstar credit it is very good allowing 
 you to wreck havoc around all of Liberty City with your friends complete with some clever game 
 modes. In fact I would go as far as saying this is when GTA 4 shines and gets back to what makes 
 it so great in the first place.
  
  Overall GTA 4 seems like a missed opportunity to take the GTA mayhem into the next-gen. My main 
 gripe is that there is nothing fundamentally wrong with it after all the story is good, graphics 
 fantastic and has that Rockstar humour but it's so determined to be realistic and serious that 
 the crazy fun had to sacrificed for it and if your ok with this then go and buy it. Grand Theft 
 Auto has grown up but I for one don't want to grow up with it.
  
  Pros
  
  + Hugely detailed city to explore with fantastic graphics
  + Good if unspectacular story
  + 
 Core gameplay is fine with a great Mutit-Player mode
  + Has that trademark Rockstar humour
  
  Cons
  
  - All a bit too serious
  - Driving too realistic and shooting too easy
  - TV, 
 Internet and Dating is pointless. Socializing is annoying and unnecessary.
  - Story mode missions are repetitive and boring
  
  Overall
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  In my lifetime only 3 games have left me in complete awe nodding my head like an idiot saying in 
 my best surfer dude voice "woaahhhhhh".
  Those games were Metal Gear Solid, Gears of War and now GTA4.
  MGS and GoW were both groundbreaking, 
 fresh and introduced a lot of new ideas to the gaming world but this isnt really where GTA4 shines 
 the most.
  The real beauty of GTA4 is its story. I cant remember caring so much about a set of characters 
 before. caring about the main character is common in a good game but very rarely do i care about 
 supporting characters but in GTA4 as sad as this sounds i almost started to think of the supporting 
 cast as friends and i wanted to help them which lead to the story being all the more engrossing.
 
  
  In a way GTA4 is kind of a 'choose your own adventure' movie, the gameplay supports the story wheres 
 as in most games the story supports the gameplay.
  
  But anyway, i think weve all heard about the fantastic story over and over and are probably bored 
 of it.
  
  The gameplay of GTA4 is just phenominal, the graphics are amazing and it suffers from little to 
 no frame rate issues, the only time i saw frame rate slowdown was at top speed in the fastest cars 
 which isnt that easy to get to without crashing into something or having to turn.
  
  One of the most interesting things about GTA4 is the psychology of it and it becomes most potent 
 when you finish the main story and are just cruising the city looking to complete the side goals.
 
  It is at this time when your dark side rears its ugly head. Ive seen websites where people compare 
 the various ways in which they like to kill their prostitutes, some of the darkest desires of human 
 kind come to light in this game and i have to say, its fun !
  
  This is a game you just HAVE to have, just for the experience and to say you've been there.
  
 
  There are however a few downsides to this game, one is that you cant steal a plane from the airport, 
 if Niko has the skills to fly a hellicopter then i dont think its a far stretch for him to have 
 some basic small aircraft piloting skills either but this is a minor issue.
  The main issue is that when you strip away the story the game consists of driving and shooting 
 over and over and over again and it would get dull if it wasnt for the amazing story and character 
 relationships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OldStyle91
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I will rate GTA IV in four categories. Note that the final rating is not an average of the separate 
 sections.
  
  --Story -- [9-10]
  
  First of all the strongest part of GTA IV, the story. The story is very well written and almost 
 never seems to bore. The characters get worked into the story very well, and every mission has 
 a reason that isn't very far fetched.
  
  --Graphics -- [9.5-10]
  
  Secondly, the graphics. The graphics of GTA IV are really amazing.
  Instead of going with the 
 trend of more and more realistic graphics, Rockstar decided on a cartoony look. This really works 
 well and looks very smooth, making GTA IV always pleasant to look at.
  
  --Music -- [9-10]
  
  I'll be short on this. The music is proper and fits the game well. That's 
 it.
  
  --Gameplay -- [8-10]
  
  The controls are good, however it will take some time to get used to it especially the driving. 
 Playing the story is fun, but the side missions, like hitman and racing, don't manage to keep attention. 
 This prevents GTA IV from staying fun for much longer after the story is over.
  
  
  --Conclusion -- [7-10]
  
  The problems stated above refrain GTA IV from reaching it's full potential, 
 and added with the annoying calls you get from friends, the lack of planes and other things previously 
 introduced into the series makes GTA IV miss it's mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arconic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best created games in all of history. It has a very expansive story, 
 unending content, stunningly accurate and depictive scenery and graphics, along with the occasional 
 well-created physics engines and gruesome violence. From Buying a hotdog in the street to driving 
 helicopter while shoot RPGs at another one. You can be the mafia man who is pure and only does 
 what he is told, or you can be the catastrophic psycopath bloodbath killing machine. So it would 
 seem that the two and only rules in this game would be 1. Do anything and 2. Have a damn good time. 
 Not only does it bring with it some of the most revolutionary graphics ever seen in such a big, 
 open and expansive world. With a good and immersive stroyline that not only wants you to keep playing 
 but to also feel the need and emotion that you need to accomplish the mission but that would be 
 one that can almost be related to famous mafia movie, the godfather. Only bad thing would be some 
 of the lacking guns from previous game Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, or the ability to get your 
 guy pimped or fat or give him a nice haircut. All in all, this game has gained the right to recieve 
 the title "One Of The Best Video Games Ever." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriwor2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Yes, this is a great game, and, yes, it is a technical marvel. My one major complaint is not about 
 what's in the game, but what has been left out. 
  
  What I've always liked best about the previous GTA entries is the fun extra challenges always available 
 to the player should he get tired of story mode, such as the arena races, the checkpoint challenges, 
 the car and motorcycle timed stunt courses (again, usually in an arena) , the off-road courses, 
 the boat races, the bicycle races, heck, even the frustrating remote-controlled helicopter challenges, 
 etc. They're for the most part a. w. o. l. from GTAIV, and it literally depresses me. What, has Rockstar 
 North gotten too "grown up" for these sort of fun additions these days? Did they have to be sacrificed 
 in order to make more room on the install disks for the enhanced graphics?
  
  I don't know. Like my score says, this is a very good game, but it just isn't the same as the GTA 
 games I've REALLY loved up till now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoBioN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It combinies many of the quality's a game should have to archieve this kinda 
 of ratings.
  
  This game has an impressive multiplayer. Where its possible to go creative and do all kind of scenarios. 
 Also it has different game modes like in other Multiplayer games. I always wished back in the old 
 GTA's. That it would be so neat if you could run around in the city with friends while everything 
 was as in the singleplayer. And now you can do it!!!.
  
  The hating And haters on the game that says its not good and bla bla. Are the usual bunch of kids 
 that wish to stand out and look cool. Because they think different than others. The arguments you 
 come with are useless and unconstructive. This game has a long singeplayer. A great multiplayer. 
 Polished gameplay and mechanics. You think that after the story is finished. you will get the same 
 value of entertainment served for you in some other ways. And this is obviously not going to happen. 
 The multiplayer does a very good job at it. But there's no friggin way that they can create a unlimited 
 high quality Entertainment factor in the singleplayer after the story ended. Saints row 1 / 2 does 
 not have this either. If you refer to the "mini-games" they are not specially fun and they surely 
 are not fun in the length.
  
  This is by my opinion the most impressive game that has come out ever. Surely. Like all other games. 
 This game is going on the shelf at one point. But its there waiting for the exclusive add ons. 
 And the multiplayer never fails on me when i take it out for some action.
  
  Stop pretending, Hating on the best game out there (thats way better than Gears for gays 1 and 
 2) . And start being realistic and comparing it to the other products out there. There's no way 
 they reach the quality and entertainment factor GTA does for so long before its over. 
  
  And try the multiplayer properly. Its auctually impressively good if you do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex2good
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Contrairement a ce que Gamespot a valu, je trouve GTA4 loin d'tre aussi bon de SAN ANDREWS. 
 Ct graphique, GTA4 est, malgr quelques beaux clichs, trs dcevant. Je m'attendais a beaucoup 
 mieux, surtout avec le probleme de nuit, ou la ville est plong de le noir presque total.
  
  L'exprience de jouabilit est correct, mais encore la, on dirait qu'il y a un probleme. Niko 
 me semble tre un peu trop pro au maniement d'armes. On peu tirer sur 6 gars un apres l'autre sans 
 trop de difficult, mme si ils sont a 100 ft. Les vhicules sont aussi difficile a controler mme 
 si on s'habitue. 
  
  Au moins l'histoire et l'humour est excellent et il y a un bon 15 hrs a passer dans Liberty City.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of the most fun games I have played. From the gaming mechanics, story to the amount 
 of fun you have it delivers to the last dot. The story is not much for a gamer who has played the 
 GTA games in the past, I guess we're getting used to what we should expect, but it's still good 
 and it's now dynamic, since some of the choices you make will change the final outcome.
  
  Pros: Well there is nothing but pros to talk about in the game. For those of you who love a open 
 ended city this is it. First about the game technology, you have an open city where you can roam 
 around looking for trouble or just to earn some cash, the graphics are breath taking on the Xbox360, 
 and the sound is so realistic. The main story is nothing much as I mentioned earlier but it takes 
 you on various adventures all over Liberty city meeting various characters. The game mechanics 
 are really cool, the controls are so comfortable on the 360 and the physics are so real for example, 
 the rag doll effect when being thrown out of a car or when blasted by a bomb are so cool. Small 
 things do matter, and the game developers have looked in to so much of details. For those who like 
 detail this is it from car damage to injuries of the character. There are so many side missions 
 for you to choose from street races to vigilante missions, they have taken out the fire and ambulance 
 missions, but there is so more to fill in. San Andreas was a more gang story and environment, which 
 some of us enjoyed the change, most who like the original GTA's i. e. Vice City missed the mafia 
 and GTA IV delivers. Be ready to get addicted for 30 hours at least to one of the best games of 
 2008.
  
  Cons: None to talk about I've only played it on the xbox360 so can't really comment on how it runs 
 on other platforms. May be more character customizations could have been added on i. e. the gym 
 from San Andreas has been taken out.
  
  For anyone who loves RPGs this is one for you to play, for anyone who wants to try out an RPG then 
 this is one game you have to play and you will be hooked on to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowltz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for about 10 hours earlier in the year when I picked it up, I thought I 
 had been there and done that. But it was still an incredible game nonetheless. And just recently 
 I tried the multiplayer for the first time. And the amount of game modes is pretty deep. Imagine, 
 a whole city with infinite scenario's to cause 'ruckus' with you, or you and your buddies.
  
  The graphics, even on the XBOX360 are VERY good. A large update from San Andreas. And although 
 I do miss more of the character modification and depth from San Andreas, GTA4 has other features 
 that make up for the 'no airplane' complainers still lingering around. And sure this game may not 
 be mature, but if you don't like it, don't play it. It's still going to sell 20 million copies 
 regardless.
  
  It's hard to imagine putting this game up there with the ranks of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, but you 
 have to remember this is a different era. And an excellent sequel to the predecessors. Go for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowing30
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  When i first put the game in and stepped out onto the streets of Liberty city i was amazed. Sure 
 the character graphics weren't the best but the city itself was so huge and detailed. The first 
 time i was able to hijack a helicopter i was amazed at the view. A few hours in after the first 
 few missions i rushed to gamespot to slide that review meter to a ten. However it wasn't long before 
 i had come to realize the games problems. The story was great mostly due to the voice acting and 
 a cast of characters i truly enjoyed. And surprisingly the mp was really good (much better than 
 the saints row mp anyway) as long as you turned off the auto aim. However the missions became very 
 repetitive and i came to realize that with such a huge city there really wasn't much in it. Sure 
 you could go to a show or go bowling among other activities but honestly who could play those more 
 than once or twice. Once the great story was finished and you had no more reason to talk to Brucie 
 (favorite character easily) playing the game felt more like a chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  GTA has reached and amoral low. And it's no longer the kind where you say, "Well, it's edgy because 
 life is really that way on the streets." It's a try. It's a stretch. It is a painfully obvious 
 attempt to be the as-bad-as-possible game that becomes the forbidden fruit of every kid living 
 with his parents, and I don't doubt that the Rockstar marketing department underestimates what 
 that means, but when it comes to being a great game that gives great gameplay amidst a great story, 
 GTA4 often seems tangled up in its own profanity too much to offer actual content.
  
  I really did enjoy the GTA series, finding the Lib. and Vice City games to be incredibly inventive 
 games. But now it's game four. The formula isn't new, and it seems that Rockstar thinks that the 
 only new ground for the GTA series to break is to make it even more profane. Now I could care less 
 about the formula of the cop-killing, car-stealing game that deals with the real and often grimy 
 side of human sexuality, but GTA4 just throws it all in your face in an unconvincing manner. It 
 is no longer lifelike grit. I don't hear 5 different people use the F-word when i make a ten minute 
 drive across my neighborhood, while the programmers here seem to take a lot of effort to make sure 
 you can pluck the profanity from the air as you drive the streets of GTA4. And it's on the radio 
 too. That's right, it's a realistic world, except without censorship. The bad language permeates 
 the bad script of the character's many drawn-out dialogues, the only real light in this dark tunnel 
 being afforded by the hilarious 'roid-hyped, sexually confused Brucie. But he can't even take the 
 gamer's mind off of the horror of the voice acting in this game.
  
  I have other small complaints, wishing there were more cars for once, or better camera angles while 
 driving, but these are small things in a game that does a lot right.
  
  I have to give huge props for the expansiveness of the game on two levels. First, there's just 
 a lot to do. Getting missions now from your cell phone, or the 'net cafe or from an employer himself 
 makes it easier than ever to make your way through the game's story mode. There are new mini games 
 like bowling and pool which aren't so great, but it's just a nod to all the extra ideas that get 
 thrown into a game like this. The second prop I have to hand out here is for the city itself. WOW. 
 It is impressively bigger than probably any other city of such detail in any game I have ever seen, 
 and certainly blows out all other GTA's by far. The city is the shining star in this game, and 
 offers finally a world large enough where you never really feel trapped, or like you're always 
 doing the same thing over and over.
  
  Unfortunately, I'm not won over with the game pushing the limits of vile content in a game, and 
 instead felt more offended or embarrassed by all the content here. GTA4 shines in a lot of areas, 
 but still leaves a lot of problems unchecked. If it weren't so wrapped up in its own image, maybe 
 it could have been a real success, but I really can't see how Gamespot of all reviewers would hand 
 a 10 to a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playniko69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  To make it brief, I find Gta 4 one of the most successful game in the series. It has realistic 
 graphics, awesome physics (Euphoria Engine Rules Baby!) , and the cars can't get any better. INFERNUS! 
 
  
  Okay now for the bad side of this game. I can't believe Rockstar pussed out in GTA 4, there is 
 no chainsaw, katana, jet pack, PLANES (got tired of copter long time ago) , and my favorite parachute, 
 where you don't have to die everytime you jump off a high point. They say they want this game to 
 be realistic so gamers can actually experience the most realistic game they ever played. NOT TRUE! 
 The reason why we play gta games is because we can do the stuff we can't do in the real world. 
 We don't need to play a game that is based on this world. We love realistic stuff in games, but 
 not REALISTIC LIMITS! There's not suppose to be limits in gta games. What happened to Rockstar? 
 Atleast give us a freakin parachute. That's pretty realistic. 
  
  Overall, the best thing about this game is the physics and the graphics. But its missing to many 
 things we expected to stay in. Anyhow I still enjoy this game, it kept me busy for a long time. 
 
  
  Better not screw up GTA 5 if you Rockstars were to gonna make one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syk0_k03r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  this game is great, it could have less stuff than san andreas or vice city, but in some ways its 
 way better.... yet in some ways it isnt
  from someone who played this nonstop from April 29th, i think i know what im talking about
  
 
  lets sum it up...
  
  the good-
  
  Graphics
  -Story
  -Voice acting
  -controls
  -realism, the city actually feels alive
  -more polish than any game i played
  -just addictive
 
  -great sound
  -quite some useful additions to the series
  
  now the BAAAAAAAAAAAAD
  
  -multiplayer, multiplayer, multiplayer... did i already mention MULTIPLAYER?
  -cover system 
 can be better like in gears
  -less blood and gore than other GTA's
  -alot of less content than san andreas
  
  
  
  
  
  
  now, what makes the multiplayer 
 so bad? the fact that its just slow torture ever since the game came out... well for me
  it takes hours to get matched up with people, constant disconnection problems... when you actually 
 get into a game, it is usually so laggy, you want to kill yourself...
  no, its not my problem, cuz no other game gives me these problems exept GTA IV and gears 2
  
 
  despite of the multiplayer, gta iv meets almost every category i expect in a video game... but 
 the upcoming DLC will solve the fact that it has less content.....
  
  GET THIS GAME IF YOU DIDNT YET 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieselboy094
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  As the newest and the absolute best game ever made by Rock Star, Grand Theft Auto IV is everything 
 that you would come to expect from them. With the best graphics of all the games in the series, 
 wonderful voice acting, and a killer story line with several different paths you can take, it was 
 well worth the wait.
  
  You start off as an illegal immigrant from Eastern Europe. Finding yourself in a strange new land, 
 you, Niko Bellic, are greeted by your drunk cousin, Roman. He has told you of his "Italian sports 
 cars, his mansion, many women, and his countless riches", only to find that they are nothing more 
 than lies, and that his "multimillion dollar business" is no more than a cab depot. But since I 
 don't want to spoil it for the ones who are yet to play GTA IV , I'll get off that topic.
  
  Now on to the goodies. Instead of just using the better known and old Liberty City design, 
 it is more like New York with a Statue of Happiness holding a cup of coffee rather than a Statue 
 of Liberty holding a torch. Though that isn't significant until the end of the game, I am not going 
 to spoil anyones discoveries. 
  
  A perk to this game not found in any of the others (except in San Andreas if you had the nurse 
 as a girlfriend) , is if you die, you won't lose your weapons. Also, if you ever find the girlfriend 
 in the GTA IV internet, she can get you out of a certain amount of stars. But, if you are arrested 
 in any way on any wanted level, your weapons will be taken away. Another bad thing is that there 
 aren't any flyable planes; though there's an assortment of helicopters, including an attack chopper. 
 The last flaw that I found while playing this game is that there isn't a large selection of clothing. 
 
  
  XBOX Live is a wonderful addition to the already perfect world of GTA IV. With a wide variety of 
 game modes, there's hardly a limit to what you can do with friends or the people that you're grouped 
 with (except in free mode, where it's every man for himself unless you form a temporary truce with 
 someone by getting in their car.)
  
  In conclusion, Grand Theft Auto IV is everything you could want in a sandbox style of game play, 
 despite its few minor flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiouds
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I play these games from Grand Theft Auto 3. I seen every thing that make this game good in the 
 older Grand Theft Auto games. In the new items does not improve the game should they be include. 
 There nothing wrong with keeping what work but new thing that work is needed too.
  
  What is new in this game is not good. The the map is complex and dense. I find myself having a 
 harder time traveling than in the fire fights. The buddies take up so much time. I find myself 
 having to answer three calls in less that three minutes. And when you do agree to spend time with 
 them that means more traveling. 
  
  I play the other Grand Theft Autos games until I finish all the mission but I stop playing and 
 do not want to return to it. It is that the mission have no pull for me that can over come the 
 strain of driving through the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I don't know about you, but right after a couple of interesting titles in 2007, I've found it hard 
 to keep interest in recent games; every thing's the same! Same genres, same mechanics, same art 
 styles, same, same, same. It's attack of the clones all over again. In one word: BORING. Move ON, 
 mr. Developer. Please? Pretty please??? The way I see it, "GTA IV" had everything to succeed and 
 turn things around: a huge budget, the backing of a series' brand that would sell the game whichever 
 the case, a new numerical character (hey, if the Housers think it's important to state that, why 
 shouldn't I?) and all the buzz in the community, that repeatedly hauled the game as "revolutionary", 
 "wonderful", "brilliant", blah, blah, blah. But is it really so? Does GTA live up to the hype?
 
  
  For a game that the media gave revolution as a tagline, "GTA IV" sure takes time to bloom Hours 
 into the game you'll watch the same mechanics, the same design, the same mission structure, the 
 same city as in past titles again: same, same, same. The visuals are striking, sure, but hardly 
 anything we wouldn't expect by now. There's also an eclectic, culturally rich soundtrack, that's 
 definitely the best in the series, even if it's probably destined to be the least popular. But 
 besides that, what's left? A physics engine that hardly adds anything to gameplay? The cellular 
 phone gimmick, that instead of serving gameplay, upsets you with silly phonecalls about how lonely 
 your friends feel? Maybe it's the Gears of War" cover combat system, but haven't we seen that 
 before, and with better results in a game called er "Gears of War"? So where's the Revolution? 
 Dead in the trunk, me thinks. And sure, *journalists* are quick to deliver the 10/10 "facts": in 
 GTA you can eat, drink, have sex, play pool, darts and arcade games, take pictures, send text messages, 
 call 911, drunk drive, listen to radio, watch TV, surf the Internet, attend variety shows, flirt 
 with naked girls in strip clubs, use ATM's, etc, etc, etc; you name it, GTA has it (well, you can't 
 pee, but hey, nothing is perfect) . The thing is, though these elements add to the sense of believability 
 and consistency of this virtual world, they fail on their most important goal: entertainment. On 
 that regard, "GTA IV" fails in achieving anything new. The game has, essentially, the same design 
 as "GTA III", going to the extreme of maintaining the same mission templates. It also fails in 
 updating some essential elements present in more recent videogame currents, like more streamlined 
 design, simpler controls, or even mission check-pointing (which would be essential, considering 
 missions are composed of several lengthy sequences, that usually involve a lot of traveling) .
 
  
  The story does glue everything together to try and save the show: Niko Bellic's tragic saga is 
 the first decent script of the series (finally they got one right!) , with some wonderfully depicted, 
 morally torn characters (even if the main character is still Liberty City) and a series of well 
 thought up social themes. Thanks to the dry wit of Niko's remarks concerning life in the States, 
 and the ironic nature of radio shows and commercials, the satirical nature of GTA's universe maintains 
 its verve in depicting modern day America, with its social paradoxes, corrupt politics, and moral 
 inconsistencies. And it's made all the more interesting thanks to a couple of interesting moral 
 choices, that eventually change the ending of the game (nothing revolutionary, but still) . Yet, 
 once again, in keeping with the industry's flow, it's marred by the use of the same basic narrative 
 model as "GTA III", which makes no sense in such a character driven narrative. Basically, you meet 
 character -  character complains about something -  you deal with it -  gain money -  repeat this 
 N times -  say buhbye to character -  a new character comes along -  everything repeats again. 
 The result is a structure that ends up leaving many interesting characters undeveloped, and that 
 forgets each character as soon as you finish their "missions". The social networking strategy from 
 "San Andreas" does make a comeback through the cellphone gimmick, in an attempt to develop said 
 characters, but the cost of some really dull minigames ends up destroying that potentially interesting 
 story vehicle.
  
  So why is "GTA IV" getting the glorious reviews its predecessors never had? Hype? Maybe so. In 
 the end, I just think everyone was too eager to acclaim the game for its rich detail, absurd amount 
 of work and sheer polish. It's the kind of game that's filled with those small details that really 
 shine: the gorgeous lighting effects that can transform Liberty City into a living, moving painting, 
 the wide array of interesting cultural activities, or those precious little moments when the game 
 behaves exactly as you'd expect in real life. In terms of execution, it truly stands out as the 
 grandest of all new gen titles: there's just so much waiting to be found in this virtual "Liberty 
 City", that even MMO's can pale in comparison, and it all works bug free (almost, at least) . And 
 it actually makes sense that the way forward for the series should be on a basis of "more", instead 
 of "new", GTA's always thrived on their ability to make the player explore wide open worlds, where 
 everything is possible: freedom to go anywhere, to do anything, to be anyone - and in that regard 
 "GTA IV" maintains the tradition. But the thing you have to ask yourself is if that "more" policy 
 actually translates into new and solid game design ideas, and I think they don't; GTA may have 
 a big baggage of seemingly good ideas, but there isn't one that you can actually name revolutionary, 
 or that you'd actually want to replicate in another videogame. So, even though the title has a 
 new number, it does little its predecessors haven't done before, albeit on a smaller scale. And 
 if you ask me, that's one roman numeral the Houser brothers just wasted for naught. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulvenska
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  There is much to like about this game. It is, above all, tight and professional. The subtlety is 
 a new approach for this genre. Nice Belic, the title character, is not a spoonfed stereotype. Yes, 
 he is quite typical of Eastern European men hardened by war and hardship, but he has layers. He's 
 not just bad nor just good, but rather a good soul doing bad things out of habit. So, it is enjoyable 
 to follow his career through the game. I do find myself wondering what he will experience next 
 - and where he'll draw the line in his evil actions and say "no, I won't do this". 
  As for his cousin, Roman - I, like most, I'm guessing, began the game hating this guy and wondering 
 why Nico even bothered with him, loyalty ot not. But his facade peels away and you see the Roman 
 beneath the empty promises, the human being who doesn't want you to kill someone even though he 
 hates that someone as much as you do.
  This pattern of appreciation for (to say 'love for', would be too strong and oversimplified) characters 
 continues beyond just the main two. They are all real people beyond pigeon-holed first impressions. 
 So it's safe to say this game put effort into its story and character development. 
  Sadly for me, this intrigue wasn't enough for me to play beyond the early stages. There are a few 
 reasons. The controls were quite difficult to get a handle on. But the same was sayable about GTA 
 San Andreas yet I (eventually) got into and enjoyed that. So that wasn't the killer. 
  The city was, in my belief, and contrary to some who believe it was 'alive', was dullish and a 
 bit pointless. I didn't feel like exploring it the way I do with other games of this type. Usually, 
 finding out what the other islands or sections of the game's city looks like is something I salivate 
 to, but with GTA 4, I just didn't care. I knew it all looked the same. 
  The realism was magnificent, but I'm not kept in a game for that. I need a bit more umph! in my 
 cities. You know, distinct landmarks - as this game did do with the Statue of Liberty - and more 
 emphatic cultural reflexions - like if there's a Chinatown, I want to see them being overly Chinese 
 as opposed to just like everyone else but with different accents. Basically, satire and characature 
 was needed for me to bring this city to life. Instead, it was a bit like watching a British drama 
 series where everyone is boring and ugly with nothing interesting to say. I'm not a 'reality' kind 
 of person when it comes to games. BUT... all that said, even this realism held its charm in its 
 own right. So that was by no means the killer for me.
  The killer for me was the mission setup. You see, I'm not an accomplishes gamers. I fail alot, 
 so I need to go back to the start more often than some may. And as such, playing GTA 4 meant that 
 for every 2 minutes of mission time, there was 10 minutes of foreplay - which is fine for sex, 
 but this is a game. There are only so many times I want to drive to and from the mission start 
 point before a say "screw it! This is tedious". (Yes, I'm aware of the taxi system, but it didn't 
 suffice) . I'd rather watch people on youtube who've done the mission than put up with the travel 
 time that one endures in this game's mission lead-ups.
  I'd have played past 8% of this game if the mission setup was more reasonable. But as it is, playing 
 this game felt as much like a chore as entertainment. I probably will one day come back to it, 
 but I just did yesterday only to stop and say "screw it, not worth the bother!" again. I'm selling 
 off my GTA 4. I may regret it, but I've tried to enjoy it just one too many times to keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSU-Wildcat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good - Gripping story full of likable characters. Beautiful graphics. Fun gun play. The city 
 itself is incredible. Audio is top notch, as always. Tons of reasons to keep on playing.
  
  The Bad - Some minor control quibbles here and there. Driving is slow and sometimes unresponsive. 
 Getting health, armor, and guns is a chore. Multiplayer is an afterthought.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is, quite simply, a crowning achievement in videogames. The total package this 
 game offers is simply unmatched by most in the industry. This game will sweep you away to an amazingly 
 crafted city with its dark and elaborate storyline, and you will still have plenty to do once you 
 are finished. There are some minor hiccups on the way, but they certainly do not detract from the 
 overall experience.
  
  From the minute you step off the boat (literally) , you will be captivated by the story and it's 
 characters. The story in GTA 4 is certainly better than any previous version, and the quality of 
 the performances is on par with GTA: San Andreas, which is, to say, excellent. It is a story of 
 ambition, loss, family, and finding one's self. GTA 4 even has some player choice involved, and 
 what you do or choose towards the end can have dire consequences indeed. Without giving anything 
 away, the game leaves some questions and characters unanswered, which hopefully means these will 
 be revisited in later GTA's. The story is top notch, and you always want to move on to find out 
 what happens.
  
  The look and sound of the game are also impeccable. After over 40 hours spent in Liberty City, 
 I still drop the occasional, "Wow!" The city itself is as detailed as it is pretty. Cars look great, 
 characters look great, and explosions look fantastic. The rag doll physics make everything from 
 firefights to running people over more exciting. The audio in the game is as great as any other 
 GTA. Guns, vehicles, voices, and ambience all sound amazing. The game also has various radio stations. 
 Some stand out above the rest, like all of the talk radio channels, but every station was clearly 
 carefully made. The crown jewel of the audio, however, is the cast. There is not a single character 
 that does not deliver a Hollywood level performance. Niko Bellic is voiced absolutely perfect, 
 and he is by far the most witty, funny, emotional, and likeable character in any GTA yet. 
  
  The gameplay is very solid. The gunplay has been cleaned up from older versions, and you can 
 now take cover in a Gears of War or an Uncharted type of fashion. Driving is more realistic, and 
 makes for some very entertaining and skillful moments. It is sometimes unresponsive and slow, but 
 you will get used to it. 
  
  The only major thing in Grand Theft Auto 4 that let me down is the multiplayer. It is a missed 
 opportunity in every sense of the saying. Deathmatch and other modes in the entire city may sound 
 fun, but they are boring and unstructured. You will search for an enemy for minutes just to be 
 blown up by a rocket launcher. The more creative modes, such as Cops versus Crooks, could have 
 been amazing, but also fall short. This mode tasks a team of cops to kill the enemy leader before 
 he makes it to the boat, with the other team being asked to protect him. It is all to easy for 
 the Mafia to escape when they are given the entire city. There is also no stat tracking, which 
 is disappointing after being engrossed by Call of Duty and Halo multiplayer. Overall, it just seems 
 tacked on so they could just say they had multiplayer on the box.
  
  The flaws with this game, other than multiplayer, are very minor. Taking cover is often a hassle, 
 and you will almost never end up where you really wanted to. Some animations are wonky, which are 
 only noticeable because the rest of the game looks so good. For some reason, GTA hasn't adopted 
 the Halo style health system, so after every mission you are forced to drive around the town looking 
 for a restaurant or food stand to regain health, which is as frustrating as it sounds. Weapons 
 and ammo work in a similar way. As mentioned before, this game has a captivating story with great 
 characters, but for some reason Rockstar North thinks we want to hang out with these people. For 
 real. You will receive phone calls all the time with friends asking you to go eat, drink, see a 
 show, play pool, etc. None of these activities are fun, and if you say no or don't answer your 
 relationship with the caller goes down. Stupid. I should not feel obligated to hang out with a 
 fake person, and I should definitely not be penalized for not doing so. To be fair, these activities 
 develop the friendship, but these developments could have easily been handled in cinematics or 
 story missions. Overall, these minor quibs don't mar the final product. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a game that just simply must be played. The story, characters, presentation, 
 and replay value, are all top notch. Multiplayer is an afterthought, and there are some minor hiccups 
 in the game, but these do not distract from an astounding experience. The groundwork for the generation 
 has been laid, and here's hoping there are even better add-ons like last generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Worr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game. I would definitely suggest buying it if you like the whole "open 
 sandbox" type of game play. I was surprised at some of the little aspects to the game. For one, 
 if you get hit hard enough by a car, any glasses or hat your were wearing goes flying off. I also 
 noticed that blood stains appear on your clothes when shot, and they legitimately look wet. I really 
 liked that you can hug the walls for cover, even though more than one time he hugged the wrong 
 wall and got killed. The one problem I did have was that the radio stations seemed to be below 
 par compared to other GTA's. In all the others there were at least 3-4 different stations I enjoyed 
 listening to, but in this one I couldn't find any that always played something sweet. I also found 
 it cool that you could watch TV in the game, but with 2 channels it kind of lost all allure quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a fantastic game! The first thing that pops in my mind when thinking of this 
 title is the thoughtful story. It is the first game of the franchise to present such a real and 
 believable drama. 
  
  The action and driving is still intact and you will be jacking hundreds upon hundreds of cars in 
 your next outing in Liberty City. Action is still built around a lock on system (funny how GS doesn't 
 harp on this but they will with other games...) but is very satisfying none the less. 
  
  The newest addition is multiplayer. Where many are calling it the next best thing, i find it to 
 be quite forgettable. This isn't to say you can't jump online to have some crazy fun with friends 
 but as an over all package, well, you would be better playing something else if you are looking 
 for something with depth.
  
  All in all this is a gta game. We have seen it, done it, bought the blood covered t-shirt (not 
 to mention we have done it in many other knock off titles as well) . A great game in its own right 
 and can be recommended to all gamers... except for the youngins of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonberry64
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is deffinitly a good game. The begining of the game is alitle boring since its 
 like a long tutorial but once the game realy starts you wont want to put down the controller! The 
 story is great but has a few wierd momments. The character in the game are awsome. Characters like 
 Brucie help make this game acheive commedy well. You deffinetly want to see Nico, the character 
 you play as, get to the end of his story. Gameplay is fair, amd online is preety good. Graphics 
 could be alittle better but is decent. There is a few things in the game that will get anoying. 
 For example, the driving can get alittle bad, especialy when turning at high speeds. Aside from 
 a few flaws, however, the gameplay is solid. There is so much stuff packed in this game to keep 
 you playing for a long time. Side missions are good and there are plently of things in the game 
 that you will enjoy. Overall it is a good game and is deffinatly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  GTA is whatever you expect it to be. A bigger city, pretty impressive graphics and... GTA. Lots 
 of flaws from previous episodes have been fixed (e. g., aiming system, wasting time restarting missions) 
 and as a consequence the game feels more streamlined and less frustrating. However some of my biggest 
 complaints about previous GTAs still remain in this one...
  First of all, the missions are not that great... Yes, people always mention the bank robbery, which 
 is really cool. But that and another 3-4 are the only ones that stand out. The VAST majority of 
 missions are something like "go to place X, kill some guys, come back". Which is OK if it wasn't 
 for the fact that the game is really long and in the end you really wish the whole thing wraps 
 up. One good thing that helps is the story and the characters, which are very unique and enjoyable. 
 Nico himself is a deeper than expected protagonist with a background and a motivation that I personally 
 got attached to as I was playing. The dialogues are also really well crafted and TV show quality... 
 you will find yourself laughing very often.
  The other thing that really steal the show is the city. It is gigantic and really impressive to 
 behold. Living in NY, I can make a real life comparison and the city in GTA is as close to the 
 real thing as you will ever experience. However the people of Liberty city are still puppets (don't 
 believe the reviewers telling you that they behave realistically) . Yes they have a few more animations 
 but they are completely dumb and the all the dynamics in liberty city really detract for your suspension 
 of disbelief. This is helped by the fact that the police is really not that active and losing them 
 is quite easy. you can kill 10 people with a car and you'll maybe get a police car after you that 
 will leave after a 30 second chase.
  The shooting is enjoyable but the auto aim makes things very easy. Radio stations are cool but 
 I found them to have too few songs (I always listen to the same 3 and they have maybe 3-4 songs 
 each) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorughfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  When I got GTA 4, I was really excited to play such a highly rated and loved game but after playing 
 it for a few hours it got real boring real fast. Don't get me wrong though, I enjoyed playing the 
 game but doing the same things over and over again is just boring and that's what makes GTA 4 a 
 boring game. Now i'm just gonna tell you what i thought was good about the game.
  
  The Good:
  Graphics are amazing
  Feels like you are experiencing it in real life.
  
  Driving 
 is more realistic
  Feels like you are actually driving.
  
  Massive On-line Multi-player
  16 players at one time makes the game a lot more fun.
  
  Great 
 Controls
  Way more improved then the San Andreas controls.
  
  and here's what i thought was bad about the game
  
  The Bad:
  Lack of weapons
  Use of the 
 same weapons gets boring fast.
  
  Missions Are The Same
  A majority of the missions are you driving people or doing errands around Liberty City.
  
  
 No Multi-Player
  You cant play Multi-Player on your 360 with another friend without X-Box Live.
  
  Boring Story
 
  Another story about gangs, drugs, and sex makes you really bored after a few days.
  
  Lack Of Character Originality
  Niko and CJ from GTA SA are really the same person with no real 
 difference between the two of them.
  
  Soundtrack Was Awful
  All the bad songs makes driving around annoying.
  
  So for me this game was quite a let down. The 
 lack of originality and the boring missions take the fun out of the game. You may enjoy playing 
 it now but soon it will be collecting dust when you buy a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 brings u back to liberty city with u playing as a new character niko belic im not sure where 
 hes from i thinks its russia of something anyway the story starts off as u get off a ship and arriving 
 at america ur fat **** of a cousin is the next major charcter to be introduced u start off linving 
 in some **** apartment anyway u start off the story working with roman and theres some **** who 
 annoys the **** out of roman and u end killing him which was sweet as u go onwards with the story 
 u work for drug addicts and murders and **** like that at one point u start working for this gangster 
 lad who has a show he is the most annoying prick in this game he nevers shuts the **** up! later 
 in the story there are some fun missions like the one u get to dress like a doctor to kill some 
 lad who works in a hospital the best thing about that mission is u get to keep the clothes u wear 
 to diguise yourself as a doctor the game has two endings one ending is that at romans wedding roman 
 dies in the other ending ur girlfriend dies at roman wedding. The things that make this game fun 
 are the little things some the cars are ****ing unreal like the aston martin ferrari etc some of 
 the other cars are just **** there rusty as ****. Probadly my favorite thing they brought in on 
 this game is the internet u can use it in a internetcafe or in one of the apartments u unlock they 
 give u a free labtop although the internet is sweet it dosent have many uses the only two real 
 reasons are mesaging and dating. Overall this game is sweet 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KouroshDK
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome.
  I have'nt got it until last week but now im like addicted to it. I played 15 hours and game progress 
 is 41%.
  This game is a must have for every gamer and GTA fan.
  
  You really get feelings for the characters in GTA IV and when they die it's like :' (.
  
  When 
 I played the first mission I was like "Ok, I'll just complete one more then I'll go to bed". It 
 was like 5 hours before I got to bed that night.
  
  The multiplayer is really cool. It is ok with 16 people max. It can be kind of trouble finding 
 each other in the big city when playing.
  
  ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ 
 ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ 
 ___________ ___________ ___________ ___________ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerealkiller8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When someone thinks of a Grand Theft Auto game, they think of nonstop blood, sex, and, of course, 
 violence. GTA IV still has many of those things, but instead has taken a step into a more realistic 
 direction. One of the first thing longtime fans will notice is that the blood has been put on a 
 lower, more realistic level. This means that shooting someone in head will not be like what it 
 once was in San Andreas: send it flying off, leaving you with a fountain of blood squirting all 
 over the sidewalk. Some of the more gimmicky and interesting features in San Andreas, such as working 
 out, flying jets, customizing cars, and flying jets will not be in the game. If you are interested 
 in that kind of game, pick up Saints Row 2. Its more "GTA" than GTA IV is. Instead, GTA IV presents 
 you with a huge, living, breathing, in-depth city that is a character itself.
  
  You are Niko Bellic, a Russian immigrant who is looking forward to a new life in Liberty City (based 
 on New York City) , and have just met your cousin, who has promised you expensive cars, mansions, 
 and women. Instead, you find out that he has lied to you, and your now wound up in a tangle of 
 debt, gangs, drugs, and violence. You can choose to follow the storyline and do the missions, or 
 just fool around and do whatever you want.
  
  Like any other GTA game, IV offers a immense environment, with shops, theaters, and restaurants 
 to visit and explore. The game even has its own network of radio stations, each with its own soundtrack. 
 One of the most amazing things about GTA, however, is the internet. There are tons of random websites 
 to visit, many of which are based on ones that many be familiar to you. 
  
  GTA is a third person shooter, with an optional lock on targeting system. You have a large array 
 of weak and powerful guns to choose from, which are bought from gun shops scattered around the 
 city. Another important part of GTA is vehicle driving, which is also a lot more realistic. Braking 
 is now an important thing to do, and the driving portion of the game could have become a game itself. 
 Along the story line, you'll find yourself in many intense car chases as well.
  
  Overall, GTA is a very laid back game, where you can do whatever you want. Whether its taking your 
 friend to the nearby strip club, dating some random girl that you found (via Lovemeet. net) , or 
 just engage in a huge, police massacre, and watch as your wanted stars increase. 
  
  Graphics- 8.5
  Gameplay-9.0
  Story-10
  Sound-10
  Value- 9.0
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the original Grand Theft Auto III, I can say that the GTA series has come a long 
 way, and that I am very happy to see next-gen translation. 
  
  To me, the added features such as going to the bar, going to a strip club, playing darts, and going 
 on dates, are a nice touch, but do not really add to my desires of immersing myself in a gameworld. 
 I could do all of that at home in my own spare time. Now, some of the missions are great improvements 
 of some of the previous formulas they had in previous games, especially the bank robbery mission.
 
  
  It's the same GTA I have known since GTA III. It's the same formula and it got stale very quickly. 
 New graphics, new settings, a few new nick nacks, but overall, same GTA feel, which I'm not saying 
 is bad. To me, it just did not hold my attention enough.
  
  in terms of feel, I was a bit disappointed in how the Niko controls and felt overall. He felt very 
 cumbersome at times it felt like a chore to get him to do what I wanted to at the exact second 
 I made a decision. Also, the steering physics, although i think the overall physics are impressive, 
 were very ridiculous to me. I know it's supposed to be over the top, but the cars steering was 
 way to sensitive and the springs were just goofy looking. When you drive an ambulance and steer 
 left and right quickly, you will see what i mean.
  
  To conclude, it's not a bad game at all, but it could have been better with a little more to do 
 in the huge open city and some improvement to the player control and vehicle handling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  There are video game franchises, and then there are epic video game franchises. Grand Theft Auto 
 is one of those epic franchises, and it has come a very long way way since its first top-down perspective 
 iteration released on the PlayStation just over a decade ago. When GTA 3 was released for the PS2, 
 that's when the series established itself as a major contender in the industry. Although the main 
 charater was nameless and voiceless, Rockstar created a cast wonderfully voice acted and crafted 
 a story remarkably told for GTA 3 that gripped gamers in a world where you could go anywhere and 
 do anything, and they wouldn't let go until it was over. Now Rockstar has brought its flagship 
 franchise into the next generation, improving on just about everything it's done in the past. 
 
  
  Niko Belic is the game's protagonist, a Serbian immigrant who came to Liberty City to find a better 
 life after trouble in his homeland made his previous life undesirable. His cousin Roman filled 
 his head with promises of a glamorous life possible by the many opportunities that America provides, 
 but after moving in with him, Niko finds out things were a little exaggerated. Roman gives him 
 work as a taxi driver for his car service, but it's not too soon after that Niko finds others jobs 
 by bumping into other people. Before he knows it, trouble starts to follow him and his cousin, 
 and a couple of ghosts from his past come along for the ride. Niko jumped ship to escape a war 
 in his homeland, but now finds himself ensnared in a new war in a new land, where the only side 
 he can count on is his family.
  
  Although the gameplay has been remarkably improved over previous installments, Niko Belic and the 
 story that revolves around him take center stage. The writing and direction have really been vamped 
 up to make you care about each and every character that much more, and playing more missions than 
 you planned to just to see what twist will happen next. Rockstar's also introduced decision making 
 opportunities that will have you taking or sparing a life, or chosing which of two characters to 
 kill. For this reason alone, it gives the player that much more incentive to play through the story 
 again, just to see how it plays out by going a different route.
  
  To compliment the story is the new social aspect of the game. You're given a cellphone, and as 
 you meet characters in the story, you'll start befriending them, and they will call you or text 
 you wanting to hang out with you. It's usually in your best interest to keep a good relationship 
 going with each friend, because a few of them have special abilities they'll grant you if they 
 like you enough. For instance, the steroid-juicing Brucie has a helicopter he can fly you around 
 the city with, and the rastafarian Little Jacob has an arsenal of weaponary he'll sell to you at 
 a discounted price. You'll even date a woman by the name of Michelle, and if you play your cards 
 right, she'll even invite you up for some... hot coffee? There is a downside to this feature of 
 the game, though. They usually tend to call you while you're in the middle of something important, 
 and since you have to decline their offer, you'll be penalized with a thumbs down. Making it up 
 to them later on is entirely up to you, though.
  
  The city's loaded with activities for you to have fun with your friends. You can take them out 
 to eat, bowl, shoot pool or darts, drink (which you should try at least once, because driving home 
 drunk is a lot of fun) go to strip club, or attend a show at a cabaret. The cabaret is an activity 
 you really should visit frequently, though, because the acts that are put upon the stage are pretty 
 entertaining. Also be advised that if you pick them up on a motorcycle, don't get in an accident 
 with them on it, or you'll definately get a thumbs down for injuring them.
  
  The sprawling city of Liberty City is just as sprawling as it ever was. You'll still start off 
 confined to the first of three islands, and they'll unlock as the story progresses, but now you 
 get to enjoy traveling from island to island with no load times. Rockstar's improved the air of 
 life in the city to make things seem more real and believable. They also really cut back on all 
 the goofy things that random people would say. Instead, you'll hear them saying things that sound 
 more real that a passer by on the street would actually say. You'll hear them talking on a cellphone, 
 or mentioning they're late for an appointment. There's even an occasional crazy person yammering 
 about an upcoming apocalypse. Also, be on the lookout for blue person icons on your map, because 
 these are random stranger encounters. They'll give you a mission to do, and they're usually pretty 
 interesting.
  
  And what would a Grand Theft Auto city be without a slew of radio stations broadcasting across 
 its air waves? As can be expected, Rockstar is in full form with each and every radio station they 
 offer. There's something for everyone here. Rap, country, rock, reggae, dance and classic. Of course, 
 there's the wildly entertaining talk radio stations, and hilarious satirical commercials inbetween 
 spins. Rockstar's also taken it further and applied their wit to television. There's a TV in each 
 safehouse you acquire, and when you turn it on, you'll instantly recognize Rockstar's brand of 
 humor as they spoof everything from soap operas to infomercials to anime. You can spend a good 
 couple of hours wasting time just sitting down and watching TV.
  
  The driving game has been drastically changed. This may or may not be a good thing depending on 
 just how much of a chance you're willing to give it. The handling has been made to reflect more 
 of a simulation racer versus an arcade racer like the old Grand Theft Autos. You'll peel out, or 
 fishtail or loose control much more frequently, and it will become hard at first to escape from 
 pursurers or chase someone down. Once you get the hang of it, it may not be much of an issue, but 
 it does cause for more frustrating moments than need be. One thing to note is that the street races 
 are now much easier, as the AI seems to abide by the game's laws of physics this time around. Just 
 keep your cool, and they'll usually make enough critical mistakes for you to win just about every 
 time.
  
  Although Saint's Row was ridiculed for borrowing so much from GTA, GTA has thankfully borrowed 
 from Saint's Row and implemented a GPS navigation system. When a mission starts, you'll be given 
 a yellow path on your radar for a place to go, a blue path for a car to pick up, or a red path 
 for a person to kill. Any free point you want to go to will be indicated by a green path. Some 
 cars will even have their GPS talk to you and inform you how soon your turn is approaching. It 
 can't be stressed enough how welcome this addition is to this series, as it greatly reduces the 
 frustration of trying to figure out where to go when things get hectic.
  
  Rockstar's also changed up the way the wanted system works. It's still based on a six star scale, 
 with each star you earn making the authorities more aggressive, but now it's actually easier to 
 escape from them thanks in part to your radar. When you commit a crime and an officer sees you, 
 a flashing blue and red circle will appear. This indicates their field of vision, and you'll need 
 to get outside and stay out of that range until your stars disappear.
  There will be small flashing dots on the radar, which means cops on foot, and larger dots which 
 mean they're in vehicles, and rotating crosses which are helicopters. If any of them see you within 
 the cooldown period, the circle will be repositioned on you, and you'll need to get out of range 
 again. You'll find that this new system means fewer trips to Pay 'n' Sprays, which any GTA fan 
 will know to be a good thing.
  
  The gunplay has been completely overhauled. Pulling the left trigger down slightly will send the 
 camera into an over the shoulder position on Niko. Pulling it down all the way will lock on to 
 any target within his line of sight. The reticule will then change to show the target's health, 
 and it can be moved on the target to shoot specific parts of the body, which makes headshots rather 
 easy to achieve. When targeting, you can click down on the right stick to zoom in a bit and really 
 help you make that critical shot.
  
  There is also a new cover system, which is entirely new to the series. Niko can post up against 
 any object or wall with a tap of the LB button and keep himself from harm. When it's time to go 
 on the offensive, pulling the left trigger will make him pop out from cover and aim Letting go 
 of the trigger will make him take cover again. By just remaining behind cover, Niko can blind fire 
 in hopes that a random stray of bullets will send enough into a target, while presenting absolutely 
 no potential target to his adversaries. 
  
  The combination of the new targeting system and the new cover system makes for much more enjoyable 
 combat. Now, you feel like you can take on an entire army alone and stand a chance to make it out 
 alive versus being completley overwhelmed and screwed like in previous GTAs. It's not, however, 
 without its faults. Niko will target the wrong attacker far too many times. You'll want to target 
 the guy to your right, but even though you move your reticule on him, he'll target the guy on the 
 left because he's closer. Also, moving in and out of cover can be a bit cumbersome. He may stick 
 to the wrong object, or cover the opposite wall when you want him to go straight. It just feels 
 like everything needed to be tightened up a bit more. 
  
  The biggest detriment to the combat is when it comes time to take the assault on the road. There 
 is no ability to lock on to your target while driving, meaning you have to aim and steer at the 
 same time. This can do one of two negative things, or both at the same time: cause you to waste 
 precious ammunition because you can't keep your aim straight, or cause you to lose control and 
 flip your vehicle. This problem is further exacerbated when you're on a boat chase. Bobbing up 
 and down on wakes and waves really does not help free aim. It's also much more hazardous during 
 the motorcycle chases, because one bad spill will either kill you or cause you to let your target 
 get away. How Rockstar makes a great targeting system on foot, but fails to do anything for vehicles 
 really makes it seem like a huge oversight. 
  
  For the first time, a Grand Theft Auto game contains multiplayer, but they missed their bet. There 
 are only a handful of "co-op" missions you can do, and they ultimately feel like afterthoughts. 
 It's a shame that Rockstar didn't make a more cohesive co-op campaign instead of just making a 
 crummy offering of individual mission scenarios. The versus, though, can be good fun. Running and 
 gunning or driving around the city trying to kill your opponents or beat them to an objective can 
 be exhilirating. Plus, there's always the thrill of possibly killing a Rockstar developer and earning 
 that covetted achievement!
  
  Not only have the graphics been improved thanks to the power of next generation consoles, but the 
 art direction has also been refined. Grand Theft Auto has lost that almost cartoon-like quality 
 of its city and characters in favor of a more realistic aesthetic. Just the cars alone are terrific 
 to look at, and they've been modeled so well, you can literally tell exactly what real life car 
 they've been designed after. Even the damage they take has been paid a great deal more of attention. 
 The graphics aren't perfect, though. There are issues with frame rate stuttering, and sometimes 
 the colors can go a bit wonky. The hues might wash out, and very rarely, it gets so bad that it 
 almost appears black and white. Some areas may be too bright, so when you adust to compensate, 
 it makes darker areas too dark. There's also a strange kind of fuzz that outlines shadows that 
 are cast from objects. Still, it's the best looking GTA to date.
  
  And what's a Grand Theft Auto game without terrific voice acting? It's here in spades, and Niko 
 Belic is a joy to listen to. His Serbian accent makes this particular protagonist stand out more 
 than any before him. The sound effects are of course wonderful, and it should be played at a relatively 
 decent volume so you can enjoy the bangs of the gunshots and the booms of explosions and the crunches 
 of car crashes. Also, the track lists that were attained for the various radio stations provide 
 a lot of great music for the game's soundtrack. 
  
  Play testing is an important procress for any game, and that task is made much harder when a game 
 is as huge as Grand Theft Auto IV. It's safe to assume that a good deal of time was spent play 
 testing this title, but unfortunately some very crippling glitches have made it through. Of course, 
 there are the minor glitches that cause odd pedestrian and motor behavior, but there are the ones 
 that fail to cause missions to start, such as meeting Brucie to go for a helicopter ride and everyone 
 just stands there doing nothing. Sometimes, the game will get stuck on a loading screen [editor's 
 note: my game failed to load and save after the credits ended] causing you to restart. The worst 
 glitch of them all is when the game freezes up entirely. It's enough to make you fling your controller 
 into your 700 dollar TV, because the fifth time you've tried a mission, you finally kill the guy 
 you're after and are about to escape from the cops when the game all of a sudden locks up. It's 
 inexcusable.
  
  Is Grand Theft Auto IV an amazing game? That's not the question. Can Rockstar possibly make the 
 next GTA better than this? That's what should be asked. Rockstar's packed it with an amazing and 
 emotional story, muchly improved gameplay and brought back staples that everyone loves, such as 
 those highly entertaining radio stations. The decision making opportunites provide a great deal 
 of replaybility for the single player campaign, and the tacked on multiplayer will keep many people 
 playing still after they've done everything they can offline. Any fan of the action adventure genre 
 needs to experience this title.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgq84
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical about the new GTA. San Andreas is the best so far but the older GTAs got 
 repetitive quickly. While all GTAs have this problem I found that IV has enough activities to keep 
 it interesting. While some of the characters add a nice flavor others just annoy the heck out of 
 you. It's a pain in the butt to try and hang out with all of them but the activities you can do 
 aren't bad. It's fun to run from the cops when you're drunk (I don't condone this in real life) 
 and the bar games are fun as well. The controls are still okay except with certain weapons and 
 vehicle physics are more realistic. Lots of new vehicles plus some old favorites give you a huge 
 variety of transportation options as well as taxi services if you don' feel like driving. The missions 
 aren't as diverse and interesting as San Andreas but they could be worse. I recommend this title 
 to fans of the series and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DollarBillz112
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I was very discontent with the new gameplay. I hated the constant phone calls by other characters 
 in the game, not to mention that every time he picked up the phone he would stop shooting... YOU 
 HAVE ANOTHER HAND... USE IT!!!
  
  I miss tagging up over someone else's stuff. What happen to the gang wars? They made a lot of nice 
 upgrades but at the expense of losing the things that made San Andreas great. 
  
  This game had the potential to really be perfect but Rockstar dropped the ball... again. 
  
 
  I played more than enough of this one to make my judgment. The online play is cool but I had little 
 desire to even keep playing this game without all the other fun stuff in between. Rockstar has 
 a lot to learn from Saint's Row, although not perfect, still fun. I would like to see a lot more 
 customization in the next edition or I will not be buying it. Let me pick whether I want my guy 
 to be white, black, chinese, or so forth. Let me choose what gang I roll with and let some of those 
 decisions effect the outcome of the game. Maybe you can be a good guy criminal or just a truly 
 rotten S. O. B.
  
  Oh and please put a bluetooth earpiece on the character or at least make you have to buy it in 
 the game, so you can talk and kill. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage-Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Seriously if you take about 20 hours or so, playing this game, you wont find it fun at all ,trust 
 me. When i bought this game and played it and there are some missions where i get stucked and its 
 annoying how i have to repeat it like 2 or 3 times to get it right. But after being patient for 
 a while i find this game pretty easy if you ask me, this game just need some time. Well then just 
 take the time. I must also say that those weather effects are really amazing. For the shopping of 
 clothes i think there is quite a less variety but overeall its ok. Other than doing misssions all 
 the time, chill out relax, try going to the internet cafe or maybe find some one to go out with. Building 
 friendships is also fun, it gets to unlock special abilities. For example, if packie like you enough, he 
 can provides bombs that you can just put in someones car and then dial than explode. For the rest, try 
 figuring out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  You play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European attempting to escape his past and the horrors of the 
 Bosnian war. He arrives in Liberty City to experience the American dream, only to discover his 
 cousin, Roman, may have fibbed a bit in his tales of success. Starting from nothing, Niko makes 
 a living as a killer and enforcer, a bad-ass foreigner who appears to have no morals. The longer 
 we stay with Niko, the more we see that there is a broken human being inside, one who would give 
 anything to escape the person he once was. 
  
  Drive around Liberty City and you'll be able to identify each individual block. Though Liberty 
 is filled with brownstones and a myriad of similar brick buildings, you can tell one from the other, 
 just as you can in New York. Go to an affluent neighborhood and the street is likely to be newly 
 paved, the pedestrians better dressed, the cops more plentiful. But head to Dukes or Bohan and 
 you'll find streets nearly stripped of asphalt, homeless people wandering about aimlessly and criminals 
 preying on the weak. 
  
  
  Hang in one area of the city long enough and you'll see how traffic and pedestrian flow changes 
 as the day progresses. When it rains, people bring out umbrellas or shield themselves with a newspaper 
 and run for an awning. Cops chase petty thieves unaware that walking down the street is Niko Bellic, 
 cold-blooded killer. There's a perfect balance of mumbling doomsayers to remind you that the reason 
 this city never sleeps is because it's full of nut jobs. People go about their day, only altering 
 course when Niko inserts himself into their lives with his crappy driving or excellent marksmanship. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunyip94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Over all the game was good and had good gameplay but i you have played most of the GTA series you 
 would say that this is one of the worsed, i would be enjoyable at the start then get repeatative, 
 the difficulty is very ranged in some missions they are very easy and in same other mission they 
 are close to impossible, gamespot and many other reviews had reviewed this game as to high and 
 the people who say it is good should should play some actual good games. this game was disappointing 
 if another GTA comes out they should be more creative more fun to play and even out the difficulty 
 and add AIRPLANES GOD!!!!!!!!!!! helicopters SUCK!!!!!!!!!!! seriously.
  Thank you very very very very very very very very very very very very very very vewry very very 
 very very much for reading my review if you have. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PEAPOD11
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Terrible. I hate the graphics, and theres no gore! NO GORE?!?!?!?! The targeting system is annoying. 
 Its way to realistic! The other Grand Theft Autos are 10/10 but this one just sucks.
  Fun: 0/10
  Graphics: 0/10
  Multiplayer: 0/10
  Story: 1/10
  Controls: 3/10
  I'm tired 
 of Liberty City. This is the 5th time we have been there. How about Vice City or San Andreas or 
 somewhere out of America!? What about Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa, Canada? Grand Theft Auto 
 in the jungle would be awesome! I am also sad that its not on the PS2 or XBOX. It was much more 
 fun when the graphics were cartoony and it was unrealistic. I'm sticking to the old ones and not 
 buying this. Good thing I only rented it. Buy the others, but not this one.
  I am truly disappointed in Rockstar for producing this awful piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy-boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  it has a good story, but that just about it. after you've beaten the game there isn't really anything 
 to do except for driving around in your car and shooting people wich will leave you bored after 
 a while.
  
  I'm not saying that is is a bad game, I'm saying that it could have been alot better with some 
 more time or ideas.
  
  The game is worth playing for the strong story, but after that you can decide if you like it or 
 not.
  
  honestly if I knew that it was like this, then i wouldn't bought it, but rented it.
  
  good 
 game!
  
  8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 
 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 
 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 
 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 8.5, 8.5, 8.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshianup06
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I thought cycling around San Andreas was a lot fun, Speed rush-hour in San andreas country side-was 
 as well. I had cool characers outlook in Vice-city and "rampaign" was awesome. Taxi mission was 
 fun with speed. Do gym, get cool hair-cuts and tattoos, learn new fighting moves, lots of cool 
 things in GTAs' but everything in gone GTA-4. GTA 4- liberty-city is slow and crowded city without 
 action. Horrible traffic in real world has polluted GTA world and rush-hour fun of street race 
 are pretty much gone. GTA has taken one step away from action/fun game and taken a step towards 
 boaring real-life simulation of driving. Speed gone in exchange of lifeless shiny graphic, which 
 is colorless and blunt. There are lots of details, but no colors and funky look of vice-city. Setting 
 and city ghraphic of GTA 4 is rather distracting and city roads and streets are too narrow. Map 
 itself is crowded and very small. City is out-of fashion and you'd rather go outdoor than look 
 for fun things to do in new-Liberty city. There are no more side mission except vigilante mission, 
 and no more faster way to make money. Well, there no ways to spend money as well. No more cool 
 clothes to wear, no houses to buy and property to own and no more cool weapons like flame thrower 
 of Vice-city... No more jets to fly as well. I thought ther would be more stuffs to do and more 
 fun, do less stuff to do and less fun. Instead, uselessly over detailed crowded city with colorless 
 less and distracting look. Graphic is not funky anymore and less distinguishable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjaneek
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  As usual, we have another GTA installment. It's the same damn thing, AGAIN. The characters have 
 different skins, different voice actors, different dialoge, and apart from that, nothing has really 
 changed. It has the same C- drama story, extremely predictable. The same missions, "Please go shoot 
 these geneleman with the retarded AI, we have improved the aiming a little since the last one." 
 Pretty much the same weapons. Its all the same, it just looks different and works a little better.
 
  
  I'll take a short break to congratulate the game makers on some good improvements, because I'm 
 not a completely heartless bastard.
  
  -the aiming system is better, but it still makes the game too easy
  -you can actually fly the 
 helicopters in this one, although it's still a pain in the ass
  -the cover system is pretty sweet. not the best ever, but there's nothing wrong with it
  -cars 
 don't explode in a split second
  -I can actually tell what is going on, as the graphics in this installment actually look decent 
 for a game this size.
  -the city is well laid out
  
  Well, those are the improvement, apart from that it's the same GTA you've played the last 400 times. 
 
  
  In the end, if you need a game to screw around with, screaming down main street on a crotch-rocket 
 into oncoming traffic in order to catapult yourself all the way into the ocean, then this is it.
 
  
  That's it, a time wasting device. Nothing new, not worth $60. Wait 'till it's cheaper, and then 
 pick it up for a good laugh.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyeatsknives
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  While I'm sitting here talking about games, might as well talk about Grand Theft Auto 4. There's 
 nothing that I can say that hasn't already been said. This will be Game of the Year. Notice how 
 I said "will". Because it will be. This is probably the most exciting game I've played in a while. 
 If you have the will-power and time to beat it, congratulations. The story is phenomenal, giving 
 a very rewarding plot to the player. There's several along the way that are jaw-dropping that further 
 proves that games are on par with Hollywood. The voice acting properly accompanies the story, with 
 accents that don't come off cheesy, but intense. The gameplay is just as "GTA" as ever before, 
 with tight controls and top-notch, realistic animations. Though the running kinda looked like Syphon 
 Filter, imo. The story has a run time of roughly 60 hours. Yes, 60 hours. But it doesn't slow down 
 at all. All the side stories interlock, all going back to lead character Niko Bellic in his search 
 for Dimitri Rascolov. The game is just gorgeous. Night turns into day, with city lights cutting 
 on/off, the sun has appropriate affects on the world of Liberty City. There are weather effects 
 which affect driving and running abilities, as well. I don't know Rockstar did it, but somehow 
 it's all on one disc, and somehow the game has no load screens. Well, actually their hidden (walking 
 through buildings, the mad long wait when "loading" the game.) Anyway, the game is very fun. I 
 love how when you attack a pedestrian, they will either run and get a cop, or start fighting back. 
 This is much like the rest of the game, complete and total realism. Car physics are the best I've 
 seen (better than Forza, I thought) and running around is great. The guns react precisely, with 
 recoil and penetrate builds, cars, etc. The GTA series now leeches off Gears of War which leeched 
 off of Kill. Switch by now having a "use anything" cover system. If it's something thicker than 
 a twig, you can use it as cover from a fire-fight. Some of the most memorable missions I've played 
 in videogames are in here. For all who haven't played 45 hours to make it to "Three Leaf Clover": 
 I am so very sorry, because you're missing out. Single handedly this is the best mission I've played 
 ever. There are some missions that seem like filler, but in comparison to the good ones, it's easy 
 to overlook. Overall, this is a must-play gaming experience. From the opening video to the (very 
 long) end credits, Grand Theft Auto 4 is the defining game in the last ten years. I give it a very 
 worthy 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Where should I start. 
  
  I bought this game when it first came out due to the hype. Thinking that I would get an unforgettable 
 gaming experience being a GTA fan prior to this. First GTA in HD, I thought it'd be real nice.... 
 but I was wrong.
  
  This game has let me down. I've tried so very hard to like it, but I just can't. The story line 
 is shallow, and does not feel like it's leading anywhere. All Miklo does are odd jobs for money 
 and money is pretty much useless in this game. Only thing it's useful for are your suits, guns, 
 and car fares. So what's the point of even wanting to continue?
  
  The game starts off ok, your cousin is after a dream and wants you to be a part of it but later 
 on, he's hardly even involved in your doings. You so caught up trying to all these things for other 
 people, you forget what the heck you are even trying to do.
  
  IMO, they ruined the game by trying to make it to realistic. Not that there is anything wrong with 
 that, because my list of favorite games are ALL realistic type games but how they've done it, it's 
 just unbalanced. Why can I run over a telephone pole and knock over fire hydrens but scaffolding 
 stops me in my tracks? And the FPS is terrible. The creators tried to incorporate too much in to 
 1 game when they should've focused on key points that made other GTA's so successful. 
  
  Clearly overrated and I don't buy in to it. This game is neither fun to play, nor does it have 
 a story worth playing through. A game that lacks both components to me isn't even worth playing. 
 
  
  Saint's Row 2 is definately the better game of this genre.
  
  Don't be a fool and buy in to the buzz. I only recommend this game to people who like mindless 
 game play, literally.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  hmm yeah gta 4... Everyone else thinks that this game is amazing and the best game around. Well 
 I don't think so.
  
  This game is boring. Just plain boring!!! The graphics are amazing. but you can't even do anythin 
 fun.
  
  When this game came out, I knew that this game was going to get a good review. Because companies 
 pay some game rating sites to give them a good ratings and other competitors bad reviews.
  
  I just don't like the hype. It just makes people waste their money on stupid + boring games.
 
  
  What's the point of helping your cousin? what's the point of watching stupid cutscenes that provide 
 no fun???
  
  if someone is out there and wanting to have fun... go with saints row 2. it's better, trust me 
 i know what iam saying. and i know what gta people r thinking.
 hey y is this saint lover reviewing a gta game? get out of here"
  
  but i know some of you 
 in the gta world, who didnt experience real fun. and this review is for you guys. just trust meee
 
  
  Some of you people might read this review and disagree w/me
  but IDC BECAUSE YOU LOVERS KNOW THE TRUTH!!
  
  JUST THINK IF YOU R HAVING FUN IN THIS GAME 
 OR NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatboyFury
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the best games i have evered played. No lie. It is full of action 
 that just keeps goig on. The game takes a few months just to beat! Then after that you can play 
 a superb multiplayer online. Besides the online you can still do missions for friends or do activities 
 with them like bowling, pool, and darts. GTA4 (Grand Theft Auto 4) is a must have game for anyone 
 14 and older. There is not one thing about the game that i didn't like yet. The graphics are great, 
 the gameplay is great, and the storyline is great. When my friends come over they always play it 
 for hours and hours on. We always have a great time playing and never where we mad or unhappy at 
 the game. I still haven't beat the game yet and i played for about 20 hours so far! I'm at the 
 mission right after the mission "Three Leaf Clover" which i have to say was one of the best missions 
 so far. The game is like real life! If you say no to a friend when they want to play with you, 
 you get their just wanted down and they dislike more. But if you say yes to the friend you get 
 there trust up and you get to do the activity with them. When you get your friends likeness or 
 respect over 75% they give you a special ability like getting free taxi service (Roman) or getting 
 a car bomb (Packie) . So this is one of the best games ever! I'll give it a 10/10 any day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paidoot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  The good - Great sound quality, realistic gameplay, really good storyline, a great gta game.
  
  The bad - pretty poor graphics for an xbox 360, San andreas was better.
  
  You know how 
 some games like b. i. a hells highway, you have to rely on knowing the other games in the series 
 well to get u through, well with gta iv you dont have to know tthe other games well. Its a whole 
 new fresh and great storyline that makes the game more addicting. The great sound quality, realistic 
 addictive gameplay and the characters make this game a real treat to play, so if you like shooting 
 games then definateely get it. Even though san andreas still i think was a better gta game, i think 
 this one is still great. The levels are amazing and SO addictive, but i still think there should 
 of been a longer campaign. So gta fans, GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovakainePuNK
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is definitely my favorite game up to date, and it's still so much fun to just go back and 
 kill and hit without reason ;] It's such a crazy world, and the storyline is really good considering 
 that its also a free-world sandbox game. The graphics on this game still amaze me after seeing 
 all the other games I have, including both of the Gears series. There's so much to do, and even 
 when you're done... there's so much to do! Driving is fun, and when you get into a copter, the buildings 
 look beautiful. The missions are surprisingly varied in the way you have to complete them, giving 
 you something new as you progress in the game from time to time. The cars are very detailed, and 
 the speed you can get in them is just so immersible. Bottom line, game of the year for years to 
 come, UNTIL they come out with GTA V, hopefully... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrjpo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This is only the third game I've ever given a 10.0 to (Halo 2 and Oblivion being the others) . I 
 was never a fan of the GTA series, but a friend forced me to play it, and I was instantly hooked. 
 Despite his personal shortcomings, Niko Bellic is an involved, complex, and sympathetic character 
 whom you grow somewhat attached to. The story line is full of many twist and plays out in the fashion 
 of Good Fellas or Casino.
  
  However, while all the drama is going on there are many highly comical things going on around you 
 as well. Whether its the conservative talk radio of WKTT, or Roman's escapades, there are many 
 LOL moments.
  
  At times the game proves to be quit difficult, some of this can be alleviated with cheats, but 
 as in my case, that will screw up your achievements. Overall, the game is rated M for a reason. 
 Any parent of a kid less than 16 or 17 should have there parental rights taken away if they let 
 their child play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  There are some good sandbox games such as Mercenaries, Saints' Row & Grand Theft Auto series. This 
 is the first GTA game I've ever played on any consoles. Alot of critics were giving this game an 
 superb scores (5 out of 5 or 10 out of 10) and so fourth. GTA fanboys love it while others abhor 
 it to the core. What do I think about the fourth installment? Here's my review of Grand Theft Auto 
 IV for Xbox 360, Playstation 3 and PC.
  
  Pros
  Excellent story (it reminds me of "The Sopranos and "The Wire")
  Niko Bellic is one of the best 
 main characters in video game history
  Cover system
  Foes react to gunshots and finding cover
  Different path missions brings deal or revenge
  Gameplay 
 is good, in the first half of the game
  nice side missions, but...
  There are alot things to do, but doesn't always mean it's good
  
  
  Neutral 
  Nice Mulitiplayer, 
 but haven't play it
  Pac-man like police chase is fun, but it gets old quickly
  
  Cons
  Glitches on gun play during gameplay
  Driving was horrible and susceptible
  Most sports cars 
 do suck (expect Super GT)
  Graphics are total last generation 
  Weapons were so unbalance it wasn't an joke
  Dating, Hanging out with friends and family members 
 are an 
  snooze fest!
  some of side missions are pointless
  It ain't Mercenaries where you blow everything up
  
  I think this game was good, but not the 
 best game of all time! Anytime there's a glitch in gun-play (you shoot an enemy and goes through 
 them like ghost) , trashy driving sequence, sports cars totally unbalance, beyond ugly graphics, 
 no female main character in GTA and not enough items for the main character, the scores will drop 
 for some people. GTA fanboys are going to be ticked off for not liking what I reviewed their favorite 
 game. Rockstar did an good job on this game, but do better on the next installment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylthebest
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  the first thing i did after i returned from my summer holidays was to check the gamespot review 
 for GTA IV which i was waiting from many months..... after i saw the gameplay video and the review 
 i was surprised and i thought that it will be the best gta game.... ever... now after some days i 
 brought a copy of gta 4 for my 360.... i played it for 2 hrs..... felt bored... did'nt like the gameplay 
 speed... while attacking someone... the speed was really slow.... but i loved thr graphics., gameplay, sound 
 everything ..... everything would deserve 10/10 but the gameplay was very slow..... here in this 
 review i give my best game 9/10.....!!!.. now nothing more to say... but believe me its a veryy good 
 game overall..... maybe i was the only one who did not like the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game one of the very best in the series It has superb graphics and gameplay 
 the AI is good and everything is backed up with excellent physics the developers went along way 
 to polish and make this game perfect and I think libertey city is a good setting for the games 
 storyline I remember my first time playing it and I could believe how realistic it was like when 
 you get hit by a car you actually get hit by a car you dont go limp or anything and you actually 
 walk down stairs
  There are a few things I have to complain about like why isnt there a offline co-op or multiplayer 
 and what happened to the guns there should have been a bigger arsenal I was pretty upset when I 
 found out there would be no fixed wing aircraft that was one of the reasons san andreas was so 
 fun and the last thing that bothered me was the clothing there just wasnt enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_momma129
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft auto 4 is way overrated. It is only fun in the beggining but after a while you start 
 noticing that all you are doing for story missions is going all the way across the city just to 
 find out that you have to go all the way back to where you started. That gets extremely annoying. 
 Also just going around shooting people is not a whole lot of fun because its the same thing over 
 and over again. Driving motorcycles is also a big issue. it is not fun because you cant go too 
 fast or youll crash into other cars and be sent flying out of your vheicle and youll have to walk 
 back to where your bike is. The multiplayer is ok , its not that great. To have a good multiplayer 
 match it is recommended that you have a large set of people because the city is really big. Dont 
 get me wrong this is a pretty good game if you play it once in a while and some aspects of the 
 story are pretty interesting (if you dont mind having to go all over the city) . I would rent it 
 first before you buy it to see if you really enjoy it. In overall its an okish game and not awesome 
 like GS claims it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shantmaster_K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, but I believe it is overrated. Not worth a 10 at least.
  
  Well the newest game of the Grand Theft Auto series has been release April 29, 2008 and what a 
 release date it was. The game turned to real life as people were mugged and beaten for their copy 
 of the game. Well those, who made it out safe from the gamestore, got to play one of the greatest 
 games made. 
  
  For this GTA game you play a European man named Niko who seems to have a troubled past. His cousin, 
 Roman, always sent him letters about how good America was and how he had all this money, women, 
 and a mansion. So Niko decides to head to America to hopefully find the same opportunity that his 
 cousin has found. When you finally get off the boat and meet up with Ramon, he realizes that he 
 had lied to him and actually has no money, cars, or a mansion. All he has gotten into was trouble 
 with the wrong people. 
  
  I won't go into any more detail so I won't ruin your fun, but the game still has its great qualities 
 of keeping you entertained with killing innocent civilans with new guns or just plain melee fighting, 
 high speed pursuits, car crashs, running over people, drugs and sex themes, and of course the free 
 roam. 
  
  The driving is way more realistic. It is quite harder to handle in my opinion, but it is great. 
 The graphics of the game are excellent regarding faces and cars. You can basically do anything 
 in this game. For example, a cop walked around a corner and I shot the building by him and the 
 debree from the shot hit the cop in the face and the cop was holding his face in pain. Ain't that 
 kick ass? You can even go bowling. 
  
  They already have cheat codes out for all you gamers who like to go pshyco and get guns and destroy 
 everyone around you. There are also some fun achievements you can do. Just look them up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvsocks
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 Review
  
  Challenge 9.0
  Very changeling. i would love to see someone play without failing any missions.
  
  Character 
 Customization 4.0
  You can only choose a few types of clothes. Cant change physical appearance, no customizing cars, 
 and no customizing your crib. Now i for the people wonder why did i give it a 4.0 is because in 
 Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, you could customize cars with a lot of colors and parts and if you 
 eat to much you get fat if you eat to little you get skinny and you can work out to build muscle. 
 There was also a level up system so you became better with guns better aim and dual-wielding (most 
 of them) So i understand not all games let you customize everything but Grand Theft Auto has had 
 much more than this.
  
  Controls 8.5
  They controls are good, they took in the cover system like Gears of War, you can blind fire and 
 everything. Over the shoulder perspective also.
  
  Graphics/Animation 8.5
  When your car gets total it it quite beautiful. You can dent in your roof, have the rubber come 
 off the tires, flip over and not instantly blow up. No fun guns, no minigun, no flame thrower, 
 no chainsaw, and no dual shotguns. In the water you don't not make much wake.
  
  Interface 7.0
  The interface is like Saints Row 1 and GTA San Andreas, nice and clean.
  
 
  Length 6.0
  They length is decent but petty. Look at my story explanation for more info.
  
  Sound 7.5
  They sound was good, but like i said in my Saints Row 2 review i am picky on how 
 they make the guns sound. Cars, Radio, and Voice Acting all done very well
  
  Storyline 7.0
  Ok this has a very good storyline, many twists and turns and surprises. However 
 you seem to do petty mission after petty mission until you finally get something that has to do 
 with the big picture. Also since you don't buy anything with your money but guns and food money 
 is pointless. You buy guns for the mission to earn money for guns for the next mission. It is just 
 a constant short loop. Unlike Saints Row 2 where you buy all kinds of stores, cars, cribs, and 
 money going to customizing them all or even in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas (like stated before) 
 you can buy cribs and customize cars and your character and gamble.
  
  Bottom Line it is a 7.0. I would recommend a rent or borrow to see if you like it first. I got 
 this game and i am not unhappy but they could have done a lot more. And a lot of companies gave 
 it a 10 because (I think) of all the advertising nobody wanted to lose there job and speak the 
 truth like with Kane and Lynch
  also here is my Saints Row 2  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  At first I was amazed at the graphics, depth, and realism of the addition of the series. Although 
 completing a third of the story I stopped playing. Surly I completed it 3 weeks later, but my overall 
 view of Gta IV was empty. The problem was how repetitive the story became. I can't remember one 
 mission you didn't kill someone! I swear I wouldn't have been surprised if Pegerino said "kill 
 twinkey bob, he looked at my spaghetti." Too much thought and developement was put into little 
 details and not the main content. The map was surprisingly large. But what was with the police! 
 You would steal a cookie and they would be on your butt in seconds. For example 4 stars for being 
 on an airstrip with no planes taking off! The side missions were horribly boring at times. The 
 online play was what saved it from the bargain bin. The most obvious mistake had to of been the 
 cell phone. Your in a gun fight with the swat and sure enough "Hey Niko! Do you want to go bowling?" 
 and your walking around in circles pressing B frantically. This game had to of been a 7 out of 
 10. Saints row 2 is the GTA killer! Buy it instead, I'm glad I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  For the sake of this being a review I'll quickly describe the game in general, afterall pretty 
 much everyone knows what the GTA games are like.
  
  You're set in a pretend version of New York called Liberty City, to progress you do missions for 
 people around town. While not on a mission the entire world/city is your playground and you can 
 go anywhere and do anything you want.
  
  Now then, as everyone knows the main character is Niko and I must say, imo, he's the best out of 
 the previous three (GTA3 guy, Tommy & CJ) . I love his personality cause you always get the sense 
 that he's tough guy that no one can mess with. He never comes across as overbearing or boring, 
 he always keeps his cool until he has reason enough not to do so.
  
  Also Id like to mention how great the graphics are. Everything looks photo-realistic, especially 
 at certain times when the weather changes like during a rain storm or when just the right amount 
 of sun is shining.
  
  Now lets get to those annoyances I mentioned in my opening statement. We'll start with the cops. 
 My gosh they are everywhere, 95% of the time you can't jack a car without getting a 1 star wanted 
 level because theres always a cop on every corner either walking by or driving by. In the previous 
 games, even if you were just going around wrecking havoc for fun, it would take a little time before 
 getting a wanted level unless you purposly did something in front of the police.
  
  Also the cops will follow you just about anywhere, even if you're plain out of sight they'll find 
 you and go right for you so don't count on being able to hide anywhere... plus they are alot tougher 
 now.
  
  Next the way you excape the cops. Instead of just going to a Pay N Spray or driving over a bribe 
 icon you must literally out run them. You have to excape the wanted-zone which flashes on your 
 radar and map and depending how many stars you have depends how big the zone is. This many not 
 sound annoying but now your forced into making a bunch of detours in hopes of loosing the cops 
 because if you just drive really fast in one direction the cops keep spawing down the road which 
 means the you may never excape the flashing wanted-zone.
  
  You can use a Pay N Spray but now you have to make sure the cops don't see you enter it, which 
 is pretty much impossible since the times a Pay N Spray is needed most is when you have 3 or more 
 wanted stars and by then the cops are all over you. I undertand this is all to make it more realistic 
 but it just comes off as too realistic for its own good. Before it was fun to go on long police 
 chases now your actually scared to even get a wanted level.
  
  The last major annoyance is your Cell Phone. You can't drive 10 minutes without someone calling 
 you to invite you somewhere or sending you a text message. The thing is once you complete a strand 
 of missions for someone they can become your friend and by hanging out with them they open speical 
 services that you can use for help. Truth is these services arn't that special and they certainly 
 dont make a huge diffrence. The rewards are not worth the hassle of having to goto a bar or strip 
 club everytime someone invites you... which is alot. Luckly you don't have to do any of this but 
 its still annoying having to answer your phone all the time.
  
  If that werent bad enough sometimes your thrown right into the next mission when you answer your 
 phone. This becomes so frustrating because most of the time when you complete a mission your not 
 ready to jump right into the next one, whether you need to regain health or buy some more ammo 
 or maybe you just wanana take a break and drive around, you should not be forced into a mission 
 when your not ready.
  
  A few other annoyances include you flying out the window if you crash hard enough, not a big deal 
 but if your trying to get away from the cops is can be. At night it becomes so dark you can't see 
 anything, unless your in a car of course, so its best to never do missions at night. Last, Liberty 
 City is pretty big & detailed now, which is nice but it means you can still get lost even after 
 spending alot of time with the game where as previously it was pretty easy to remember your way 
 around town once you played a few times. The developers must have agreed cause now you can set 
 a path on your radar/map that shows you exactly how to get to where you wanna go.
  
  Again, most of this is to give the game a more realistic feel but like I said it just comes off 
 as too realistic for its own good.
  
  Bottom Line, it's still a great game but its nowhere near perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caffino54
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  overall gorgeous game, which contributes to most of the 7 points
  
  poor implementation of the world however
  missions quickly become repetitive and boring
  too 
 many grays and browns everywhere
  
  I give this game a 7 because of how in depth you can go inside the game world, such as looking 
 up the location of a car dealership in the internet in game, and then going to the same dealership
 
  
  the multilayer is a decent diversion from the mostly depressing storyline/quests
  
  the game world could be better utilized with say, the main character from crackdown 7/10
  overall, 
 i don't believe this game deserves a 10/10 and all the hype it is receiving
  
  most of the so called 'gta clones' are amazingly superior to the 'real thing'
  
  saints row 
 two is much more fun to play, and fixes all the mistakes in gta
  
  san andreas was the best gta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainydayreality
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I was not a big fan of GTA just for the mere fact that I enjoy alot more FPS and Fantasy type RPG's. 
 The First time I actually saw someone play this game it looked like fun but i wasn't about to go 
 out and buy it because I didn't want to not like it and waste my 60 dollars on another hype'd up 
 game. Couple days later I had about 4-5 of my friends telling me what an awe3some game it was, 
 so I had to get it.
  
  Visually this game is up there with some good games. There are a few things you can tell weren't 
 worked on too hard but it makes up for other Visuals you see later on. 
  
  Physics are not to impressive. Very rag doll on the characters and when you drive, it feels like 
 your cars suspension is made out of jell-o and it gets very boring watching the car bounce fro 
 side to side with very tiny movement.
  
  Gameplay is really addicting. About 2 hours into the story mode, it draws you in to make it feel 
 like you are in the game experiancing all these actions and stories. The story was really well 
 done. Also has amazing replay value.
  
  Multiplayer is a joke. If you're planning on getting this game for the sole reason to shoot some 
 other thugs via XBL, don't waste your money or time. Its just broken and not fun. Even when your 
 just cruizing around the city with your buds, you'll be craving a real On-line Multiplayer game.
 
  
  Music in this game covers just about anything your into.
  The ambiance is right on the dot and listening to peoples conversations is also pretty funny. 
 
  
  This game has a good 40+ hours of Story line gameplay first time through with a couple of decisions 
 and twist you may or may not prevent so you deffinatly have to go through more than once. Would 
 I buy this game?
  Rent it first or borrow it from a friend for the story mode. If you can get it cheaper than 40 
 than goahead but I would go for Fallout 3 or Fable 2 for better story modes before this but its 
 still a game everyone should play. It is Rockstars's best GTA to date and I hope to see things 
 get better with thier next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I put this game in expecting.. ooh idk a game with cars, explosions, guns, and ALOT of cussing. 
 THEN I started to get into it, did a few missions. (This was still on my frist rental) And it started 
 to get much more fun. O. o I didn't even know why.
  
  Then I noticed that not only is there a fun Main Quest thing but there are also a TON of really 
 fun mini quest things that you get to do whatever you want on. AND you have free-time which with 
 you can do whatever you want! There is bowling, pool, darts, bars, you can get into police cars 
 and do missions on those, clothing stores, restaurants, AND... strip clubs (cough)
  
  YOU CAN bassicaly do whatever YOU WANT. Not only that, you can date people and hang out with people, 
 go on the internet, watch tv, drive around the huge city, take helicopters, boats, and even play 
 arcade game. It's so addictive. GEEZ! The game itself even without that is very long as well.
 
  
  So I can guarentee you will like it alot, ALOT! You will find yourself not taking the game out 
 of your Xbox for many, many days. The controls are also pretty nice and simple. You can learn them 
 in a quick time. It's just so much fun and I recommened it you pretty much anyone. As long as you 
 don't mind, Violence, Language, and $ content. 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterichi01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I've had issues with the GTA's of past while the immense world and things to do where always amazing 
 the series always fell short on tangible things. The missions in previous games always felt unsatisfying 
 and cliched and yes the missions in GTA IV follow the same formula steal this car, kill this person 
 etc... But what makes this version so much more fun for me is the story and presentation, no longer 
 does it directly steal from obvious sources instead Niko and his story are more a mixed combination 
 of multiple crime story's making it more subtle in execution and presentation. 
  
  What also made this version much more enjoyable for me was the cover system it does have it's problems 
 like in Gears of War where it will select the wrong spot, but it's still very helpful and makes 
 combat fun for the first time for me in a GTA game. I think by cutting down on ancillary things 
 GTA IV feels more focused and for the first time I actually finished a GTA game. I am pleasantly 
 surprised with how much I liked GTA IV considering my negative feelings for the previous games 
 in the series. If you've disliked previous GTA games give this one a try maybe like me you'll be 
 happy with changes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Although Sandbox games are appreciated for their variety, it's often this exercise in diversity 
 that proves their downfall. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas offered equal chunks of shooting and 
 driving with the odd lithe-stepped filch as an aside. However, when each of the elements that made 
 up the game were viewed separately, the package seemed distinctly less impressive.
  
  Ultimately San Andreas and its ilk have gotten away with wowing you by their sheer size. Had the 
 driving sections in Carl Johnson's adventure been a stand-alone title, review scores would have 
 been vastly lower. However, since the entire package was weaved together to form a cohesive experience 
 you tended to overlook the lack of depth.
  
  On the other hand, Grand Theft Auto 4 strips the fat from the formula and provides a far more solid 
 experience. While some might baulk at the game's lack of RPG experience points (a feature of San 
 Andreas, its forebear) it's difficult to deny that what is on offer is expertly executed. The gunfights, 
 for one, rely on a cover-centric model similar to Gears of War. This instantly transforms the gameplay 
 and more intelligent firefights ensue. The realistic driving mechanics take getting used to, but 
 once mastered, the experience feels akin to a proper racing game. The fact that the shooting and 
 driving and the various other activities are housed under roof in such fine style (and are all 
 comparable to genre-equivalents) only helps to solidify Grand Theft Auto 4 as the best in the series. 
 Moreover, it can be taken seriously as a veritable experience on all fronts.
  
  The game's protagonist, Niko Bellic, becomes a hitman of sorts as his sociopath willingness to 
 do anything (if the money is right) is revealed. The character is beautifully handled by Rockstar. 
 Bellic runs the gamut of being too bloodthirsty while housing an aptitude for morality under his 
 cold veneer, and his shady past adds intrigue throughout proceedings; a far cry from Carl Johnson's 
 fairly spelled-out past. What propels this moral juggling-act forward is the fact that, during 
 the course of the game, you'll be given the choice of killing certain characters or letting them 
 live. While it sounds fairly straightforward, the sheer quality of the writing ensures that you'll 
 deliberate your decision.
  
  Of course, Grand Theft Auto 4 could always have benefited from more to do. The entertaining internet 
 cafes only appeal for so long and the clothes-conscious will criticize the scant collection of 
 garments on offer. Still, Rockstar has ensured that no element of the game has gone half-baked 
 and whether it's the technical prowess on display or the sheer quality of the writing, you'll finish 
 the title appreciating the effort that has gone into this slimmer experience. Grand Theft Auto 
 4 plays it safe. And safe has never seemed better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanjohn75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Good story, good multiplayer, and the best is free mode which lets you and friends chill and hang 
 out in Liberty City and cause havoc or choose to team up battle it out with Liberty City's finest (the 
 police 4 the noobs out there) . Now just like any game it does have some down points to it but they 
 arent that serious, such as the some of the multiplayer modes. Modes like Car jack city and Turf 
 war are some of the things that could have left out or had something better instead. And as for 
 the story mode the weapons could have been it better but since they went for realisticness i understand 
 where they came from. The same thing for the clothes that you buy Niko in the game. I think they 
 could have given you more of a variety to choose from. But other then that the game is great and 
 cant wait for the DLC to come out for the 360. Its a must buy for any console that you have. Just 
 just need to come out with another GTA for the psp then Rockstar will b in business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyRedemption000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game most definitely is amazing. The graphics, the physics (hitting someone in a vehicle going 
 70 mpr never gets old) , the comedy, the story, all of that are great. The only thing I was disappointed 
 in was the amount of things to do. They added the friend system, which was more annoying than fun 
 due to all your friends wanting to hang right in the middle of something else. And all there was 
 to do with them was bowling, darts, getting drunk, watching dressed pixeled women dance, and some 
 other things. Compared to San Andreas, this game has less to do during while not in the mood for 
 missions. When I first played GTA 3, I thought it was the greatest game to have ever be made by 
 man. I played it non stop all summer, everyday and night. And then Vice City came out, and the 
 same with that game. And then San Andreas came out, and it was crack to me. I loved the content 
 of the games, as well as the comedy. You could do so much even without it being the game designers 
 original plan for something. But all of that is just me, my personal view. If you want a game full 
 of action, great story, and hilarious content, go with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_JoNNo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  So lets kick this off by saying that in my opinion, Vice city was the best GTA of them all. It 
 was funny, it had a great theme, the gameplay was great, and so were the cars and the driving was 
 tight. San Andreas was comparable and upped the notch further.
  
  GTA 4 leans towards the realism side of things, only slightly, but you will notice it. Niko bellic, 
 whilst having some great lines, is ultimately hard to attach to - unlike Vercetti or CJ. 
  
  The Driving is EXTREMELY clunky. This pretty much ruined the game for me.
  
  Firefights 
 are quite good, the cover system is a welcome addition.
  
  There are a plethora of things that will make you go wow, and the physics are nice, if odd-looking. 
 
  
  The police in this are pretty damn heavy handed. kiss your epic police chases and showdowns from 
 vice city and andreas goodbye. 
  
  Missions are boring, no more looking forward to the next chapter in the saga and what you would 
 have to do!
  
  Characters arent as great as previous titles.
  
  Get rid of the mobile phone, and people calling you up all the time then being pissed when you 
 cant come in the middle of a mission!
  
  I have heavily compared this to previous titles, but i think vice city had the spirit which, you 
 will realise a few hours into playing this, is not present.
  
  All in all, a well-made game, if untrue to its legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, in this new installment in the Grand Theft Auto series you play as Russian immigrant, Nico Bellic. 
 Nico Bellic comes to America to live with his cousin Roman. Roman lives a dangerous life for he 
 is in serious debt and gambles all of his money away. Nico has to help him out and make tons of 
 money. In GTA IV you befriend many people and take on many missions. You can date both men and 
 women, steal cars, buy weapons and clothes, well basically everything from the other GTA's. You can 
 now swim and drive boats. You have many missions ranging from a simple drug deal to taking out 
 plenty of mobsters to save your cousin! This game has amazing graphics, easy controls, great gameplay, and 
 addictting multiplayer. On online you can do free play, where you can freely roam the city with 
 your friends or go head to head against other teams in team deathmatch. There are also more modes. 
 Also, in GTA IV you get your own cell phone where you can customize your theme, ringtones, and call 
 your pals for jobs or to hang out. GTA IV is the best in the series because it is the most realistic 
 and the most interesting one in the series. Any shooter fan, GTA fan, or someone looking for a lot 
 of play time and a good story game should defiantly buy GTA IV and it is worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason86586
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV takes gaming realism to the next level. Everything in the game seems to be 
 so perfect and polished. The characters are well developed throughout the storyline which will 
 take you around 30 hours to complete without doing any of the side missions. The script is great 
 and there is a lot of humor throughout the story making it a great experience overall. The map 
 might not be as large as San Andreas but Rockstar makes up for that because there is no useless 
 space in Liberty City. Most of the places in San Andreas you would probably never go to because 
 half of it was all desert or small town which were very boring. There is none of that in GTA 4 
 and all of the city is very well designed. The R. A. G. E. also takes gaming physics to a new level. 
 The physics in Grand Theft Auto IV are amazing and they basically are a image of how people would 
 react in real life.
  
  I definitely give it a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto leaves SaintsRow in the dirt its the best freerom Game ive ever played i cant 
 see why people dont like it its a fun Bad addictive game that has good graphics is realistic. It 
 has an awsome story and i love getting in high speed chases with the cops. The only thing i dont 
 like is when your on a motorcycle and you hit something you fly 1000 Feet or (meters) into the 
  hate that 
 and the only way i die is i get hit by a car and i hit a  
 have nothin else to say but ITS AN AMAZING  
 A-M-A-Z-I-N-G-! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Criket_Rogers
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  STORY: You are Niko Bellic, new to Liberty City. He has fallen into some debts in the past and 
 has spent years aboard the Platypus to escape the pandemonium. You are the cousin of the billionaire 
 playboy Roman Bellic... or are you? Yeah you're down on the lowest part of the city, broke, and 
 out of a job from some lies that Roman has made up to get you there. Through the beginning you 
 actually don't get into the story but to put it short and sweet, someone screws you over and now 
 you must get revenge.
  
  GAMEPLAY: When you're not caught up in the tons of missions, try exploring the vast city! No new 
 items have been added to the GTA formula except for the fact that you bust out the driver side 
 window when you jack a car. This game does not include the duel wield feature from San Andreas 
 and neither does it include planes. To tell you the truth, it has not changed and thats way everyone 
 likes it!
  
  GRAPHICS: When having an HD TV you can experience the amazing graphics. To actually see the small 
 hairs for Niko's five o'clock shadow is an example that proves that this game is beautiful. The 
 water and cars are shiny and the characters are smooth.
  
  SOUND: The guns sound so real but the cars are mainly quiet. However, I do not expect GTA to be 
 all about the sound in the cars. The cast was amazing and the radio stations were fenominal.
  
  THE GOOD: Online play is huge and extreme fun that can get you addicted. Niko's accent :D. 
 The ample amount of missions and a nice cell phone.
  
  THE BAD: We never know what the hell Niko is.
  
  Most people say that GTA was over-hyped and 
 should have gotten less than a 10. I, on the other hand, believe that this game was one of the 
 best in the series. I really hope to see Niko again in another GTA game. This one took 3-5 years 
 to make and now we must wait another five to see the next. I give GTA a 10 for its spectacular 
 performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exit_293
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is my second favorite game out of the GTA series. But anyway. I think that IV has the like 
 the best story line of any game. It's just amazing. You don't really think about it but how do 
 they come up with the story line. It is such a good story. The game play is great. It is so realistic. 
 And I like how you can choose on what you do. Like Kill a main person and change the story or you 
 can kept the guy then become friends and change it another way. The missions are great. How you 
 work for people earn stuff they can provide, get girls and all that. I wish you could high jack 
 planes like in San Andreas but you can not in this game. But it is still a great game. I'll say 
 that the Multiplayer is pretty good, but not the best. Free mode is very fun. You and up to 16 
 players do whatever you want. It is so much fun. Also the free roaming is fun. When you drive and 
 run from cops its way fun! So overall I would say get the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, there's a good storyline in GTA IV. As an East-european immigrant you reach the city 
 of the Big Apple, looking for someone. There are tasks for you everywhere, and some might even 
 get you closer to finding this very important person.. 
  
  The graphics are awesome, especially the character design and physics look very realistic. One 
 of the best physics i've seen in a game. While of course there are some minor glitches, the game 
 never ceases to amaze. It's unfortunate the city is not that big as the previous game was, San 
 Andreas. I especially missed the country part here.. that could be me though but that's just my 
 personal opinion. 
  
  Now, the most important part: Gameplay. While there is definately something to do in this NY look-a-like 
 city, there are more limitations than the previous game. In San Andreas you could buy homes, customize 
 your vehicles and even drop by the hairdressers for a hair cut. None of this is included in GTA 
 IV, which is a letdown really. I was surprised to see how little there was to do beside the missions. 
 Of course, there is the little internet addition. But this was of little interest to me, since 
 it added no real good value to the game itself. One thing I did find positive was the way you could 
 fight crime when entering a police vehicle. Sit behind the steering wheel of a police car, and 
 you'll get access to the police database with locations of hundreds of ''bad guys'' who all needed 
 to be arrested. Well arrested... Killed.
  
  
  The sounds are all great, as you expect nothing less from Rockstar. The awesome radiostations don't 
 exceed the GTA III radio, but it's getting close. With music from Kanye West and many other artists, 
 it's hard to go wrong here.
  
  The thing is, after a while.. you get pretty bored playing this game. It feels like you've been 
 here before, you recognize the structure of the missions, as there are too few missions that are 
 really new if you have played the previous GTA games. 
  
  
  To cut things short, it's a pretty good game but it definately has its letdowns. The graphics are 
 awesome, and will deliver you gameplay for at least 20 hours, but after that... NY city has never 
 been so quiet before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xprogamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  the game is the best xbox360 game i play so far.
  the good: the city look almost really lot of people to kil cop r fun to run away from the story 
 is sick and the best gta story as well the song r great at time and my fav part is the cars how 
 they take damage that made the game for me
  the BAD: there not to much bad there should b more weapon ummmmmmmmmmmm that it
  the sounds is 
 awesome the shooting the killing the driving it all. dieing: looking cool watching your guy in slow 
 moshin and the cops r still shooting at u that sick
  driving: it sick go fast hiting a car a wall what ever u hit it all good and the way that the car 
 take damage is sick
  gun: there should b more gun but the gun r fun 2 firing a rocket at the cop is plain fun
  story: the 
 best gta story you come to the uas hoping for a better life but it not as easy as he though it 
 whould b so he go to crime and he what to kill somone and that all i am telling you guy if u have 
 not play it.
  and if u do not have the game and u like the gta get it and if u like shooting game u will like 
 this 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  With top marks rushing in from all corners of the globe you'd think Rockstar had hit upon the Holy 
 Grail with GTA IV. They may have come very close, but when you achieve perfection where do you 
 go next? If you step back from the hype for a second you can see GTA IV is not without fault, but 
 on the other hand it's obviously a title that will go down in history as a gaming great.
  
  What does that mean though? Well, it's increasingly hard to pin down what exactly makes a game 
 great. I once thought more solitary environments best suited critical reproach, with the likes 
 of Portal and Gears of War being two of the most impressive titles over the last few years. Interestingly, 
 the locations in both games were mostly devoid of life, but conversely the games themselves were 
 highly vivacious in terms of entertaining the player as they advanced.
  
  With Rockstar moving back to Liberty City and getting back in the New York groove for their latest 
 addition to the Grand Theft Auto series, it is quite easy to see they've hit the nail on the head 
 in terms of attaining the illusive fun factor that most games strive for. At its core though it 
 is still the same Grand Theft Auto we've grown accustomed to since the series jumped to 3D.
  
  
  You could even argue missions are in part imbued with the same pragmatic routines that 
 were on show in previous games in the series, but on the other hand it is overtly obvious it's 
 a huge step up in form for the series; everything is tighter, more refined. Although it feels clichd 
 to say so, Liberty City does in fact feel very much alive. Every square inch boasts something new 
 or exciting that will catch your attention.
  
  There's more to it than just graphical changes though, and there's more to it than the lifelike 
 animations provided by the euphoria engine. The city really does feel lived-in this time round. 
 You'll walk up a street and see someone else getting arrested. You'll see car crashes that you 
 had no hand in. You'll see people getting a lift in a taxi, and if you follow the cab long enough 
 you will see them get out. Sure, it's all been scripted in some way, but there seem to be thousands 
 of ways in which stuff might play out, keeping you almost always surprised and impressed. Going 
 back to play any of the predecessors after IV makes these previously ground-breaking titles seem 
 almost archaic in comparison.
  
  Don't get me wrong - San Andreas was a good game - but even the most ardent fan would agree that 
 it lost some of its appeal by trying to do too much at once. As a result Rockstar were not shy 
 of stripping some elements of the game back to the core, and choosing to build them up again from 
 scratch rather than just heaping more on for GTA IV. Gone are the questionable RPG elements, silly 
 missions, outlandish forms of transport and Over The Top weapons. Activities are also streamlined, 
 so that players are never subjected to tasks that feel like chores.
  
  
  Then there's the little touches. The whole HUD is much cleaner than before, all cars now have GPS 
 (so there's no excuse for getting lost) , guns no longer float in mid-air waiting for you to pick 
 them up, being usually propped up against some object or a wall. Stunt jumps are still around, 
 but they now seem better suited to the environment and don't seem as obvious as they did before. 
 Hidden packages are done away with, and you now have 200 pigeons to hunt down instead. A major 
 change in the game mechanics is that you now get to keep your guns if you die rather than get arrested. 
 They all may be seem like small extras, but it's the tiny things that add to the game's appeal. 
 The result is a more believable world for Niko to traverse.
  
  Of course, there is also the addition of mobile phone, which is probably the most ingenious facet 
 of the game. Not only is the phone used to trigger some missions, restart missions if you fail, 
 and give you some updates as you advance it is also used to keep in contact with friends. You can 
 ring them should you want to go bowling, having a game of darts, or just get drunk out of your 
 mind and try to drive home. If you build up a good enough relationship you can then use the phone 
 to contact friends and ask for various perks, such as calling in bodyguards to back you up and 
 ordering supplies. You can also access the game's multiplayer by a few quick presses on your keypad. 
 As if that wasn't enough there's also a hugely in-depth version of the internet with spoof versions 
 of loads of real world websites, from dating sites to Craigslist. You can buy ring-tones and themes 
 for your phone online, check emails (including spam, which ends up being much more entertaining 
 than those in real life) , or you can just read the news.
  
  The missions on show this time are far more varied than ever before. A few of the earlier ones 
 may seem a bit mundane, but this just makes the later, more epic assignments you're tasked with 
 as you progress seem that much better by comparison. Many of these missions are still highly influenced 
 by some movies, but for the most part Rockstar have tried to keep things more original this time 
 round. Better still, there are new things to see and do right up to the end, so even when you reach 
 the last island you'll still see brand new elements of the game make an appearance instead of just 
 playing similar **** missions in a different locale. In addition, the game no longer gives 'bosses' 
 the luxury of a bigger health bar; your encounters with these important characters are instead 
 handled in a much more realistic way, the first waterside encounter setting quite the exciting 
 precedent for the way of things to come
  
  
  It's not the perfect city though. There are still missions that annoy, a few that are bit too long, 
 and you have to restart the whole mission if you fail. You can still suffer an unfair death when 
 the targeting takes one of it hissy fits, and the cover system can be prone to a few glitches every 
 now and then. The fist fighting mechanic is also not all that interesting, but it is an improvement 
 from San Andreas. There are still a few technical issues too, such as pop-up and a few frame rate 
 problems when reaching the more densely populated parts of the city later on in the game. As a 
 result the game may not totally impress everyone that plays it. However, it is likely most of those 
 went in with their expectation set sky high in the first place.
  
  So, as you can see GTA IV is not perfect, but it is unlikely there will ever be a game we could 
 fairly label with that heavy moniker. It is however an absolutely essential landmark title for 
 the games industry. In terms of the sheer scope, emotion, ambition, and the stupidly high fun factor 
 it offers, there is no better available in the genre today. In fact, no one else comes anywhere 
 near. In truth, it's seeing where Rockstar go next that should be getting people the most excited, 
 but for now we should all just stand back and revel in this true moment of gaming glory as we know 
 they don't come around all that often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  What I've always liked about the GTA games, since they came to Playstation 2 at least, has been 
 the sense of humor they carry with them. I laughed out lout walking along the streets of Vice City 
 listening to the pedestrians and giggles happily listening to the radio in Liberty City. I'm glad 
 to see that some of this has carried over to this newest installment of GTA, which, for me, gains 
 points right off the bat.
  
  One of the most noticeable and fantastic features of the game comes from the city itself. Liberty 
 City is amazing and sometimes feels like a carbon copy of good old New York city. Yeah, the main 
 features are there that would undoubtedly make reference to NYC, but I'm talking about the subtle 
 features, the alley ways, the subways, and the worn out streets. For me, that's the amazing part, 
 a in-game photograph of nostalgia. 
  
  The next bit comes from the life-like and reactant NPCs that roam around everywhere. You can piss 
 off gangsters if you run into them, normal citizens call the police on their cellphones to get 
 you arrested, and everyone always seems to have something clever to say as you walk by. Plus, there's 
 plenty of wide sidewalks to drive on and run people down on, which is one of my favorite things 
 to do. 
  
  In GTA 4, the story is a lot like a movie. Long cut scenes and dialog create interesting plot and 
 a diverse set of personalities and characters. But the problem I had with this kind of story telling 
 was that it follows an old formula that needs an update. Sure, I followed the plot pretty damn 
 well, Russian mafia, betrayal, and whatnot, but the game tends to side track pretty often for long 
 spans of time which, if you're not playing very single day, makes it difficult to remember what 
 the hell is going on. There are reoccurring characters that help tie bits together, some of which 
 become your friends, and that helps out, but overall I felt as if I got lost many times. Maybe 
 its a problem of age. Overall, however, the story is very satisfying, and well worth the effort, 
 and the final culmination is satisfying without a doubt. No spoilers here, I'm just going to lave 
 this ambiguous. 
  
  What I found annoying about this game was, well, its ability to imitate real life. Girlfriends, 
 friends, e-mail, ext messages, dating... it's a little too much. And everyone is high maintenance 
 except for your cousin! You don't pick up the phone every time, they hate you. You spend more time 
 on missions than on people, they hate you. Check your e-mail. Call your mom. Text your mom. E-mail 
 your mom. Call your girlfriend. Listen, it'd bad enough I have to keep up with all that crap IRL, 
 why am I playing a video game whee I have to do the same? Just let me play the fantasy! I feel, 
 personally, that the non-committal story lines of Vice City and the first PS2 GTA where only the 
 plot mattered was more appealing to me. There's just too much side-line stuff going on.
  
  And you can't really balance more than, maybe, two girlfriends at the same time. You get three 
 or four and you can't get a moment to yourself. They keep texting and calling and complaining and 
 then your friends text and cal and complain. No one answers the phone when they're mad at you and 
 is can be so distracting that you just don't play the main story at all! Okay, that's an interesting 
 feature, I'll give it that, but really... IRL is bad enough. Maybe this game is designed to build 
 social skills IRL? Interesting...
  
  I'm a big fan of this game, but I think it's been over killed with all the unlockables. Finding 
 the pigeons around the city is like... not fun. Finding the jumps is a bit easier but I fella s 
 if the achievements of the game on XBOX Live are far too dependent these things. Personally, I 
 don't really care for getting every achievement in this game, it's just not appealing to me, and 
 that takes away the content that I would be playing because it's tedious work.
  
  Overall, I think it's time for GTA to get a new Formula. If this is the culmination of the best 
 of GTA, which it clearly is, then I think it's time RockStar recognizes that and moves to a new 
 way of playing the game. Yes, the best of the GTA series, but the next one will need to be totally 
 fresh if it needs to top it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucelowe
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Graphics great
  Con: story boring, game frustrating, and it felt like i just jumping through hoops to finish missions 
 & keep "friendships".. Do x, go to y, drive to z
  
  My main gripes would be 
  * The absence of checkpoints made me almost tear my hair out - try play a 30 minute mission to 
 die right at the end and have to repeat from scratch
  
  * Having to deal with my cuz, friends and g/fs felt like a chore.
  
  * driving "realism" actually 
 hurt the driving experience over making it fun... i started taking taxis everywhere.
  
  * The mini games were a bore... if i wanted to play a lame snooker, darts, bowling game I'd visit 
 a flash one on the web.
  
  After playing through the missions hearing how great this game was... round about chapter 4 I thought, 
 I havn't actually had any fun... it's not a driving game, its minigames are lame, its shooting/targeting 
 system is bad... so its just a 'sandbox world' where i dont really care about the people in it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aripatear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  No matter how many Grand Theft Auto games I play, Grand Theft Auto III still stands out as the 
 best. I've also played GTA I, GTA II, and GTA: London 1969 (I don't want anyone saying I don't 
 know revolution if I haven't played these) . GTA IV is definitely a highly immersive game and I 
 can understand why gamespot gave it a 10. Really the only complaint that I have for Grand Theft 
 Auto IV is that the missions can sometimes get repetitive and I start to think to myself, "Can 
 I just get to the end of the game?" When I do this, I normally take a break from GTA for at least 
 a few days. Now on to the online aspect of the game: While deathmatches and the like are pretty 
 lame (unless you're messing with people and making them mad) , party mode has got to be one of the 
 best features of GTA IV. I've played party mode with friends for hours and hours. We particularly 
 enjoy going to the airport and jumping our cars over helicopters and crashing into each other in 
 mid air. Playing party mode with friends is the most addictive part of GTA IV. The missions deliver, 
 but the repetition still gets on my nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackMackG
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Now im not sure how the review will work out snits im a fan of GTA but here i go. 
  
  To me the story was just fin. it was the first gta ware i took the time to play the story. but 
 to me it felt like 10% of what the game really is. online or offline this game will last you for 
 ever. or till the next gta.
  
  This is the kind of game that you can pick up and play and just have fun fast. It has excellent 
 online play for many hours of enjoyment. 
  
  The city is big and has lots of dental. its fun just to explore it. Now the best part of the whole 
 game is the unxpected of things that happen. things can happen in this game that will make you 
 wish you had got it on tap.
  
  This game also spoils you to the past gta's. its hard for me to play gta sa anymore. 
  
  Now 
 the game not perfect. There is a lot of online lag (1 sec ping with only 2 people off the same 
 modem on cable Internet) . Game seems to load slow sometimes and even freeze while loading on older 
 xboxes. and you have some frame loss here and there. also i dont think that the fairness of online 
 ranked games are good enough. there is a lot left to chance. 
  
  and to me the biggest downfall is no local multiplayer. no lan or split screen!
  
  now why 
 i gave this game a 10 is that i can play this game at any time in any mood with any one and its 
 still fun. It not too intense if it needs to be or it can be hardcore. Its easy to play and the 
 game has no boundaries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman501
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a good game but could have reached super stardom with a little bit more effort put in 
 the variety of missions. Graphics are brilliant, the world is alive around you and it immerses 
 you right in but the gameplay is unfortunatly not as good as the graphics.
  
  The AI is just silly and it is very easy to kill every one of your enemies, they do not react and 
 initiate new moves. For eg they never try and flank you or throw grenades at you its just the same 
 throughout the whole game shoot and cover. Auto aim is absolutely ridiculous and there should have 
 been an achievement for completing the game on auto aim off. 
  
  Side missions are fun like the races the most wanted missions etc but the making girlfriends and 
 taking them out crap is tedious and boring.
  
  Overall the game is quite good and enjoyable a few little issues with the gameplay but its a game 
 that you will play and finish and then look forward to GTA 5 and hopefully they make it a bit more 
 challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zBloodD3monz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was the most talked about game up to its release. The graphics on GTA IV are 
 amazing, the realism of GTA IV is astonishing, and the car mechanics is incredible.
  
  The thing that lets it down is that it can get a bit boring. Other than doing missions there's 
 nothing else to do.
  
  I was expecting to have some features that were in GTA: San Andreas, but a large amount of these 
 features had been removed. Such as a large amount of customisation (tattoos, hair styles) , gangs 
 etc.
  
  There's a few more features in GTA IV. One having the ability to hide behind objects such as cars 
 and walls. You can go out with friends and do things like play darts, bowling, drink, go to the 
 theatre etc. But even this can get boring, and you soon get fed up doing the same thing.
  
  I didn't think online multiplayer was great and could do with a bit of work. GTA IV needs something 
 different and interesting to make it successful in online gaming.
  
  Overall GTA IV is a game where you are amazed at first, and then realise its not as great as you 
 thought after a few hours playing. The ability to get bored quickly lets the game down and gets 
 an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwenGAME
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  I love GTA, after GTA IV got delayed back in 2007 I waited and waited and finally it was released 
 here in the UK. A week after it was released I Dropped into my Local Game and got myself a copy, 
 after all its hype and high reviews, I'm disappointed.
  
  I'll get all the bad bits out of the way first; The Characters are nowhere near as loveable as 
 the ones from the previous games. For example the characters from SA are much funnier and cooler, 
 while the only character that made me laugh was a drunken Roman. The Cover System is crap, sometimes 
 it is useful as hell, but half the time you can't shoot and get blown to bits or chuck a grenade 
 wrong and get blown 5 feet in the air.
  
  Now the good bits, There is hell of a lot of stuff to do and its the most detailed game i have 
 ever played in my life, Niko steps on every step going down and up the stairs, Puts his helmet 
 on when on a bike and just like in real life, people talking loud on the phone. Also the Multiplayer 
 is great, my favourite being cops n crooks.
  
  Not The Best GTA, But it Still is a very enjoyable game, Missions are a bit slow at first, but 
 they soon get cooler, especially Three leafed clover, a bank robbery with the McReary brothers, 
 but I won't spoil it for you :) Worth A Buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatjking12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok ima put the good parts the bad parts so u can see how may bad things i said about this game.
 
  
  Good: liberty city is the best looking city of all time and it actually looks like new york city. 
 the cars race online is freakin fun. special when u use the super cars.
  
  Bad: the game, well. lets just put it this way. sux. i cant believe i waited all night just to 
 get this game and paid 60 dollars for it. psshh not even worth $40. its basically the same thing 
 over and over again you do missions, kill people, and go on a date with a girl that turns p to 
 b CIA (i think) . the helicopter is still confusing as hell to use. the online kinda has the games 
 and its still on the same map. besides Libery city is huge. i dont want to drive all the way to 
 the other side of the map to kill some guys. i prefer it nice and small. 
  
  i hope this game gets the most dissapointing games ever. i dont see why why game should b called 
 Grand theft auto. i mean the title doesnt have anything to do with the game. rockstar its been 
 been 2 years and u cant make something worth buying? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this straight, when this game first game out, I was blown away by the hype. I got it 
 immediately. When I first started playing it, I was enjoying myself... but after I started playing 
 through alot of the story missions... I soon discovered. It's all driving and shooting. That's all 
 it is. There's no incredibly unique missions like in the previous GTA games. Sure, the story is 
 great. But the gameplay will leave you bored and wanting to just get on to the next cutscene.
 
  
  The gunplay, sound effects, and physics are great. The driving physics are also amazing. But doing 
 both driving and shooting, in every mission, over and over again gets very tedious.
  
  I do like Grand Theft Auto 4. The story is great. But unlike the other installments, there are 
 barely any side missions to do. The only customization you get to do in the game is buying clothing. 
 The thing that was great about San Andreas was, you could customize CJ. You could make him look 
 how you wanted. All kinds of clothing, hairstyles, you could make him muscular or fat. All kinds 
 of stuff. Same with Saints Row, there are tons of customization options. This allows the player 
 to relate to the character more, because he feels unique to your style and personality. A feature 
 that GTA4, is sorely lacking, unfortunately.
  
  Like I said above, after you complete the main story, there is nothing to do. By the time you complete 
 the story, you've probably already explored the city. Even messing around with cheats and random 
 massacres gets boring after a while. 
  
  One of the most frustrating elements of the game is the cop system. You can do something, in view 
 of no-one, and the police will be on you immediately. The escape system works, but it makes long 
 fast-paced car chases impossible.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto 4 is a fun game. But once you complete the main story, you'll get bored. 
 Then you'll be looking for something else to do. Luckily, Saints Row 2 just came out. If you want 
 a serious story, with realism and drama, then check out GTA4. If you want pure fun and plenty of 
 things to do, check out Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360-reviews
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  At the heart of gta4 there is a great game, but you would have to digg hard to find it. The reason?, 
 because mostly everything in it we have seen before except the physics engine which gets old quickly 
 snd online. The online is a welcome addition, but whats the point in doing tons and tons of ranked 
 matches if all you get is clothes?, i often asked myself why i was doing it because after a while 
 it felt like a chore, but it is great that there are a variety of modes online to choose from. 
 My favourite, was the races, its so satisfying when you cross the line and scream something threw 
 the microphone to piss the other players off. However There has also been features removes such 
 as almost perfect customisation seen in sa, lots of cheats, parachutes and i am sure there are 
 many more. I really enjoyed the single player because the story was gripping, even though it was 
 repetive, but they are going to be so that doesn't matter. The new cover system is good but can 
 be awkward at times, as you c=sometimes go behind something you didn't want to. To sum it up then. 
 Gta4 proves to be a great game at times, but falls short of what rockstar achieved with sa. In 
 order for gta to atleast come back to that level, it must have the majority of features we saw 
 in sa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  We have moved on from the black culture on to the Russian culture. When I first heard that GTAIV 
 would have a Russian main character I thought "this game will at least provide semi-intelligent 
 dialogue that doesn't butcher the english language" even though Niko Bellic claims he isn't that 
 good at english. 
  
  GTAIV is possibly the best in the series mainly because of the fact that you get to commit all 
 of these fantastic crimes will 15 of your friends online. However, it seems that too many people 
 ignore the BAD points of this game. I am going to focus on those points because I am sick of seeing 
 this game with a 10 point rating or 5 stars everywhere. 
  
  The graphics of GTAIV are of course better than the PS2 versions, but they are not any better than 
 the first couple of games that came out on Xbox 360. Actually, the graphics remind me a lot of 
 the graphics in Hitman: Blood Money. Now I know games aren't all about graphics, and the graphics 
 are probably cheesy because the world is constantly redrawing itself so there needs to be no load 
 times other than for missions. That is another area that lacks exponentially. The entire game was 
 so easy that I really had to make it difficult for myself by limiting my weapon use to pistol only. 
 That way I had to get all head shots in order to progress pretty much. The lack of a menu is kind 
 of irritating too. I popped in the game and expected to select "Play Game", but I found myself 
 waiting at what I didn't realize as a loading screen. I figured I would go grab a drink and go 
 to the washroom and came back to find that I missed the entire first cutscene. It is cool to make 
 it seem like less of a game and more of a real-life crime simulator, but is it really necessary? 
 We all know it's a game so why bother.
  
  Another point that I would like to make is that I find no point in doing extra objectives in a 
 game unless there is a reason that grants a logical excuse to do whatever it is. Killing the Flying 
 Rats is pretty much the most pointless objective in any game ever. I know they have had "Collect 
 the secret packages" and that was equally as useless, but I seriously think that if you enjoy collecting 
 things THAT much, you might as well go play a Ratchet & Clank game. I guarantee that any of those 
 will stomp your appetite for collectables. 
  
  A final point to make is how annoying the cellphone ends up being after less than an hour of gameplay. 
 If you are sitting and wishing to just do the missions and nothing else, but you also want to get 
 100% of the game complete at some point, you will have troubles here. Throughout the game almost 
 every single time you have completed a mission or even if you are in the middle of a mission, a 
 friend will phone you on your cellphone and ask to go bowling or play billiards. I'm not exactly 
 sure how someone could want to go play pool and go bowling more than 10 times in a week but it 
 seems that the people in this game don't have much for creativity when it comes to doing leisurely 
 activities.
  
  So now that I got all of the bad out of the way I will say that this game allowed me to have at 
 least 6 hours of fun on the main campaign, and doing helicopter duels with friends online was endless 
 fun. I did end up trading this game in to help pay for a new guitar hero game that I will not mention, 
 but this game was fun while it lasted. All I can say is, there need to be more sociable "normal" 
 people online. Every game I joined was some kid trying to talk "gangster" and acting like he WAS 
 the guy killing people. Those people's parents should look into their child's passtimes a little 
 more thoroughly if you ask me.
  
  All in all GTAIV definitely deserved a 9 considering the good story and the cool online play that 
 made this game a good way to waste 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the GTA series since the original for Playstation so I've clearly seen the series 
 develop into a giant. GTAIV is definitely a good game and TakeTwo has made many next-gen improvements. 
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, GTAIV is one of the better installments in the series. Gunplay is very fluid, the 
 weapons sound realistic and powerful, and the cover system isn't perfect, but it's good by GTA 
 standards.
  
  Many people complained about the way vehicles handle in the game and personally I think it's a 
 great improvement and allows players to do more fun stuff with the vehicles they love.
  
  Graphically the game is amazing for its genre and there is plenty of detail throughout the entire 
 fictional New York.
  
  Unfortunately GTAIV is not free from its problems. It seems in TakeTwo's quest in making a more 
 realistic, down-to-earth game, they've inadvertently removed a lot of what made every new installment 
 in the series fun.
  
  Obviously some of the story in past games went from being reasonable to completely obsured, but 
 personally I think it fit well in each games entertainment value and comedy.
  
  In the attempts to make the game more realistic, gamers miss out on duel wield weapons, various 
 airplanes, parachutes, jetbacks, jets, tanks, and crazy missions that just seem to be in the game 
 for the sake of fun. Need an example? Remember the mission in San Andreas where you break into 
 Area 51 and steal a jetback? Yeah it's totally unrealistic, but I thought it was a lot of fun.
 
  
  Missions like what I just described are completely missing in GTAIV. Instead players will find 
 themselves doing more escort missions, chase missions, simple go here and shoot x person missions. 
 You will probably be begging for the abstract mission where you steal a US submarine and blow up 
 a harbor. Unfortunately that kind of mission will never come.
  
  Finally the most detrimental element of GTAIV that is ruined with the pursuit of realism are the 
 dating/friendship minigames. So much detail it seems was put into this aspect of the game. Unfortunately 
 it was boring to me because all the stuff you do such as playing pool, bowling, darts, and dates 
 were all things I already do in real life. 
  
  GTAIV had the potential to be the next best game in the series, but it seems that title is left 
 for San Andreas which in my opinion is the Apex of the series. Too many changes for the sake of 
 realism caused the game to lose a lot of the fun that I myself enjoyed in the past games. I don't 
 care if it's unrealistic to break into a military base and steal tanks. It's fun and that is what 
 really matters in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickassname
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying that GTA4 is a great game. I have enjoyed all of the previous 
 GTAs and this one is no exception. The graphics are extremely more advanced for GTA and the story 
 as always is top notch. But with reading all of the reviews before I got the game seeing 10/10s 
 and words like "revolutionary," and "best game ever," it makes me wonder when I'm gonna find these 
 qualities which seperate GTA from being a pretty great game from a world changing game for the 
 ages. So in closing, PROS: Great and long story ,emotional character development, graphics are 
 stunning as well as physics engine, missions are deep. CONS: loses its flavor after one play through, 
 soundtrack could be better, multiplayer is pointless. So if your a die hard GTA go get this game 
 right now but be warned it may be the first GTA game you return after beating it. Otherwise rent 
 it first, see what you think then make a purchasing decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I ordered both my Xbox 360 and a copy of GTA IV at the same time over the internet. For my sheer 
 horror, the game arrived first, which had me waiting for nearly a week before the damned platform 
 arrived. Meanwhile, I read the menu, saw the map, read the Gamespot Review... The waiting was killing 
 me. Now, after finishing it, I have to say: It was worth the damned wait.
  
  You follow Niko Bellic, an immigrant that grew up in the middle of war torn Bosnia, and his path 
 to revenge and perhaps even a fresh start. To do that, he expected to count on his cousin Roman's 
 wealth, mansions, cars... Only to find him living in a slum of an apartment and owning a cab company. 
 From there, follows a path of mob dealings, steroid junkies, jamaicans and a wide variety of crooks, 
 with beautiful Liberty City as a fitting scenario.
  
  You may ask: What has changed since San Andreas and Vice City? For starters, don't expect to fly 
 a harrier, parachute drop off a bike as it flies off a mountain. GTA IV is closer to life on the 
 'underworld' by maintaining its feet on the ground. Missions are what you could expect from an 
 experienced merc, a freelancer in the mob society. His handling of guns is exceptional, he can 
 drive, he can fly a helicopter. Niko won't invade a military base for the sake of stealing a jetpack, 
 he won't dive with nothing but the air on his lungs to steel a jet fighter in the middle of a navy 
 carrier. Without all those factors, he's the single most charismatic character in GTA history. 
 Let's face it, at the end of San Andreas your character was more similar to Neo from Matrix than 
 anything else. His feats were well beyond his capacity, and the fact that Niko's abilities have 
 been toned down only make him more human, more similar to us. He isn't superman, every bump on 
 the ground takes a bit of your life; his rise within the underground is marked by well placed sorrowful 
 moments, with betrayal at every turn. You'll actually feel saddened by his vulnerability at times.
 
  
  The realism factor takes down a bit of the trademark dosage of irony within every mission in previous 
 GTAs, and combining it with a city that seems to actually feels alive, makes GTA IV's overall feel 
 simply unique. In previous versions, some missions were driven by sheer humor. It seemed game producers 
 wanted every action your character took to be focused on a ironic version of a real life character, 
 or a real life practice. Here, the humor is also present, but it's spread out more intelligently. 
 From an officer arresting you commenting "Don't worry, your a** will stretch..." to a gay friend 
 near the end of the game running around the park in pink tracksuits. The dialogues are always filled 
 with trademark comments and Niko is a sarcastic man if I've ever seen one. He's got an indifference 
 to most of the trash being through at him, an innocence to regular customs of western society, 
 that make him a cool, easy-minded individual, happy to just lay on the background and let the others 
 do the talking. In my view, a positive change from the character-centered plots before. He's a 
 tool, he knows it, and as long as he's being paid, he doesn't mind.
  
  Visually, GTA IV is simply stunning. The fact that you drool over the poorer parts of the city 
 (where you start) only amounts for the sheer attention to details this game provides. If allowed 
 enough time, Niko will always put on a helmet when getting on a bike. Going down a flight os stairs 
 means going one step at a time (or the occasional jump) , a change from the usual game, where stairs 
 were usually just pretty ramps. Your car can break in a immensely divirsified way. When you fire 
 your gun from the car you'll automatically break the driver seat's window. When stealing a car, 
 you can actually use the gun to persuade the driver more effectively, and if the car is parked 
 and locked (a lot more common than previous versions) Niko will either kick or elbow the window 
 until it smashes, taking his time to hot-wire it, or, if the car is old, trying again and again 
 to start it. You'll pay tolls, eat hot-dogs, change clothes, date women, hang out with friends 
 at pubs, restaurants, strip-clubs; playing darts, pool, or simply hang out at your house... There's 
 a ton of things to do in Liberty City, and you'll enjoy every moment of them.
  
  The city is a show on its own. The high number of cabs, (which you can actually take, not only 
 steal) , the train and subway stations, the traffic, feels real life. For instance, in traffic, 
 chaos is the rule. Many are the times you'll speed through a highway only to be hurled off your 
 bike because a car took a sharp turn. Countless times during mission chases you'll end up meeting 
 the front of a bus, or a cab as it stops to drop off a passenger. Drivers are as infuriating as 
 the ones on real life. From industrial areas filled with gas tubes (try taking a shot at one and 
 just enjoy the fire coming out of the hole you just did) , to a central downtown metropolis with 
 a 'Central Park' in which you can see people jogging, chatting or practicing Tai Chi, Liberty City 
 is more than a scenario, it's a character.
  
  Gameplay has been dramatically improved, and gun fights are now not only more fun, but more realistic. 
 The cover system works brilliantly and while confusing (at least to me) at first, it becomes almost 
 an instinct on later portions of the game. Driving has become more realistic, and as frustrating 
 as ever, with the usual race or chase mission providing the basis for the game.
  
  Audio/Radio-wise, well... Lazlo's back, and while his show is not nearly as funny as the one on 
 San Andreas or even GTA III (PLR, the public radio doesn't come close to the public radio at San 
 Andreas, and eventually it becomes quite repetitive) . The songs are trully varied in different 
 styles ranging from jazz, through reggae, hip-hop, russian music, all the way to rock 'n roll. 
 Every gun sounds different, ever fall every step sound more reallistic.
  
  Few games are deserving of a perfect score. For having a perfect character, with a perfect scenario, 
 with great visuals and cool sound tracks, not to mention a fantastic plot and vastly improved gameplay, 
 GTA IV is one of those games. I've just finished, and my fingers are twitching to start anew. Time 
 to pay another visit to Mr. Bellic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmuk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  First of all i must say it's a great game and you won't be dissapointed at all but....
  
  I miss the old GTA thing, a world were i can spend my money and buy houses, villa's and mansions. 
 Ow man i earned some great cash but what do i do with it? NOTTING, TOTALLY NOTTING. What's the 
 use of earning money in this game? Buying 100,000 hot dogs, taking 2 million cabrides? I don't 
 think so. 
  
  I CAN NOT SPEND THE MONEY I EARN!
  
  I could buy guns but the cheats provide me with plenty, and everytime driving to the armsdealer 
 only takes time so i dont even bother. Spending it on strippers, bars etc its nice but before losing 
 my money on that i will be living in 2050.
  
  Liberty City based on New York City? Okay then please someone tell me were are the Casino's. Don't 
 tell me New York don't have a Casino.
  
  IF ANYONE KNOWS WERE'S THE CASINO PLEASE LET ME KNOW!
  
  I miss the old feeling of buying properties 
 and decide my own route. GTA IV story is pretty good and awsome but is way to fixed. Outside the 
 storyline there isnt much else rewarding. This makes GTA IV doesn't give me the classic GTA feeling 
 anymore and I'm giving this it a 8,5. GTA rootz have been discarded.
  
  Look into the future and there will be a lot to come and a lot to make better than it now is. This 
 should be only a glimse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konstantinosdk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  I dont know what can i say for this game. It is amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazinamazing amazing amazing g amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazingamazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazinamazing amazing amazing g amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazingamazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supes36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Everything down to the voice actors for radio shows is brilliant. This game is first and foremost 
 hillarious. Second it is just the BEST GTA game ever and one of the funnest games ever. The story 
 is damn good it hooks you in and as the other reviews have pointed out you can't help but like 
 Niko. I won't ruin anything but if your a fan of any crime movies this is a movie worthy script. 
 The gameplay has arrived! After years of lackluster gun combat and sluggish controls it finally 
 feels like you are a dangerous son of a b***h. The graphics oh man are they beautiful and for a 
 city this large this alive that is SO impressive. Problems? Actually this is almost a perfect game, 
 sometimes the AI annoys you, The cops are pushovers in this which isn't neccessarily a bad thing. 
 A big complaint is the fact that sometimes the mission are a. Stupid, and b. NOT WORTH THE TROUBLE. 
 Sometimes i would rather just keep seeing the story then some of the missions. Small complaint 
 though. Get this game it is incredible and warrants a play through by anyone calling themselves 
 a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I made a reveiw of this game before and gave it an 8.5. I only play through the first island finding 
 it pretty so so but still fun. Now that have played a bit more i can find it alot easier to see 
 why people praise this game so much. The amount of thought that has gone into really shows in the 
 city and the characters. The Customization seems a bit cut back and so is the cheats but thats 
 really minor if you want to enjoy the game. Rockstar must has though after make SA, what are the 
 weakest points of the previos game and fixed the. Combat was never a strong point of previous GTA 
 games, it now has a cover system similar to Gears of War, the driving is more realistic and you 
 can feel the weight ratio of cars more easily. The story, well there was no story in the 3rd one, 
 Vice city started building one and SA made one but didn't really hit gold. Niko belic may look 
 like a bad guy but his attitude makes him out as a good guy and he just way he grows up through 
 the story of the game is marvel. another point, to any of those people that by GTA and never do 
 any story and stuff around all the time well i highly advise you try the story.
  
  Either way i cant explain properly this game is highley addictive and the more you play the better 
 it gets. Just play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrlMnkyBtt
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I remember causing havoc in a top-down environment, and all the while I was ludicrously happy. 
 Once I was able to get over dizziness and nausea Grand Theft Auto 1 & 2 were the kitty's pajamas. 
 It created the "sandbox" genre in a very unique way. The only problem was there really wasn't anything 
 to do besides the various side missions the game offered outside of the main story. Grand Theft 
 Auto 3 fixed this flaw by adding things to do that technically aren't even side missions. Thusly, 
 the sandbox genre was invigorated. Grand Theft Auto became an imitable game. Companies from all 
 over the world noticed its success and became primed and ready to start pumping out clones. The 
 only problem being that no company has been able to capture the true Grand Theft Auto experience, 
 and the only game coming close being Saints Row. The only way Saint's Row even came close was that 
 it was willing to put in the time to not just imitate the experience but find ways to build upon 
 it. When Saints Row made it to the 360 it was the only Grand Theft Auto game on next-gen consoles 
 at the time.
  
  Saints Row's dominance has finally been toppled with Grand Theft Auto 4's release. My first reaction 
 to this game was: "Holy Crap!". Somehow through clever use of story, protagonist, and technology 
 Grand Theft Auto once again gives us an experience like no other. There is not one aspect of this 
 game that seems to have been left out. Multiplayer? Check. A bigger world? You bet. More Side Missions? 
 More than you could shake a stick at. And it doesn't end there. The amount of things to do in this 
 world is mind-boggling and is in a very obscure way, my only gripe with this game (besides missions 
 where you must drive to a location over and over again) . In most Grand Theft Auto games I get to 
 a point where there are so many missions and parts of the story going on at one time, that I just 
 eventually lose interest in trying to discern what I have to do just to get to a point where the 
 story continues and I can finish the game. Case in point, when Grand Theft Auto San Andreas was 
 released it took everything that made the series so popular and tripled it. Sounds great on paper 
 but when I was half-way through the game I began to lose interest and eventually every play session 
 I had inevitably led to a destruction spree. I felt like it was just too much and I would at some 
 point lose focus.
  
  The way Grand Theft Auto 4 avoids this pit-trap is two-fold. Firstly, the side missions can keep 
 a person entertained alone for hours. You can start doing side-missions without even realizing 
 you are doing them. It is such an organic world that every play session leads to new discoveries 
 and moments where you are amazed by the level of technical genius mixing so well with pure entertainment. 
 Hmmmm. It is mighty tasty.
  Secondly, the achievements for this game are not only attainable and challenging, but also incredibly 
 varied. There are some achievements that are super obscure and if the person is not actively trying 
 to unlock it, they would be unlikely to do so. The reason this is a super plus sign to me is because 
 instead getting to a point where I feel I am simply getting bored, the 360's achievements keep 
 me going. If I only have time for a quick session, I will usually pick out some achievements I 
 could unlock in that time frame and therefore I am actively doing something every time I play. 
 The multi-player aspect is also a welcome diversion to the monotony that can rear its ugly head 
 after spending so much time with the single-player game.
  
  In the end I would not hesitate to recommend this game to any mature gamer. With the cost of games 
 nowadays it is impossible to afford buying a bad game. With this game you can put that fear to 
 rest because you are getting every penny's worth here. Long after you have beaten the story mission 
 and caused as much havoc and chaos as you possibly can, there is still something to do. For that 
 reason alone this game is worth it.
  
  Pros: Bigger, better, prettier, and filled to the brim with substance. The joyful return of finding 
 hidden packages. The level to which technology brings this world alive.
  Cons: Missions that start out with a drive to a location make you do the drive over and over again 
 should you die on that particular mission. (Big boo-boo that should have been fixed.) The level 
 of things to do can be slightly overwhelming at times.
  
  Bottom line: Buy the crap out of this game and play the heck out of it. See you online gamers! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluskenator
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a disappointment in my mind. I personally feel that San Andreas was better in every 
 way, except for graphics. This game tends to be pretty boring. Maybe I've played through to many 
 GTA games, but this one is one of the most boring to date. The activities in the game I find are 
 bland, nothing really interested me about it. Maybe its maturity, but I still find San Andres, 
 and even Vice City are much better and much more fun.
  
  Second, the storyline sucks. I was not interested in it what so ever. After the first few hours 
 of gameplay (doing nothing but missions) , I was already disinterested in it, that shouldn't happen.
 
  
  San Andreas really had an AWESOME map. Different terrains (from city to country, it was great) , 
 but this game, its just the same boring stuff. I feel they took out a lot of the little things 
 (spraying cars, buying different houses etc.) which downgraded the game. 
  
  Its to bad, I really looked forward to a new GTA, but was heavily disappointed in what I/we got. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undrpsi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I like this game. It's fun and shocking. It's a teen parents nightmare. Sex, drugs, and a little 
 contract killing. It is graphic and contains lewd and abusive language. Wow... what is there NOT 
 to like? Hmm... how about really boring travel times to your missions. I mean, after you have stolen 
 50 cars and bikes it gets repetitive. The other driver AI's are goofy. The cop's AI is stupid. 
 The camera and movement is not 'that' good. The whole reason this game rates higher than an 8 is 
 whole 'shock' it brings. Sort of like Howard Stern, if you take out his bad language and some of 
 his story topics... you have nothing. If you take the foul language, wanton violence, and somewhat 
 crippled mission system.... there' not much left. Still, it's a fun game to get loaded and play 
 (oops.. as an adult I mean) . I would suggest you get it used or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  So Readers, here we have possibly one of the most highly anticipated games in years, and its time 
 for you to read the REAL reviews. As always were going to base this on Delivery. Well touch on 
 story replay value, so on and so forth.
  
  But what was Rockstar promising with this game? A new GTA with more than ever! Better graphics, 
 sound, gameplay, characters, etc. The usual things boasted about before a game comes out, but we 
 will now talk about what happened. 
  
  I really don't know where to begin. We will put it this way, I was in another state than my home 
 visiting colleges getting ready to decide where to go. I quite literally took three days off of 
 looking for schools to sit and play this game. I did not move from the couch at my grandparents 
 house until I had finished this game from begin to end. So three days and about six bags of doritos 
 and some Chinese food later, we had in the making one of the most necessary reviews I will ever 
 write. 
  
  This game blew my mind on all aspects, EVERYTHING was seemingly redone from the ground up. What 
 you would expect from a normal GTA game is a shotty aiming/targeting system, extremely unforgiving 
 AI, and a (for the most part) pretty expectable story line. Now the aiming system when I read about 
 it, was a little more than worried. I was worrying that holding slightly to free aim would be a 
 bit tiring. However the simple lick of the right analog stick while targeting, switched between 
 who you're aiming at. Pretty easy to get used to and fun to use. Put together with the new cover 
 system and I was in heaven. This euphoric feeling was amazing, no longer was I a toy for the AI 
 to beat up on in a GTA game. Do you remember back in San Andreas when you were in gang wars with 
 rival gangs over territories and you simply got tore up without the use of cheats. No more necessity 
 for codes to survive certain fights. This game made the shooting scenarios in the game much more 
 enjoyable. 
  Delivered- YES!
  
  GTA has always had the same kind of graphics, cup holder hands AT ALL TIMES, and a little lacking 
 in the visual aspect with most other pieces of the game. GTA IV really reinvents the visuals, obviously 
 with the now more powerful engines to support it RStar were able to pull off a more grand visual 
 system. Explosions shake you with the beauty, the smoke from an RPG being shot swirling throughout 
 the air then changing course as the rocket ricochets off of the ground, no matter what you see 
 you will be impressed by these graphics.
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Sounds are a large portion of most games, if the sound doesn't mesh with the ingame sights then 
 you have a major problem. Explosions ring through the air stifled only by the yelling of nearby 
 people, police sirens and your rifle firing at the barrage of cars coming at you. These sounds 
 seem to work together to get you pumped putting you in a seemingly steroid caused rampage. the 
 sound of a body hitting the hood of your car when you commit vehicular manslaughter is a sound 
 you will never forget. 
  Delivered- Yes
  
  This story is quite possibly the first game in the series that I couldn't follow at all times. 
 The ability to choose certain things on missions makes the story that much more interesting. Being 
 pitted with only how you REALLY feel gives a new sense of immersion into the game that I have never 
 before seen. Yes of course there are the typical GTA story twists but it kept fresh and made an 
 interesting story to ply through.
  Delivered- Yes
  
  My only real complaint with the game is the fact of things that they got rid of. ie. PLANES!!! 
 Working out, the ability to get fat or scrawny, AND one of the most loved features, fixing up and 
 souping up cars. Yes all of these wonderful things HAVE been taken out but this brings us to the 
 final piece of my review. The ADDITION of new mechanics and possibilities. The addition of the 
 cover system as I said before was an amazing new feature which completely reinvented the game. 
 The phone, and the Internet also were pushed into the game and were pulled off FLAWLESSLY!!! being 
 able to call up a bud for a ride, for back up, and for some guns are just a few of the great features 
 thrown into this game. And to mention the internet where you can download new ringtones, and backgrounds 
 for your phone was simply fun and funny. I have currently a man being beheaded as my ringtone. 
 You can even search for a girlfriend to date and sex up. The girls also give you new features such 
 as cheaper clothes, health. Pretty neat, I would say all in all they make up for the lack of a 
 dew things taken out. 
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Delivery- YES!!
  
  
  
  Okay, so I know this was a bit late. This was one of my final reviews before I stopped writing. 
 I figured I might as well post it since I have started writing again.
  
  The REAL game reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencarps41192
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game so good is that you can go through the story. (pretty good story) . Then you 
 can reack havockl all over the town if you feel like it. And then after all that you get the amazing 
 online multiplayer that has so muc hto offer. This games controls are easy and the driving is some 
 of the best a sleakest ive seen. IO give this game a 10 not because im a fan boy but because it 
 trully deserves it. It is the new standard for any gta game to be made. no game like saints row 
 or any other game that wants to try and copy gta will ever be close to beating it. I have spent 
 many hours playing this game and will spend many more to come. Anyone who dosent play this game 
 is either stupid or thinks it is the devil. I have only played a selcet few games that would have 
 been worth 2x as much as it cost and this is one of them. Now every one should know this gta 4 
 is not for young kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This grand theft auto was the best of the series but that is not saying that much. I am a guy that 
 hates the grand theft auto series but i could still tell this was there greatest making. Grand 
 theft auto's are all the same thing, the only thing that is different is the things you do but 
 most people who want to play this game will soon find out that the funnest thing to do is get the 
 cheats for weapons and life and get the police off your ass cheats and thenjust go around the town 
 killing people and blowing up cars or seeing how high you can get on a motor cycle. The grafics 
 in this game are the best of the series but they are still only up to rockstar standards. so most 
 people that want to play this game go out and rent it first and if you like it go and buy it because 
 the story is long enough to rent it then buy it. after you beat this game at least once if you 
 are not totally disgusted by it you will love it no matter how many times you play it because you 
 can do so many things different things that you can do. So this is a for sure game to try but most 
 likely it is only and for sure game to play only once. So peace thatnks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killered3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has been wellknown in the industry for its heavy cursing, mild nudity, adult situations, 
 strong violence, use of drugs, gang violence and sense of freedom for generations. The last game: 
 GTA San Andreas was a decent turn around from Liberty City, and in Rockstar's latest installment; 
 you find yourself dwelling back into the depths of the world from GTA 3. Is that a bad thing? Nope! 
 As a matter a fact, this time around, the city has been dramatically extended! Featuring a rip 
 off of Lady Liberty, known as the Statue of Happiness.
  
  Storywise, this game is basically set out like all the previous games, you kill gangs, you're backstabbed, 
 blah, blah, blah. Oddly enough, as much as Niko is of the most dangerous protagonist of any GTA 
 game yet; he is also the most..... polite... That's right, polite as in; "Could you take me to Wooden 
 Avenue?" and "If you don't mind, I would like to listen to a different station.". But don't let 
 his politeness fool you, Niko can be very deadly if you push his wrong buttons. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes I'd say, what you see is pretty much an evolutionized version of the standard 
 GTA formula. The gun system as well as the driving mechanics have taken a giant leap when it comes 
 to gameplay. Blood splatters gruesomely everywhere with every shot, and you can actually bust through 
 the windshield if you drive in topspeed and crash straight ahead (that's why we should wear seatbelts) .
 
  
  Graphically GTA 4 is absolutely beautiful, the character models can blink and move their mouths 
 freely including pedestrians, the shading and lighting have given this a look very similar to the 
 artwork shown in loading screens. All in all, I give this game a solid 10 out of 10. You seriuosly 
 cannot ask for a better GTA game! I'm reviewing this late since I got GTA4 late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first in the series, Grand Theft Auto, Rockstar has developed its sandbox genre 
 into one of the series that has changed gaming. From is roots as a top-down 2D open world game 
 to a fully 3D and beautifully crafted sand-box game. But back to GTA IV, its truly a masterpiece 
 of Graphical, Story and sound devolpment, from the first minutes of playing where you are exploring 
 the Hove Beach of the first island called Broker. To when your fighting mob bosses on the third 
 island. GTA IV's story is awsome from start to finish and its amazingly deep represenation of Rockstar's 
 fictonal Liberty City (based on todays New York City) , and incredibly despite its depth it only 
 has some graphical issues with textures etc. And then once you have imersed yourself into Liberty 
 City you can jump into the truely brilliant multiplayer, with a varied amount of modes to choose 
 from, races to good old fashioned deathmatches. Rockstar may have limted expirence when it comes 
 to multiplayer this has to be one of the fineist this year despite its apparent bugs.
  
  Overall this is possibly the greatest game of this year if not the greatest game of all-time. Rockstar 
 you have done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarthMaul-
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  After four years of waiting for the next installment, Rockstar North have finally delivers another 
 thrilling ride that is even better than it predecessor. Grand Theft Auto IV is a masterpiece that 
 no fans of the series should missed! The amount of depth and details that went into this game is 
 unrivaled by any games that are currently out there. The freedom that is offered in Grand Theft 
 Auto IV is pretty much unlimited, you can do almost anything as you please from running down innocent 
 bystanders to stealing cops car, there is so many ways you can wreck havoc that you will be spending 
 most of the time doing all the bad deeds that you really wouldn't do in reality.
  
  The protagonist in Grand Theft Auto IV is Niko Bellic who is an Eastern European immigrant who 
 comes to American to escaped his past in order to purse the American Dream. Niko soon realized 
 that his vision of America isn't what its cut out to be when he meet his cousin Roman. He soon 
 gets involved with a gang and eventually perform tasks for them by committing crimes to get through 
 life. The story of Grand Theft Auto IV features two ending which depends on the action you take 
 at a certain point of the game but you have to play it for yourself if you want to see what they 
 are, and you will most certainly be able to because of how interesting the characters in the story 
 are especially Niko Bellic.
  
  The setting for Grand Theft Auto IV is the recreation rendition of Liberty City which is an fictional 
 city that is purely based on the modern day New York City. Liberty City might be smaller than San 
 Andreas but the amount of gorgeous detail more than makes up for it. San Andreas might be big but 
 it contains a lot of open land, meaning there are lot of land that doesn't have that much detail 
 to it or in other word not very lively. No games world can compete with the level of details of 
 Liberty City in term of how lively the city is from cabs driving by, civilians walking around the 
 city, criminal committing crimes, and even ambulance coming to the rescue of an lifeless civilians. 
 Some details like these don't seem like much but it really creates a wonderful atmosphere that 
 makes it seem like it was actually you who are exploring Liberty City.
  
  Interaction of the non playable characters is very well done. If you take a moment and just check 
 out the citizens of Liberty City, you notice how they reacts to certain aspect of the game from 
 stopping at the red lights, cops chasing after criminals, and citizens taking cover when it starts 
 pouring. It is details like these that makes Liberty City an active, lively, and busy city just 
 like the real New York City. Liberty City contains borough such as the Bronx, New Jersey, Brooklyn, 
 and Manhattan; and further more Niko will encounters popular landmarks that are easily recognizable 
 like the Rotterdam Tower, which is the replica of the Empire State Building, and the Statue of 
 Happiness an rendition of the Statue of Liberty.
  
  There were major changes in the combat system that for the better improved the game by a great 
 deal providing a more satisfying experience. Throughout the history of Grand Theft Auto the targeting 
 system have been one of the franchise weakest points, but in GTA IV it was revamped and improved 
 a great deal. Taking a page out of Resident Evil and Gears of War, GTA IV introduces an over-the-should 
 perspective when you go to aim. The way it works is in order to lock onto an enemies all it takes 
 is holding down the left trigger, the health bar of the enemies will be prompt so you won't have 
 to guess how much health is left, and pulling the trigger halfway will allows for free aiming which 
 helps a lot when you are going for those tires. Once you have the enemies or civilian lock on, 
 you can adjust your aim by simply using the right analog stick which creates great opportunity 
 for free headshot. There will be times where you lock on the wrong enemies, but with the help of 
 the right stick you can easily navigate between the nearby enemies or civilians.
  
  Another improvements over its predecessor is the cover system. If you see something that looks 
 like a cover spot then you will probably be able to take cover behind it due to the interaction 
 level Rockstar have put into the game. It's pretty simple, with a tap of the right shoulder button 
 you will simply take cover at the nearest object such as walls and cars, and when you press the 
 right trigger to fire Niko will pop out and fire. Fighting in the game have also been improved 
 to provide a more realistic feel for the game. No longer do you have to take hits from enemies 
 thanks to the option to dodge incoming blows. If you practice enough you can seriously deal great 
 damage with this feature but button mash your way will most likely result in a beat down on your 
 character.
  
  The driving in GTA IV is very frustrating but it does provide a realistic feel to it. One perfect 
 example is try going around the corner at top speed, you will just simply go out of control and 
 crash just like the real physic engine in real life. The engine requires you to use your brake 
 to slow down if you want to turn the corner, it might be frustrating at first but you will soon 
 learn to appreciate the time that was put in by the developer for making it a more realistic game 
 because each brands cars are handle differently. Smaller cars are much faster than the bigger one, 
 while bigger one are of course much slower than their counterpart. Another thing to point out is 
 how Niko reacts during some of the driving: from shifting his body side to side and his head going 
 forward during an sudden stop it just these small details that makes the game look good.
  
  Getting away from cops in GTA IV is a little different than the previous three installment. Once 
 you get spotted for committing a crime, a small radius will engulf around you; simply drive or 
 get outside the radius without being spotted by the cops and you will lose your wanted level. In 
 order to provide a challenge Rockstar North made it a challenge for each star level. The higher 
 the level the bigger the radius are and if you get spotted the search changes it focus and the 
 radius is again center on you making it even harder for you. The first two level are relatively 
 easy but after that it gets a lot tougher, but with the Cops icon showing on the map it shouldn't 
 be that much of a problem.
  
  Like its predecessor the music for GTA IV is very authentic meaning it fits the setting really 
 well. There is a mix of all kind of music ranging from pop, rock, hip-hop, and more giving everyone 
 a great variety of choices to listen to. Not only is the radio station is back but now there is 
 even more modern day communication devices such as TV, where you can view programs, a web browser 
 for you to surf the net, and the most important cell phone is even included. You will be using 
 this the most and with it you can access some of the game content. You will be prompted will messages 
 that tells you your missions and there will be dates that is there to remind you of important event, 
 and access to multiplayer can be found with the cell phone. Another use of the phone is to contact 
 your friends, for events like dating your girlfriend or simply take pleasure in various activities 
 such as darts, bowling, and pool.
  
  Friends play a fairly important role in GTA IV simply because different friends perform different 
 ability or bonuses for Niko Bellic. Take Roman for example, he will send you a cab with no charges 
 attach to it, pretty good if you rather not steal a car or walk to your next destination. Knowing 
 who does what can be quite helpful throughout the game. Then there are Random Characters who you 
 see on the map marked with a blue human shape icon, most of the activities involving random character 
 are pretty easy and aren't require to progress your game. Another feature that makes it return 
 is how you can customize Niko looks. Even though it doesn't affect the game play that much, it 
 does provide an option that doesn't make the game gets old because you have the option to change 
 Niko looks anytime you want. There are certain missions that require you to dress a certain way, 
 and only by dressing a certain style you can gain the various girlfriend that can be found in Liberty 
 City. You can do a variety of activities if you can get yourself a girlfriend, but most of it is 
 just there to add game play time and nothing else except for the added bonus that they provide.
 
  
  Considering the amount of depth and detail that went into the game, Grand Theft Auto IV is a very 
 good looking games and it holds up quite well with other games on the Xbox 360. Just looking at 
 the city beauty at the day just isn't doing the game justice, because at night it looks just as 
 beautiful and gorgeous as it is in the daytime. The lighting effects are some of the best that 
 I have ever seen in a video game, and I have seen a lot throughout my adventure. To truly appreciated 
 the hard work that Rockstar had put into the game, you will need a helicopter to see the full view 
 from above. Unfortunately like most games there are some problems during some game play such as 
 pop-in from object and some frame rate drops, but it is not really a surprise seeing that all the 
 items on screen are moving at the same time.
  
  The sounds in GTA IV is very good to say the least, because it adds a much needed atmosphere and 
 mood to the setting of Liberty City. Just taking a tour through the city on foot and you will be 
 amaze at how detail GTA IV is. You hear citizen talking to one another, police siren going on after 
 spotting a criminal, car honking their horns, gun fire, and many more that sound really authentic. 
 The voice acting are exceptionally well done, it looks naturally and the voice matches with the 
 assigned characters that really makes the story and cut scene shines throughout the game.
  
  Like any of the three previous installment of the GTA series, there are mission for you to 
 complete. There are 96 story missions total and a bunch of side missions that are not required 
 to complete the story. The rewards are very worthwhile if you complete the side missions so it 
 doesn't hurt to give it a tried, plus some of the missions are require if you want the achievement 
 points. There is a great deal of contents that the developer put into the game, but most of them 
 will only get unlock if you get further through the game.
  
  To further expand from the story aspect of the game, there are usually times where you don't have 
 to follow or should I say carry out your missions if you don't think it is the right thing to do. 
 This feature is similar to those of Bioware games where you can just choose to be justice and do 
 what is right, or simply terminate your objective or victims. Many of the various missions will 
 require you to do certain task such as delivering an object or simply taking someone out. All in 
 all the story mode shouldn't really take you all that long which last around the thirty hours range, 
 but you be spending countless hours of just wandering the city looking to make trouble or simply 
 completing the side missions along with the activities that you can partake with a in game friends.
 
  
  Multiplayer is a new game mode that is making its debut in Grand Theft Auto IV. In order to access 
 it, you just simply access it from Niko cell phone. This is pretty convenient because you don't 
 have to go to another menu or exit your game. Just like the single player game the city is very 
 lively so don't fret about it being boring or quiet. Pretty much whoever the host might be, he 
 will be the one making the rules such as limiting weapons, area, and many more. Like many online 
 games there are stat that you can earn in ranks matches; for example by taking down your opponents 
 you earn money that can be used to get clothing and other accessories to make your character more 
 unique. The most you can get is up to level 10 but once you get up that high the point you need 
 to rank up becomes a lot harder. GTA IV multiplayer may not be the best but it certainly not the 
 worst either.
  
  Replay values are certainly present in Grand Theft Auto IV with many options including the multiplayer 
 aspect. You have the main story missions that can last you for about thirty hours. Even if you 
 aren't interested in finishing the game, you can spend twice as much with just simply doing various 
 friend activities and the side missions if you don't blaze right through the game. Making its return 
 is the hidden packages, but this time they are pigeon, flying rats, that you have to find and shot.
 
  
  If you ever get bored of cops constantly chasing after you, you now have the opportunity to turn 
 things around. There are vigilante missions which can easily be accessed by the gaining access 
 to a police car computer. Just use whatever ways you want to secure a cruiser, but calling 911 
 is by far the easiest way. These missions requires you to go around and hunt down the various criminals 
 that roam Liberty City freely. There are three types: gang violence, criminal on foot, and stolen 
 vehicle, but in totals you have twenty missions that you can try to complete. Even when you are 
 bored with the single player mode, there is a multiplayer mode for anyone who wants to played with 
 real gamers.
  
  Rarely do games of such quality comes around often, but an even rarer feat is that they improve 
 upon an predecessor that is already an exceptional game. Grand Theft Auto IV managed to keep most 
 of its feature intact while at the same time improved on most of its weak point and getting rid 
 of unneeded features that drags the game quality down. Getting rid of the character appearance 
 or size is a good move because it cuts away the chore of doing exercise, which is really pointless 
 because most of the time it requires you to rapidly press button to complete a certain station 
 such as dumbbell, running the treadmill, or other training exercise. It wouldn't feel like a chore 
 if it didn't have any side-effect to your character or if the game offer a better solution to these 
 mini-games, instead of mashing the same button over and over again.
  
  Liberty City is without a doubt one of the most interacted and immersive city that I have ever 
 ventured into. The realism of how everything reacts and moved are astonishing to say the least 
 from pedestrian stopping at red light and cars honking at each other for bad driving is just incredible 
 details that makes this game looks so great. It is just the little things that makes you appreciated 
 all the hard work that was put into this game for us to play and enjoyed. While it might be the 
 little details, missions, and other game play improvement that makes GTA IV a great game, but what 
 stands out the most is the overall presentation of the game. Every characters are so well thought 
 out that you can sense what the characters are going through and what their purpose is while at 
 the same time have a sense of humor for the story. The voice-acting blends in very well with their 
 perspective characters that moves the story along quite well. I could go on and on with all the 
 positive that makes GTA IV an awe-inspiring experience that no one should missed.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a great game that builds upon it predecessor by revamping some of it gaming 
 mechanic for the better, making it more realistic and refreshing for all fans or gamers of the 
 series. It is clearly a next generation jump due to the way it uses the next generation hardware 
 to make all these thing possible. With over 96 story missions and a bunch more side mission you 
 be wandering Liberty City for awhile, and not to mention the countless hours of just causing havoc 
 can be quite entertainment for most gamers. With an compelling story, awesome graphic mixed with 
 an active city, and endless possibility you will be doing yourself a disservice if you don't give 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is an awesome game. First off Gameplay. In the past GTA games the gameplay seemed like an 
 afterthought. But now it feels great. It now has a cover system and no this is not just an add-on 
 to be like more recent games. You can pretty much cover behind anything even dumpsters. The target 
 system is more refined this time around. It has been fixed. Another thing I like is that there 
 are pretty much no huds. Theres the radar which has the health and armor around it and theres the 
 weapon and money indicators that do dissapear. There are small that they teach you to do that you 
 have to use once or twice such as jumping across buildings and throwing stuff from the floor. One 
 of the problems I have with GTA 4 is that they don't give you guns right away I wish they gave 
 it to you sooner. Antoher thing that plays a major factor in the game is your cellphone. You can 
 call people organize plans and you can even buy ringtones and wallpaper. Which leads us to your 
 friends. You meet more friends as you progess through the story. 6 of these have benefits that 
 I wont spoil. You can choose what you want to do in the end of the mission for some missions. There 
 are also multiple ending that I won't spoil. The story of this game is impecable. This time you 
 have a character that actually has emotions and you will care about him and that rarely happens 
 in video games. I won't spoil anything about the story but what I will say that there is twists 
 and turns to the story. Multiplayer is the feature most people that don't like GTA 4 hate. I actually 
 like multiplayer. But the problem with the multiplayer is the community. Yea there are some great 
 people that you will meet in GTA but there will be people that act terribly just like in Halo 3. 
 But playing with your friends is an amazing experience. I can't wait for the exclusive downloadable 
 content coming soon. Overall GTA 4 is an awesome game. Sure I would like to see more customization 
 features. Just because I give this game a 10 doesn't mean I think it is a perfect game. But this 
 game is a Masterful game. Edit: I will edit my review when the Lost and Damned comes out. Also if 
 you buy this game make an account for the Rockstar Social Club. It is an amazing game to website 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsilent1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto, one of the most famous gaming names in the past decade, and Rockstar Games (the 
 publishers) have never let a gamer down. I did not have the opportunity to experience the orignal 
 GTA but I did get a brief view of GTA 2 on a friend's computer who just wouldnt part with the CD 
 and I can understand why. Then I came across Vice City and it just as the cliche goes blew me away. 
 And then i got San Andreas for my PS2 which ensured that my other games never really came out of 
 the CD case again.
  And now... GTA 4.
  You play as Niko Bellic, a eastern European immigrant, who arrives in Liberty City (New York to 
 those who arent GTA buffs) in pursuit of money, fame and the American Dream. He is going to stay 
 with his rich and powerful cousin Roman Bellic. Instead he finds Roman running a taxi service and 
 living in an apartment full of cockroaches. Niko gets greatly disillusioned and is dragged into 
 the world of crime. However he also has a hidden agenda in coming to Liberty City - revenge. Ok 
 I agree the plot doesnt really get you ecstatic, but the screenplay will. GTA 4 probably has the 
 best written screenplay I have ever sen in a game. The cutscenes are beautifully directed and wonderfuly 
 motion captured.
  The gameplay.
  Rockstar seemed to be reading my mind when they made this game. It has everyhing San Andreas lacked 
 and more. All the small issues with San Andreas were cleared out to make for a smoother gaming 
 experience. Besides they have managed to convert the most tedious unimmepressive aspect of the 
 previous games - shooting - into one of the reasons you should get GTA 4. The cover-and-shoot system 
 works like a charm. You can get behind everything and anything large enough to cover Niko's body 
 and shoot at will at your enemies who will also be ducking into the nearest cover they can find. 
 You'll just love the elaborate firefights in warehouses, construction sites etc. Who needs dumb 
 Hollywood action movies now, I can do better.
  Liberty City is more alive than any other virtual city in any game. Life goes on even when Niko 
 is just hanging around. And yes you have a cell phone in the game. And you can use the internet. 
 And a GPS navigator. And you can go bowling, play pool, throw darts, watch stand up acts, get drunk 
 etc with dates and friends and did i mention watch TV? All that and much more. Phew.
  And please don't get me started on the graphics. I'll probably end up throwing a truckload of expressions 
 (fantastic, outta sight, rocking, whoa!... you get the idea) at your face.
  There are rumors of a PC version coming out by end of this year. I've been playing the game on 
 an Xbox360. The game looks better and the visuals are cleaner on the 360 while the PS3 has shorter 
 load times. Or so i've heard. I have all the time in the world so I guess i've got a good deal. 
 I''ll be leaving you now. Niko has an appointment with an attorney tomorrow and i've gotta go get 
 him a suit and i'm kinda tired after rescuing Niko's fat cousin from a warehouse full of Russian 
 baddies.
  
  Ciao.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroninetyseven
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is only eye candy. Nothing more. Bland and boring in terms of features. Go buy Saints Row 
 2 instead. Go buy it if you'd actually like to fly planes. Also, streak in public, join an illegal 
 fight club, CUSTOMIZE YOUR OWN CHARACTER, gang, crib, cars. You can car surf, spray sewage all 
 over pedestrians, dress up like a cop for your own reality TV show, and much, MUCH more. Basically, 
 you have a choice. Either sit there and "Oooo" and Awww" over the graphics in GTA IV (boring) , 
 or have the time of your life doing ANYTHING in Saints Row 2. And I mean anything. I found myself 
 wanting to sell GTA IV after the 5th mission. No joke. It gets boring too fast. Yes, it's all realistic 
 and blah blah blah! But as I recall, video games are supposed to be fun like what GTA IV isn't. 
 Seriously, go buy Saints Row 2 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fracturemaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is probably one of the most incredible games to date. If your looking for a game to stare 
 at (after crysis got boring) then GTAIV more than enough to satisfy your modern graphical needs.
 
  Game play wise, this game has by far the most realistic setting you will encounter this generation. 
 If you haven't (I'm sure you have) go out get this game get to the first road you can walk on and 
 get hit by a car, or better yet steal a car with an awesome animation and then start hitting people 
 with your car!!! Its that awesome the game could have been just that and it would've been a 10/10 
 (okay... 9.5) then GTAIV brings something new to GTA an interesting story, and an awesome story 
 too, with a guy with real emotions. Through the new cover system, combat is greatly improved and 
 blind firing a shotgun behind a wall at cops pouring in and dieing endlessly is just awesome.
 
  The sound is perfect, like most of the truly amazing games these days.
  If you haven't, buy it, cherish it, and run over innocent civilians with it. This is a must get 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  the story is much like saints row only its annoying you get phone call after phone call instead 
 of doing the mission when ever you feel like ,, you have to do some of the missions as they are 
 handed out to you 
  
  the graphics are the only perfect thing about gta iv that wasnt the case with previous installments 
 of the game. 
  when you damage your car it looks damaged unlike san andreas, where you only see fragments of damage 
 here and there then some smoke then kaboom
  
  so ya i give that a 10 
  
  but everything else is 7-7/5 ish ,, 
  the sound track is not as impressive as san andreas was, 
 
  
  only 1 song i recognized out of the whole game plus 1 old old one, 
  overall 7.5 there
  
  the replay value well whats there to do after doing the missions, find 
 out your selfs im only gonna tell you there isnt as much as san andreas 7.0 
  
  the good- controls are solid, except in helicopters , theres times id slip and the helicopter would 
 fly out of the sky
  the multiplayer has a free roam mode, beside the obvious deathmatch modes, and race modes other 
 various modes are fun like saints row 1 only it has alot of traffic or had when i first played 
 it 
  
  the graphics are awsome not much i can say about that
  
  the bad
  the story is a little repetitive the things your able to do is very limited between those phone 
 calls, 
  the cops arent as fun to run from as you get awAY MUCH MORE EASIER like in scarface
  
  and 
 that just about sums it up ,, 
  online is a plus while the story is good 
  7.0 out of 10.0 
  
  still a good game just not what id expect from gta
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx_Sam_R_xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Okay, let me get down to everything straight off. Grand theft Auto IV is fantastic.. it's everything 
 that a GTA fan could want, and it's immersive and original enough to let newbies get right into 
 it. This is the kind of thing that fans of the series expect. Imaginative, original, playable, 
 there's not a lot of difficulty curve, but it's enough to make you think you're an expert 3/4 of 
 the way through, but then be completely thrown the moment everything doesn't go your way. The characters 
 are original, in what sees to be a mix of most of the good gangster movies of the past fifteen 
 years. It's got the sometimes enigmatic, sometimes volatile psychotics from Eastern Promises, the 
 loud, swaggering Goombas from Goodfellas, the mentally unstable but fiercely loyal Irish from such 
 movies like Gangs of New York (Albeit about a hundred years removed) , and a multitude of other 
 races and creeds that make up the colorful palette that is Liberty City.
  
  Speaking of Liberty City, that enigmatic city returns in an entirely new light. I went into GTA 
 IV thinking that i knew where i was going thanks to the five million times that i have played GTA 
 III, but i was sadly mistaken. They've made it look almost completely like New York city, complete 
 with it's own version of Times' Square. It's a service to a brilliant city, but one would almost 
 think that the dedication to realism carried over a little too much. The car controls are more 
 realistic, and therefore, much more frustrating. I remember times in GTA San Andreas when i could 
 cruise for at least ten minutes, weaving through almost impossible traffic conditions.. That, sadly, 
 doesn't happen in IV, and you often find yourself moving to take an old school handbrake turn around 
 a corner, only to find yourself fishtailing at high speed into the nearest tree, seeing Nico Bellic 
 go hurtling through the window like a child whose parents replaced his car seat with a rocket booster. 
 Admittedly, this is really **** sweet, and i've spent many a time watching myself go halfway through 
 a construction site, my body curling around in ways that were not humanly possible.. Still, no 
 matter how fun this is, when your embroiled in a heated street race, it's really .... REALLY annoying.
 
  
  Aside from the Sheisty car physics, a few more of the new additions include the 'cover firing' 
 system, the 'friend' system, or as i like to call it 'the completely pointless' system. I understand 
 that Rockstar is trying to come up with something incredibly original and witty, but everything 
 feels much slower, heavier, and overall, slightly less fun. The colors have been toned down, but 
 then again, it's supposed to look like New York. It feels less like the games that we played in 
 our youth, standing in the middle of the street, blasting away with your AK-47 or Rocket launcher 
 with nary a backward glance because you knew that 'oh boy, this is five star wanted level.. there's 
 no getting away now..' Now there's a certain amount of fear because you're unsure that some cop, 
 who just happens to blend in with the rest of the **** scenery, will come out of nowhere, shoot 
 you in the head once, and that's the end of it, or that you can get in your car, drive really fast, 
 and.. get away? Seriously, what happened to cops relentlessly pursuing me until the point that 
 i gave up and grenaded myself to death, all the while screaming 'You'll never take me alive, copper!' 
 at my PS2. Now, before i even have time to work into a feverish frenzy, hunched over, sweat dribbling 
 down my face as i pray to the videogame gods, they're gone.. and i slowly drift back into the doldrums 
 until my next mossion.
  
  Overall, the missions are pretty much more of the same, but then again, that's always worked for 
 Rockstar. I'll stop beating a dead horse. It's good.. very good. It's less of the cartoony, over 
 the top, alien probing that i came to love in GTA: SA, but then again, i guess that's the trend 
 nowadays. A fantastic game from start to finish, and the little things are overlookable in favor 
 of a fantastic story and unique characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you are a gamer, the odds are you have played one of the last 3 GTA games. If you have then 
 you know how good they are. What GTA 4 did better than its predecessors was tell a great story 
 with an incredibly detailed world. On looks alone the game astounds, and when you go deeper and 
 experience the story and gameplay, you feel like the center of a hollywood tale, all the while 
 feeling small beside the grandeur of the cities. That is a tough trick to pull off but Rockstar 
 made it happen. 
  
  this is the best of the GTA sandoxes yet. The action is still what you'd expect, with gunfights 
 galore and chases that will drive you nuts at times. But that is what GTA is all about. Some missions 
 will erk you while others will seem almost too easy. But when you step back and look at the whole 
 game, it is a fantastic achievements. 
  
  Speaking of achievments.... there are a ton to do. I found that the unique stunt jumps were enjoyable 
 and some of the other vehicle challenges, like flying under all the bridges in Liberty, were tough 
 but fun. Some you will just never take on because it requires some serious hours and otherworldly 
 dedication. You will love the game enough to finish it and then mess around for some more gamerscore, 
 but i doubt that more than 5% of GTA players will ever get all the gamerscore from this game. There 
 is just too much to do. This is in no way a bad thing, but at a glance it can seem overwhelming. 
 
  
  I cant give it a 10, because it just isnt perfect. There was something missing. Maybe it was that 
 you cant own property the way you could in previous titles. I kind of enjoyed that aspect of the 
 game. Made me feel like more of a kingpin. that wasnt the story here. As you are at the center 
 of a revenge tale. But to me, GTA was about making the player go from rags-to-riches, and that 
 allure was missing from the game. But this is a small complaint and doesnt really detract from 
 the overall experience. 
  
  If you havent played this game yet and liked any of the previous GTA's, i suggest picking it up. 
 There is plenty of fun filled hours ahead if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The storytelling and gameplay in Grand Theft Auto are always something of borderline redundant, 
 meritless and controversy-provoking, and so are the games in its series. While I don't side with 
 lawyers on controversial matters such as these, to some extent everyone must agree that a simulation 
 of life, the rough edges of it to be specific, speaking of, that is, are the areas in the world 
 where some of the most hypocrisy and violence take place, being simulated in this fashion, really 
 is the work of exploiting sociopaths. Of course, a motto I go by is: "To each his own, and may 
 treasure come to those who form a view which only consists of oneself, their benefits and life-long 
 happiness, by any means." This does not necessarily mean stripping myself of entire conscience, 
 targetting the game industry for a possible cashflow, and in addition to exploit the very ill content 
 that sells rampant. It's far too easy, and it's not creative, not imaginary, and in no way is it 
 doing anything positive for the game industry or the world. Clearly, it's not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelexin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Well, many people seem to see this game as a waste of time and a copy of the other games. They 
 are wrong.
  
  
  Singleplayer:
  
  I believe that the story is very compelling and draws you in. It's like a great movie really, you 
 want to go to the toilet but you can't because you don't want to miss whats happening. This game 
 feels just like that. I'd give the single player a 9 out of 10, without thought.
  
  About Multiplayer:
  
  To start with, it felt like the multiplayer was just thrown in. It wasn't 
 until I started playing a lot with my friends that I felt the community. The game has been well 
 done, with gun placements in the right places. The racing is a blast and adds a great feeling to 
 the game.
  
  Altogether : 
  
  I feel as though this isn't like the original, and people need to cut it some slack. If you aren't 
 interested in story-lines, this isn't for you. But if you are, your in for a treat.
  
  9.5/10, easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  ok u all hear the good reviews of GTA IV so how is this different u might ask, weeelllll here i 
 will be both reviewing and ranting about GTA IV but most of my ranting will be directed to those 
 that dont like GTA IV or give it a review that is less then a 9.0.
  
  Ok simple stuff out GTA IV is a great game, if u got the PS3 or the Xbox 360 then go out NOW!!!! 
 (since u should have gotten it at launch) and buy it pronto which is Spanish for "ur an idiot if 
 u refuse to do so"
  u hear it everywhere "GTA IV is great", "GTA IV is a solid gaming experience", "GTA IV is F**KING 
 AWESOME", "GTA IV STOPPED ME FROM KILLING MYSELF" well what did i say u might ask well i said the 
 last one LOLOLOL
  uhm so uh yea GTA IV is ADDICTIVE i cant even believe how much i loved it, i couldnt even put down 
 the control until i realized i had an exam in an hour but my god it was worth playing.
  and thanx to the release of GTA IV during exams week the curve of the exam grades totally dropped 
 meaning i passed significantly i might add so yea i wasnt the onli one having a blast during the 
 crucial time of my college semester. 
  ok lets just break it down simple like and stuff
  
  Gameplay: Awesome the best thing i've experience since my major acid trip lol jk im drug free 
 and the yellow apple is within the Statue of Liberty
  
  Sounds: as tony the tiger would say "Tigers dont eat F**KING CEREAL" but he would definitely enjoy 
 GTA IV by virtually killing the species that enslaved him into saying something that wasnt true 
 in the first place and he would be bopping his head to the keeeeewwwl soundtrack that is called 
 that GTA IV radio i mean wow that music is totally kick*ss it has something for everyone and the 
 dj are interesting to tune in to and so people "this is Radio Broker" with awesome songs until 
 middle age people start 2 enjoy it also
  
  Graphics: meh i've seen better but still graphics are still eye candy here i mean seriously have 
 u seen pretty people that are in the criminal world when u think about it most of the are very 
 bitter and this game pulls that off pretty well and Liberty City itself is the top notch i mean 
 she is just gorgeous to look at and its nice to explore and wreak some havoc on this splendid wench. 
 My god it is one of the best virtual cities i have ever gamed in and with it being a virtual replica 
 of the very city that i love/hate/live in then its the perfect playground for my lil serial killing 
 lunatic. o yea take my rage on time square, stupid cops keep giving me tickets for stupid violations.
 
  
  ok now to get to the real point of the this "review" the attack on people who think GTA IV is not 
 good or not deserving of a 9.0 score or higher. Ok u people i dont no y u play video games or even 
 invest time to do anything remotely entertaining. seriously OH MY GOD what does it take to make 
 a game good for you? do u want a game that goes all out in pleasuring u, say a virtual reality 
 game where u get to screw some hot chick cause in reality ur just a bitter punk who nobody wants 
 to deal with seriously GTA IV is a game with so much effort put into it u cant even amount how 
 much they've work to make a game to entertain you.
  
  I know everyone is entitled to their opinions and im entitle to say that in my opinion these people 
 suck. If you think something is really wrong with GTA IV maybe theres something wrong with you, 
 maybe u just cant have a good time without being high on some drugs, maybe u hate babies, maybe 
 u lack any enjoyment in anything, maybe u despise humans, maybe ur just angry at urself and take 
 it on things that dont deserve it eg. the people who care about u, people who dont know u at all, 
 puppies and kitten, infants and children, inanimate objects, people who try to help other people, 
 or maybe ur doing it all out of spite cause ur one of those Jack Thompson people, who is the enemy 
 of video gamers and all that is holy to the world, and u just wanna see people from RockStar suffer 
 for making a good game.
  Check urself GTA IV flamers if u got this game then u must have played the previous games and if 
 u did play the previous games then u would no what to expect, nothing here was a surprise aside 
 from it being a grand experience then never b4, so y would u get a game that u know u wouldnt like 
 in the first place, do u see a vegan walk into steak house for a meal? i dont think so unless they 
 have some really awesome salad but no folks there is no awesome salad in GTA IV for u folks this 
 is totally for the carnivores and the omnivores of the population, WE LOVE TO ENJOY FUN THINGS 
 AND THAT IS Y WE ARE BETTER THEN YOU. (no hate on vegans unless they bash GTA IV THEN ITS ON B**CH) 
 but seriously if the GTA genre wasnt for you or action for that matter or even fun then u should 
 have known b4 hand that purchasing GTA IV for 60$ was a dumb*ss move or even renting or playing 
 it at a stranger that u call friend's house (im pretty sure ur no longer friends if u said GTA IV 
 sucked) yes folks thats how it is, its either love or avoid and in this situation there is no excuse 
 for hate for GTA IV. 
  I hear some people are simply giving out low grades in response to the editors review of this since 
 he gave it a perfect 10, i for one will never give a game a perfect 10 as it will never meet its 
 standard for being perfection but i understand why the editor gave it a 10 since he enjoyed so 
 much that 10 was a fair score to him and this is to a person that has played numerous amounts of 
 game for the mere task of reviewing them for his profession so u cant really flame the guy for 
 actually playing something he loves, do u see people flaming you for loving ur mom as much as u 
 do? if yes then u have the right IMO to totally slam his face in, if no then lay off and let the 
 guy enjoy the game and if u r playing a game and experiencing it on the basis that it is absolute 
 perfection because of this review or any feedback u got from ur buddies and didnt like because 
 it didnt meet the expectation of what ur little buddies instilled in ur dumb little head then u 
 simply did it all wrong and u need to get ur review checked and quit being a tight *ss about it
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV gets a 9.5... because people know how to make a masterpiece but sadly there 
 are bitter people out there who can't be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Castlevania1986
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Today is my birthday, and I got a Xbox 360 yesterday as an early present. I had bought GTA 4 off 
 ebay for $40.00 and once I begin playing it? The controls felt slightly different from the old 
 GTA games which are all on the PS2 console. Basically I find this game to be rather boring to say 
 the least, the gun play is a little annoying but works really well since you can target body parts 
 up close. Driving on the other hand is god awfully terrible making it hard to drive as fast as 
 you want considering how much traffic gets in your way. 
  
  I'll also have to say that Rock Star are the biggest f*ggot liars next to Peter and his Fable BS. 
 There are times when I couldn't play a mission any way I wanted. Like the mission where I'm entering 
 a p*rn shop, I shoot one of the guys in the face and kill him and the mission ends. They also said 
 there are no spray and paint places anymore, well thats also a lie because they still do exist 
 in the game but I have no problem with them. Police officers still play the same way as they always 
 did, running into you making your car get stuck in corners. 
  
  The headache part about the game is the poor visuals, for a Next Gen title you'd think that the 
 city would look well done at night but instead when it rains there is this bluish effect that makes 
 the game appear as blurry somewhat. When it rains, the ground has this realistic look which is 
 great. 
  
  All in all GTA 4 is technically the same game as the previous titles. The story is a little longer, 
 there is more dialog this time but you are still very limited to the things you get to do. Like 
 dating for instance, you can't date all the people on the web. Some will turn you down so they're 
 just there to be there which only means you get to date only 4 or 5 chicks just like you did in 
 Andreas. Only when you take them out it doesn't show you having lunch or dinner with them.
  
  The game is missing the classic police missions and taxi driving missions as well. Unfortunately 
 the prostit8es are funny as h*ll. 
  
  Good points about the game is its variety of music. Better selection of vehicles too and the city 
 is very large. There are plenty of places you can go to but its like I said, the game is limited 
 to what you can do in liberty city. The first few hours of play through feels more like a practice 
 run through to get you familiar with the game controls. Although that's a nice addition to have 
 but it makes the game boring. when thats all your doing is running around picking people up, chasing 
 them in poorly made buildings. Niko himself plays extremely rubbish because the controls are stuck. 
 He has a stiff way of running and walking. 
  
  I was never a GTA fan to begin with. I've always hated games that Rock star put out because all 
 of them played the same, looked the same, and felt the same. Not to mention the crappy block graphics 
 they are most popular for. GTA4 doesn't suffer from this but the characters are still quite bulky 
 looking with their clothes appearing to be glued onto them rather than flowing hair and vice versa. 
 
  
  This game was all hype definitely and really isn't worth a 10 score rate. I was being fair when 
 I rated this game. I mean come on, some of the missions in this game is so annoying especially 
 indoor missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Ever since GTA III I have been a fan of the series. It took sandbox gameplay to the next level 
 and each entry into the series brought something new. The series is famous for great gameplay, 
 humor, and interesting stories.
  
  GTA IV ups things considerably for the series. The graphics are astounding, the characters are 
 brilliant, and the story is top notch. This game succeeds on a variety of levels which puts it 
 head and shoulders above many and puts it at the top of all GTA games.
  
  This game has received a ton of hype and people have posed that it is the greatest game ever. I 
 totally disagree-this game is very good, it is far short of the greatest game ever.
  
  The story focuses on Niko Bellic, an immigrant from the former Yugoslavia who has come to live 
 the American dream with his cousin Roman. Along the way you deal with the Russian and Italian mobs, 
 a variety of colorful characters and all sorts of interesting events on your path to revenge.
 
  
  The story is one of the best I have ever experienced in a game. The characters are extremely deep 
 with noticeable personalities and interesting traits. The voice acting is some of the best yet 
 and the dialogue is humorous, dramatic, thought provoking and just plain great. Niko Bellic is 
 destined to become one of the greatest game characters ever. He is incredibly deep, thoughtful, 
 and sympathetic. He has a powerful backstory and his present motivations are rather moving. He 
 is not your run of the mill gun toting thug who desires money and power. He thinks about his actions, 
 but carries them out anyways-a refreshing change in the industry.
  
  The game does introduce some morality with the choices you make affecting the outcome of the game. 
 Some choices in the game are rather superficial, but one in particular changes the entire game. 
 The dynamic could've been fleshed out more, as only one decision affected the game.
  
  The soundtrack falls short, there are a few stations with good tunes, but nothing great. I was 
 hoping to see the return of RISE-FM but that didn't happen. The hardcore station is great, the 
 classic rock station is OK, the talk stations are funny, and the other stations are pretty lame. 
 
  
  With all the talk surrounding controls with GTA games-Rockstar made improvements since San Andreas, 
 but the aiming mechanic is still awful. The free aim is much better, but the auto aim is terrible. 
 You can put your reticle on an enemy and hold down the trigger to lock it in, but it will switch. 
 Also, selecting targets after you shot and killed them is a nightmare and leads to you getting 
 hit a lot. The drive-by shooting mechanics are better, but using the right bumper to fire and the 
 stick to aim is wonky. Rockstar should just give in and use the same aiming scheme as Saint's Row 
 which didn't nerf the game, but made it very user friendly. The driving mechanics are pretty realistic 
 which makes thins pretty complex. They aren't impossible, but don't expect anything like the previous 
 GTA games. The moving controls are much better, the cover system isn't great-but it's a start, 
 and you can still swim and climb which is nice.
  
  The game goes out of it's way to incorporate detail and it shows. The graphics are stunning-buildings 
 are very detailed, cars show damage and blood spatters if you hit people, character models are 
 very detailed, garbage flutters about, and the water graphics are top notch. This detail extends 
 into the story of the game which isn't all fluff and unbelievable missions. The situations, conversations, 
 and character behaviors are all very realistic. More games should do this-Rockstar pretty much 
 showed you how to do it in terms of reality and story.
  
  As interesting as the story was, some of the cut scenes and dialogue ran a little long and the 
 game got boring at times. I stopped and started playing it two times before I finished it. Some 
 of the missions get repetative, and the story drags on a bit at points. Though it is appreciated 
 that they didn't make a game you can finish in 10 hours. Towards the end of the game I was getting 
 the feeling it was dragging on and I wanted to complete it already.
  
  Another thing that illustrates this is the "friends" mechanic. If you hang out with people they 
 like you and sometimes you get bonuses. If you brush them off they don't like you as much. All 
 too often they call at inopportune times and you don't want to hang out. The penalty/reward system 
 is cool and realistic, but I found having friends in this game was a pain.
  
  Flaws aside, this is a high quality game. It ups the bar for the series, genre, and video gaming 
 all together. This is what happens when care and effort is put into a game. It was an enjoyable 
 experience and a definite must-own. Be aware this game is unlike any other GTA game-but it still 
 works very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airnikes23
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Over the past years rockstar has made some pretty good games but this year they got over the top 
 with GTAIV.
  Well to start things off I would like to say this is the greatest game I have ever played it passes 
 any xbox 360 game. When you start off you play as a middle eastern or europe guy I dont know, his 
 name is niko bellic he is looking for a life in America buy going to liberty city where is cousin 
 roman lives. When you get there Roman has lied to you saying he has a mansion, cars, and Women 
 (By the way the only thing big in his life are the bugs in his apartment) . By the games progesses 
 you find many things to do in liberty city you can call your friends (Roman, Burice, Kate, Packie 
 etc.) , explore the city watch the breath taking views of the city, and go and have a good time 
 (IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN!) . There is so much to do in liberty city you can't describe how much you 
 can do if you buy this game you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  GTA 4 is obviously the best in it's series. it's widely open ended, countless numbers of activities 
 to choose from, and easier than it's previous ones. easy in gta is good because you can enjoy the 
 game more without annoyance from failing missions or punishing death. again, there are so much things 
 to do and to choose from. you can play darts, throw stuff, watching some commercials to buy new 
 weapons, go to a strip club, buy new themes for your phone, and so on and so forth. the mobile 
 phone is an addition in this game. the internet and tv is also a good resources on getting hooked 
 up, jobs, etc. 
  
  Bad:
  too long and too real, that it might replace your real life.
  
  Overall:
  overall they did a terrific job once again on capturing the entire image of liberty 
 city. there's not much i can say bout gta 4 since i havent completed it much, but all the features, 
 soundtracks, varieties all put together deserves a 10 out of 10 score. good job
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AZisBack
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Before I get started, if you're a parent looking to buy this game for your child, do not buy it 
 for them. This is an adult game with adult themes. There is a rating system for a reason. Although 
 you think "Junior" is mature, they are probably not. When your child starts using four letter explicative's 
 around the house, start blaming yourself. Also if you are a parent wanting to play this game when 
 your children are sleeping, invest in some headphones for your TV.
  
  I really liked Grand Theft Auto Vice City for the PS2. My friends would get together after I finished 
 my college classes and we would play GTA: VC together. It was awesome to play it with them and we 
 had a lot of fun. I bought GTA: San Andres thinking I would have the same amount of fun. I never 
 did. It was the same thing that I played before with a different story. I couldn't really get into 
 it and I never played the game. I said I would never buy another GTA because it was just a rehash. 
 
  
  Then GTA IV game out. Every magazine and game critic gave it great reviews. Usually a great review 
 persuades me to buy a game but I stood firm. Then several of my friends said I should get the game. 
 The only real debate was which system to get it for. I ended up getting it for the 360 because 
 of the achievements. After I got the game, my disc wouldn't work. I had to exchange my copy of 
 the game. About that time everyone quit playing the game. Then I quit playing the game. I've tried 
 to get back into it but I just can't do it now.
  
  I don't like GTA IV but it is a still a great game. Liberty City is almost alive. The interaction 
 with people is wonderful. It is almost like watching a real city. I was following a drunk driver 
 one day. The graphics are great (not amazing) . The light shading is awesome. The transformation 
 from night to day is amazing. This is the best looking sandbox game I have played. The sound is 
 awesome. You hear everything and it sounds like a major city. Character conversations are great 
 and realistic. You can even watch TV and it is hilarious. Rockstar went all out to make a great 
 game. The reviews are 100% accurate. This game is made very well.
  
  There is only on major problem. I have read that the story is well written but it can't save the 
 fact I am bored. It is just like every other GTA game. The whole time I am thinking, "I have already 
 played this game". Go kill this person go get that object deliver me this. Now that isn't a bad 
 thing. After all that is why you buy a GTA game. But it isn't a game that I like to play anymore. 
 I don't want to do 30 hours of this repetition. 
  
  There are a couple of little other things I did not like. The cell phone was way too small to look 
 at. I had to get off of my couch to read what was on the face. I also did not like the fact that 
 I needed to keep entertaining people. I don't want to go out drinking with people, I don't want 
 to play darts, I don't want go out on dates. I want to play the game. I felt obligated to do all 
 of those things because of the achievements. I thought the achievements would keep me interested. 
 The achievements actually ruined my game. 
  
  Now I am not saying the achievements are bad. There is great balance to the difficulty of the achievements. 
 All of the achievements are realistic and would be fun to get. If you use cheat codes it disables 
 achievements. The only achievement that would probably be difficult now is "Let Sleeping Rockstars 
 Lie." For 10G you "Kill a rockstar developer in a ranked multiplayer match." I don't think they 
 would be playing too much anymore. 
  
  Take this from my review. GTA is a great game. If you were bored with GTA in the past GTA: IV won't 
 entertain you now. I have not finished this game. One day I might but I need to be really, really 
 bored to do it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Volta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  "Though GTA IV is certainly fun, it lacks all of the little things that made the previous entries 
 to fun and long-lived."
  
  ... and I'm not talking about airplanes. No, I'm talking about those little goals, those distracting 
 side-angles, the rewarding exploration, the purpose of money, those small little details that really 
 fleshed out and sold the previous GTA games.
  
  Sure, this one is fun, and certainly it has the best story of the lot... but that's about it. There's 
 nothing rewarding about it at all, other than playing through the story. Once that's done, it's 
 all done pretty much. There's a few side things to do, a few assassination missions, car-jackings, 
 and other small odd jobs... but it's all negligible really, when it's all added up.
  
  GTA IV is a single-minded affair, and this is why it fails, compared to its previous entities. 
 The story and engine are much better, the world is a bit better realized, but the content is just 
 not quite there. 
  
  I'm not going to rant, but rather, I'm going to sum this up pretty quickly and put it under wraps:
 
  
  GTA IV delivers in: it's story, the environment, the characters, the side-goals it DOES have are 
 pretty fun
  
  GTA IV doesn't deliver in: its treatment of the economy, its treatment of friends, its soundtrack 
 (beside a few nice tracks here and there) , its lack of things to do out of the almost exclusive 
 main storyline, its lack of reward for exploration, its lack of the smaller, finer things that 
 made the previous entities so much fun to keep coming back to, its overall lack of fun distractions
 
  
  Sure, it's still fun, worth a pick-up (although I honestly wish I had rented it first) , and certainly 
 worth a playthrough, but until some sizable expansions come out (DLC) , it's not worth much else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesallenyz431
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Fun game at first, but once you get past the excitment of playing with your friends online, the 
 game is just like everyother GTA. The vehicles handle terrible, the graphics are better than anyother 
 GTA, the map is smaller than GTA SA, not a huge variaty of vehicles or weapons. Playing online 
 can get old fast playing with strangers because you spawn in the same spot over and over so they 
 can camp and kill you within seconds. Online game modes are kinda cheese, most the people ive played 
 with made up theyre own modes on the freemode. Racing can be fun if your car holds up and ur not 
 stuck running down the freeway looking for a ride.
  If your a fan of the rest of the GTA series like I am, id suggest getting this one, if not id suggest 
 waiting till Saints Row 2 comes out. Not a bad game just not the best game Ive played. SCORE: 80% 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  What makes GTA4 a great game? The fact that you do not have to follow the rules...
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV introduces the series to next-generation gaming systems, and while it does 
 not revolutionize the industry in the way that GTAIII did, it manages to improve and streamline 
 the GTA experience.
  
  The game is absolutely gorgeous, especially considering its size and scope. The amount of graphical 
 beauty that comes to life in GTA's Liberty City is stunning, as are the reactions to the environment 
 by NPCs. People run to clear the streets when it rains, traffic follows a logical flow with rush 
 hours and clam periods, and you can play for long stretches of time without stumbling across the 
 same NPC twice. Pedestrians will answer their cell phones, get into arguments with each other, 
 and occasionally an accident will occur between two motorists, resulting in a frank exchange of 
 words and the occasional arrival of a police cruiser or ambulance. You get the distinct impression 
 that the game world isn't just a show put on for your amusement when you're walking by, and then 
 packed up and put away as soon as you leave. It feels like a living, breathing city. To accent 
 that, random NPCs are almost like individuals: they're all randomly generated, so you never really 
 see two people walking down the street who look the same, or even similar, really. Each person 
 seems to have places to go, things to do, books to read, jobs to go to, taxis that need flagging, 
 important cell phone conversations... It all just helps create a realistic environment that makes 
 you feel like you're not the only person walking around Liberty City.
  
  As the story unfolds there are plenty of twists and turns, some obvious, some not, but there's 
 never a point where you are unable to suspend disbelief. Some of the missions are crazy, some wild, 
 but all enjoyable, even though there are a few controller-hurling moments of frustration. While 
 there are some incredibly tough missions, it makes eventual perseverance all the more rewarding. 
 The gunplay is radically improved over its predecessors, sporting a Gears of War style cover system 
 that makes jumping into cover, snapping off a few shots, and ducking back to safety effortless, 
 and it's a much needed improvement for the series.
  
  The music is also fantastic, with several stations that hit every musical genre known to man, including 
 a few talk radio stations that add to the game's notorious black humor. The jewel of the radio 
 stations is Vladivostok FM, which carries several catchy Eastern European tunes, none of which 
 I can understand, but damn are they good.
  
  As for the driving, you'll either love it or hate it. The physics seem a little floatier than in 
 previous games, and an attempt to pull a perfect 180 degree turn will usually result in a spectacular 
 impact with a storefront at mach 10. I wasn't a fan of the driving at first, which was an issue 
 for me considering how damn much of the driving you have to do in the game, but after a few hours 
 I got the hang of it and it became second nature.
  
  You're also saddled with a list of friends who call you incessantly on your cell phone wanting 
 to do things with you like go to a strip club, a comedy show, etc. While this is a fun mechanic 
 at first, it can wear on you after awhile because you're constantly trying to keep everyone happy 
 because when you get on a friend's good side it usually unlocks a tangible benefit, such as free 
 cab rides or access to a helicopter. This means that between each mission you usually feel compelled 
 to spend fifteen minutes going on a mindless chore jaunt with one of these pricks just to stay 
 in their good graces. 
  
  This brings me to the real innavation of GTA IV over its predecessors: Multiplayer.
  
  Grand 
 Theft Auto has never had a multiplayer component before, apart from a few PSP games that I never 
 played and can't be bothered with, but in GTA IV they did multiplayer right. There's over a dozen 
 different game modes representing old favorites like deathmatch, territory control, etc., plus 
 some new ones like Cops and Crooks, where one team is made up of criminals that have to reach a 
 designated escape route before the other team, comprised of cops, either destroys their escape 
 vehicle or kills the leader of the crooks. It's an ingenious design as the criminals have the location 
 of the escape vehicle displayed on their minimap, but not the location of the cops, and the cops 
 know where the criminals are, but not their escape route. This leads to brilliant cat and mouse 
 gameplay that will leave you screaming commands at your friends via your headset and looking over 
 each corner for your rivals. Not only that, but there are a few co-op modes and though they mostly 
 feel tacked on, they're worth playing with your friends at least once. Not only are there plenty 
 of different modes, but each mode is very customizable, resulting in near limitless game types. 
 
  
  If you've ever had any interest in the Grand Theft Auto series, you owe it to yourself to buy this 
 game. And if you've never expressed interest, you owe it to yourself to at least give it a rental. 
 Who knows? Like happened to me, it may be the game that changes your mind about the series...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbertha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Outrageous and seriously fun, this game lets you do things you normally wouldn't dream of doing 
 in real-life, like stabbing people at random, running them down in your car etc, and not feel guilty 
 about it.
  
  The missions are quite varied, engaging, and not too long. So, you don't get bored or frustrated 
 in a mission. You also have many extra errands that you can do for the various characters in the 
 game for making some extra cash. The voice acting is superb. You really feel like you are Niko 
 the hitman when you play.
  
  There are a few glitches that prevented the game from getting a 10 in my book. For example, in 
 the Packie-Mafia mission, I was attacked by invisible enemies inside the warehouse and took many 
 tries after getting in the boat with Packie before I was allowed to drive the boat off. It was 
 very annoying to say the least. 
  
  Overall, a well-thought out and immersive game. This is a must-have game in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  when i first played this game it just seems to me that this is the best gta ever i didnt liked 
 the old gta to much it was suck but this gta is ok and the best mision is the bank misin when you 
 go with packie an derrik that was the best mision in gta4 ////////// // / /////// /////////// //////////// 
 /////////// ////////////// ////////////// /////////////// ///////////// ///////////// ////////////// 
 ///////////// ////////////// ////////////// //////////// /////////// ///////////// //////////// 
 ///////////// /////////// ///////////////// //////////// ////////////// /////////// /////////////// 
 /////////// //////////// /////////// ////////// / /////////// //////////// ////////////////////// 
 ///////////// /////////////// //////////////// ////////////// ///////////// //////////// //////////// 
 /////////// /////////// ////////// ///////////// //////////// //////////// ////////////// ////////////// 
 ///////////// ///////////// //////////////// //////////////// /////////////// ////////////// ///////////////// 
 //////////////// ///////////////////////// /////////////// //////////////// //////////////// ////////////// 
 ////////////// //////////// /////////// ////////////// /////////////// /////////// ///////////// 
 ///////////////// /////////////////// ////////////// ////////////// ///////////////////// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cxfounder
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  There was so much hype about this game and everyone is telling me that this is gonna be the best 
 game ever and even gamespot gave it a 10. I would rather stick a fork in my eye and jump off a 
 fairly large sized building then to play this game again. The night of release i got ready i had 
 it pre ordered i had 2 cases of mountain dew for me and my cousin to test it on the 360 and the 
 ps3 we went and got brought it back home unwrapped and popped it in our respected consoles. We 
 started plain and realized ahh the driving is sketchy but every game has flaws so i gave it another 
 chance. I got to like the third mission and I looked at my cousin and he looked at me and we simataneously 
 said THIS GAME BLOWS!!!! It was the biggest waist of money we had ever spent. I went to gamestop 
 the next day and traded it in for $55 store credit. I then bought a second copy of cod4 to fill 
 the void in my life that GTA4 had left. I HATE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqwarb
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  everything's gone?
  
  the bikes (not motor bikes)
  the planes
  the parachutes
  the big choices of cloths and hair styles
  
  and more... (like going under water)
  
  this 
 game gets very boring after a while, this game has taken loads of cool stuff out and put in 1 basic 
 good thing in, a cool thing that should of been put in 2 games back. the targeting system - yep 
 that's the only improvement apart from the minor graphics update.
  
  honestly don't expect a lot of fun its the same old terrible repetitive stuff:
  
  - steal car
 
  - kill people
  - get police after you
  - go jail or die
  - repeat!
  
  the game quickly gets boring, so please ignore the other ignorant peoples reviews because there 
 properly 6 and get a boner over violence (even though there hardly is any) .
  
  it has a TV you can watch, its funny and good until one of the soldiers (which look like the spartan 
 from halo 3, which ironically was also over-hyped) saiddo these aliens speak American (maybe 
 that was a patriotic joke?) . 
  
  so my tip to you is if you love GTA games
  
  
  
  buy saints row 2 (not 1 its crap) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmisfit99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out, expecting alot. GTAIV was a good game- for a while, After 
 about 10 hours, I was wondering if there was going to be anything else to the game besides just 
 free-roaming and doing missions. No, there is next to nothing worth noting about innovation with 
 Grand Theft Auto 4. San Andreas was better than this game by far. I swear, Saints Row is better 
 than this game. Pick it up if you're a die-hard fan only, because this is just another game for 
 the Xbox 360 that had some potential and then blew it. F--- this game. k here im just wasting text 
 so gamespot will publish it- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing GTA since it's sub par beginnings in the late 1990s. While the basic concept 
 has stayed the same, innovations in graphics and gameplay have kept the series fresh and rewarding. 
 Now after a long wait we now have the latest installment for next-gen consoles, and it truly rocks! 
 Get ready to revisit one of the meanest fictional cities in an all new masterpiece from Rockstar 
 entertainment.
  
  GTA IV follows the story of one Slavic immigrant named Niko Belic. He is fresh off the boat after 
 receiving promised letters of a luxurious new life from his cousins. Niko soon finds out that his 
 dumbfounded but good hearted cousin Roman is stretching the truth, as the life he is promised is 
 nothing more then that of blue collar status. To top it off, Roman has a gambling problem (in more 
 ways then one) , which soon involve Niko as well. This starts out a great story that leads to bigger 
 problems in the long run.
  
  Liberty city has never looked better. It is alive with street vendors, scripted events, and tons 
 of traffic jams. There are plenty of small details marked all around the city that tells me little 
 to none of the objects are reused too often. Store fronts have unique names, billboards are convincing 
 and tie in with the game world along with plenty of one-liners from pedestrians depending on how 
 they interact with the environment. The overall atmosphere reflects New York, ranging from high 
 brow sections of town to gritty slums. You just never seem to run out of things to see while playing 
 the game.
  
  The gunplay combat has been redone to play like Gears of War. When drawing your range of weapons, 
 you will be presented with an over the shoulder view. Beginners will be allowed to take advantage 
 of the auto target system, while true gunslingers can still go into free target mode, allowing 
 for that extra challenge. Niko also takes advantage of cover allowing him to find such with a quick 
 tap of the R3 button. The system is smart and works well, making me hope that they continue to 
 use this in future GTA titles.
  
  One of my favorite parts of GTA games is the selection of radio stations you can choose. This installment 
 is no different, bringing back a wide range of genres for different tastes. There are your typical 
 rap stations, classic rock, jazz, reggae, new age, and punk rock. The most entertaining stations 
 are the talk radio genre, which comes in liberal, right wingers, and the return of an outstanding 
 show hosted by Lazlow. There are also some added value in the form of TV stations. While these 
 are not required to solve the game, it's a great addition that keeps the game entertaining.
  
  Speaking of added value, the Rockstar team has gone all out this time. You will be able to 
 access a complete network of fictional websites! Read news on some of your latest crimes, buy prescription 
 drugs from Mexico, read annoying blogs and even sign up on the personals. This helps implement 
 the return of the dating system, which can lead to some great perks to help you out. Again, all 
 of this is optional but the effort for a unique experience is outstanding.
  
  As you can see, GTA IV has tons of things to do. The Xbox 360 achievements alone can make your 
 total play time go past 100 hours. While there is so much to do, I still miss the character development 
 that we had in San Andreas. It would have been nice to have different attributes you could raise 
 and lower by "just doing them". The only conclusion I could make from this is that since GTA IV 
 is the first wave on next gen, it was kept simple to reflect GTA III, which will then go on to 
 add more details in later installments of the same line. 
  
  Another new edition is that of multiplayer. You get your typical modes of deathmatch and team deathmatch. 
 There are also some other modes such as street racing and cops vs. crooks. I was not impressed 
 by the multiplayer and thought the folks at Rockstar could have been more innovative. I would like 
 to see some more social driven activities in future GTA games, such as organized crime setup with 
 rpg like gameplay.
  
  Even with a few minor faults, Rockstar has proven once again that they still reign in open-ended 
 gaming. From the amazing graphics to the fantastic gameplay, this is one title that any true gamer 
 should not be without!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavymetalzplin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I live in Australia and I bought GTA IV on April 29, the first day it came out. From the rave reviews 
 I had heard about the game I knew it was going to be the best game the Grand Theft Auto franchise 
 has ever seen, but what I did not think is that it may well be the best game any platform has ever 
 seen. The realism of this game astounds me every time I load it in my Xbox 360, the environment 
 is almost completely destructible, not to mention how the people act around you in the game. Whatever 
 you want to do, whether it be surfing the internet, playing darts, or even a classic game of QUB3D, 
 (a very obvious rip-off of tetris) GTA IV has something for everyone. Everything in the game is 
 unbelievably detailed, right down to the ripples in the waves of the ocean. All of these beg the 
 question: is Grand Theft Auto 4 the greatest game ever made? You be the judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmam2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  To summarize Grand Theft Auto IV, it lives up to its expectations. I have never played a game that 
 gave me more many hours of fun, exciting, solid gameplay than Grand Theft Auto IV. Pretty much 
 everything in GTA IV works very well. That's quite an achievement, considering how many different 
 elements there are to this game. You can drive motorcycles, cars, buses, boats, and helicopters. 
 The only one that I think could be handled better is the helicopter. The car physics are more realistic 
 than previous games. The targeting and cover system is great, too. An annoying feature in previous 
 GTA games, making you repurchase your weapons after dying, is gone. The cell phone is a great device 
 that is easy to use. Some of the missions seem repetitive when you get 20 or so hours into the 
 game, but they're still fun. That's saying a lot coming from me, as usually I can't stand repetition. 
 There is so much to do in GTA IV, you'll get countless hours of fun in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyCass1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  GTA has been one of my all time favorite games, despite it's reputation of insane violence (not 
 as much as Manhunt, but it's still pretty big) , sexual content, and A LOT of swearing. All the 
 dumb complaints about it may have caused GTA IV's violence to go down a bit. That most likely made 
 the whiners shut up. 
  The game is like any other Grand Theft Auto, you start out small and get your name heard in the 
 city, and soon, you will become heard of throughout the entire city. The story is the same in a 
 way. 
  But what really changed is the gameplay. Now, you can call other people instead of waiting for 
 one. I'm really amazed on how they got the phone thing to work. You can call people to have dates, 
 night outs, jobs, and requests. You can get calls from other people and choose to either answer 
 or hang up. You can even send and recieve text messages, take pictures, and recieve pictures. You 
 can go into Multiplayer mode with that phone, or get cheats through it. Pretty much the entire 
 game revolves around that phone.
  As I have said, Multiplayer was added, and they added more than 10 game modes! There's Deathmatch, 
 Race, Cops and Robbers and much more, and most likely more will come since it will have content 
 download.
  The only thing I'm a little disapointed about is the new driving system. They made it more realistic 
 which is kind of okay, but the original driving system was the thing that kept me going around 
 San Andreas.
  GTA IV is an awsome game, and because of it's accomplishments, it deserves a 10/10. Good job Rockstar!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordfayt
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  If you play one GTA game you will never have to buy another one because there all the same!
  and rockstar games are single minded creators they made countless GTA copys, Canis Cadum Edit (child 
 GTA) and ping pong WTF!
  And still every one seems to think a simply programed game with average graphics and the same story 
 repeated countless times is good, but the sheep keep following and make it one of the most popular 
 games out there and leaving the inventive and challenging games not in there rightful places. when 
 was the last time GTA or rockstar pushed the boundary of gaming like others?
  I've seen games like lost oddysee , mass effect and even star wars the force unleashed bad mouthed 
 for having repetitive tasks or boring game play when these games are just some of the true next 
 gen games pushing the boundarys with and complex speech system with two voices for your man character 
 (male and female) , a game four disc long that only gets better with tones of side missions and 
 characters that actually feel human, and three engines created to make realistic effects.
  but because every one one wants to be a gangster these don't get the recognition they deserve, 
 and there bringing down the gamer market, people ike that should actually try a brilliant game 
 and then think of GTA and how much it lacks for next gen and even pre gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoodayz2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Bah... a 10 on most all sites? No game ever made deserves a 10 and Iv been playing games for 24 
 years. Thats just insane. The good. Yes there is some new stuff in the game. ie: the internet spot. 
 Tho that is no reason for a 10. Graphics not bad and not good. sound ok. story ok. controls suck 
 a little. As allways the cheats are nice and fun to play with. The phone is fun intill it keeps 
 poping up every two to 3 mins for quest and what not. The map feels larger then before.. The violence 
 and language is all still there. Id say all in all the game is worthy of some play time but a 10 
 rating? just dont get your hopes up to high.... also the character feels alittle rigid similar 
 to Mass Effect.... the vehicles are all fun but the common ones you see to offten and the good 
 ones are harder to come by. All in all if theres nothing else then grab it you might enjoy it for 
 a day or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sampgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Gta Series but i did not enjoy the "Vice City Stories" or "Liberty 
 City Stories" but this is one of the most amazing free-form, open based game you can find in 2008. 
 For its vast amount of features, from the phone to the flying rats, you will love it
  
  The Good
  --------
  Good Physics Engine
  Good Graphics
  Great Fufilling Story line
  Multiplayer
 
  
  
  The Bad
  --------
  Very Minor Glitches
  How some missions are hard to beat
  
  I give this game a 10/10 as it proves that more is possible for the Gta Series.
  However 
 the game needs a little more of a story change.
  The classic Gta is getting boring, Maybe in the new gta you had alot of power at the start?
  
 but it is taken away.
  That would be intrested
  
  ARNAU
  
  
  
  MY FAVOURITE GTA YET!
  --------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGeneral13
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  For a long time i was waiting for this game to come out, thinking it wuld be the best game i wuld 
 play this year, sadly though it just didnt live up to the hype, was disapointing, story got tiresome 
 very quickly, and quite frankly, at times bored me to tears, HOWEVER, i dont think this game was 
 that bad, but the hype it was given i was expecting much much more. If your new to the series you 
 would give this game a very very different review, but as i am a veteren of the GTA games, i cant 
 help but compare it to the other games in the series. The online is a good laugh if you are playing 
 with a bunch of mates on free roam, just going around blowing things up and shooting each other, 
 is a priceless experience, personally couldnt get into the 'Deathmatch' and 'Team Deathmatch', 
 beacause every game i got into had auto-aim turned on, which gets boring very quickly as u dnt 
 have to do much, just hold onto aim then start button bashing the right trigger with ur pistol 
 at their head. To summarise, a good game, but didnt live up to the hype it was given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villihamson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  As a single player game, it's one of the best of 08 and as an online multiplayer, i couldn't stop 
 playing it.
  Even the gta race is enough to make me keep playing this game for hours and hours but when you 
 add the other online gamemodes, then this game is definatly worth the money. I can't see a flaw 
 in this game it's all you could want and more. From the hellicopters to the new enhanced way of 
 ... doing things with female callers in the ally behind a shop. I wasn't exactly a massive fan of 
 the other gta games but for me, this is enough to change anyones opinion on the game. I have heard 
 a few people say that the game was boring for them but i would say that it's anything but boring 
 it's highly addctive and i would recommend it to anyone who is a fan of..... great games. if you've 
 never played this game you definately should at the very least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBBfulkerson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Vehicle list 
  The following vehicles can be found in the game:
  
  Cars
  
  Admiral 
  Albany 
  Banshee 
  Blista Compact 
  Blista 
  Bucanneer 
  Chavos 
  Cognoscenti 
 
  Comet 
  Coquette 
  DF8-90 
  Dilettante 
  Dukes 
  Emperor 
  Esperanto 
  Faction 
  Feltzer 
  Feroci 
  Fortune 
  Futo 
  Infernus 
  Intruder 
  Lokus 
  Manana 
 
  Marbelle 
  Merit 
  Oracle 
  PMP 600 
  Phantom 
  Premier 
  Presidente 
  Primo 
  Roman's Taxi 
  Romero 
  Ruiner 
  Sabre GT 
  Sabre 
  Schafter 
  Sentinel 
 
  Stallion 
  Stratum 
  Sultan 
  Sultan RS 
  Super GT 
  Turismo 
  Uranus 
  Vigero 
  Vincent 
  Virgo 
  Voodoo 
  Washington 
  Willard 
  SUVs, vans, and trucks
 
  
  Biff 
  Bobcat 
  Boxville 
  Cavalcade 
  Cavalcade FXT 
  Contender 
  Flatbed 
  Habanero 
  Huntley Sport 
  Landstalker 
  Minivan 
  Mr. Tasty 
  Moonbeam 
  Noose Patriot 
 
  Packer 
  Patriot 
  Perennial 
  Rancher 
  Rebla 
  Ripley 
  Securicar 
  Speedo 
  Steed 
  Commercial and emergency vehicles
  
  Ambulance 
  Brute 
  Bus 
  Cabbie 
 
  Enforcer 
  FIB Buffalo 
  Firetruck 
  Forklift 
  Police Cruiser 
  Police Patrol 
  Police Stockade 
  Predator 
  Sky Tram 
  Subway Tram 
  SWAT Van 
  Taxi 
 
  Trashmaster 
  Motorcycles
  
  little stunt bike
  Freeway 
  Hellfury 
  NRG 900 
  PCJ 600 
  Sanchez 
  Zombie 
  Boats
  
  Dinghy 
  Jetmax 
  Marquis 
  Tropic 
 
  Aircraft
  
  Annihilator 
  Helitours Maverick 
  Maverick 
  
  Hospitals 
  Alderney: Westdyke Hospital and North Tudor Hospital Center 
  Algonquin: Holland Hospital Center, 
 Cerveza Heights Medical Center, and Easton Medical Center 
  Bohan: Bohan Medical & Dental Center 
  Broker: Schottler Medical Center 
  
  Hotels 
  Bell 
 Tower Apartments 
  Goering Hotels 
  Grand Northumbrian 
  Hotel Underbrucker 
  Opium Nights 
  Pythagoras Apartments 
  The Abattoir Apartments 
  The Big House 
  The Celtica 
 
  The Libertine :The Emissary 
  The Majestic 
  The Matterhorn 
  The Nicoise 
  
  Neighborhoods 
  Alderney
  
  Alderney City 
  Alderney State Correctional Facility 
  Acter 
 
  Acter Industrial Park 
  Berchem 
  Leftwood 
  Normandy 
  Port Tudor 
  Tudor 
  Westdyke 
  Algonquin
  
  Castle Garden City 
  Castle Gardens 
  Chinatown 
  City Hall 
 
  Easton 
  Fishmarket North 
  Fishmarket South 
  Hatton Gardens 
  East Holland 
  Lancaster 
  Lancet 
  Little Italy 
  Lower Easton 
  Middle Park 
  Middle Park East 
 
  Middle Part West 
  North Holland 
  Northwood 
  Presidents City 
  Purgatory 
  Star Junction 
  Suffolk 
  The Exchange 
  The Meat Quarter 
  The Triangle 
  Varsity Heights 
 
  Westminster 
  Bohan
  
  Boulevard 
  Chase Point 
  Fortside 
  Industrial 
  Little Bay 
  Northern Gardens 
  South Bohan 
  Broker
  
  Beachgate 
  Downtown 
  East 
 Hook 
  Firefly Island 
  Firefly Projects 
  Hove Beach 
  Outlook 
  Rotterdam Hill 
  Schottler 
  South Slopes 
  Dukes
  
  Beachwood City 
  Boabo 
  Cerveza Hights 
  East 
 Island City 
  Francis Internal Airport 
  Meadow Hills 
  Meadows Park 
  Steinway 
  Willis 
  Islands
  
  Charge Island 
  Colony Island 
  Happiness Island 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a kind of guilty pleasure for me, but overall, I was pretty impressed by GTA IV. I've never 
 been allowed playing the GTA series, it's the one game that was banned from my house, and when 
 I managed to get my grubby little paws on IV, I hoped to god it was worth the risk. 
  
  I was right.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game is beautiful. I'd say Assassin's Creed is a prettier 
 game, but GTA gives it a run for it's money. The way the city's lights are reflected in the water 
 at night, or the sunset viewed from a harbor, that makes this game a prize for those dudes out 
 there who love to point out how crappy the originial Doom's graphics are. 9/10.
  
  Sound: Oh my dear sweet baby Niko, this game is awesome to listen to. The sound quality is great, 
 the cars really VROOOOOM! and the radio never shuts up! One of the coolest things about this game 
 is the radio. Every car you enter has a TON of radio stations to choose from, so you're sure to 
 find the right channel for yourself. And they're all hilarious. Sometimes, I found myself just 
 parking my car and listening to the radio, because MAN! most of the things those dudes say are 
 worth telling your friends about. Pleasantly enough, though you'll find a little bit of repetivity, 
 you can just flick to the next station over and you'll be listening to something new. The song 
 parodies alone are worth turning on the radio. Voice-overs are done convincingly and beautifully. 
 The gun sound's are varied but a bit tinny, though it's forgivable. 10/10.
  
  Gameplay & Story: I would have made a separate paragraph for each of these catagories, but GTA 
 integrates them so much that it becomes impossible to have one without the other. It's quite possible 
 to play the game without the story, but even with cheats, this becomes boring. The storyline is 
 really what makes you want to keep playing forever, makes you feel a passion for the characters. 
 The characters for GTA IV have to be some of the most original and unique characters I've ever 
 seen in a videogame. I love them. Even the ones I hate I found I enjoyed. They have personality, 
 and loads of it. The twists and turns in the story itself will keep you going for ever, and with 
 the added bonus of being able to skip almost any minor mission, the storyline stops feeling like 
 a storyline and more of a time in someone's life. It's not predictable, you can make multiple decisions 
 that affect the ending, and it just keeps coming, much to my eternal joy. The attention to detail 
 paid is absolutely incredible, though there are minor bugs, such as an auto-targeting system that 
 will sometimes target dead bodies, or not acknowledge someone is alive and forcing you to manually 
 aim your weapon. This is annoying, but it doesn't really affect the gameplay too much. The cover 
 option is a nifty new trick that really helps your odds of survival. The amount of weapons available 
 has been decreased, which was a disapointment personally, as well as the amount of clothing available 
 for your character. The game advertises a huge amount of shopping opportunities promising many 
 fun new toys to play with, but in reality there's only 3 clothing stores, two of which are the 
 same. You can take dates or buddies out to dinner, strip shows, bowling, darts, even 8-ball, which 
 can be a nice distraction from the gritty world of crime. Almost all of the game involves your 
 handy cellphone in some way, which is also a cool way of immersing the player in the world of Niko. 
 You can check the date, scheduler, make plans with friends, replay missions, get text updates, 
 hell, the only way to access multiplayer is through your cellphone. Another sweet feature is the 
 use of internet cafes. The sheer amount of websites available is staggering. Rockstar put detail 
 into EVERYTHING. Instead of having just a ton of dead-end sites, you can read and explore sites 
 on an amazing amount of varying subjects, all with extra links to more of that particular site, 
 even if it has nothing to do with GTA itself. Over all, this is a 9/10 for me.
  
  Multiplayer: This was a hit or miss type thing, I found. There's many different modes to play with 
 your buddies or with random groups, so you're sure to find something to satisfy your urge to kill 
 another person via the virtual world of GTA, but I found that the auto-aim either made online too 
 difficult or too hard, depending on the skill levels of your opponents. Luckily, this option may 
 be turned off when creating a custom match. Free mode is fun, but it gets old after awhile due 
 to the fact you can't do much with your buddies then either:
  
  a) kill cops
  b) kill civilians
  c) kill each other 
  
  It would have been cool to have had an option to 
 allow cheats in-game, or maybe a way friends could rob a bank together. After awhile I found that 
 messing around in the city was just too repetitive. 8.5/10.
  
  On a scale of 10, I'd rate GTA IV a 9.5. A must get if you're a fan of the series/genre, and worth 
 checking out even if you're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warokku
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Literally just having started playing Grand Theft Auto Four, I am not at all disappointed. The 
 introduction is very comical, I really got a few laughs out out of it. I am very suprised with 
 the new control set up of the game, almost feels like I am playing a different game along with 
 improved graffic's. I have to say it is a very realistic looking game... which it need's to be! 
 Grand Theft Auto games have proven to be fun and challenging, making for a quality game but in 
 previous releases, though graphic's haven't been too bad, really needed to look realistic for such 
 a realistic game. Obviously being refined and released on HD brings you closer to realism. In past 
 releases the graphic's had been a thing that did bother me and I would always say that it would 
 be perfect if they were sharper and more refined, so know it's done. So I am sure that Grand Theft 
 Auto four will be "All it's cracked up to be".
  Any way will write more as I progress.
  I've just killed Vlad... This game is brilliant!!!
  If you are not playing, you should be!
 
  Having only just completed approx' 30% of the game and still going of course. I would have to 
 say that this is deffinitely one of the best games I have played to date and is very addictive. 
 There is so much detail in this game, it's outstanding. It's almost like a second life that you 
 lead through this game, via you'r console. A fairly broad selection of clothing, friends, cell 
 phone, to watching TV, it's crazy! A game not to be missed.
  Just getting past the 50% completion of this game, I am finding it highly addictive to play. Just 
 when you may start feeling bored with it, something new opens to bring the excitment back. So far 
 most of the missions (alot) have all been a comfortable challenge, giving you the passion to complete 
 them even if you have to try a few times. Niko is a great character too along with friend Bruce, 
 who is a bundle of laughs with some of the s**t he pulls out.
  Well just keep on going ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robingoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  While Playing GTA4 Youll notice that your playing scenes right from your favorite crime movies, 
 Heat, Jackie Brown, Pulp Fiction, Goodfellas and more.
  
  The Gameplay is masterful and this brings freeroaming to a new high. The story is where its at 
 for me. Yes I enjoy playing through it but if the story wasnt there you simply wouldnt be able 
 to spend the time needed to beat the game, because you would loose intrest.
  
  The multiplayer is heavenly and there are modes to choose from so your gonna find somthing you 
 like in this game. 
  
  This is as close to perfect as its ever going to get, cant wait for the next. I was never a GTA 
 fan until now and if your not a fan then let me say this: GTA4 does for GTA what RE4 did for Resident 
 Evil.
  
  Even if you dont like the core game in GTA4 there is plenty to do. Throw all of your crime DVDs 
 out the window and just hit this game when ever your in that kind of mood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DabsTight703
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  The game was mediocre at best. The story has been done before and the graphics are not that great 
 but tolerable. What gets me the most is the fact that Rockstar thought it would be a good idea 
 to make the game more "realistic" even though it feels like the roads are made of ice and all the 
 cars in Liberty City are on slicks. There are way too many cops and when you get to 3 stars, it's 
 pretty difficult to get away. I REALLY hate the fact that Rockstar thought it was ok to remove 
 so much content that was included in previous games. No car customization? No "RPG" elements? Such 
 a small variety of clothing? I think Rockstar released this game with hopes of just milking this 
 franchise. They know all they need to do right now is sell the name and people will buy it. The 
 game is fine if you've never played any other Grand Theft Autos but if you're like me and have 
 played Grand Theft Auto for the PC back in the day up until this point, you will be sorely disappointed. 
 Do not expect much out of this game besides a mediocre story, mediocre graphics, alot of left out 
 features, a familiar story, and just alot of mindless driving and shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaeffer
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  I just want to note to anyone who reads this ahead of time, this may seem like ranting and nitpicking 
 but it's my honest opinion on the game so if you don't want to read a fairly negative review you 
 have been warned!
  
  Let's face it Grand Theft Auto has a reputation of being overly violent, crazy often psychopathic 
 idolization, and sandbox fun. However with latest installation in the series you will see a lack 
 there of. Rockstar decided to go for a realistic approach limiting the game from the get go. Overall 
 this game is great but I feel ashamed when I play with family and litterly have conversations like 
 this...
  
  "Where is the chainsaw or the Katana?"
  "They removed them..."
  
  "Where is the monster truck?!"
  "They were trying to be realistic."
  
  "Where is the airplanes 
 and bicycles?"
  "They didn't include them."
  
  "I want to make a custom car and make my character look crazy."
  "There is like three or four 
 shops and you can't customize vehicles."
  
  Okay I think I got the point accross but what I'm trying to say truly is this game feels as though 
 the developers sat down and made a big check list of what made Grand Theft Auto... Well Grand Theft 
 Auto and removed these features. Your health is now minimal making rampages a very risky buisness. 
 Yep the foundations of GTA are often times DIFFICULT to pull off. Almost anything you can point 
 a flaw out on.
  
  The storys cutscenes in the beginning grabed my attention and some of the characters are very interesting 
 notably Packies family which introduces the one fun mission in the game. The game quickly goes 
 downhill after these missions presenting recycled mission structures one after the other. (Go here 
 kill this guy. Go here chase guy down kill him. Go here and chase him and kill him in his vehicle. 
 Go here kill these guys.) It doesn't mix up as every mission revolves around these things. If they 
 were approaching realism then why isn't there ONE errand you have to run that doesn't revolve around 
 whacking someone. The extra missions provide things like stealing cars or delivering drugs but 
 have no connection at all with the games story. Both Endings are LOSE/LOSE. So don't expect anything 
 there even if there is a "You win" Achievement yeah... Ok. After completing the game there is litterly 
 nothing to do (unless you enjoy watching that same TV show thats been playing over and over on 
 the games in game TV) . The things you can do are already faulted as presented. Mini Games are a 
 joke and vigilante missions are basically drive to the other end of the map kill one to ten people 
 over and over.
  
  However there are many positive things to enjoy in the game noteably the euphoria engine which 
 is truly beautifully crafted, running over people, shooting people, and such just looks amazing 
 as it responds to what you do. However a lack of blood and gore suppresses it quite a bit.
  
  Online also is pretty interesting however even in free mode you are extremely weak. One thing 
 I looked forward to the most was going Rambo rampaging with like four or five of my buddies but 
 it's not going to happen. One bullet (yes one.) that's a well placed shot from a cop will put you 
 down god forbid a shotgun. Once you die your wanted level resets. So all you do is drive around 
 trying to something to do when the game world is empty and devoid of activities and most of the 
 things you might try will likely not work out. The leveling up system is ridiculous there is such 
 an extreme lack of easy money other then the co-op missions which you can't play with friends if 
 you want to earn money... What a joke! You will play like 1,000+ matchs for a male in yellow underwear. 
 Not going to happen for me. What about you?
  
  Overall the game has its ups and downs and is pretty to look at. The euphoria engine keeps it running 
 as fun as it can possibly be. But for everything else its a huge letdown there's such a large lack 
 of content and return of the franchises coolest features that I can't justify it as a "perfect 
 10 GTA game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  You're just walking on Middle Park, you look straight: a man is talking by the phone with his friend, 
 at your right a women is running, and at your back (ironic) a guy's been trapped by the police. 
 These are one of the few thing that makes you realize Liberty City has a lot to offer, from getting 
 online in internet coffes to sit in your house and watch some TV.
  
  The Good
  Amazing fisics, graphics, story, dialogues, multiplayer and gameplay.
  
  The Bad
  There could 
 have been a "mayor" improvement on the series.
  After completing the main story there isn't something interesting enough to keep you playing
 
  
  Rockstar has hit the spot, the fact that the game doesn't have a mayor change in the GTA series 
 doesn't matter: there's a ridiculous amount of stuffs you can do; feeling in the mood for action? 
 Well get yourself in trouble and make the cops chase you. Maybe something relaxing? Why not playing 
 pool, darts, or watching TV in your apartment? Feeling lonely? I recommend you to go online and 
 meet someone or just call a friend and hang out. All of this just demonstrates that Liberty City 
 is alive, and it's all there for you, it demands you to explore and interact with it. 
  
  In the gameplay part, the games it's basically the same as other GTAs but it is more realistic 
 with the physics. The game feels "heavier" somehow but this is all good because it gives you a 
 feeling of reality, sure, you won't be able to perform some of the crazy jumps from San Andreas 
 but that's what it is all about. THe shooting system has improved, as well as the cop-chasing.
 
  
  The setting of the story it's pretty cool, you're Niko Bellick, a man who's running from his past 
 in Europe, ready to make the American dream in the big apple, but he quickly gets involved in a 
 world of gambling, organized crime, etc.
  
  The graphics are not only the best in series, but one of the best in video games. Liberty City 
 it's just as it's counter part, gray, rainy, loud, heavily popularized. You will hardly see the 
 same person walk again pass you. Excellent sound, excllent voice acting.
  In conclusion Grand Theft Auto IV is a must own.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: play284
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overatedSo overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
 
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overatedSo overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overatedSo overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
 
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overated
  So overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo overatedSo 
 overatedSo overatedSo overatedv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedmalice
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it keeps getting better. The story line is great and the protaginist just adds 
 to it. The missions along with the side missions keep you busy with hours of fun. Multiplayer is 
 fun. One of the greatest games of all time. I did hate the glitches it hinder the gameplay for 
 me a bit. The side missions are just as good as the story line. From stealing cars to dropping 
 off packages to asassination missions. I also enjoyed that you had to make decisions in the game 
 that effected the story line. Trying to unlock certain acheivements adds to the gameplay to. Wheeline 
 acheivement, walk away from a 4 star wanted level, Or lose a 6 star wanted  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I dont agree with everyone I think this game was average a think san andreas was much better. It's 
 graphics are great and the gameplay has been improved but it just got to boring. The characters 
 arent fleshed out enough and its a bad soundtrack. Definaintly the worst gta game ever. Halfway 
 through I got really bored and just started roaming around shooting random people. The online is 
 very boring just button mashing. It is a good game to roam around and explore manhattan. The driving 
 isn't it's strength. It's overpriced. I hate this game but they get some of my respect by trying. 
 The shooting the pigeons thing is very stupid the worst achievment thing ever. If you have disagreed 
 with me well...... then your'e  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inyaface45
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well, Whats is there to say about a game that has amazing freedom and lets you race with a jacked 
 up junkie, chase down mobsters with a homosexual friend, and has the best online free roam. I say 
 you get a game that deserves 10/10 in every which way possible. I have seriously sat down and tried 
 to find something wrong with Grand Theft Auto 4 and to be honest I forgot about it and found myself 
 playing for hours and hours. The only thing that I noticed is that Grand Theft Auto SA had character 
 customization and had the freedom of going to the gym and customizing your car and GTA4 did not 
 have that... but GTA SA did not have the amazing online free roam and visuals that Grand Theft Auto 
 4 has to offer and another thing I seen was that the in game internet had a good handful of sites 
 but only a selected few were useable. I see Grand Theft Auto being on the top of the list for a 
 very long time and I do not see it being a game that people forget about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4. Possibly one of the most awaited games of the next-gen consoles to arrive. 
 People have stated this game to be one of the greatest games to see the light of day. But is it 
 nearly as good as all that? The answer is a simple, but yet firm no.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 does seem to be a fun game for one to play. But the extreme similarity to it's 
 predecessors highly damages the game's aspect. I would actually consider this game to be absolutely 
 incredible, if I haven't played any of the previous games of the series. Now you might wonder what 
 makes me feel these mixed reactions? 
  
  First of all, every objective in the game seems to be the same repeated thing. Steal a specific 
 car, drive to a location, murder someone and recover reward money. You may think I'm exaggerating 
 at this point but I insure you, but it is exactly as I described it.
  
  Many features available in the GTA prequels were removed from the game. Such as creating the way 
 your character looks and body-building. The clothes available for purchase in the game are extremely 
 limited. And most of them are almost identical to each other.
  
  There are barely, and let's emphasize that word, any side-quests to perform in the game. Every 
 quest performed in the game is directed to the main storyline which makes the game feel straight-forward 
 and repetitive at times.
  
  The graphics are somewhat decent in the game. Quite a improvment from the prequels but whatsoever 
 doesn't experience the high-def capability the next gen consoles have to offer.
  
  The saving method in the game is absolutely useless. Saving can only occur in your residential 
 house, which can be extremely frustrating as you reside in the other side of town, and have to 
 drive back to your home.
  
  The game does have some fun elements to enjoy though. The driving in the game is brilliant with 
 the impressive camera capabilities. Huge variety of weapons makes the game's shootouts well done. 
 The online capabilities are also quite decent at most.
  
  Pro's:
  - Impressive environmental graphics
  - Driving has an impressive camera capability
  - Cellphone 
 idea brings a pretty useful turn
  
  Con's:
  - Highly repetitive elements ruins the game's potential
  - Frustrating saving options
  - Extremely 
 straight-forward
  - Very similar to prequels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshock
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok it's not a must have like halo 3 or call of duty 4 or gears. but it has a great story better 
 then any one that i have played on the 360. but you won't have as much of a good time in multiplayer 
 as you would in call of duty 4. but gta has never been a multi player game. and for it's first 
 time it's not bad. it took call of duty. 4 tries to finally get it perfect. but it's defenitly 
 a very competitive game. and the stories will suck you in. from stealing drugs from rivals and 
 getting chased by the cops with 60 pounds of coke on you just to make a buck. you will definitly 
 love this game the story gets a 10 the multiplayer gets a 7. it is defintly a great game to pick 
 up if your looking for something new. lol lolol l ol olol o l o foadhfa fha akldfa lah sxdhd slhd 
 hf lash ohdjl; aoh dh fadha l; ahdfladafh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eckokid8301
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is well above a good game. i'm one of those people though, that expect for every sequel 
 game to have EVERYTHING the game before it had, plus more, and that's where i'm a little bothered. 
 no airplanes, no parachutes, handling although more realistic, is gay, and bigger yet... still confined 
 in the beginning of the game. that is what made saint's row so awesome, freedom. But all in all, 
 still a helluva story, the graphics are second to none so far, and the audio is very nice. Niko 
 is a cool ass dude too. at first i was a little thrown off by him and roman being the main characters, 
 but 5 minutes into the game your thinking, this guys cool, he's got a bad past and wants to start 
 over, that's cool. Plus his cousin filled his head with all kinds of bogus rants about the riches 
 and women in America. i would have kicked his @$$ finding out where he lived and worked, and all 
 the gambling and debt he was in, but Niko's a better person than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0c41n3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  When I heard of the coming of the next gen GTA, I was extremely excited up until the actual release 
 date. Everything That was being said all over about this game, no doubt in my mind was going to 
 be proven one of the best video games I played in years. All the freedom, the graphics, the sidequests, 
 EVERYTHING.. was sopposed to put me in 'wow'; Let me say, this was totally untrue when I finally 
 popped 'revolutionary' game into my XBOX 360 console. This game is exactly like the previous games 
 in the series, adding the ability to watch television, surf the internet (let me add in my opinion 
 the internet is actually pretty limited, as far as the content you can explore) , and a few other 
 small features. And the fact they actually took out the body building feature, actually didn't 
 sit well with me, being able to put some hard effort into making your character a rock hard piece, 
 and then flaunting it while walking down the street, was alot of fun for me. Let me also say, This 
 game IS still fun, maybe more so if you were under a rock for years though, haven't been playing 
 video games.. and somehow missed the GTA series up until this point. And that being, the objectives 
 are ALL the same.. steal this car, go to this location conveniently marked by a colored dot on 
 the bottom corner of your screen, waste this person; collect reward money, repeat. This may be 
 all well and good for most people, But I'm looking for alot more in a video game anymore. With 
 the additions of games such as "Oblivion" and "Mass Effect" I've been spoiled into wanting more 
 choice, and better thought out mission objectives. In closing, this game is a decent play, to much 
 more of the same for me, nothing that ever deserved a "10" if other titles didn't get them, nothing 
 ground breaking, or jaw dropping, good graphics, over-rated multiplayer (halo rulez :D) and in 
 need for some creative mission objectives, because I can't be the only one tired of chasing little 
 dots, and then killing whatever/whoever is at the end of the "rainbow" sort of speak, lol.. peace 
 folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikingwarlord18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  mary 
  Reviews 
  GameSpot Review 
  Player Reviews  
  Critic Scores 
  News 
  Previews & Features 
  Images 
  Videos 
  Downloads 
  Hints & Cheats 
  Wiki 
  Forum 
 
  Check Prices 
  Games you may like
  
  GTA Chinatown Wars (DS) 15 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: 105
  [7:16 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: millimeter
  
 [7:16 pm] zuessfs: that should leave a good hole in the hood
  [7:22 pm] viking: lol a minigun to the xbox
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: the neighborhood
  [7:22 pm] 
 viking: we no wat a hood is
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: now ur talking
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: the gau8
  [7:17 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah...120mm recoiless
  [7:17 pm] zuessfs: 
 ***, why not go for a tac nuke, lol
  [7:17 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: idk... to cliche
  [7:18 pm] zuessfs: lol
  [7:18 pm] zuessfs: ok 50 cal ar-50 or m-81 at a mile, lol 
  [7:18 pm] 
 XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: perfer conventional, for dramatic effect... and a chance to see the box get screwed
 
  [7:24 pm] viking: then a dezert eagle
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: lol
  [7:19 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: ha ha it worked... i fixed it
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: goodo 
  [6:44 pm] 
 XGG Devils: nothin much u?
  [6:50 pm] viking: at a friend on my laptop gotta wait a week for my xbox
  [6:51 pm] viking: wazzup 
 maj.
  [6:51 pm] viking: i got a week
  [6:46 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: hey viking............. til what?
  [6:52 pm] viking: i get on xbl
 
  [6:47 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: sweet... im about to throw my box across the house
  [6:53 pm] viking: lol wat happen dis tyme
  [6:48 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: oh it wont load blackout
 
  [6:54 pm] viking: its like my ps2
  [6:49 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah well i just bought the legendary maps 2day... i can load avalanche 
 but i cant load blackout
  [6:55 pm] viking: wow wat does it say
  [6:55 pm] viking: wen you try to play it
  [6:50 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: players failed to load content
 
  [6:55 pm] viking: how
  [6:56 pm] viking: is the disc scratched
  [6:50 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: im trying to just play by myself and see it.... itll go to 1% then 20% 
 then over again... then fails
  [6:51 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: im going to try to delete the map pack and download it again
  [6:57 
 pm] viking: o0o tru
  [6:52 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: i was downloading castle crashers at the same time... that might have 
 screwed it up
  [6:59 pm] viking: ooo den do wat u waz going to do
  [6:53 pm] XGG Devils: wow i left for a min and i come back and i already missed alot
  [6:59 pm] 
 viking: lol
  [6:54 pm] XGG Devils: ....
  [7:00 pm] viking: wat u say .... for
  [6:55 pm] XGG Devils: because i felt like it
  [7:01 pm] viking: fine meany
  [6:55 pm] XGG Devils: 
 haha
  [6:55 pm] XGG Devils: yep yep
  [6:57 pm] XGG Devils: ?
  [6:57 pm] XGG Devils: so wats new with every one
  [7:06 pm] viking: chillin maj. trying to see 
 wat happen 2 his ledgandary map pack
  [7:00 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: idk... its stupid
  [7:06 pm] viking: it did the same thing
  [7:01 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: no.... idk what its doing
 
  [7:07 pm] viking: i think u need a new xbox
  [7:02 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: no.. it was the download i think
  [7:08 pm] viking: it downloading 
 right now
  [7:03 pm] XGG Devils: im think im lost
  [7:03 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah 10%
  [7:09 pm] viking: wat i would b at 98% by now
  [7:04 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: i just started it
 
  [7:09 pm] viking: o0o then nvm lol
  [7:04 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: now 20%
  [7:11 pm] zuessfs: pwnage wat r u doing
  [7:11 pm] zuessfs: wheres my dinner
  [7:11 pm] XGC 
 MAJ. PWNAGE: hey hey ... trying to redownload legendary
  [7:11 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: screw off nick
  [7:11 pm] zuessfs: i thought u said u already downloaded 
 the legendary maps
  [7:12 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah but it wouldnt load blackout
  [7:12 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: man gots some good stuff
  [7:12 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: lol....
  [7:13 
 pm] zuessfs: i love that map
  [7:18 pm] viking: wat u mean
  [7:13 pm] zuessfs: shotty on that is bomb
  [7:13 pm] zuessfs: we'll play later
  [7:13 pm] XGC 
 MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah if itll let me load it
  [7:13 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: i could load avalanche
  [7:13 pm] zuessfs: lol, is it already downloaded
 
  [7:13 pm] zuessfs: hmm
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: i have an idea
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: go to the toolbox
  [7:14 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: yeah i deleted them though
 
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: grab hammer
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: connect hammer to xbox
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: with extreme force
  [7:20 pm] viking: wats grab hammer
  [7:14 pm] XGC MAJ. 
 PWNAGE: prefer 40 cal.
  [7:14 pm] zuessfs: continuously till satisfied
  [7:14 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: and the nuke'em box
  [7:15 pm] zuessfs: lol
  [7:15 pm] XGC MAJ. 
 PWNAGE: dude i bought a mini-14 2day
  [7:15 pm] zuessfs: screw 40 call
  [7:21 pm] viking: o preffer 2 uzis 2 it
  [7:15 pm] zuessfs: 40mm
  [7:15 pm] zuessfs: nah, still 
 too small
  [7:15 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: ive wanted one since i was 16
  [7:21 pm] viking: about 2 to 7 magz
  [7:15 pm] zuessfs: and uzi is inaccurate
  [7:15 pm] XGC 
 MAJ. PWNAGE: 105
  [7:16 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: millimeter
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: that should leave a good hole in the hood
  [7:22 pm] viking: lol a minigun 
 to the xbox
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: the neighborhood
  [7:22 pm] viking: we no wat a hood is
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: now ur talking
  [7:16 pm] zuessfs: the gau8
  [7:17 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: 
 yeah...120mm recoiless
  [7:17 pm] zuessfs: ***, why not go for a tac nuke, lol
  [7:17 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: idk... to cliche
  [7:18 pm] zuessfs: lol
  [7:18 pm] zuessfs: ok 50 
 cal ar-50 or m-81 at a mile, lol 
  [7:18 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: perfer conventional, for dramatic effect... and a chance to see the box 
 get screwed
  [7:24 pm] viking: then a dezert eagle
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: lol
  [7:19 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: ha ha it worked... i fixed it
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: good
  [7:25 pm] 
 viking: 2 with 300 magizines
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: we can play later
  [7:19 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: kisk your woman off the box
  [7:19 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: kick***
 
  [7:25 pm] viking: wat 
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: i played cd4 for a bit so im letting her play for a bit
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: 
 desert eagle is nice
  [7:20 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: man i remember such good times on this map
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: too 
 big though
  [7:20 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: dual mags baby
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: ill take a sig
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: or a 1911
  [7:20 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: this is my halo home
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: 
 lol
  [7:21 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: everyone has it wrong
  
  [7:25 pm] viking: 2 with 300 magizines
  [7:19 pm] zuessfs: we can play later
  [7:19 pm] XGC 
 MAJ. PWNAGE: kisk your woman off the box
  [7:19 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: kick***
  [7:25 pm] viking: wat 
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: i played cd4 for a bit so im letting her play for 
 a bit
  [7:20 pm] zuessfs: desert eagle is nice
  [7:20 pm] XGC MAJ. PWNAGE: man i remember such good times on this ma
  Saints Row 2 (X360) 
  
 Halo 3 (X360) 
  Lego Batman (X360) 
  Saints Row (X360) 
  See More Similar Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameproman9000
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Cons
  You get all these "gangsters" who suck at games playing the multiplayer... And I thought children 
 were bad.. But thats not all. maybe im just not doing it right but for some reason everytime i 
 try to switch game type it puts me back in my single player campaign. Would making a lobby for 
 multiplayer really be that hard. Plus the multiplayer sucks gameplay wise also I mean it really 
 sucks I have never played multiplayer this bad.... If you dont get it by now I think the Multi 
 player sucks..
  I found my self wishing that the next game has more custimization for your character like the previous 
 instalment in the gts series. And what the hell you can custimize a characters galsses however 
 I couldnt find i single pair in the story, I think it might be a glitch but im not sure i never 
 bothered looking it up.
  
  
  
  Pros
  Single player campaign, great and has always been great.
  Lots of features although I found my 
 self not wanting to do them after i finished the game. Greatest videogaming story I have ever come 
 in cnotact with. The characters were cool and the ones i wanted to die usually had a habbit of 
 dieing.. That annoying rapper who cleans the streets pfft.. I just wished i could have killed him.. 
 I know I know just a game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eezzy-peezy-101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  
  i thought it was great, but then... jeez it really is boring! plain clothes, no vehicle customisation... why, 
 Rockstar, whyy!!!!! i don't know, it might just be me, but this game slightly reminds me of the 
 last one, always something wrong!!! no choppers or planes, rubbish clothes and car stuff (nitrous, 
 vinyls, etc....) but i guess it was'nt ALL bad.. good story, nice graphics and the characters were 
 good. pretty addictive! but then it got boring at the end. just sooo repetitive!! ahh well, what 
 can you do? forget about Rockstar, because they are finished: P On the other hand, i cannot wait 
 for Saints Row 2!! no thats good gaming! awesome gang fights, you are able to actully FLY the planes 
 you see and my personal favourite, car customisation!!! you know whats funny? Saints Row 2 was 
 practically EXACTLY how i imagined GTA 4 to be before it came out, but i guess all of the hype 
 had clouded my vision..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Grand Theft Auto IV
  
  Review 145
  
  Released: April 29, 2008
  Publisher: Rockstar Games
  Developer: Rockstar North
  Game Genre: Modern Action Adventure
 
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: Blood, Intense Violence, Partial Nudity, Strong 
  Language, Strong Sexual Content, 
 Use of Drugs and 
  Alcohol
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (10/10)
  Very rarely will a game have a storyline as exciting and 
 as well-created as GTA IV. You control Niko Bellic, an immigrant who comes to the USA to visit 
 his cousin Roman, from whom he has heard many great things about the land of opportunity. Unfortunately, 
 when he gets there he discovers that he must work his way up, as Roman lives in a crappy apartment 
 and runs a very shabby cab depot.
  
  Many choices can be made throughout the storyline, such as helping a person or killing them. Some 
 of these have direct consequences on how the game progresses, and even the ending.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  So much can be said, but I will try to keep it relatively short for the reader. 
 As in other GTA games, you have many decisions to make. The free roaming possibilities mean that 
 you can follow the missions, or you can run around blowing things up. New features include surfing 
 the web, checking email, and making friends. As always, mini-jobs are available as well.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  GTA is so close to nabbing the 10. There is still an issue with draw graphics 
 in a select few areas of the map. Body graphics can also be improved.
  
  Durability (10/10)
  With two endings and many black and white choices in the game, there is a 
 huge replayability factor and the storyline also contains over 80 missions to fulfill, not including 
 side-jobs.
  
  Overall Score (9.8/10)
  Rounded Score (10/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  One of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is the fourth... or fifth... or sixth or seventh or something entry into the Grand Theft Auto 
 series. This game is filled with plenty of great action, dramatic moments, and near-epic climaxes 
 to keep you immensely satisfied with your purchase, but you still can't help but feel like there's 
 some vital chunks missing that keep it from perfection.
  
  The graphics, technically, are good, and are incredible artistically. There are wonderfully designed 
 ghetto neighborhoods and lavish ones. You'll notice plenty of nice shadows, but at times the game 
 may get TOO dark. Whether its trying to find your way through an unlit alleyway at night or even 
 under a thick shadow in the middle of the day, it may get pitch black.
  
  The most significant change from previous GTA games is that pretty much everything is accessed 
 through Niko's cellphone. You can phone characters (to inform them of your current situation, to 
 organize activities (we'll get to that later) , and to get missions from them) , take pictures, use 
 cheats, and receive text messages through it.
  
  Driving vehicles is great, because each vehicle has a substantially distinct handling. They all 
 look great, but the best part is the damage cars take. They get paint scratches for scraping, dents (or 
 even extremely large indentations) for collisions, and different car parts can catch fire. If you 
 drive through a fire, your tires might catch fire, and eventually pop after burning for long. They 
 can also pop if you drift and burn rubber too much. What was an extremely welcome detail is that 
 flipping your car doesn't result in explosions this time around.
  
  The story and dramatic elements are certainly the best yet in the series. There were numerous points 
 in the story in which I actually stopped, panicked a bit, and was actually experiencing denial 
 when a character died. One minor character gets ran over by a car, resulting in their death. I 
 stopped, though "no! no way!", called an ambulance (in the game) , and watched his body. The situation 
 would've maintained its emotion if the paramedics weren't idiots and only cared about Niko and 
 just left the dead body there.
  
  Throughout the game you will have to choose whether or not to kill a character. The illusion of 
 free will (that was a reference to Half-Life) is present, because choosing NOT to kill them NEVER 
 has negative consequences, and the character may appear later in the game to give you a mission. 
 So there really is no point in killing any of them. There are actually two different endings you 
 can get in the game, but they aren't really good or bad endings, which is good. That way you can't 
 really get angry because you got the bad ending, because there is no bad ending.
  
  During the game you'll encounter recurring characters, and some of them will become your friend. 
 Through your cellphone you can arrange activities to do with them. Some of the activities include 
 bowling, pool, darts, visiting the strip club, going on boat or helicopter rides, and even going 
 to a bar to get drunk. Getting drunk is great fun, because you and you're companion will stumble 
 all over the place and even fall if provoked. You can hail a cab, or do the irresponsible (AKA fun) 
 thing and drive drunk. You're vision is blurry and its far more difficult to control the car in 
 the manner you wish. And be prepared to escape the cops if they spot you.
  
  During you're free time you can head pack to your apartment and watch some TV. There are various 
 shows such as 'I'm Rich', 'Republican Space Rangers', and 'The Serrated Edge'. They are all pretty 
 funny, but there are only one or two episodes of each show to watch. The commercials are also funny, 
 my favorite being the Piswasser Beer commercial. It's basically a hardcore rock advertisement video 
 with hilarious tongue-in-cheek lyrics. Such as:
  
  "Piswasser, this is beer!/Drive drunk off a pier!"
  
  The most exciting addition is the ability 
 to play multiplayer online. Too bad it isn't much fun! Often you will have to wait for at least 
 20 minutes for people to play with, and the only game type that you can always count on is racing. 
 And the racing is great fun. All of the modes are pretty fun, but aren't really worth waiting for 
 so long. I always think about how much better the game would be if the online wasn't flawed.
  
  Every pedestrian and character is part of the new Euphoria engine, which accurately and realistically 
 mimics body and muscle movement. If you're standing facing to the side on a staircase the leg on 
 the higher step will be bent up. And if you stand with one foot on the sidewalk and one of the 
 street the leg on the curb will also be bent up realistically. Hitting pedestrians with cars is 
 very fun, becuase they fly all over really realistically. You do too. If you're drunk and fall 
 down a staircase, it's fun. Jumping out of a helicopter is fun. Pretty much everything that takes 
 advantage of the Euphoria engine is fun.
  
  What disappointed me was the fact that there is no sort of replay viewer/editor. San Andreas had 
 a half-assed replay viewer, but at least it was something.
  
  Personally, I think that San Andreas was better for its time than GTA4 is now. An incredible game 
 would be San Andreas remade with the GTA4 engine.
  
  Even though Grand Theft Auto 4 has a few flaws, it still maintains a state of awesome throughout 
 the whole experience. It is definitely worth purchasing and among the greatest games of all time 
 (just behind San Andreas) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldwolf12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun and addictive to play around with. The graphics are really pretty, you 
 can see the shine off the cars, the explosions are nice, and the draw is very far. Despite needing 
 a HD T. V to get a lot of the graphics, a standard T. V can work well with it too. The physics engine 
 they use for the game is truly amazing for the most part. I say for the most part because whilst 
 seeing Niko go flying through the windshield (classic.) is funny the first few times, after a while 
 it just gets annoying, especially when your car goes spinning wildly out of control when you hit 
 something. Now the gun play is very good, just as the other ones, there are still camera issues 
 with Auto Aim, but if you can ignore that, you'll have a lot more fun. The multiplayer is pretty 
 well made to be honest, pretty well balanced, and pretty fun to play. Though if you can get immersed 
 in the game you can ignore some of the minor flaws. The bottom line is this game isn't perfect, 
 but it dose a good job of hiding it's flaws through immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  First of I really enjoyed playing this game, the character is by far the best the series has ever 
 seen. that said this game is NOT prefect and is NOT for everyone.
  
  For starters im going to go ahead and rant on the score "10" very briefly. 10 by gamespots standards 
 dictates a game that is new, refreshing, probably using new tech, and pushing graphics to a new 
 high. 
  
  This game uses the same tired and true style all the other games have use with several tweaks that 
 for the most part are for the better of the game
  
  The graphics in this game are nothing special, this simply just does not have any moments in the 
 game where I sat there and was like "man... thats looks amazing!" that said the graphics are not 
 bad ether. especially considering the only load times are for movie clips and loading special missions. 
 all textures look fine and character models for the most part are clean so that you dont see many 
 people who look like legos. one MAJOR issue though is item pop up. this occurs a little to often 
 for my liking, and is especially prevelant when driving in cars. Many a time I have been in a police 
 chase only to have my car stop dead in its tracks and send me through the windshield. I would look 
 back to see what immovable force had been set in the road only to see nothing... then out of no 
 where a huge road barrier appears... very strange.
  
  The voice acting in this game really shines 98% of the time. Thus the story is also pretty fun 
 compared to the other games in the series. 
  
  Sounds for the most a part are good, though lots of recycled sounds later in the game...
  
 
  Playability is good too, the controls are simple and work well, its also much easier to aim in 
 this game than SA or VC
  
  This game can take FOREVER and a day to finish. There is simply millions of things to do not counting 
 free play. you can surf the internet, get a girlfriend, do *gratuitous extra curricular activities* 
 with said girlfriend, play all sorts of mini games and of course there main missions are pretty 
 lengthy. There is also tons of hidden/random content. For me though the free play is where this 
 game really shines:)
  
  There is multyplay in this game but I did not get a chance to play in it, but from what I have 
 heard it can be pretty entertaining if you get in a good group
  
  All in all this game was a fun game, I would recommend it to older audiences who dont mind constant 
 swearing, a plethora of violence and some very skanky girls. This game is not for younger folks 
 *IE Teenagers and below* 
  I give it an 8 for being fun and engaging but still could have been way better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohr2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Okay GTA 4 is a very controversial for obvious reasons... should you buy this game? Let's start 
 with graphics and so on
  
  
  Graphics:8.5 The character models aren't great but hey it's a big city so I'll let it slide. The 
 car model are frigging amazing they almost look realistic. And the damage models are amazing but 
 there are a bit of graphic clippings but hey I'll let it slide. Oh and there's rag doll physics.
 
  
  
  Story:10 Your a Russian immigrant named Niko Bellic and you came to Liberty city to live the American 
 Dream that your cousin, Roman talk a lot about but when you come you realize that Roman was lying. 
 There is a lot of back story before the game that is explained as you play through
  
  
  Gameplay:9.5 Rockstar had went in a different direction with this GTA game with it's realism and 
 the cover system taken from Gears. The realism is a love-hate thing, with it's realism cars don't 
 blow up when they flip, but driving is like fighting my brother, it doesn't give up. And helicopters 
 are tricky too. But the combat system is where it shines, next to everything can be used as cover 
 and is really helpful for during police gun fights. Oh and the police are omnipotent. Let's say 
 you jack this guy's car and there are no police on this block, you get a wanted level and on the 
 mini map there is a police car 3 blocks away but it's really fun to drive away so it's a love-hate 
 thing too.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  
  
  
  Overall: GTA 4 is a new direction for the series with it's seriousness and more controversy (yet 
 not as much a the hot coffee mod controversy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_kell411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV cast you as Nico Bellic, a former Serbian soldier and a rough character trying 
 to make it in Liberty City. As you begin the game, you are intoxicated by the ability to grab and 
 throw people out of cars, commit robberies... and hit strip clubs. It's everything you wanted to 
 do but couldn't... because A. Law Enforcement is harder to deal with in reality and B. You're not 
 Nico Bellic.
  
  You quickly realize the sheer massiveness of Liberty City early on. With several areas to explore... including 
 business, marina, residential and ghetto districts, there is no end to the change of scenery you 
 can experience. Whether it's stealing some rich guy's Ferrari out of his front yard or jacking 
 a tiny three wheeled meter maid from the airport, everything you do is fun... and the best part 
 is, is that you can get to choose to do it. 
  
  The main storyline is intriguing, having a climax to the GTAIV at a bank robbery mission that looks 
 as if it was designed by Spielberg, the storyline is guaranteed to force you to make key decisions 
 throughout the game that define who you are. 
  
  Graphics wise, GTA IV is astounding in its visuals... and to make this even more impressive, the 
 game loads on the fly... enabling you to drive everywhere in Liberty City with that stolen Lamborghini, 
 Helicopter... whatever you decide to get your grubby little paws on, and never hit a loading screen. 
 
  
  There are very few flaws with GTA IV... one of the biggest complaints about it is that the lollipop 
 girl on the cover isn't actually in the game. (Although I do remember meeting her in person last 
 weekend) Online play was a little disappointing to me... not really because of the game play, which 
 was amazing... but because I desired a little more customization to my character before jumping 
 into a game. (Note to self: I ended up as a pregnant lady... a very angry pregnant lady with an 
 AK47. Hey... it could happen.) 
  
  Despite all of the awesome reviews on this game... I will give this game a solid 9.5 out of 10... cashing 
 in at one of my all-time top 3 favorites, and just barely missing 10 because I don't like pregnant 
 ladies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I played this game when it came out and decided to review it now. I gave it a 9.5 because this game 
 is just superb, it looks great, plays great and most of all the story fits GTA perfectly. For the 
 10-20 hours i spent playing i was gripped by the storyline and never really wanted to put my controller 
 down! Although some parts can be hard, the difficulty is just right and provides a challenge where 
 needed but keeps the fast game play so the player does get too frustrated. Now on to the graphics, 
 they may not be amazing but they are great looking and the euphoria engine makes the game much 
 more enjoyable. I bet lots of people have had fun hijacking a car the letting the poor soul that 
 you stole the car from hang on to the door while you drive. OK well i know what your thinking, "why 
 didn't he give it a 10 then?". Well that's simple i didn't like the car control much i mean it was 
 good but it wasn't great. I also got the feeling they could of worked more on the people in the 
 game, the environments are great but the people look like they were rushed.
  
  
  
  My final verdict is this is an awesome game good graphics and a perfect storyline. Bring on GTA 
 V!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  What a person expects from a sequels is: Maintaing the great traits from the previos games, adding 
 new features, and removing the less than stellar aspects of the prevois games.
  
  GTA IV follows through on maintaing some aspects of the prevouis games like the one man army aspect, 
 variety of weapons, great story. 
  
  However, this next installment in the series find away to cut away so many things we loved about 
 San Andreas, such as personalizing car, crafting your charecter (through tattoes, hair cuts, weight 
 lifting) . Also dropped in IV is the leveling system affected players accuracy with weapons, driving 
 vechiles.... Why these were removed from the old games isn't known but they added to the fun of 
 san adreas, and there absence added disapointment to IV. Also street racing was quite bland, for 
 instance if you show up to the race in a super car often the computer uses station wagons or SUV's 
 which makes racing boring and very easy. 
  
  Now to the gameplay, their is addition to the game of a cover system, which not only make the game 
 incredibly easy it also becomes frusterating. For instance, you charecter can blind fire with almost 
 exact same effectiveness as shooting regularly, all weapons can be blind fired including RPG's. 
 The annoying part of the cover is when ur charecter manages to manuever around the corner of the 
 cover into open air with in the line of fire. Also, the avialability of cash, the cheepness of 
 ammo, the avliability of ammo, and the amount of guns u can carry make the game easy to wisk through. 
 
  
  Mission, are stereotypical GTA gameplay is maintained from the prevouis but what is new is how 
 repetative it is is new. The basic missions are, drive this guy, shoot this guy, race here, and 
 shoot more guys. Sounds like i'm dumbing it down but each mission is basically the same but has 
 a relation to the plot. 
  
  The story however is quite riviting but there was a lack of back story, for instance it would have 
 been nice to play a prelude mission where Niko was betrayed in the army. 
  
  The online is alright, the leveling system is set up nicely but instead of a map, the city is free 
 roam, but the problem is sometimes its hard to find enemies, theres some land due to the large 
 enviroment.
  
  In the End GTA IV is a solid game in the series, but the prevouis ones are far superior in gameplay. 
 IV reallly doesnt push the envelope for the series and seems like their running out of ideas. The 
 people who regard the game as perferct are more impressed by the cheap thrills of the game and 
 the series. Thus this game deserves no more than a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feararagon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  First thing first, Grand theft auto may be the best game in the Grand theft auto series thats my 
 opinion though. Starting off with the story: you play a Russian (I think LOL) named Niko Bellic. He 
 finds out his cousin Roman isn't what he said he was. Roman said hes got a mansion he doesn't its 
 an ugly apartment, he says he has sport cars which turn out to be taxi's. Then it goes on from there. Overall 
 I give the story a 10.0 because of the plot twists and turns.
  
  Game play: The new cover system makes gun play kinda feel like GOW (gears of war) in a good way, the 
 new guns are great. The new controls are feeling real good. Overall game play is a 10.0.
  
  Graphics and physics :New graphics just blew my mind, and the euphoria physics engine made it real 
 fun to run people over unlike other games where they do the same animation and lay flat. Plus Euphoria 
 made jumping off buildings and flying out of helicopters fun! Over all 10.0! Even though I think 
 the engine could kick in a little more like in SWFU
  
  Game overall : 10.0 =) !!10.0 is my score because of the cover system, new graphics and physics and 
 great story line. This is a great game a must buy and worth more than your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  well people the game was hyped alot and i mean a lot .gamespot has reviewed it perfect well its 
 not perfect. if GTA V comes so what they gonna do rate it 12 out of 10 ???
  i dont believe that there is any game that is totally perfect .it is best in series and awesome 
 game but its not all.
  now something about the game :
  
  The story of gta iv is good and Roman is one of the funniest characters it has to offer. one frustrating 
 thing is that i cannot get 100% completion (because of those killing birds i cannot find them ) 
 .
  
  driving a car for the first time in this game and u will feel the car handles very different from 
 gta 3series.
  the improvments are no doubt of graphics and loading is minimized so u dont have to wait but u 
 get into action straight away.
  the best improvment is of shooting .it is soo lifelike .the dirct shooting through a car is also 
 very good as in gta3 we have to hold down 3 buttons to shoot 1 bullet out of the car.
  
  with all these improvments comes using of internet ,calling 911 and repoting a fake crime or using 
 ur mobile (u can even change ur wallpaper and ring tones)
  
  an awesome game n i hope we will see more n more improvments in the gta's to come .owner of the 
 next gen console has too hav his hands on this masterpiece.
  frankly i bought my x360 when i heard that it was not coming on ps2 and origial xbox!!!
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf745
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. the storyline is long and very entertaining, as you play the game the 
 choices you make affect the ending. so for how it ends it up to you! how cool is that!
  
  They have added a lot more features in GTA 4 including internet cafe where you can actually date 
 people and oragnize meetings and buy cars its fantastic. another great feature is the mobile phone 
 where you can call other characters during the game (even when ur driving) and you can hang out 
 with them maybe go to the strip club or the bar. or you can just have a chat!
  
  The gameplay is highly addictive just like the previous GTA's you can just play from night till 
 morning its that fun!
  
  the multiplayer is very good. instead of all against all, you can now do teams and i dont mean 
 just two teams you can have 10 teams its great. you can also use your mobile phone to call other 
 gamers while you are playing to plan an attack or have a good old chat hehe!
  
  This game should be on your xbox console!
  overall i give this game a 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoMinswater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was truly amazing I love GTA 1 and 2, but since have not really been a huge fan and only 
 tried this game on the demands of my fellow co-workers. I have to say that I am grateful, it was 
 an awesome game. After I beat the game I was actually blown away at the depth to the characters 
 conversations (Granted not that deep, but pretty good for GTA) . The fact that the main character 
 shows doubt and actually evolves as the game goes on is great. Most of the other GTA games just 
 have the character get more bad ass and well known but not actually think or react to what is happening 
 in the game. 
  
  The missions actually had a good mixture of activities and only a few seemed pretty boring and 
 most of those were on the first island. My only big complaint is a lot of the missions have a driving 
 portion to them at first and when you die and retry a mission you have to redo the driving portion 
 which can get very aggravating. There were only a few missions I had to replay in the standard 
 game fashion of memorizing enemy positions to beat. Most of the game could be played very fluidly 
 both with in a missons and throughout the game getting to play whatever missions or activies i 
 felt like. Also the Bank mission was amazing and makes me want to look forward to another GTA in 
 a hope of more then one mission that is taht complex and fun.
  
  All in all I am very happy, I am very pessimistic when it comes to game sequels and feel usually 
 that game companies crank out sequels just to make money. This one feels like they put a lot of 
 thought into it and a lot of care. 
  
  Also the slight changes in story with the choices you make in terms of who lives and who dies is 
 very nice and also very subtyl done. I was not aware that I was effecting the characters and the 
 story that much till after I beat the game and talked it over with friends.
  
  Maybe this leave hope for fallout 3 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatsbythepig
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  An incredible game that fixes all of the probems from the previous iterations and improves upon 
 the overall gameplay.
  It is unbelievable how much time the developers put into this game. There are hours of radio time, 
 multiple TV shows, cabaret and comedy clubs. The amount of story and commentary is comparable to 
 4 movies.
  Besides all of that, it a fun and immersive sanbox-style game that sets the standard in the genre. 
 Hey it's another GTA game and we all know what that means. Running over pedestrians, doing vigilante 
 missions, finding unique jumps and killing bad guys.
  It's not just any other GTA game though, it is GTA4. GTA4 has the best feel and look of all the 
 previous ones. My only complaint- and it is subjective, I didn't think the music was as good. The 
 other games had a lot of great music that was either nostalgic or was great to experience the first 
 time. Although the music helped set the mood in this game, I just didn't like it as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henchman-24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Pretty bad-ass game. I'm a real sucker for
  
  1) Open environments
  
  2) Urban crime
  
  3) People rolling like rag-dolls and bursting like red water-balloons when you hit them with 
 a very large, fast car.
  
  This game has all of these things and more. Now that I've got it on-line, I can't be bothered to 
 play story missions though. I just want to death-match and death-match and team-death-match and 
 then death-match some more.
  
  I love it when we die together. We turn on one-another, submachine guns blazing, bullets tearing 
 the air like homicidally angry bees. Death Bees - death bees chew our skin and eat our guts and 
 come out the other side s***ting fury and exploding anti-space. The motion of anti-life.
  
  Or maybe you're trying to snipe me, and I hit you with my car. That's cool too.
  
  The RPG 
 is heavy in my hands. You're too close, but I fire anyway. We die together, you by manslaughter, 
 me by suicide. I don't mind. I surf the burning air with my face, and kiss the sky with a rorschach 
 splatter of blood across the clouds. 
  
  To quote Tricky,
  
  "Because my AK-rig goes BOOM-BOOM." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was for me an unexpected gift i recieved for my birthday. Now, I'm am so grateful 
 it was bought for me because it is probably the best offline game I have ever played. It has a 
 good length story mode and awesome missions which in some ways reflect real life problems. I have 
 really enjoyed the game since I got it but I am still yet to complete it. The Online play is the 
 only reason I marked it down by .5 because some of the oline games are very difficult yet still 
 very ejoyable. I recommend this game 110% to anyone who is thinking about getting it. The weapons 
 are also very good, they are the normal type of weapon you would get in a video game but there 
 is still a lot of them and they are well worked into the game such as unlocking them as you go 
 along in missions.
  Its Better than Halo, better than gears of war, better than mercs 2- GTA is the game to buy!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about GTA IV I wasn't too excited. I expected it to be pretty much the same 
 as GTA III or Vice City. But what we got was completely different. It was so realistic, so gritty 
 it was perfect. I was surprised that most of the buildings you were able to go inside, without 
 any indication of it being accessible. Its also pretty cool that if you go too fast in a car and 
 ram into something, you go flying out the windshield. It was a breath of fresh air to see something 
 different from the other GTAs. I was also glad that they got rid of that stat crap that they had 
 in San Andreas. It made the game kind of feel more like a RPG then a crime shooter game. So overall 
 the game play was great, has a pretty solid story-line but kind of predictable. So I hope you enjoy 
 this game as much as I did. And, don't take it too seriously and go on a rampage like those kids 
 did after playing Doom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  this franchise obviously has bought and paid for reviews... i mean seriously.. even the music is 
 bland, hardly anything original.. another thing is gta3, vice city, san andreas, and this are all 
 way to freaking similar all this hype for what... for what? i like crackdown much much better. 
 had an actual mood and atmosphere comparatively speaking of course, and much much better music, 
 comparatively speaking of course.
  i will never again buy a GTA game. this it the most over hyped series of games i have ever heard 
 of or played in my entire 22+ years of gaming experience... and i believe i have said all i need 
 to about it.. a perfect 10 yet in the same review says "the game is not without flaws" lmao. i 
 rest my case. if the game has flaws then it shouldnt receive a perfect 10 now should it.... no 
 it shouldnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krp008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  The next installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and well crafted, but the multiplayer leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV epitomizes Rockstar's savvy technique and peerless mastery in the creation 
 of this year's best title in every single way from subtle details to the looming and breathtaking 
 cityscape. A masterpiece in every sense of the word, Grand Theft Auto IV has set a new standard 
 for all games of the genre, and hence of all genres to look up to and revere it with awe.
  
  Gameplay in IV has been revamped and redone to a point of ridiculous realism not only in the 
 driving aspect, but also just about everywhere else. I will begin with the story: you play as Nikolai 
 Bellic, a recent immigrant to the shores of the United States, and he has great expectations from 
 what his cousin Roman has told him who has lived there for a while already. As soon as the story 
 gets moving Niko learns that all those wonderful things Roman told him about were, well -- exaggerated 
 quite a bit. It turns out Roman has not been living the easy life as he runs a flimsy cab service 
 and is in debt to Russian mobster named Vlad. The story is very engrossing with the believable 
 and even lovable characters and especially the way it written, compliments of Dan Houser himself. 
 The story in a nutshell is all about Niko and Roman getting out of debt, getting rid of their enemies, 
 and making it to the top of the food chain. The story features plenty of unexpected twists and 
 enough subtle undertones that really make it very captivating. And another thing: Niko Bellic is 
 the kind of character you hate to love. He apparently was in the military and during the storyline 
 he alludes to some of the things he's committed during the war. He's just so loveable because despite 
 the fact he's a killer and a criminal he also has very human feelings and emotions. The story is 
 not the only amazing thing about IV; it's also the newly-designed elements of gameplay and ones 
 that are being newly introduced. Everyone who has played Grand Theft Auto know exactly what the 
 main mode of transportation is around whatever city/state you're in whether it is Vice City or 
 San Andreas: it is the automobile. Aside from other modes such as motorbikes, boats, and even helicopters, 
 cars have been preeminent in every game. And we also remember how easy it was to just run up to 
 a parked/stopped car and get in with no problem. However, that aspect changes dramatically for 
 IV in that cars just sitting parked on the street are sometimes locked, and cars on the street 
 will often not just come to a total stop before running into you and giving you some serious damage. 
 Now cars that are parked on the street or in a parking lot must be broken into via Niko smashing 
 the glass and unlocking it then hotwiring the car. Some cars are unlocked but about 99% need to 
 be hotwired, but you will come across a few cars that can just be opened and drive off. This element 
 sometimes gets in the way when a car is needed quickly, but it just adds a touch of urgency to 
 the situation and really doesn't make getting away too difficult. On the subject of getting away, 
 escaping police is actually considerably easier at least before four stars because of the entirely 
 new radius system. Basically if you have a wanted level there is a red flashing radius on your 
 screen that indicates cops in the vicinity and it is in your best interest to escape that radius. 
 When you are outside of it for a few seconds the cops will lose you and the map will return to 
 normal and you can continue on your way, but naturally higher wanted levels have larger radii. 
 And like all GTA games the higher your wanted level the more difficult it is going to be to escape, 
 and you can certainly expect higher forms of resistance. Around three stars standard police helicopters 
 will appear with gun-toting cops, but around four stars S. W. A. T. vans roll in and military choppers 
 take to the sky. I would say from three stars and up trying just to run away is almost impossible; 
 even fighting back is extremely difficult to do because Niko is just one guy against squads of 
 cops. You will need some kind of transportation to escape whether it be a motorbike, a helicopter 
 (best choice) , or even a passing taxi cab. An element of gameplay that is often annoying is the 
 fact that when you are trying to carjack a cab Niko will jump in the back seat rather than hop 
 in the driver's seat and drive off. Giving a cabbie directions takes a few seconds, but if you 
 have a high wanted level it would be better to either run or try to jack it again. And a few seconds 
 could mean life or death for Niko if he has a high wanted level. Overall the new wanted level system 
 is great; cops are smart because they will try to slam you into walls/barricades and they will 
 often slide sideways to slow you down if you are going head-on. Gunplay has always been the primary 
 method of protection and action in every GTA game and IV is no exception. When you have a gun out 
 and ready to use you can either completely press the targeting button to lock on to the nearest 
 target or you can press it slightly to free aim. In my experience I find locking on is only truly 
 useful when targets are far away or hunkered down behind cover, but when you're out in the open 
 free aim is often the best way to go. Generally lock on is not a good idea when you're out in the 
 open simply because of the fact you cannot spray a wide arc of bullets across a number of enemies 
 quickly. A new feature to the lock on method is the ability to now move the targeting reticle to 
 target specific body parts, the head in particular. When in lock on mode Niko can adjust his aim 
 to shoot at enemies who may be behind cover. This new element is great; it works to Niko's advantage 
 because a headshot means instant death. Of course, not all situations allow headshots. Another 
 new feature to GTA is the ability to blindfire around corners and over cover. It's a fun, exciting, 
 and an adrenaline-pumping experience to be caught in a blindfire fight with a guy down the hallway 
 from you. Remarkably blindfire works very well even in hairy instances. In order to blindfire Niko 
 must be behind cover, and most surfaces in the game including stopped cars can be used like so. 
 You simply tap a button and Niko will even sometimes slide/roll into cover. Using cover makes gunfights 
 years easier as you can pick off enemies without putting yourself in too much danger and you can 
 scout the surroundings before moving ahead. Grand Theft Auto veterans will remember the shoddy 
 and difficult element of previous GTAs' system of shooting from a moving vehicle, and we remember 
 how either Tommy or Carl could only shoot to his right or left or straight ahead on a motorbike. 
 The targeting reticle was in a fixed spot, but in GTA IV you can shoot anywhere you please. You 
 tap a button and Niko will smash out the left driver's side window which allows him to shoot, and 
 with that same button you can fire your weapon/throw grenade. My only grief with the grenades out 
 the window is that Niko can only drop them out, not throw them backwards or forwards. You can even 
 hold the button down longer to chew off a few seconds of the grenade's explosion, but just don't 
 hold it too long. Putting aside gunplay IV offers many new and thrilling things to do such as go 
 bowling, play darts, get drunk, take a scenic helicopter tour, and play pool. These things are 
 great fun and they are challenging, and you can even take an in-game friend along to share the 
 fun. However, the two biggest lights in the in-game entertainment aspect of the game must be the 
 cabaret club and the absolutely priceless comedy club. Without blowing too much of these exceptional 
 locations for you allow me just to say they are the most entertaining and engrossing additions 
 to a game -- ever. The cabaret club generally features an act of some sort and the comedy club sports 
 comedians of every walk of life including a famous face. These places cannot be missed for any 
 reason whatsoever. Gameplay in IV is stunning and the storyline will swallow you whole.
  
  Now before the game was released there was much speculation thanks to some pictures that the graphics 
 were horrible, but this just isn't true. The graphics are polished in a way to make everything 
 look real, and with the amazing new Euphoria engine movement and gunplay are astounding. Whether 
 you be sailing across the water in the wavy sea, flying over Liberty in a helicopter, or driving 
 through the jaw-dropping Star Junction, you will be amazed by the quality and detail in just about 
 every aspect no matter how high or how far. Unfortunately, the framerate is the game's biggest 
 issue here, and it's actually much more visible than that in previous games. Generally the framerate 
 is smooth especially doing sequences where Niko is walking, but during chases it can become erratic. 
 Gunning down a straightaway is thrilling to see everything turn into a blur, but at the same time 
 you'll notice little hangups from time to time. Once I tossed a grenade and at one time almost 
 four cars exploded as I was driving by and the framerate slowed down to a painfully butchered snail's 
 pace. I am really sorry to say that framerate is sometimes atrocious, but it only really starts 
 happening when a lot of things are going on such as a speedy chase through Star Junction, and I 
 have actually noticed this problem out on a highway during a chase. Other than that the framerate 
 is very smooth and may only choke at little instances from time to time, but it is certainly nothing 
 as noticeable as during chases, etc. Though the real gem of IV is Liberty City in all its vastness 
 and beauty. Easily the most impressive aspect of this game Liberty is, and will most likely stand 
 out among games of the genre for some time to come. Seeing the city from either street level or 
 in the air is absolutely amazing, and you will just love drinking in the city and its sights like 
 the Statue of Happiness. Aside from the city, the game's action is extremely well rendered and 
 is very, very enjoyable. Overall the graphics in IV are bittersweet because while they are vast 
 and gorgeous down to little minute details there are numerous noticeable and bothersome framerate 
 issues, and it is a shame.
  
  Grand Theft Auto from GTA3 and on have been known for their soundtracks, and IV is no different. 
 Grand Theft Auto 3 featured tunes from Scarface and other generic tunes, Vice City featured the 
 techno tunes of the 80s, and San Andreas featured country and folk music from the 90s. Grand Theft 
 Auto IV breaks the tradition of adhering to the music to one give year or a single decade; this 
 game's soundtrack spans three decades of music from funk to classic rock, featuring legendary artists 
 like Elton John and Kayne West. There are tons of music stations but as all GTA fans know there 
 are always a couple of talk radios, and among these stations a familiar voice returns. A very neat 
 thing to do is while you are listening to a song on the radio you can call in a number that identifies 
 the song name and the artist. The various sources of entertainment around the city like the comedy 
 and strip clubs feature very good sounds with full music and voice work. Police sirens are significantly 
 more realistic this time around in GTA because you can hear them blaring in the distance and more 
 so as they get closer. Now Grand Theft Auto has always been about the shooting action and the sounds 
 the weapons project are incredible. Whether you are shooting off an RPG rocket or blasting out 
 someone's windshield, you will be astounded by how real it sounds. Voice work in past GTAs has 
 always been excellent, and GTA IV blows them all away with the astounding cast of talented people 
 including two famous stand-up comedians. Every character has his or her own personality, but as 
 always there are the stereotypes that appear. I must point out that the voice actor of Niko performs 
 tremendously. Sound in IV is magnificent.
  
  Grand Theft Auto will always be the proverbial lightning rod of video games, and it is just waiting 
 for lightning to strike -- again. GTA IV is full of mature content like the strip clubs AND the 
 lap dances, the use of prostitutes, and the "having some hot coffee" after a successful date. Alongside 
 all of that the game has very realistic gun combat and killing feels real. The content stands for 
 Rockstar's firm grip on their game's appeal regardless of how questionable it is in political circles. 
 Forget all that and buy the game because it is the best GTA ever made and it most likely stand 
 that way for a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  GTA that always rocks for me and especially the graphic is better than any of the other gta's. 
 The story is just great when roman bellic keeps on getting into trouble and also getting new friends. 
 Among the features that this gta has it is the online thing but that is not a really good feature 
 though and and also you need to take the hassle to call your buddy to chill out if not you will 
 lose their trust on you and stuff like that but it is also cool to make you busy running around 
 in Libert City. Gameplay and shooting enemies is totally marvelous but the story is basically kinda 
 short and liberty city is aint that big enough like san ann. One thing that bothers me alot is 
 the rendering city problem that pains alot when you got chase by cops and out of the sudden you 
 run like 250km to some city and get rendering problems on road and stuff..... man i just hope the 
 next gta wont have all these **** problems. 
  
  I was just thinking why dont rockstar reproduce back san andreas or maybe vice city, i think it 
 will be better than liberty city alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rynair9
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Gta is one of those games you must have in your collection. With a good storyline, huge world to 
 explore, tons of secret areas to investigate, and tons of small mini-games. The graphics are amazing 
 and attention to detail was def a big points the devs wanted to show off. You can spend countless 
 hours causing mayhem in the streets of liberty city or make tons of money driving a cab. Aww money..... some 
 say the root of all evil. Having enough money was never a problem for me while cruising through 
 the main storyline. In fact, what to buy with the money was a concern. After defeating the final 
 boss, I had over $8,000,000 in my account. I am left to roam the city to buy guns, a small amount 
 of clothes, and take friends and girlfriends out on dates. Trust me this get boring fast. I really 
 wish the purchasing of real estate was available in this game. You are only left with the safe-houses 
 you recieve and purchase during the storyline to reside in. Online play gets old very fast and 
 seems abit broken. In the end though, GTA 4 is classic but def not a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorenvanleeuwen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Gta 4 is almost a must have for a 360 or PS 3 owner. it has the awesome new feature the phone which 
 is used very well. and being able to shoot out of the car from any side (forwards, backwards, left, 
 right, you name it) The story is better then ever and actually makes you want to complete the game. 
 the people are all different (even the cops unlike all previous gtas) which is really cool. when 
 people talk the mouth movement is really believable. the achievements are really good cause they 
 make you do thinks you wouldn't think of. and it is the best city ever in GTa series because of 
 the way they made it compact.
  
  besides all this there are some negative things to say about gta 4. the multiplayer is not really 
 fun. there are some fun weapons/ tools missing ( i personally miss the parachute the most) if you 
 just want to mess around and have fun with cops gta SA is better. 
  
  i really do not understand how gamespot gave GTA 4 a 10/10. sure it is a really good game with 
 nice graphics and a great story. but there are some things I'd have liked to see better. 
  
  if you are a gta fan this is a must have. but if you only like gta to mess around, rent it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edge426723
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game at launch but traded it in soon after. in mid july i bought it again. it is 
 a good game don't get me wrong but i found a few flaws. first is that i found the controls were 
 very slugish and the aiming although great compared to other GTA was a bit slow to use and the 
 cause of a few deaths. the story was great and had a few twist. the camrea angle for driving was 
 not the best and some times did not help whe i was in a car chase. some of the COG tag type collectibles 
 are reduclous and are just to many to realisticy get but you could try. good game just not great. 
 the weapons selection could be more divers just two SMG AR and pistoles and i found that some characters 
 were overly hard to kill. he turning radious for vehicles was two slow and turning became a chore. 
 over all it is a good but not great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Quite disappointed in fact, all I wanted was a good game to play for hours on end; and all I got 
 was a short and easy game. I wanted a challenge, a game that would have the end of me and it did 
 not even come close. 
  A gamer usually needs to be challenged to keep interest in game. While in this game there was no 
 challenge, too easy if you will, to do a mission all you needed was a lot of bullets, no skills 
 required. In no time anyone finishes this game fully in less then 50 hours, including the extras 
 once your done the game. 
  Therefore only buy this game if you only want a few hours of repetitive fun, which won't last 
 long. The game should be more challenging, something in the sort that you would need to plan your 
 attacks and also maybe have a little more realism. The next RPG I buy better be better than this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donsaurabh
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  gameplay=10
  graphics=9
  sound quality=9
  story=10
  Niko Bellic is not a morally ambiguous man. Far from it, in fact. His time in the army is not a 
 period he looks back on with fondness, ordered into performing atrocities that haunt his thoughts; 
 his unflinching loyalty to the cause was only rewarded with betrayal. This is something Niko cannot 
 understand. His upbringing and experiences in poverty stricken Eastern Europe may have tuned him 
 into a brutal killing machine, but at the heart of his actions is a sense of duty, of fidelity 
 to his family's honour. Cross him, and you'll pay. So it is that one day he sails past the Statue 
 of Happiness and into Liberty City, the gateway to the land of opportunity, seeking a resolution. 
 Rockstar's decision to go with an Eastern European character as the lead to GTA IV is a stroke 
 of genius. In San Andreas, Rockstar didn't hold back on giving American culture a whipping, but 
 since the game was played through the perspective of someone who ignorantly lived out the very 
 lifestyle to which the game attacked its impact was deadened. Niko, however, is an outsider. He 
 comes to Liberty City believing the dream, that he has left the corruption, savagery and rustic 
 lifestyle of his homeland for a world of big **** fancy cars and mansions for all. What he finds 
 is a land equally as crooked, dirty and messed up as the one he left and his distaste for what 
 he sees isn't held back. And where CJ came from a world of glamorised, even fabricated aggression, 
 Niko comes from a land of primeval atrocity and fear. Cross Niko and he'll slit your throat and 
 feed you to the fishes with ruthless efficiency: no need to get a flashy sub-automatic, pimped-up 
 ride and four mates to get the job done Hollywood style. If CJ was keeping it real, Niko is real. 
 With all this in mind, it makes Niko the straight man in an epic joke, where the punchline is the 
 game itself  sharing, if you will, similarities with how Sacha Baron Cohen masterfully opened 
 up America's underbelly with Borat, without the locals ever knowing. While the ignorant will lament 
 GTA IV for its violence and vulgarity, at its heart the game makes powerful and poignant commentary 
 on the USA and in particular New York while it searches in all the wrong places for the answers 
 to the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Through Niko's eyes, they may find an answer. Of course it's all 
 facilitated through brilliant voice-acting and Niko is given some of the best dialogue to feast 
 on in the history of entertainment: film, novel or game. As we've now come to expect from Rockstar 
 the script is AAA+, with a city's worth of rich characters you'll form resounding emotional connections 
 with. Love them, hate them even pity them. Despite Rockstar's unflinching depiction of underground 
 American society, it is not above using subtlety in delivering its power: just witness Faustin's 
 wife and Niko share a cup of tea in one of the earlier missions to shudder right to your very bones.
 
  At last I would like to tell you.. if you are a fan of gta series.. you should definitely play this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  The Good
  Amazing Graphics, very realistic acting and model movement, wide range of weapons, new cover system, 
 finally you are able to use the phone to call people, usage of the internet, usage of TVs
  The Bad
  calls from people can be annoying, evading the police can be a pain, at certain times 
 things can get complicated
  
  Storyline
  You play as Niko Bellic who is from Russia and is coming to Liberty City (inspired by New York) 
 to live their with invitation from his cousin Roman Bellic. Niko didn't come to Liberty City just 
 cause his cousin invited him there but to also find an old war buddy who betrayed him and squad. 
 While trying too find him Roman is out gambling your helping out arms sellers, mob runners and 
 getting into all kinds of troubling missions.
  
  Gameplay
  The new cover system in GTA4 is alot more effective then GTA: SA and VC's crouch behind a wall or 
 car and shoot. You can take cover behind just about everything like you can drive a car into a 
 warehouse and take cover behind that or run behind a crate or wall or whateva and use it for cover 
 when in cover you can blind shoot which Niko will just put his weapon around the wall corner or 
 over the car whateva and shoot without looking which is very very inaccurate if you don't like 
 that you can target a person and shoot him which can be alot more accurate. Also the new targeting 
 in GTA4 is alot more fun then other GTAs you could target a person and gently push the analogue 
 stick forward and shoot him in the head or you could pull the stick back and shoot him in the balls 
 ouch. 
  You can call up a friend or girlfriend and take him or her for a night out to a bowling alley, 
 pool club or darts in all which the player can actually play or you can go out to a restaurant 
 which ain't as fancy as restaurants from SA or go too a pub and actually get drunk in which you 
 will become drunk and the players vision will be blurred slightly and the camera will be very wobbly.
 
  The driving is alot more realistic from previous GTAs like you have alot better and destructive 
 vehicles you could drive full speed into an indestrucable pole and get a giant narrow dent in the 
 front or side whateva, you can drive full speed into a wall and have alot more flatter front, when 
 your car starts rolling around where even your cars roof can get dented, cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kor3y_g
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I had this game pre-ordered for an excessive amount of time, and on that sacred day, April 29th, 
 I played it to death. It was epic, it was all it was cracked up to be.
  However, it missed something the previous GTA series had. After playing the story mode through, 
 which features a mesmerizing story that will keep you immersed throughout, I just through it aside 
 and got on with my life. It missed the playability we saw in San Andreas, the raw satisfaction 
 you got from taking a break from the story mode and gallivanting around the streets. This may sound 
 weird, but I missed some of the unrealism that featured in previous titles. Also, I wasn't thoroughly 
 impressed with the cover system, it was laggy and frustrating when you were in a massively long 
 mission and was killed when Niko took cover on the wrong side of a wall.
  Don't get me wrong it was well worth the money and is one of the best games I have ever witnessed, 
 but I am slightly disappointed that some of the fun is missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipstream720
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  For the first week to two weeks of owning this game, I thought it was fantastic. Big map, beautiful 
 graphics, solid gameplay, but not quite there...
  
  I was hoping for an improved game with more of the San Andreas tone, with complete customization, 
 more activities, and a wide variety of vehicles including planes and a tank. Not only this, but 
 the magazines don't even come out of the gun when you reload.
  
  The game's storyline is decent, though. And what you can do is fun. Aside from the missions and 
 side-missions, you can just cruise or go on a rampage, which I love to do. If GTA 5 is announced 
 soon, get that, not this.
  
  The words below is to make this review postable.
  
  kittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenkittens kittensskittens kittenskittens 
 kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittenskittens kittens
 
  kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens 
 kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens kittens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  This games falls in the rankings of Oblivion and GT. This latest installment of the famous GTA 
 Series brings better graphics as it on the Next Gen. Systems plus a lot more and fun gameplay. 
 I wont go into a lot of details about the game but want to say that it is the best game so far. 
 The story and the characters are extremely well made and play there role to the full. The sounds 
 effects are rock on and the destruction is off the scale. Most of the players wont stop playing 
 this game until the the next one comes out however for those ones that do they will have to spend 
 a hell of a long time trying to do all the side missions and little challenges to complete the 
 game. Well as you can see there is not a lot of bad staff to say but one comment i can, it would 
 be great id the world of GTA could me a lot more in-depth and more interactive bur hey cant have 
 it all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashztown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I would first like to congratulate Rockstar North for making another great GTA game. If you have 
 ever heard of GTA before, but never played it, you have NO idea what video games are. First GTA 
 came out, and it was just another game in the lineup of games. After that came GTA II, and pretty 
 soon was GTA III which had amazed gamers with its impressive visuals at the time, and massive 3d 
 world. And then comes GTA IV. In my opinion, the best GTA out there, and one of the best games 
 that exist. It has so many activities to do, that by the time the next GTA comes out you will still 
 be playing GTA IV. It has a very great storyline, and terrific voice actors, plus a very satisfying 
 multiplayer. If you are not able to access multiplayer, you will still be addicted to the singleplayer 
 experience. With a wide variety of missions, you will get to choose between two different endings, 
 and choose your own friends along the way. GTA IV should bring many new people into the world of 
 Grand Theft Auto, and please many fans of the series.
  
  Now that I have discussed most of the pros, it's time to talk about the very few cons about GTA 
 IV. One con that has let down a lot of GTA fans was the lack of cheats. In GTA IV there are only 
 enough cheats to fill the necessities of the game, ie: Health, Armor, Money, Cars, ect. But I don't 
 really care for cheats anyway. Another con about GTA IV is that the game has become easier than 
 previous GTA games. For instance, whenever you break the law and get the police chasing you, you 
 just have to run outside of the wanted area as marked on your minimap as a flashing red and blue 
 circle, and not get seen by any cops. For some players, this took out the thrill of police chases. 
 Another thing that made me slightly mad was the fact you can no longer fly airplanes, and wheneevr 
 you enter the airport, you recieve an automatic 4-star wanted level.
  
  So there you have it. Another GTA IV review for those of you that have not yet purchased the game, 
 or are just checking out what other people have to say about the game. I hope you enjoyed my review, 
 and I hope you can relate to it also. Later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortolio
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  How long did we wait for this game? Too long, and then it got delayed 6 months. When the final 
 product came I was so enthralled that I looked past anything that could be wrong with it. Then 
 about twenty hours of gameplay or so later, I started to see what was missing.
  
  First off, never before has a Grand Theft Auto game looked so good compared to other games of its 
 time. The graphics in this game are just astonishing. Character models, vehicles and buildings 
 all exhibit an air of good workmanship. This is the main reason why this game is so easy to like 
 at the start. It's just pleasing to look at. The design team really did a good job. Secondly, the 
 physics are spectacular. Ragdolls have been given life even through death. Smacking somebody with 
 your car is satisfying in a brutal way. They flip and they bounce off your car and the road with 
 crippling acrobatics that yield sometimes amusing results. Even pushing someone down the stairs 
 is fun no matter how many times you do it. 
  
  What about the sounds, though? Sound effects are crisp and somewhat accurate. Some of the guns 
 sound beefy like they should instead of toy like as in previous games. The music is good, but a 
 lot of songs are forgettable. They really should have left out that band, Heart; they already put 
 that lame song "Barracuda" in San Andreas. Games simply don't need Heart. "Heaven and Hell" is 
 about my favourite song in the entire game, besides the delicious theme song. 
  
  Gameplay is where the game has its hits and misses. Controls are solid, though scrolling through 
 weapons is a tiny bit frustrating on the fly. Shooting is vastly improved, but the gunfights do 
 indeed feel like water downed Gears of War. After you've beaten the missions, though, there is 
 not much to do besides drive around and get a wanted level for hitting a pedestrian. Back to the 
 missions, though, they suck. They're all very forgettable and not fun at all. They're also remarkably 
 easy thanks to the improved drive-by system. You'll be very tired of getting into robotic car chases 
 by the end of the storyline. Why did they take out pretty much everything that made San Andreas 
 great? I get the realism thing, but jeez, I can walk less than a kilometer from my house and find 
 a more interesting vehicle to drive than a forklift. SA was full of cool vehicles to drive and 
 a lot of them had awesome vehicle specific functions. Even the forklift could lift things like 
 a forklift. Besides an absence of special vehicles, there's also an absence of pretty much anything 
 else fun. Instead of going sky diving, you can go play virtual darts with an annoying NPC friend. 
 Fun. You can't even control the actual throwing of the dart, you just place the reticle wherever 
 you want to hit. Oh yeah, the RPG is pretty much the only devastating weapon left in the game. 
 No more miniguns, no more flamethrowers and certainly no more katanas. 
  
  The multiplayer part of the game sucks. Go play free roam and see how they even took out the crappy 
 single player bowling so you can't even do that with a real friend. Go join a race and be bored 
 because you're not actually killing anybody whilst. Go try to play any other mode, but not because 
 the host has left the cheap auto-lock on. 
  
  After having played Mercenaries 2, though, I can forgive this game of all its left out for the 
 simple fact its bug free. You often won't be stopped in this game by any frustrating glitches thanks 
 to stable gameplay. Therefore it definitely deserves an 8. If the finished product was indeed perfect, 
 though, why would I feel the need to play any other game? Especially with a game like this that 
 lets you do so much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crudmanIV
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  It was this game that introduced me to gamespot and it's great community. I bougth this game solely 
 because of what gamespot said and do not regret it. back to the game...
  This was my second Xbox game and third GTA game. I was a bit apprehensive about it at first because 
 it was set in liberty city. Having recently completed and returned liberty city stories I thought 
 that this game may be inheriting a c##p map and gameplay. it didnt. 
  Though it didnt have revolutionary graphics. I think that it is the best you can get for something 
 of its scale. 
  It took me around 40 hours to complete the story and I wasnt bored at all ( escept for the first 
 few missions) , there was just so much variety and depth. I absolutely loved the bank robbery mission 
 cause they didn't stop you after you robbed the bank, you had to get down the street and drive 
 off in one of the best shooting action sequences I've ever seen in movie or game.
  The music could have been better in my opinion. Except for some of the liberty rock I didn't know 
 any of it.
  The only downfall of this excellent game is that it has a few glitches when driving fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BanHim
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Allow me to start with all the things that I do not like about Grand Theft Auto IV as to get them 
 out of the way. The saving system is a bit Dead Rising ish and I feel that system was the worst 
 seen in a popular game. Tons and tons of escort missions (I personally dislike such gameplay) . 
 Invincible trees. Police are easy to shake. OK that it for the bad. GTA4 is longer than most games 
 out today. It seems the industry standard for game length is 10hrs. GTA4 is 10 hours if you do 
 nothing but the story missions with a game guide in your lap and five previous hours of play at 
 a friend's house who got the game before you. This game is packed with game features and functions. 
 Somehow it all works great and fits very well into the game. I'd say that most 360 owners should 
 have this game and I'm sure most will. I cannot vouch for the PS3 version, but I have seen evidence 
 to support the idea that the better version is on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8919
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  You have to play this game, if you don't you're going to miss out. Don't let the GTA haters fool 
 you, this is a great game, fun and with a great multi-player function. I must say that it is worth 
 the money. The aiming system has been revamped. You can choose to have the auto-lock aim, or have 
 the manual aim. The manual aim makes it easier to get a head shot. By the way the heads don't pop 
 off in Grand Theft Auto 4. (An improvement by my standards) . The graphics help in making this game 
 an exciting and enticing game. The developers put in a new physics systems, so now your character 
 doesn't fly of his bike like a stuff board, he actually will flip how you would expect a person 
 to flip and drag.
  
  I give this game two thumbs up. A ten out of ten. There is no way to deny how good this game is. 
 Defenitly a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overseer677
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I was so exited about this game that i got it brand new when it came out, however playing it i 
 wish i got it a bit cheaper.
  Dont get me wrong there are loads of good things about it and u will be playing it alot. but i 
 dont, ive been thinking and i guess it because it takes itself too seriously. The dull real life 
 colours and effects mean i just get bored after a while no matter what we do. Playing with a friend, 
 we lovee the rag doll effects and made a video of our crashs in a helicopter.
  Ive had the game for more thena month now and i still havent completed the game. i just get bored 
 and play other games. Some of the campain levels are boring, take me here, then there and get boring 
 after a while.
  
  If you love this game then please, play it, its a good game. but for me its just boring and once 
 i get into to it im sure i will like it. Mother nature seems to be stronger then metal and crashs 
 into a tree will send u flying through the windscreen to ragdalise on the floor, and street lamps 
 just fall at your feet soon as you see them!
  
  ONline is good but i just dont feel the need to play it, which for the first gta game on console 
 to fully go online for playing is just disapointing.
  
  well, to conclude, if you like the game then play it but for me, the dull real life colours as 
 with every game out there atm is boring and i cant play it for more then 2 hours at a time, whereas 
 i'd play gta vice city 5 or more at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unorthodox1978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III revolutionized the franchise by abandoning the top-down 2D perspective of 
 its predecessors and it allowed the player to run amok in a fully living, breathing, realized world. 
 Excellent story line and gameplay made GTA III a stand out title. Now, add the same principles 
 to the next generation title Grand Theft Auto IV, and it becomes easy to see how Rockstar Games 
 has reinvigorated their flagship franchise. A newly imagined Liberty City modeled closely after 
 New York is sprawling with density and detail. Players assume the roll of Niko (Nikolai) Bellic 
 an Eastern European immigrant who comes to Liberty City at the behest of his cousin, Roman. Niko's 
 other reasons for coming to America include a revenge hunt and escape from a sadistic thug who 
 believes Niko owes him money.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The amount of detail and overhaul is astounding. The clumsy targeting 
 system of old is thrown out the window and in its place is a new over-the-shoulder targeting system 
 that while great, isn't totally without it's flaws. If you're shooting someone and are being shot 
 at from the rear, you'll have to disengage the enemy in front of you, turn around, and attack the 
 thugs behind you. What would've worked better is a method of quick turning found in Resident Evil 
 4. The driving feels more realistic, each car is weighted and handles like it's real life counter 
 part. The dialog and story line is fresh and superb. The voice acting is also a real treat mainly 
 because this time, Rockstar decided to hire actors who, for all intents and purposes, are relative 
 unknowns. The sound track is also great, but can fall into tedium at times. 
  
  Speaking of tedium, the mission structures haven't totally undergone a major overhaul. In essence, 
 you still have your run-and-gun, race-and-chase style gameplay, which can get repetitive and very 
 old very fast. Still, the lust to see what comes next overshadows the often times tedious gameplay. 
 There are many ways to get through the city including trains, subways, taxis (you can be a passenger 
 this time) , cars, and helicopters. It still would've been cool to see a plane in the game, but 
 that's just me being picky. 
  
  What I found the most astonishing is that with other games in the series, the anti-hero is seen 
 as a man with no conscience, but this wasn't so with GTA IV. With the exception of Victor Vance 
 in Grand Theft Auto Vice City Stories, who came off more like a hypocrite than a troubled protagonist, 
 Niko really feels like a genuine human being with a whole graveyard's worth of skeletons in his 
 closet. There are two possible endings and depending on which mission you choose, you can still 
 find Niko lamenting about the failed experiment known as the American dream. Rockstar Games doesn't 
 glorify the bad guy. If anything, the storyline presents Niko just as he is -- a killer with a boulder's 
 weight of guilt strapped to his back and a pessimistic outlook on life. 
  
  The Xbox 360 version comes with downloadable content which should be release by the end of this 
 year or early 2009. Though this is speculation on my part, I can only assume there will be DLC 
 for the PS3. 
  
  This game has minor flaws, but the in all honesty, they are easily overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: effena
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  So GTA has come along fairly successfully since 2001. Their previous installment, San Andreas, 
 tried to advance the gameplay by adding a bunch of new gameplay elements. Some of them worked, 
 others felt unnecessary. GTA gets rid of some of those, but also keeps others and somewhat perpetuates 
 there irrelevancy.
  
  So you're Niko Bellic. An eastern European, with a horribly acted accent and hopes to make it in 
 America with his cousin, Roman. I was dissapointed when they decided to use Liberty City again. 
 Rockstar can't seem to nail the right sized maps for their games. I thought Liberty City was a 
 bit too big in GTA 3. Then an pint sized Vice City was made, which was much too small, followed 
 by a ridiculusly huge San Andreas. Really, I shouldn't be complaining, since Liberty City is the 
 most fitting out of them all, but It would have been nice if there was a slightly smaller, more 
 accessable map to work with.
  
  The game takes a while to get exciting. After about an hour, I became bored of doing escort missions 
 for my cousin so I decided to do some good old fashioned GTA mayham. I started to beat an old woman 
 when I got the attention of a police officer. I promtply began to punch his head, sending him to 
 the ground when I then stomped his head into the pavement, earning me a pistol and a two star police 
 rating. NOW we are getting somewhere. I emptied the clip into a couple of pedestrians and stole 
 a car, driving off full speed, with two squad cars on my back. After about 15-20 seconds, I noticed 
 the police rating start to flash. Then I realized, all you had to do to lose the cops was to drive 
 fast. A pretty big disappointment. The higher ratings are obviously harder to lose, but not too 
 hard, really, because of the pants-on-head-ree-tar-did police AI. 
  
  After about 5 hours of story gameplay, the game finally gives you enough diversity to let you do 
 your own thing. It takes so long because of the numerous game elements that the game needs to teaches 
 you all of them in the entire first quarter of the game: How to drive a car, a boat, a plane, how 
 to fight, shoot, shoot from cover, how to use your cell phone, camera, TV, internet. The list goes 
 on. Most of these are useful, but stuff like TV and the camera are pretty useless.
  
  The good thing about the game is the vastly improved shooting system. Shooting from cover makes 
 things alot easier, and the targeting system is well played out. This takes alot of stress off 
 you because the colors in the game are generally bland so you may not see enemies right away.
 
  
  Although I've nit picked this game quite a bit, the foundation is still good ol' GTA. There is 
 alot of fun to be had with it, in fact, I'm going to play it right now. So in conclusion, this 
 game is quite flawed and riddled with unnecessary add-on that range from gimmicky to frustrating, 
 but the gameplay elements that made this series fun as hell still remain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  You play as Niko Bellic, a foreigner who has just arrived in Liberty City after earning his way 
 out on the open sea working on a cargo ship to pay for his passage. You end up staying with your 
 cousin Roman doing some little missions for money which require you to kill, steal and other moral 
 deifying tasks, but you have no problem with that being a ex soldier of a huge war and all. However 
 it may seem like you start out doing pointless missions but after about 30 minuets into the game 
 you will see there is a plot and a reason that Nicko is in Liberty City In GTA 4 you start out 
 like the others, a guy down on his luck no money, no home just looking to make his way in the world.
 
  
  Like all other GTA games you start off with limited access to the world but through missions you 
 can unlock the other two islands, and like other GTA all the stealing, car jacking, gun-toting 
 action is still here. It has a huge range of cars to choose from, some boats and helicopters however 
 sadly it does not have airplanes.
  
  GTA 4 improved on a lot of things such as graphics, the combat and driving. However I think the 
 biggest thing they did is make the world seem alive. I cannot express how many hours I spent just 
 walking around watching people go about their daily lives when I got this game. I honestly spent 
 a few hours just watching the world be a living and breathing world.
  
  Also another great feature in combat is the cover system which seems to be a must have now and 
 days for any FPS or TPS. However in this game you really do get some epic moments with the system. 
 Not to spoil the game for any one who has YET to play it but further along you get in a nice big 
 shoot out with the cops and with the cover system you really do feel like you are taking part in 
 a movie and it is just a great and wonderful experience.
  
  However that is to not say this game has no flaws or bugs. It has quite a few but I must say that 
 the good things far outweigh the bad things. My biggest problem with this game was the lack of 
 side stuff to do. You have the typical missions of collecting cars and a whole new vigilante interface. 
 However I was disappointed that you could not jump into random taxis' or ambulances and do those 
 missions. You can at the start do taxis missions for some one but they are limited so make sure 
 to do them all if you really like that sort of thing because once you get past that stage you can 
 never go back and finish them.
  
  The other biggest thing was customization. I know the game doesn't need to have it but I loved 
 the control you have over your guy in GTA SA. You could change how he looked, how big he was, tattoos, 
 hair and so on. Only control you have over your guy in GTA 4 is his clothes. I also was sad to 
 see they didn't have additional houses to go buy and live in like GTA SA had or even businesses 
 like GTA VC had.
  
  However this game is still a great and fun game. I hope the future games will have the great stuff 
 from GTA SA in it now that they have a wonderful graphic engine they can spend more time on other 
 stuff. If you liked the other GTA games this game is a must buy. It's great story, plot twists, 
 combat system, and immersiveness will give you a wonderful and fun experience and will have you 
 captivated for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amigro
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  First of all, from the behind the car perspective, the graphics really haven't evolved drastically 
 since GTA 3. I think the character models in the cutscenes look pretty horrendous, it feels like 
 I've gone back to Mafia graphics here as well. 
  The gameplay is exactly the same and the only major differences that I've noticed is the internet 
 cafes and cell phone. 
  The story that I've played through so far is decent, but it's not been enough to keep me hooked. 
 
  The atmosphere of the city is one of the main things that I think was done very well with this 
 game. It does feel very lively and you do get the feeling that most people have their own identity 
 to them. 
  
  If you would like to play GTA 3.75 then please play this game, but I don't think you should expect 
 too much out of this. I don't forsee me even finishing this game any time soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectDark0Fan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game was on the top of my list of 2008 easily because I love GTA III & GTA Vice City. 
  
  I love how realistic this game is though it could have been more realistic. The Nicko story 
 was very enjoyable which was a surprize to me because of GTA having a new star character could 
 be hard to pull off. I like how the way I play the game is the way conseques will react by other 
 charcters. The thing I really though enjoyed is being chased by the cops. I like the way Rockstar 
 updated the police in this game. The police car with its computers with back up, police missions, 
 police crime. I acctually used police backup to help out one of my regular missions which was really 
 hard.
  
  Not to mention the radio in this game which I loved Kiss's song New York Groove maybe the best 
 though I do like listing to Flashlights by Kanye West. My favorite commmerical is politcal ones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katiff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  I really loved this game, the combat, the missions, the storyline. The characters, the hookers!
 
  
  what fun!
  
  My only big gripe is that i was just about to take the final mission to complete the game and then 
 suddenly all the ICONS on the map completely vanished.
  
  I called Rockstar and they started saying NO WAY OUR GAME HAS A BUG, YOU MUST HAVE USED CHEATS! 
 NOTHING WE CAN DO START OVER!!
  
  I was like what the f*** I used cheats? just take a look at my gamer tag and look at all the achievements 
 i got for this game theres no way in hell i used any cheats.
  
  Then the guy was like oh well you must have turned off your xbox while it was saving and it corrupted 
 your save game nothing we can do.
  
  Which was also not cool cause i never turned it off or had a power outage or anything like that 
 the whole time.
  
  so there was a bug i guess becauce my missions vanished from the map i could not continue the storyline 
 frustrated the hell out of me, so i turned it off and i left it on the shelf for a few months and 
 now i just started over.
  
  So far i am really enjoing it and i hope to actually finish it this time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game last night... 
  
  I think it is a great game, good graphics (just complain, it is run in a low resolution) , dialogues 
 are very well-done, I am amazed that you can drive a lot of model of vehicles, bikes, boats and 
 helicopters. I enjoyed drive the Ferrari and the Lamborghini.
  
  It seemed too long to me. Some missions were too difficult so I had to try it dozens of times due 
 to lack of checkpoints. This game took me about 36 hours to beat 70% of it. If you do all you can 
 do in this game, it might take you more than 50 hours to be beaten it.
  
  Some missions were repetitive, some were great.
  
  Meanwhile you are driving you can listen 
 a lot of diferent kind of music. Great music.
  
  I do not give 10 points to because some parts or videos could be better, could take advantage of 
 some episodes to make you cry... like made MGS4.
  
  If you like to play games in console, this is a most play for you. It is unique in its style.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmilius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  A nearly perfect game to one of the best franchises in gaming history. This game takes all of the 
 things that made the previous Grand Theft Auto games great and takes it to the next level. The 
 story, graphics, sound, and gameplay are unparralled in other games in the genre right now. There 
 are some points in the game where I kept thinking to myself that games will never get any better. 
 Sure, there might be games that look a little better or have a more involved story, but you will 
 be hard pressed to find them. The single player game is perfect for those that are already a fan 
 of series. The only thing that keeps this game from being a perfect 10 is the fact that the multiplayer 
 feels a little tacked on. If you are looking for a great way to spend your gaming time and are 
 looking for a great story, this is the perfect title for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennykaos317
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV introduces the series to next-generation gaming systems, and while it does 
 not revolutionize the industry in the way that GTAIII did, it manages to improve and streamline 
 the GTA experience. The wealth of single-player activities, combined with the newly added multiplayer 
 games, provide dozens of hours of enjoyment. Unfortunately, the addition of a more serious storyline 
 resulted in losing some of the fun.
  
  The game begins with the main character, Niko Bellic, arriving in Liberty City. He has come to 
 live with his cousin Roman, a successful businessman living the American Dream. However, reality 
 does not correspond to the stories Roman told; he actually owns a rundown cabstand and lives in 
 a dingy apartment, a far cry from the life of luxury he had claimed. Soon enough, Niko finds himself 
 involved in organized crime, running errands and committing crimes in an attempt to create his 
 own American Dream. Niko's past remains cloudy, but throughout the game you will uncover events 
 from his past and discover his real motives for coming to Liberty City.
  
  In the course of the game, you will explore every nook and cranny of Liberty City. This Liberty 
 City is a faithful recreation of New York City, specifically Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, and 
 New Jersey. You will encounter popular landmarks like the Statue of Happiness (instead of Liberty) 
 and Rotterdam Tower in place of the Empire State Building. Rockstar has done an excellent job of 
 creating a true living city. Niko is really one man among millions, and you get the sense that 
 the city has a life of its own, instead of revolving around the main character like most videogames. 
 Police officers chase criminals down the street. A fender bender prompts the drivers to exit their 
 cars to "discuss" the accident. People hold newspapers or umbrellas over their heads when it rains. 
 The citizens of Liberty City really live their own lives, and Niko passes in and out of their lives 
 like any other citizen.
  
  Of course, few citizens of Liberty City are truly like Niko. He has an agenda of his own, and he 
 will stop at nothing to achieve his goals. To help Niko in his pursuit, you will take part in the 
 typical Grand Theft Auto activities: running, driving, and shooting. The game engine has been greatly 
 improved, making these activities more fun and easy than ever before.
  
  The top improvement has to be the upgraded aiming and cover system. Taking a cue from Gears of 
 War, aiming now takes an over-the-shoulder view. Pulling the left trigger all the way in locks 
 onto nearby people (including both enemies and innocent civilians, if you're in a populated area) , 
 while pulling the left trigger halfway in allows for free aim. Once you've locked onto an enemy, 
 you can adjust your aim using the right stick, allowing you to pull off headshots with ease. This 
 is a huge improvement over earlier games in the series. It is easy to lock onto the wrong target, 
 but a flick of the right stick cycles between nearby enemies. In addition, the right bumper sticks 
 Niko to a nearby object, whether it's a building, crate, or burned out car. You can then target 
 and lock onto enemies with the left trigger, and pulling the right trigger causes Niko to pop out 
 of his cover and take a shot at his target. These improvements almost make missions too easy. If 
 you take your time and use the cover system well, you'll be able to tip-toe your way through most 
 firefights, taking minimal damage.
  
  The game has also added a small fighting system. Instead of wailing on your enemy with your fists 
 and feet, you now can dodge incoming blows. Time your dodge correctly, and you will follow up with 
 a combination that will drastically reduce your enemy's health. Though you'll rarely use this system 
 in the course of the game, it can be fun to pick fist fights just to use the new system. Skillful 
 use with this system will be rewarded, while button-mashing will result in the receipt of a beating.
 
  
  Car handling is also improved. Now you can feel the weight of the car as you scream through the 
 city streets. You'll no longer be able to take a corner at top speed; like a real world car, you'll 
 have to slow down and apply the brakes if you hope to make a turn without smashing into oncoming 
 traffic. You will need to become a skillful driver to escape the cops with the new wanted level. 
 Pay 'n' Sprays are no longer the easy option. You can enter these to instantly lose your wanted 
 level, but only if you enter them unseen. The most successful method for losing your wanted level 
 is to outrun the cops. When you are seen committing a crime, you will instantly acquire one star. 
 A small radius will appear on your map; drive outside this area without being seen by other cops, 
 and you'll lose your level. The higher your level, the wider the radius. If a cop (conveniently 
 displayed on your map) sees you, the center of your wanted radius recenters around you and you 
 must once again attempt to escape the circle. One or two stars are insignificantly easy, while 
 three and higher will require greater skill. The identification of other cops on your map makes 
 this easier than it should be, but wanted levels of four stars or higher would probably be impossible 
 to escape without this aid.
  
  These new systems will be put to great use throughout the game's 96 story missions and countless 
 additional side missions. The game contains an enormous amount of content. Much of this content 
 is locked away for the first eight hours or so. You will spend much of your time completing missions 
 serving as thinly veiled tutorials. The game hits its sweet spots at about the ten hour mark. You 
 will be presented with several story mission options, plus side missions like racing and delivering 
 drugs and stealing cars, or simply hanging out with your in-game friends or rampaging through the 
 city, leaving nothing but death and destruction in your wake. 
  
  A cell phone has been given to the main character, and this simple tool becomes the primary way 
 the player will access much of the game's content. You will receive text messages for missions. 
 You will have dates added to your calendar. You will use the camera on some missions. You will 
 even access multiplayer through the cell phone (more on that later) . Much of your time in the game 
 will revolve around this feature. Throughout Niko's journey, he will meet and befriend many people. 
 Some of these people will give Niko missions, which he can access in the traditional way of driving 
 to their locations. But he can also contact these people with his cell phone. He will be able to 
 enjoy activities with his new friends, from bowling to darts to simply attending a show. These 
 new friends will also call Niko and ask to get together. Socializing with some of these friends 
 has benefits; for example, improve your relationship with one friend and he will meet you in a 
 back alley and sell you weapons at a discount. You can skip this aspect of the game altogether, 
 but you will miss out on some nice benefits. Then again, it can get really annoying when you're 
 trying to drive to a mission and you receive a call from a friend. Do you reject the friend, lowering 
 your standing with them, or skip the mission and drive across town to play a silly mini-game? What 
 starts out as a fun diversion becomes more than a little annoying.
  
  Though there is a wealth of missions to pursue, these missions will become repetitive over time. 
 There is simply not a lot of variety to your missions. Some missions stand out, such as knocking 
 over a bank and escaping on foot through the city, shooting it out with cops along the way. Many 
 missions involve simply killing a large quantity of bad guys, or driving to a location to watch 
 a cut-scene. With the more serious character and storyline, some of the more outrageous missions 
 from earlier GTAs would seem out of place. But the over-the-top nature of the earlier games is 
 part of what made them so fun. And is it too much to ask for checkpoints within missions? GTAIV 
 has added the option to instantly replay a mission if you fail it, which is nice, but it is endlessly 
 frustrating to run through 90% of a mission, only to fail it at the last second because you made 
 an unforeseeable error. It would especially be nice to not have to start a mission at the very 
 beginning, when the mission begins with you simply driving for a couple of minutes to a location. 
 
  
  In addition to missions, there is a lot of content to experience. As usual, you have a wealth of 
 radio stations to choose from: everything from talk radio to latin music to pop is represented. 
 You will enjoy the music, and you will laugh at the hilarious commercial parodies. In addition, 
 Niko will gain access to the Internet. You will access email for missions or to set up dates, but 
 you will find yourself surfing and laughing at all the Internet parodies. There are dozens of fictional 
 websites to surf. Finally, you also have a TV in your apartment and can watch several faux shows. 
 The TV is the weakest entertainment link, with only a couple of decent shows, and the only way 
 to watch it is to simply sit in front of the TV and watch. Still, this adds a lot of peripheral 
 content to an already immense game.
  
  When you get tired of the story and side missions, you can hop into multiplayer, new to the GTA 
 series. Multiplayer is accessed directly from Niko's cellphone; there is no need to exit the game 
 and move to another menu. From there you can easily jump into one of 15 multiplayer games. You'll 
 encounter everything from a standard deathmatch to races to the team-based Cops and Crooks, where 
 you join a team of either Cops or Crooks (hence the name) and either kill (as a Cop) or escape 
 (as a Crook) . You'll also be able to complete co-op missions, or join some friends to run amok 
 in Free Mode. Everything you would expect to be able to do in a GTAIV multiplayer game, you can. 
 To join up with friends, you can enter Party Mode. Instead of a dull lobby, Party Mode gives you 
 a wide open city with plenty of weapons, vehicles, and pedestrians. You can blast each other to 
 bits while you're waiting for friends. Then simply choose a game and jump right into it. When that 
 game is over, you can either stay to continue playing, or jump back to Party Mode and choose a 
 different game.
  
  If you are chosen as the host, then you can dictate the rules of the match. You can turn auto-lock 
 on or off, choose to use the entire city or limit the game to a specific area, limit the weapons, 
 dictate the density of traffic, and much more. As you kill opponents, you earn money that serves 
 as experience points. These points help you earn levels, which provide new appearance options for 
 your custom character. The drawback to this system is simply the limited number of levels you can 
 earn. Your maximum level is 10, and the amount of money you need to earn a level becomes astronomical. 
 While it gives an added incentive to keep playing, it would be nice to earn levels more frequently. 
 I also had trouble moving from one game to another: lobbies seemed to fill especially slowly after 
 my first game. But these games are fun and add a lot of life to the game.
  
  GTAIV is an amazing step forward in the series. It retains the aspects that worked best, improved 
 the aspects that did not, and added features that will increase the life of the game. Though it 
 has its share of flaws, it is a game that must be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SawtoothDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a complete masterpiece! I find nothing wrong in this game, which many others 
 don't also. GTA IV: Graphics are insanely realistic compared to a lot of new games, the people 
 move so life-like, you can't be able to tell the difference between the game and a movie. The story 
 is awesome, there haven't been any dull points in it, the missions have been a legitimate standard 
 for me. I like the new driving changes, it feels as if you are driving yourself. The new phone 
 system in which you can call your buddies whenever you wish is pretty cool as well. You can also 
 get text messages from them too, which is great, as for getting the ones when you fail missions 
 lol. After I complete this game, I would like for Rockstar Games to create an MMO of Grand Theft 
 Auto, that would be awesome as well. I await agreements to this review as we speak, so give me 
 something to talk about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater81st
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Ive been playing alot the past week or so. Every character has there own background 
 which is cool cause i tried to get my wife into playing with me (of course on here own xbox user 
 name) so she actually sat down and listen. I pulled up the cellphone and started going down the 
 list. She got a little angry that I had 4 girl friends, but i soon turned her on to the game. It 
 sucks a little now cause i dont get to play as much. If your thinking about buying it, you better 
 have alot of free time on your hands cause it will suck you in. I also like the whole earn respect 
 thing to unlock cool things in the game like gang support and call your boy little jacob and have 
 him bring a car full of weapons that you can buy so you and have to go 9 million miles to get 5 
 bullets.
  But the thing that i like most; you know those late night where your tired and you dont feel like 
 driving for hours to get some stupid little quest done? Well they solved that problem with the 
 use of the taxi and subway. (subway i think is kind of pointless, but i dont think i have figured 
 out how to use it..) . In the game you can wave down a taxi and they can take you anywhere you want 
 to go in almost a split second. So no more wasted great story line driving back and forth on the 
 roads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games i just couldn't wait to get my hands on. I waited not just for a new 
 grand theft auto game, but for a new engine. With the story returning to Liberty City, that made 
 the game even more sweeter. I love a game that can get me interested in the story, and love it 
 even more if they can make me feel like I'm part of that story, and this game delivers in that 
 aspect. The voice acting, characters, the city, the cars, and the controls of this game are all 
 just flawless. And not to mention all the fun side missions available in this game that will keep 
 you playing for hours on end. Whether or not your a fan of the series this is a must play for any 
 video game fan. (That's if your over the age of 18. I strongly suggest not getting this game for 
 a young child, because of the strong language, violence and very strong sexual content.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has an awesome story which will last you at least 25 hours+ with tons of side quests. During 
 some of the quest you have choose between letting someone live and killing them, this develops 
 the story around them. There are also signature takedowns when you kill certain characters. There 
 is plenty on multiplayer action whether you want to do co-op missions, free roam, or play team 
 deathmatches. Your character is Niko Bellic, who comes to Liberty City as an immigrant, who comes 
 because of the lies told by his cousin Roman, Niko comes to America to escape his violent past 
 - but he finds new violence in Liberty City. There are many friends that you meet many which you 
 can date during the game. You can also play games with your cousin and your partner (Darts, Pool 
 and Bowling) as well as drink and eat out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a third-person shooter/ driving game that puts you in the shoes of Niko 
 Bellic, a war-veteran who comes to Liberty City as an immigrant.
  
  Lured by the lies of his cousin Roman, Niko comes to America to escape his violent past - only 
 to find a new violence in Liberty City.
  
  Upon entering Liberty City, instead of finding his cousin rich and famous, Niko finds Roman deep 
 in debt. "Loan sharks" beat Roman regularly, and in self defence, Niko kills two of them.
  
  By killing these loan sharks, Niko throws himself - and his cousin - into a violent world of 
 organized crime.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV will have you stealing cars, assassinating gangsters, overseeing drug deals, 
 and escorting criminals. Many hours of entertainment are packed into the game, and although not 
 for younger players, the game creatures a second, more dangerous world: Liberty City.
  
  Graphics 8/10 - Liberty City is visually superb for such a large area, although it has its share 
 of bland terrain and jagged edges. The facial animations are great.
  
  Story 10/10 - GTA IV will have you on the edge of your couch, throwing plot twists and betrayals 
 at you.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The driving system - althoug hard to get used to - is balanced and fun. The cover 
 system allows you to survive enormous battles.
  
  Sound 10/10 - Both the radio and dialogue are realistically beleivable. Without the great sound, 
 the game wouldn't be as hilarious. Gunshots and explosions are life-like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  3 and a half years in the making have been past and what has Rockstar Games been doing?? They started 
 making Grand Theft Auto IV. Infact, They started doing earliest concepts ever since they finished 
 San Andreas. Which before this was the best GTA game around. Then, on April 29th 2008, Exactly 
 a month after my birthday, The game we've been waiting for has come out. And after picking up my 
 copy. I have to say... This... Is... The... Best... Game... I... Have... Ever... Played...
  
  Gameplay: You will never experience a richer enviroment of open sandbox gameplay then GTA IV. 
 It has so much to offer that will make you be playing for Hundreds of Hours. Heck, it will take 
 you a long time just to get 100%! Your main character is Niko Bellic. And to be honest im glad 
 it was a white person this time. I never was too interested in the whole experience you had while 
 playing as Carl Johnson (CJ) from San Andreas. Along the way you will meet many people. Like Lil 
 Jacob, Dwayne, Brucie, Playboy X, Michelle, Katie, and that backstabber Dimitri. The cars are amazing 
 to drive and EVERY single car feels like a pleasure to drive. Overall. This is a hugely amazing!
 
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: Now this is the first Grand Theft Auto to be put on the Xbox 360 and PS3. But boy am 
 i glad they did that! The game is fantastically beautiful and You are not going to see beauitiful 
 games with the kind of open sandbox gameplay like this.
  
  10/10
  
  Sound: First the voiceovers. They are incredible and they sound better than ever. Niko and Roman 
 are amazingly well done for what kind of place they come from. Music. This is an incredible soundtrack 
 for a game like this. Never have i ever heard of SO many songs for a game (Infact, it has the world 
 record for most Licensed songs in a Video Game) . 
  
  10/10
  
  Multiplayer: Rockstar never tried to go Online for a Console GTA. So this is their first attempt. 
 Oh wait, i shouldnt have said attepmt, i should've said first masterpeice of online. So many people 
 can join one server and can have a great time doing it.
  
  10/10
  
  Overall: You Must get this game, it is an art of work and no game will top it. (until probably 
 the next GTA heh heh)
  
  Final Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DB3457
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  GTA is a series which has gone from strengh to strengh. It started back in 2001 with GTA III, which 
 basically created the term sandbox. Then we had GTA Vice City which improved gameplay and added 
 humour to the game. Then came GTA San Andreas which has more customization than most RPG'S. And 
 now we have GTA IV.
  
  Now this game had lots of hype. Infact it had so much hype if it didn't live up to expectations 
 it would flop like England at the world cup. But it didn't.
  
  I can confirm one thing to everyone who reads this, that this is one of the best games ever. It 
 is so fresh and every part of the game is so much better than the previous ones. Firstly the game 
 is graphically amazing. There is no more crab hands and the charcters do change facial expressions. 
 The gunplay has improved too. Now instead of using the auto aim only it now allows free aim. Admittedly 
 it is a bit difficult to get to grips with as you have to push the right trigger only half-way. 
 The voice acting is still as good and Niko really sounds like a non cliche tough guy. Roman is 
 very funny and Manny is as well. The only weak link is probably Dmitri, who sounds a bit pathetic. 
 Making friends in the game adds a bit of depth as wandering all alone makes you look quite sad. The 
 story is really good too and the detail in the city is really good...
  
  ... But the game has several flaws. Firstly is that this not the GTA on the ps2 you know in love. 
 It has changed, so you might feel a bit uncomfortable with it. Liberty City is not even remotely 
 similar so don't expect to see anything thats the same. The game also has less cars than previous 
 incarnations which can make you feel like you are driving the same car everytime you start it up. 
 Also a problem with the game is the hype of being allowed to enter so many buildings is not really 
 true. Yes quite a few are enterable but many have not got much to them. My final complaint is the 
 radio. Lazlo does a great job and so do many of the other voice actors. But the music is not a 
 patch on Vice City. But a welcome addition is the added radio shows. 
  
  But if there was any game you should get at the moment is this as most of those criticisms are 
 really minor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWGruler
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV looked really good, and when I saw the 10 from Gamespot i was thinking two things. Either 
 it was really good, or GameSpot got caught up in the hype and gave it a good score. It turned out 
 to suck and they got a good score. The graphics are no where near superb, at least compared to 
 other next-gen games. The driving is fun, and once you FINALLY get guns its fun too. But it all 
 gets old. Same stuff over and over again. Its only in 3rd person which sucks for shooting, so a 
 no no there. Also, saving is horrible. Games that dont let you save almost anywhere are completely 
 idiotic because it neither adds challenge or fun by making you save only after completing a mission 
 or going to your house. The only time it actually is ok is in first-person shooting MISSION games, 
 which this is not one. If you like games with good stories and games that lead you to new places, 
 then you probably wont like this game. Maybe I was so disappointed because it received a 10, but 
 to be honest, I just didnt like it much at all and I probably wont play it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerbuie
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  Man what can a gamer say more about this game? Down right dirty and you have to love that. I dont 
 always look for the BIG differences in a series to compare, I like finding those small factors 
 that really make a difference. For instance the ability to duck dive and roll for cover in the 
 gun battles. ABOUT TIME!!!! also the ability to shoot any direction in the car.... ABOUT TIME!!!!! 
 oh yea and able to use more than just guns in the automobile good idea. Also like how much more 
 interactive this is, the use of the cell phone for contacts dates and 911... how great is that. 
 well I could go on and on but that part is one of the more obvious differences. But I think great 
 detail was put in a lot of smaller places I figured they would have left out, such as how you get 
 shot in the car, the bullet does not just go threw the window but if hit a blood splatter appears. 
 I also like how when a tire is deflated it does not pop instantly but has to rid flat for a bit 
 then pops. Another game + is how the cars dont explode after so much damage, but can actually stall 
 instead. And last but not least is the 6 star wanted level..... thank you for getting rid of the 
 military! all the while it is not easy to evade, but does make it possible and a lot more fun, 
 its not instant death with those tanks anymore. I can only imagine what the next will be like. 
 ;} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tribes11
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Well to start this I'll assume that you have played all the others Grand Theft Auto titles, if 
 don't go get them just to play cause they worth playing like this one!
  
  When I received my retail copy of GTA: IV the first thoughts were: Will it be better and larger 
 than San Andreas? Will it have good graphics without slowdowns? Will it have improvements from 
 other versions?
  
  Well all those answers were anwered for me by the first 10 hours playing the game. So what I can 
 tell you by far is that the game is quite larger, and a little better from San Andreas, but worse 
 too, some of the improvements we've saw on San Andreas simple was forgotten or removed from this 
 game by RockStar North, so you may think: - Well then San Andreas is better? The answer is, yes 
 and no.
  
  In some cases GTA: IV smashes with San Andreas, such as graphics (obvious) , city details, buildings, 
 models, online mode (this is a huge additive) and of course the gameplay itself.
  
  Speaking frankly what misses in GTA: IV is the build-up of your character, such as the muscles, 
 the improvements such as the "Status" of your character and the "reputation" with others gangs 
 and etc. Another thing you can notice by playing the game while advancing to it, is that it doesn't 
 have airplanes to pilot (so forget about throwing the airplane on a building lol) and about the 
 character customization (which in GTA: San Andreas was nearly very good) , of course you can buy 
 clothes, shoes and etc, but you lack of options and in this case the game is very weak! But the 
 game have a good story (about a Russian coming to America seeking to live The American Dream) and 
 also will grant you many hours of fun, and it doesn't even counting the online mode which have 
 a great replay factor.
  
  Now talking about the technical part of the game, GTA: IV maybe because of space on DVD9 on XBOX360, 
 sometimes have some issues with textures popping in the screen, or in some cases severe loading 
 times. To stop this, if you have an HDD you can hijack a car that is slow and take a tour on the 
 city, driving in every place and when the textures start to popin, stop the car and wait it to 
 completely load, doing this for about 15 minutes is enough to cache the textures to the HDD and 
 you can play the game for a long time without having more problems, even if you turn off the console 
 it will continue on your HDD cache as long as you don't play more than 2 games after GTA: IV... 
 Ok now continuing with the issues about THE GAME, you will face some slowdowns in some cases which 
 is more frequently on the PS3 than the XBOX 360, but they both have slowdowns with explosions for 
 example, and this is a boring issue, but it doesn't REALLY affect the gameplay so it's ok, and 
 speaking about slowdowns, there are some bugs on the game that aren't yet fixed with the online 
 patches so i'm not going to enter on this because there are different bugs on different cases and 
 you just need to know that IT HAVE BUGS (which game doesn't?) , but it's nothing that affect the 
 gameplay again, it's just... boring.
  
  Speaking of the online mode, it's interesting since it's the first time a Grand Theft Auto franchise 
 have a online mode (except for the unofficial mod's on the PC version of GTA: San Andreas) and 
 it's acceptable for a "newcomer" on the online area such RockStar, but is far from the ideal for 
 a game, it does have a Lobby? Yes, ok, but we don't have too many options and sometimes the lobby 
 makes you very angry with some players that come to mess up with the headset and start screaming, 
 etc.. You can negative them of course, and mute, but with the GTAIV lobby let's say it takes a 
 little time.
  
  About the online modes, we have several modes which I won't describe one by one, but I can tell 
 you that my favorites are the Cop's n' Crooks and the Team Deathmatch, they are really good modes 
 for playing with friends and are a lot funnier, on the Cop's n' Crooks, as the name says, you need 
 to either protect your team "Gang Boss" (which is choosen by the game on the start of the round) 
 leading him/her to the extraction point and scape (which can be a boat or a helicopter) playing 
 as the Crooks or to destroy the other team "Boss" playing as cops and to avoid him/her to making 
 his way to the extraction point. This mode is really good cause you have a lot of fun with your 
 friends and sometimes the unpredictable happens! On the Team Deathmatch it's the same as other 
 gamings, the objective is to destroy other teams by any means necessary. The teams are splitted 
 on the lobby and you choose which team you want to be, and there are not only two, but it varies 
 on the color you are. So for example, Blue, Yellow, Red and Green face each other on the same map 
 of the GTA: IV Single Player and trying to kill each other, it's really fun too!
  
  Okay so my conclusion for this game is that it have a lot of fun, worth buying, worth playing and 
 is really, really fun, but it have some issues and the single players sometimes get real boring, 
 which makes you to go online and play there for about a week before ever thinking of going on the 
 boring single player again!
  
  Basically that's it, hope you enjoy (if someone will ever read this)
  
  My score for the game:
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  For a GTA game this is impressive and they balanced it well, only a few slowdowns on some parts 
 and cutscenes but nothing that messes up with the gameplay.
  Sound: 9.5
  It's really good to hear every single sound, of every single thing that happens on the game, plus 
 the radio's play's really good music.
  Gameplay: 9.0
  It's improved and better, you can walk, you can run, you can jump, you can walk drunk (it's funny) , 
 you can pilot and you can drive (both just need some praticte) .
  Story: 9.0
  The story is good enough to play and have some immersion, but nothing compares to the boom on the 
 GTA: San Andreas.
  Replay factor: 8.5
  Only by having a online multiplayer the game gain a variety of replay factors, but about the single 
 player mode, I don't think you'll want to play it all over again, only if you are trying to reach 
 the 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwgamer119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Stepping off a boat in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic as he arrives in Liberty City 
 at the start of Grand Theft Auto IV, you can tell immediately that Rockstar North's latest offering 
 is something quite special. Yes, this is another GTA game in which you'll likely spend the bulk 
 of your time stealing cars and gunning down cops and criminals, but it's also much more than that. 
 GTAIV is a game with a compelling and nonlinear storyline, a game with a great protagonist who 
 you can't help but like, and a game that boasts a plethora of online multiplayer features in addition 
 to its lengthy story mode. It's not without some flaws, but GTAIV is undoubtedly the best Grand 
 Theft Auto yet.
  
  One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City, which is more 
 convincing as a living, breathing urban environment than anything that you've seen in a game before, 
 and bears little resemblance to its namesake in 2001's GTAIII. Liberty's diverse population believably 
 attempts to go about its daily business, seemingly unaware that several criminal factions are at 
 war in the city. Niko has no such luck. He's compelled to start working for one of the factions 
 shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin Roman has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing each other, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does 
 whatever is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately 
 give him the means to complete his own. 
  
  Actually, Niko doesn't have to do everything that is asked of him. On several occasions as you 
 play through his story, you'll be presented with decisions that afford you the option of doing 
 what you think is right rather than blindly following instructions. You don't necessarily have 
 to kill a target if he or she promises to disappear, but you have to weigh the risk of your employer 
 finding out against the possibility that the person whose life you spare might prove useful later 
 in the game, or even have work for you in the form of bonus missions. To say anything more specific 
 on this subject would be to risk spoiling one of GTAIV's most interesting new features, but suffice 
 it to say that every decision you make has consequences, and you'll likely want to play through 
 the game at least twice to see how the alternatives unfold. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV's story mode can be beaten in less than 30 hours, and there are so many optional 
 activities and side missions to take part in along the way that you can comfortably double that 
 number if you're in no hurry. The majority of the story missions task you with making deliveries 
 and/or killing people, and play out in much the same way as those in previous games. With that 
 said, most of the missions are a lot easier this time around, partly because Niko is a more agile 
 and efficient killer than any of his predecessors, and partly because the LCPD seemingly has better 
 things to do than hunt down an illegal immigrant who's gunning down undesirables all over the city. 
 Some of the more imaginative missions sprinkled throughout the story include a kidnapping, a bank 
 heist, and a job interview. The cinematic cutscenes associated with story missions are superbly 
 presented and are the sequences in which the game's characters really shine. Without exception, 
 the characters you encounter benefit from great animation, great voice work, and superbly expressive 
 faces. They're not always so impressive when they join you on a mission and refuse to do what they're 
 supposed to (for example, not following you on an escort mission, or failing to negotiate a doorway) . 
 Nevertheless, these problems are few and far between, and they're made less painful by the new 
 "replay mission" option that you're presented with whenever you fail. 
  
  New abilities in Niko's arsenal include scaling fences and walls anywhere he can get a foothold, 
 shimmying along ledges, and, most importantly, taking cover behind objects. The ability to stick 
 close to walls, parked cars, and the like at the touch of a button makes GTAIV's gunplay a huge 
 improvement over that in previous games, and, in tandem with the new targeting system, it also 
 makes it a lot easier. Enemies are rarely smart enough to get to you while you're in cover, and 
 given that you can lock your targeting reticle on to them even when they're hidden, all you have 
 to do is wait for them to poke their heads out and then pick them off with a minimum of effort. 
 Locking on to enemies targets their torso by default, but you can use the right analog stick to 
 fine-tune your aim and kill them more quickly with a headshot or two. Playing without using the 
 lock-on feature make things more difficult, but you'll need to master the technique so that you 
 can shoot blindly at enemies from positions of cover when you dare not poke your own head out to 
 line up the shot. 
  
  Given the amount of trouble that you get into as you play through the story mode, it's inevitable 
 that the police are going to get involved from time to time, even when their presence isn't a scripted 
 feature of your mission. Liberty City's boys in blue are quick to respond when you get flagged 
 with a wanted level of between one and six stars, but they're not nearly as tough to deal with 
 as their counterparts in previous GTA games. They don't drive as quickly when pursuing you, they 
 rarely bother to set up roadblocks, and you'll need to blow up practically an entire city block 
 before the FIB (that's not a typo) show up. Furthermore, you're given an unfair advantage in the 
 form of your GPS system; when you're not using it to plot a valid route to any waypoint of your 
 choosing, it doubles as a kind of police scanner. Any time you have a brush with the law, the GPS 
 shows you the exact locations of patrol cars and cops on foot in your area, and highlights the 
 circular area (centered on your last known whereabouts) where they're concentrating their search. 
 To escape, all you need to do is move outside the circle and then avoid being seen for 10 seconds 
 or so, which is often best achieved by finding a safe spot and just sitting there. It's not a bad 
 system in theory, but in practice it makes dodging the law a little too easy, especially when your 
 wanted level is low and the search area is small. 
  
  When you're not running missions for criminals, taking part in street races, stealing cars to order, 
 or randomly causing trouble, you'll find that there are plenty of opportunities to unwind in Liberty 
 City. Some of these optional activities offer tangible rewards that can prove useful in missions 
 later on, whereas others are just a fun way to kill time and take in more of GTAIV's superb humor. 
 For example, you can watch television, listen to numerous different radio stations, check out some 
 genuinely funny shows (including some big-name acts) at cabaret and comedy clubs, and use a computer 
 to surf the in-game Internet. 
  
  GTAIV's Internet is filled with spoofs of all the kinds of Web sites that you'd only ever look 
 at accidentally or when you know there's no danger of getting caught. Some of them can be found 
 only by clicking on links in spam e-mails, whereas others are advertised prominently on the search 
 page. There's plenty of amusing stuff to find if you spend some time in one of the "TW@" Internet 
 cafes, but the most interesting site by far is an online dating agency through which you can meet 
 women who, if they like your profile, will agree to go on dates with you. Dating and socializing 
 with friends is something you can spend as much or as little of your time doing as you like, and 
 though the people you meet can occasionally be demanding to the point that they become irritating, 
 keeping them happy invariably benefits you in some way. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar9jun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is an amazing game. The controls feel great, the action is awesome, the story is phenomenal, 
 and the graphics are beautiful. The amount of mayhem I can cause made me finish the story mode 
 slower. The multiplayer is really fun also. But the only thing I thought was bad was how easy it 
 was to just aim and kill comeone. All you have to do is press the aim button and it automatically 
 locks on to your target. This kind of made multiplayer less fun for me. The best part of the whole 
 GTA 4 game is the story. The story is really interesting and you get to make some choices, which 
 makes you feel in charge of what will happen next. The amount of freedom you have makes this game 
 really fun. You can do pretty much whatever you want. But another thing that disappointed me was 
 that there was no plane or jetpack. I had a lot of fun with those in the previous GTA game. Bottom 
 line, GTA 4 is a really fun game. You should defintely own a copy. If you don't have this game, 
 you need to be checked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have played GTA3 and Vice City so I can compare GTA4 to those games. I only played very little 
 of San Adreas but from what I have read and heard that may still be the best in the series. I really 
 enjoyed GTA4 and it kept my interest better than previous versions. Niko Bellic is a badass main 
 character. And you also really get into his story and the people around him because you actually 
 make friends in this game. This is tha main difference is you can use your cell phone to take people 
 out to dinner, theater, or even a strip club. You are rewarded by certain characters if they like 
 enough. You also have girlfriends you can take out and get them to sleep with if your nice enough. 
 This is all very rewarding for awhile but then it really begins to get on your nerves and you want 
 everyone to just quit calling. 
  
  As far as gameplay it is the best by far. You can now seek cover and the aiming system is a lot 
 better. The game is not impossibly hard as I found the others to be. And you can replay missions 
 right away if you die which makes it a lot less annoying. The game can still get pretty tough but 
 most will be able to complete it without cheat codes which is a welcome relief. Also with the addition 
 of being able to take a taxi anywhere in the city it really cuts down on that unwanted travel time.
 
  
  As for multiplayer I can't really go in great detail because I only played a couple of games. It 
 was midly entertaining but with everything else out there I don't think it will keep its longevity 
 like other shooters will.
  
  While fun there were certain things left out that I do not understand. The removal of being able 
 to purchase property was very disappointing. If I am going to become a big crime boss I want to 
 own the town and feel like one. This pertains to the story also, while good and kept my interest 
 I never felt like Niko rweached his pinnacle of success. The whole story is depressing and never 
 makes you feel good about the whole situation. I remember feeling like a total badass in my own 
 villa with 10 pieces of property in Vice City. Also why can't you steal a taxi and do fares. The 
 same goes ambulances and fire trucks. These are things I miss and maybe downloadable content can 
 fix these things.
  
  Overall a great game and worthy of the series I would have just liked to felt more powerful and 
 had a happier ending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giants42
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect. Only thing that I wanted was more weapons like in vice city or san andreas. 
 Otherwise great story, never gets boring, great graphics, multiplayer and the music is great. It 
 feels like you are in a real city (looks like New York-greatest city in the world-Go Giants and 
 Yankees) . Thank god you don't have to waste time on increasing stanima or muscle. The cars feel 
 more real and i love when you run over people blood gets on the car. I also like when you get in 
 a shoot-out niko gets all bloody-up. I like the different types of music from hip-hop to rock to 
 techno-rock and even the talk radio. The internet on this game is a great idea to see what you 
 caused to LC. The cellphone is perfect during the game so it looks like your in the real world. 
 I love the multiplayer cause there is many diffrent games to play against other people. GTAIV is 
 the GREATEST GAME EVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boompixel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the GTA games since they first entered the 3d realm. All have had superb storylines, 
 characters, level/world design, and replay value. The few things you could mock this series for 
 lacking are its very clumsy control scheme and dated graphics, but the outstanding story and overall 
 gameplay usually made up for it. This game is great and instead of listing its achievments, I will 
 list the few gripes i have wiht it. In GTA 4, they have overhauled the graphics engine to bring 
 it on current gen platforms and overall it looks great. There are a few graphical issues in the 
 draw distance and facial animation category but overall it looks solid. The gunplay conrols have 
 been overhauled as well but i dont think they quite achieved what fans wanted them to. You still 
 run into the aim locking issues where you have a guy 2 feet away shooting at you and your auto 
 aim is locking you on a civilian running in the other direction. It's improved from the other versions 
 but needs to be redesigned for the next installment. Another big problem that really was evident 
 in San Andreas is the sheer verocity of cops. There are far too many wandering the streets and 
 it feels as though anytime in the game, you are within feet of one. This makes stealing cars and 
 random shooting hard to get away with. Once you have a 1 star wanted level, its fairly easy to 
 get out of but the ease of getting one a wanted level is just annoying. Once you get two stars 
 it gets even worse. Cars will be ramming you and coming at you from all angles. YOu can still get 
 away after some effort, but annoying none the less. Once you get to 3 stars it gets EXTREMELY difficult 
 to get away from them and its usually just easier to get yourself killed to start over fresh. The 
 traffic department is another gripe of mine. The streets are populated with a VERY realistic number 
 of pedestrians and cars for any given area of the city you are in. Sometimes realistic doesn't 
 translate into fun though. It would have been much cooler if they give you the option to tune down 
 the number of cars and pedestrians on the road to make travel a bit easier. OVerall this is a great 
 game but i think a lot of people get caught up in the hype and overrate it a bit. Go buy it. Its 
 fun. Just dont expect this to be the next Mario 3 or Ocarina of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NortePadrote
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  When Rockstar stated that Gta 4 would be grounded into an almost real world enviorment, and were 
 trashing the over the top missions of previous Gta's. I was very dissapointed, and calling it trash 
 before it was realease. But Rockstar kept realeasing pics of the game and I kept contradicting myself. So 
 I decided to avoid any news about Gta4 so I wouldnt judge until I had played the game. Iam very 
 glad I did that because i ended up liking this game.
  
  Now to the Gameplay.
  
  First of all this is almost the same Gta from last gen. You Pretty much do every control the same 
 way that you did in previous Gta's. The Main Character is Niko, a very likeable Character. He is also 
 hardcore, he sees life as it is and does not think the world in a beutiful. Other supporting characters 
 that are cool as Nika are Packie. Packie is an Irish thug who has his crew to commit crimes. Vlad 
 its okay, and thats all iam going to mention, becuase something happens and Vlad is the cause of 
 it all. Niko's cousin Roman, not cool but very anoying. 
  The story is very basic, but in a good way. At times in missions you have choices to kill your target, or 
 let them live and walk away. Its about Niki Immigrating into Liberty City, thinking its some utopia, but 
 it turns out its just like his home. Full of rats and crime.
  
  Now the gameplay is awsome. Everything is fluid and realistic. Niko's walk is the most unique and 
 very realastic. Now for the cheaters, Acheivements are dissabled when you enter a cheat, so try to 
 avoid them and play the game the right way. The Driving is very good if you take your time getting 
 use to it and learn. There are a bunch of secrets if you just take some time from missions to look 
 for them in Liberty City. Theres some mini games that you can play with Roman or Nikos Girlfriend, like 
 golf, darts, and pool. Theyre a great sidedish. Also hanging out with your buddys is part of the gameplay.
 
  
  Now the only thing that I did not like about GTA4 is the overrated new aiming. Its way overated. Its 
 not that bad anymore, buts it still anoying. Your enimies have to have to practicly be on your sight, right 
 in front of you to shoot them. Some other thug could be shooting you on your right side, instead 
 of instantly targeting the enmey. You will have to turn to face him, then aim at the guy. 
  
  The Graphics are the best, for a game of this magnitude. Everythings is extremly detail, including 
 every character. It goes on and on, even into shadows. The characters look, even Niko is even life 
 like. Buildings are no longer just rows and rows of diffrent shapes of recatangles. Every single 
 building is diffrent. They even have monuments and statues on very important places in Liberty City.
 
  
  Now for music of the game, its quite a dissapoinment. ITs not reall that memorable like in previous 
 GTA"S. There only some songs that are actually any good. The voice acting is awsome. They make the 
 characters therye playing unique.
  
  This is like the longest GTA. Even Longer than San Adreas. None of the previous storys were bad, but 
 somehow the Story for Gta 4 surpasses them. Its very awsome story. My friend who usually skips cut 
 scenes, actually watched them and enjoy the story. Just check out this game. Almost everything is 
 perfect about the game. I would had give it a 10, but my 9.5 is for the overated aiming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Remember the times before the PlayStation and the infamous Mortal Kombat that started the ESRB 
 and all the video game haters such as Jack Thompson and Hillary Clinton to start going psycho and 
 hating every gamer. Back when Mario and a little blue hedgehog reined king. Of course you do, but 
 those times are long gone thanks to Rockstar.
  
  In early July 1998 a little game came out for the PC and PS1 known as Grand Theft Auto. As the 
 name states you steal cars and do whatever the hell you want as well. The game was at that time 
 a top-down view of a virtual city where you do whatever you want. A sequel was released in October 
 of 1999 appropriately named Grand Theft Auto 2. This game was also a top-down view of a city. Three 
 more games were released on the PS2 over the years that introduced 3D to the series.
  
  On April 29 the world was introduced to the sixth installment in the series; Grand Theft Auto IV. 
 For those who've played this game you can agree with me when I say this... game... is... REMARKABLE! 
 I got the game on day one of the release and I loved it instantly. The game is set in Liberty City, 
 which is a mock of New York City. The game sets you in the role of Niko Bellic, a immigrant who 
 came to Liberty City to start a new life with his cousin Roman and to find that "special someone". 
 Any more of the story that I say would be considered a spoiler so that's about it.
  
  The graphics are wonderful. You feel like you are actually in the city driving around and exploring. 
 The controls are great for this game. Not only can you shoot someone while your driving but you 
 can do it while dodging traffic as well. The story is great and can be changed around a lot by 
 changing your decisions in certain areas of the game. The voice acting is great and actually sounds 
 like a conversation rather than a choppy he-says-she-says dialog. There is definitely a replay 
 value due to the story decisions. The multiplayer is a first for the series and makes the game 
 even better. You can get a ton of friends and race around or shoot each other. There is even a 
 Free Mode that lets you do what ever you want. Overall this game is great.
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheus9950
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a very good game. The graphics are amazing and people will react to things you do, like 
 running right into them, making them drop their coffee, then picking up their coffee and throwing 
 it at their head. And there are many other great things that you can hear from other reviews but 
 here are some things that hold this game from being as great as San Andreas and Vice City.
  First of all, customization. If you played San Andreas and then GTA 4, is kind of obvious that 
 there is so much less customization. SA had 6 or 7 stores for clothing alone and GTA 4 has 3 measly 
 shops. Also, SA had great things to add like tattoo shops and what would seem kind of obvious: 
 a barber shop. But somehow GTA 4 left those two things out. Another thing that SA was vehicle customization, 
 and while it wasn't as good as say, Saint's Row, it was decent. The closest thing GTA 4 has to 
 this is Pay n' Spray, where you get to have a random new color. Another big thing GTA 4 left out 
 was more weapons to select. There are two of about everything but besides from looking different 
 you basically have 8 weapons. Now if they played very differently from each other you would have 
 about 14. A notable weapon left out from the bunch was a silenced pistol. Again they had one in 
 SA but not here, so if you wanted to be super sneaky and stealth kill a few guys you're out of 
 luck. Another complaint is the lack of really awesome vehicles. SA nailed it, but GTA 4 missed 
 it by a long shot. The only air vehicle is a helicopter, which I find to be very disappointing. 
 In SA they had planes of all shapes and sizes as well as helicopters. In fact, I get angry every 
 time I see that stupid plane flying around in GTA 4 because I know I will never get to drive it. 
 Also, SA had one completely awesome vehicle that I think should have made an appearance, the jet-pack. 
 One final thing about GTA 4 is the extremely limited location. A city, thats it, now mountains, 
 no county side, no sunny beaches, just a smog filled, water-polluted, city. If you could have gotten 
 out of the city and went somewhere else that would be great, but nope just a stinkin city. This 
 game would probably have gotten a higher score in my mind if it wasn't a GTA game, just because 
 it would fail to live up to the hype. But I guess we'll just have to wait for the next one to see 
 the GTA we all know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  GTA IV
  The Best Grand Theft Auto EVER!
  Graphics: The Graphics Are Amazing, with Superb Dynamic Lighting And Spot on weathering and shadows 
 Added With the amount of detail around the city leaves the graphics 1 step behind call of duty 
 4. When Zoomed In On a car You really notice how much detail is Put into The game!
  
  GamePlay: The Controls are simple to Master which adds a point to the gameplay. You will find it 
 hard to adjust to driving at 1st due to everyone being used to the ps2 and psp GTA titles Where 
 the accelerator and handbrake is all you need, But Not In GTA IV when you handbrake you will lose 
 control. When playing single Player You Will find yourself choosing the fate of various characters 
 to choose the path of the game. The New Physics Engine Has Really Improved The Game.
  
  Multiplayer: The Online Play Holds 16 Players on 1 server, Alought there are few gametypes, Everyone 
 is Open to Listen to your Ideas On Games To Play (CARCANNON) . But When playing Normally You Have 
 Two Teams of 8, From There Its Just Mindless Violence, This is Very Fun!
  
  Other: There Is Loads Of Downloadable Content For The Game, And Lots Of Side Missions That Can Be 
 activated by talking to friends on the street. There are also side missions that some people forget 
 about (accessing the police computer for gang information) . If You Are a fan of the other GTA Titles 
 Dont worry it still Has That GTA Humour.
  
  Dont Stutter, BUY THIS GAME WITH NO HESITATION!
  10 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43211
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock 
 You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock 
 You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock 
 You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock 
 You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You !
  That IS THE no.1 Game, Fock You ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skadfer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  grand theft auto 4 is an awesome game. if you've played you know what i mean. if you haven't, you 
 should go pick it up. almost everything is great about it. the multiplayer is fantastic. the story 
 line is amazing. the graphics are phenonomal. i think rockstar games did an outstanding job on 
 grand theft auto 4. some things could be improved though. like the friends and dates. they're too 
 easy too upset, ecspecialy the dates. and the flying rats in the game don't make any sense at all. 
 why would someone waste their time to go aroud a city just to kill pigeons. other than that, everything 
 is perfect. every vehicle is fantastic. when you hit something, it looks just like the real thing. 
 the unique stunt jumps are fun to do. plus, all the jobs you do for your friends are enjoyable. 
 my rating for grand theft auto 4 is a 10.0 out of 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong; the graphics is spectacular, music okay.
  The game is good, story okay but very short.
  The bank mission was one of the most boring missions, 
 to long and annoying (I died twice before getting to the car) .
  I also think that you have to spend way too much time with girlfriends and friends, one of the 
 most annoying things, about GTA 4.
  I also think that it is a shame that you can't drive in the Truck with a trailer, as in GTA: SA.
 
  I don't get it how can a game get downgraded. By that I mean in San Andreas you can ride bicycles, 
 and there are airports where you can take Jet Plane, and fly to another airport. Jump out of the 
 plane or helicopter with a parachute
  I can't explain it but something is missing, not only the bike riding, and even bigger map with 
 open country, to explore.
  Somehow I'd wish that Rock Star would make a Remake of Vice City, and San Andreas, those games 
 are way better.
  If Rock Star ever decided to make a remake of San Andreas; it would be cool if Carlton would be 
 replaced by Niko, or you could choose.
  I love to drive around I GTA 4 and play, because of the great physique, when driving. But somehow, 
 I enjoy San Andreas even more because of the size of the map, and the ability to fly different 
 airplanes, jump out of plane/helicopter and parachute.
  Maybe Rock Star could make a travel pack so Nike could travel to San Andreas and Vice City.
  
 Of course, with updated graphics, and the exact same missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DusterHogan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has got it all. There's not a whole lot more you can say really. You wanna drive? 
 You can drive. You wanna fly? You can fly. You wanna go on a explosive homicidal rampage of epic 
 proportions? Go right ahead. Then play a quick game of bowling to round off the evening just for 
 kicks. I personally enjoy just headed out with a nice RPG strapped to my back and few grenades 
 stuck in my pocket to have a car exploding / innocence ruining good time.
  
  The game is not without its few hitches though. It took a bit of time for me to get used to the 
 driving, which I'm sure most of you had the same problem. But like they say, practice makes perfect 
 and I have gotten a lot better when I need to be (a little recklessness is good for you once in 
 a while. *cough vehicular homicide* cough) .
  
  I love all of the GTA games, I've grown up with them, and honestly I can say this is the best. 
 Simple as that. It will be my fall back game for a long whenever I'm feeling the need for some 
 relaxing carnage. That is until GTA 5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2handedkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Its quite a good game but doesnt have enough missons and the game needs more stuff to do and more 
 features.
  These are some thinks they could of put in to improve the game: more storyline missions, able to 
 put spoilers, body kits etc, taxi, amulance and firefighting missions, more cars, more clothes, 
 more mutiplayer levels 1-20, more achevements for the xbox 360, more mutiplayer games such as capture 
 the flag, more weapons and be able to buy companys. There is downloadable content coming out for 
 xbox 360 im not sure about ps3 tho. There is quite a lot of bugs like spinning vechies and the swing 
 of death that should be fixed. There should be army and tanks removing them is pointless getting 
 6 stars is the same as 4 stars and 5 stars just more noose cruisers, lc poilce cruisers, noose partiot, 
 and noose vans. One more thing there should be planes they have helicopters why not planes it doesnt 
 matter if there to big to land there fun to fly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was one of the most hyped game of the year as it was delayed from last years 
 launch. I decided to review it late because i think thats when you can really look back and think 
 about the replay value that has made the Grand Theft Auto series so good. When i first started 
 playing, I was in aww, the city is beautiful and really feels alive. People walking on the sidewalk 
 dont feel lifeless following a train track anymore. Each once reacts differently depending on what 
 your doing. The new aiming system really helps this game feel like a next-gen GTA. The story is 
 great and will keep you wanting to play on to see what happends. The forks in the road are great 
 and offer some freedom in the story. Driving also feels brand new but not realistic how everyone 
 says because the cars slide like crazy and the e-brake still feels like the old GTA games. The 
 AI is setup just right and reacts how it should. Cop chases are a bit easier with the whole zone 
 systems, all you have to do is leave the circle and your free. Everything was good until i beat 
 it, this game offers no reason to keep playing. Many people will tell you the online is fun, but 
 it really isn't. The aiming system fails online and most of the time the win/lose comes down to 
 who sees who first and starts shooting. No customization really kills the game at the end, theres 
 really not point to keep playing. You cant modify cars and you cant change cloth, all you can do 
 is shoot people and run from cops, which gets boring sense its so easy to run away from the cops. 
 GTAIV is a solid addition to anyone's collection. But fails short of the GOTY hype that it had 
 coming into the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Yes ladies and gentlemen the wait is over... GTA IV is finally here and its on xbox 360.. huh.. 
 Most fans of this series know that this used to be a ps2 first series but this time around it comes 
 out for both systems at the same time. Now I know a lot has been written about this game so I will 
 throw my two cents in. First I have to write about the negatives and yes people there are negatives 
 to this game. For a game to me to get a 10 score it has to be perfect or near perfect. One problem 
 I had with this game was the driving. They revamped it to make it more realistic but what it really 
 did was make an easy thing harder. Driving the car is not as easy as it used to be but as usual 
 through time you get used to it. This game adds a sims element to it by allowing you to have friends. 
 With these friends they give you various things through out the game. They also becoming annoying 
 as they always want to hang out with you as are you girlfriends. I really did not see the reason 
 for them to be in the game by hey they are here. The shooting in this game also leaves a lot to 
 be desired. The free shooting mode is horrible and the lock on targetting can also be very spotty 
 when it comes to various attackers. There are the usual GTA glicthes but they are few and far between. 
 Ok now those really seem like small problems so one to the good stuff. Its all here the standard 
 GTA things we love. Gone are the finding packages to get weapons. You have the usual races and 
 finding things thru out the city. Missions galore here as you go from person to person. I liked 
 the fact that it gave you the option on certain missions to kill or spare someone or which person 
 to kill. This is a next generation game on a next generation system so the graphics are beautiful. 
 Down to when you hit a car or a person and you see the damage or the blood. The detail is fantastic 
 as are the people movement. Everywhere you go there are people talking and interacting with the 
 environment. I have to say that this is a very good game worth getting for any system. The 360 
 version has a leg up because there will be some new content coming out for the game in the near 
 future. There are not many flaws in this game so buy it if you can. If there is a must have game 
 this is it for any system. One aspect of this game that I did not play was the on line aspect. 
 I have heard that this makes the game even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord1968
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost this game is simply amazing, it has a highly addictive quality that has got 
 me to beat the storyline multiple times. Graphics:
  
  
  amazing looking almost life like at some times
  
  
  Sound:
  
  
  suits the type of game 
 the radio stations together have 100 + songs and gun shots sound real.
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  
  this is where the game is either won or lost to me it won this game in my 
 opinion this game is better than all of it's predecesors some people may disagree but thats your 
 oppinion if your a major fan of the seriesw buy it its worth it but if your not rent it first then 
 you will choose weither this game is worth that 50 or so dollars it costs. but around that you 
 can do everything from prank calling the cops to killing pedestrians to drunk driving (actually 
 quite funny) . To me the most important part of any game is it's story and this is a truly amazing 
 story that draws you in and you will be truly disapointed when it ends as i was but that dosent 
 stop you from restarting it of causing some good old fashion mass murder in the streets of liberty 
 city.
  
  
  
  overall:
  
  10 what did you expect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda350
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. the controls, gameplay and weapons are the bet in any gta to date. it has 
 the best story of almost any game and has beutiful graphics that are just as good as the story 
 you should definetely get this game it is not overhyped an any way an IS THE BEST GTA TO DATE GET 
 IT And also rhe game skate is better sorry gta but skate is the best game ever............. best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best e=best best best best best nest best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best e=best best best best best nest best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best e=best best best best best nest best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best e=best best best best best nest best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best best 
 e=best best best best best nest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Scoring: When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Scoring: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfortune
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is simply stunning and amazing. From the graphics to the game play I could not put this 
 game down if I tried. The story lines are great, and go on forever. I find myself hanging out with 
 people and going to the bar with them in Liberty City like I am actually about to get a drink and 
 play darts.
  
  As far the as the game play, I impressed with the variations of vehicles and the driving style. 
 At first the driving was a little hard, but with a little practice you'll will be whipping turns 
 at 60mph with no problem. As far as detail I feel the game is at a level that is hard to compare. 
 The radio stations give it to you straight forward and the comedy skits are just flat out hilarious. 
 Stealing cars have never been more fun in GTA, I mean actually holding the gun on the person is 
 a sight to see.
  
  Well I enjoyed this game, but I'm still trying to take control of Liberty City, but that is no 
 problem because I have a cool 300,000 thousand and a whole lot of ammunition. What could go wrong. 
 Rockstar actually took a game that was good on the PS2 and actually made it better on the Xbox 
 360 and PS3, I wish I could say the same for the developers over at EA. 
  
  Lg420 (Socom is back...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyrock1234sp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  When the trailers for this game came out i didnt have xbox. My brother would always talk about 
 getting this game and i am glad i did. Let me start with the Story line.
  
  You start off from coming off a boat. You are Niko Bellic and you arrive to see your fat cousin 
 Roman. He tells you that he has a mansion and that the life here is amazing. When you get there 
 all you have is an apartment with one bedroom.
  
  Now let me talk about the graphics. They are really good and i dont even have an hdtv. The cars 
 are pretty good but when they get in accidents that looks very good. The people are almost all 
 different. I never really pay attention to them. i just shoot them are run them over. 
  
  All the work that was put in this game was amazing. If you are going very fast in a car and crash 
 into another one you might find your self coming out through the windshield or the driver you hit 
 might. I would have not thought about that if i made this game. They ragdoll effect is okay considering 
 that not many other games show you flying across the screen.
  
  Multiplayer is what really sold this game. The city is yours for the taking and that is really 
 good. You can do anything. including free roam. I cant really say much but this game is really 
 good. You have too see how good this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is based on Liberty City. You play as Niko Bellic, Who has come from Russia and has come 
 to America hoping to leave his past behind. But later he finds out that Roman has lied to him, 
 There is no Mansion or sports car.
  
  Now, Lets talk about the game.
  Firstly, You pop this game into you're console and you get lost for words. The quality is beautiful 
 and you are likely to assume 'It looks good so It must be good'. Wrong. Now, don't get me wrong 
 I am not saying the game is bad, The story is great but what lets it down is the lack of the old 
 GTA features.
  
  Remember San Andreas? That game was a living legend, I used to have that In my PS2 all day, I skipped 
 homework just to play on it. The parachute, Planes and going underwater, But unfortunately, They 
 left all that behind. You do get a Helicopter, Only unlock able once you reach "Algonquin" which 
 is the 2nd island, Or the 'center' island. The helicopter you get is one of two helicopters you 
 can unlock in the game.
  
  So, Whats different?
  Well, A lot of new features that never could make up for all the ones in SA. Niko takes one step 
 at a time when Going down a staircase, But that has to be the most annoying feature, You may aswell 
 just jump down the stairs but he doe's swiss army rolls down there like he is training to be in 
 the army and wastes tame.
  
  The physics are a big feature, And this is the only feature along with another which I actually 
 like. When you jump out a high speeding car you expect to just land back on you're feet stood still 
 like you did in every other GTA game. Well, No. It actually is VERY realistic, Niko go's flying 
 forward and bounces the ground losing health on every smack to the ground. It really simulates 
 real life movements a lot with its new Physics and I have to say it is enjoyable.
  
  Taxi is another new feature, you can call (or find on the road) a Taxi/Cab to take you to anywhere. 
 You make a waypoint on the map and he will take you there, or you can choose where you want to 
 go (ect. 'Cluckin Bell' 'safehouse') . But what can be irrating is the fact you have to hold the 
 Y button to enter, And half the time he steals the cab and gets wanted which is very annoying.
 
  
  The storyline is great. Like I said at the start you have a great start, and you have alternative 
 endings, So not every game is the same. There are some missions where you choose to kill people 
 or no, Most of the time it won't change the story a lot but sometimes It can open up new missions. 
 The missions are very hard too, But to make things easier there is a new 'cover' thing where you 
 can hide behind objects.
  
  
  Overall: Rockstar have done a great job at this game, It deserves a 9. The reason I didn't vote 
 10 was because of the lack of things to enjoy like Parachute and Planes. But don't get me wrong, 
 I am not saying the game sucks because of the lack of Planes. I am saying its a way to improve 
 and get this game a higher rating. San Andreas overall was my favorite one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markTK901
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  The first trailer of GTA IV last year was enough to get the whole world excited about its release. 
 despite the disappointing delay that set it back another six months left us hungry to get even 
 more hyped. upon release the game itself was incredible the amount of detail and physics the game 
 created gave the GTA universe a whole new realistic setting. but to be honest I think the game 
 was too silly with the wanted level system, you could walk down a street and gently brush against 
 a cop and before you know it he blows your bloody head off. having this said it is nearly impossible 
 to evade the police in any fashion even if you took a helicopter and flew out to sea!!! 
  On a positive note the game feels solid the aiming system is sooooooo much better than the previous 
 games on the consoles and the story is dirty and gritty much like a revenge movie. The protagonist 
 (Niko Bellic) takes a different agenda to the other main characters in the GTA universe as an eastern 
 Europe immigrant seeking for the American dream. so anyway the game is great but looking back on 
 it now it wasnt worth the excitement everyone was waiting for. The game gets repetitive and boring 
 after about 10 hours of playing even though its a little overrated and the multi-player I thought 
 was a nice addition but it does'nt keep the gamer entertained for long. But then again it could 
 be worse I mean EA could have made it just imagine how much of a f*ck up that would have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flesseck214
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar North have truly outdone themselves in this next rung of the ambitious sandbox wonder, 
 Grand Theft Auto. Without a doubt, this sequal may easily labeled as a digital masterpiece. Filled 
 with a beautiful graphical display, top notch voice acting, a long and engrossing storyline, and 
 characters that you will learn to love and hate, I cannot help but personally fall in love with 
 this work of art. Rockstar have undoubtedly set a new standard for gaming with Grand Theft Auto 
 IV.
  
  Your journey begins with an Eastern European named Niko Bellic who learns of Liberty City's opportunities 
 and hopes to strike a name for himself. His cousin, Roman, who currently resides in the city and 
 helps run a taxi cab service, tries to assist Niko with his immersion of the city life. Niko quickly 
 learns how deep, dark and mysterious Liberty City is when he gets involved with a wide array of 
 characters who like Niko are trying to find their place among the vast city. The storyline is breathtaking 
 and should be experienced at least once by any avid Action/Adventure gamer. And even when you think 
 you've finished the main story, there are plenty other surprises and side missions to enjoy. Or 
 you can just simply wander Liberty City and admire the creative masterpiece that Rockstar has stitched 
 in amazing detail.
  
  Yet, the journey does not stop in the singleplayer campaign. You can continue to experience the 
 depths of Liberty City online through various modes of play that Rockstar has available to the 
 Xbox Live community. Most online modes have fun and addicting objections from completing small 
 tasks for a gang, playing cobs and robbers, racing, or standard deathmatch.
  
  I gave this a 10/10 because of its visual appeal, the large collection of sounds from the music 
 on radio stations to noises that make Liberty City so alive and believable, and replay value that 
 includes singleplayer and multiplayer considering I could replay the singleplayer campaign multiple 
 times. I recommend this to anyone who wants to enjoy a dramatic adventure and to those who simply 
 want to have fun in a sandbox world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradas101
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has been so eagerley anticipated across the world by so many millions of people and take 
 2 have not disapionted one bit.
  
  The game has everything that you would expect to find in one of the Grand Theft Auto games series 
 but it also offers much much more to the player. The explosions from the RPG can only be described 
 as immenese as it hits its target a great ball off fire is released up into the air and parts of 
 the object are scattered all over the place. This only happens though if your RPG is to hit the 
 object some times the RPG suddenly changes course due to the wind and ends up hitting a building 
 instead of its intended target.
  
  One of the bits that makes this game so real is the constantly changing weather, my personal favourite 
 are the thunderstorms where the rain is crashing against the road and the buildings and the sound 
 is really believable. But the weather isn't there just to add frills it actually alters the way 
 your car drives as at speed the car skids around corners and loads of spray is thrown up from the 
 back wheels. If you go to fast in the rain you cannot rely on your brakes to stop you and you invariably 
 end up hitting one of the barriers or walls near to the road. This can also affect shots being 
 fired as it can drastically alter the direction in which the bullets where intended to go. My only 
 problem is that the weather is a little predictable, this may sound stupid but I don't mean day 
 and night as that is obvious but I mean the thunderstorms and fog only appear to happen in the 
 night at around 0100 there is no real unpredictability as to when the changes in weather will occur.
 
  
  The weapons are just out of this world whether you are gunning down a pedestrian or assassinating 
 an intended target you will still feel pleasure in firing the weapons as it sounds so realistic.
 
  
  For best fun play using cheats but otherwise it is an awesome and well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincent1333
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This review is a bit late, but I wanted to get a lot of experience with the game before I judged 
 it. So here's the run down...
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics in this game are obviously beautiful. Let's face it, in this day and age almost every 
 game on current gen consoles look good, but it's not perfect. Some of the details look a little 
 ugly, like the windows in some buildings, but overall most things look nice and clean. 
  
  I'd also like to mention the new physics here, as I can't think of anywhere else to put them. I 
 personally love this new feature and believe that the rag doll effects add many hours of replay 
 ability just for the fun of watching your enemies (or yourself) flail about. There are also a lot 
 of subtle things that many players might not notice, like characters legs bending when standing 
 on the edge of a curb or characters actually turning their bodies into the direction they are running. 
 The last thing I musty mention about this is when your character gets drunk, it is absolutely hilarious 
 watching him stumble about, and the physics really make it look great.
  
  Story: 9/10
  The story in this game is pretty good, not sure if it is as good as some let on though. The character 
 are well done and likable (though I think Jacob's accent is very annoying as he is very hard to 
 understand, even with subtitles enabled, but maybe this is just me) . There are some very cool moments 
 throughout the game and the story is enough to drive you to finish those harder missions. There 
 are also points where you get to make choices that affect the story. Some are minor, but some have 
 a pretty big affect, like changing the ending. Overall the story will last you a bit (clocked in 
 for me at about 60 hours, though this is with side missions) , and it was good enough to keep me 
 playing. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This is without a doubt where the game truly shines. The new cover and targeting systems work very 
 well and makes gunplay sooo much more fun and less frustrating than previous games in the series. 
 The cars feel good as well and each drives uniquely. The game also finally allows player to shoot 
 where ever they choose while in a car, no more of the incredibly annoying drive-by only firing. 
 The hand to hand fighting has also been improved, complete with a counter system, though no fighting 
 styles this time around. The only problem I have with the close quarters combat is that you almost 
 never have to use it after the very beginning of the game. Overall this game is just a lot more 
 fun to play than the other GTA's.
  
  Content: 7/10
  This is the area that I think this game is lacking at the most. This game is missing so many features 
 that the other games had. Some examples are the limited number of weapons, no car customization, 
 no bicycles or planes or tanks, a much smaller game world (compared to San Andreas anyway) , the 
 ability to buy homes, and the severely reduced character customization (once again in reference 
 to San Andreas) . I just seems like they took a step forward in gameplay but two steps back in the 
 amount of content. I can only assume this was done so that these things could be offered as download 
 content and I hope we see the return of some of these features. 
  
  It's not all bad though, the game does offer the usual supply of side errands. From the unique 
 stunt jumps to the flying rats (which replace hidden packages this time around) , there are many 
 things to do. They have also improved the police missions and allow the player to access them through 
 the new police computer in any police vehicle. The player can also hangout with the different friends 
 they will acquire during the game and go on dates. In the end there are things to do, but it seems 
 that there could be more.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  Another feature that was drastically improved over previous versions. The new online multiplayer 
 is quite simply amazing. Free roaming with a group of friends around the city is great fun and 
 the competitive modes offer many different game types. In ranked match there is also a level based 
 ranking system that rewards players with new customization options for there online character upon 
 reaching higher levels. The multiplayer will definitely keep you playing for many hours after the 
 single player game has ended.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  This game is very very good, even great, but not perfect. Hopefully the planned episodic content 
 will fill in some of the holes left by the lack of content in the game. But other than this there 
 are really very few flaws with this game in my opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Not being a GTA fan, I wasn't quite sure if I'd be interested in this game for long. GameSpot gave 
 it a 10/10, and I agree. Simply put, Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game to come out in 2008 so 
 far and is a must play for anyone who likes shooters or free roaming games. Stepping into the shoes 
 of illegal immigrant Niko Rellic, you're thrust into the world of Liberty city (aka Manhattan) . 
 Like previous GTA games, you'll be able to jack cars, wonder around the city and shoot anyone you 
 desire. The city is absolutely huge, and it takes a long time to fully explore Liberty City. If 
 you get tired of causing random crime, you can simply wander around the city to explore. There 
 are tons of different buildings to go in, even the Statue of Liberty. Inside some buildings there 
 are mini-games to do, like the Strip Club, Bowling, Darts, Pool and more. You can even hop into 
 a cop car to view crimes throughout the city that you'll be able to put to an end. The controls 
 take a little bit of work to get used to. There are two different types of aiming in the campaign. 
 Either you lock on to a target or you can use free aim, where you point your gun where you want. 
 It can get a bit annoying having to press the aiming button lightly. If you've played Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition, you'll be familiar with the sprinting system. You can either repeatedly press X or A or 
 hold it down to sprint. A problem I have with the sprinting is they're too slow. If you cause a 
 lot of crime, cops will come after you, and it can be frustrating not being able to sprint that 
 fast. There's also a cover system, but if you think it's as good as, say, Gears of War or Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2, then you'd be wrong. The aiming is quite annoying while in cover, since you often 
 can't aim all that well. Pressing X or square near a ledge or fence will allow you to climb over 
 it, which is pretty neat. Mission designs are usually based on eliminating a target without being 
 caught by the police. The police usually aren't a problem, since you'll be able to see which area 
 they're looking for you in and where a specific cop car is. All you have to do is stay out of the 
 zone they're in for around five seconds or so and then you'll be free to do your business. There 
 are different weapons and vehicles. There's pistols, machine guns, shotguns, and RPG and so on 
 to use. Driving with a motorcycle fast and then turning with it is very frustrating, but realistic. 
 I got used to driving the cars within ten or fifteen minutes. A big plus is the great audiovisual 
 presentation. The voice acting along with object sounds are superb. Visually, the game looks impressive. 
 Character models can sometimes be a bit blocky, but the animations are quite fluid. The one problem 
 I have is the really dark lighting. Even in broad daylight, the city may look overly dark at times, 
 but it's not that big of a problem. You have a cell phone, where you can invite friends to go out 
 for any mini-game activities or to just eat. When you're tired of driving, your cousin Roman will 
 usually have a taxi ready to take you anywhere you want to go. There are tons of different activities 
 to do, including surfing the internet, which will last you a long time. If you get tire of the 
 campaign, (which will last you a minimum of 30 hours) you can always click your cell phone for 
 multiplayer. You can create your own character, which is really very nice. There's tons of different 
 modes to play from. You've got your standard Team Deathmatch and Free-for-All, but there are a 
 lot more that are really fun. There's a mode called Free Mode, where you run around Liberty City 
 with up to 15 other gamers, killing either each other or helping each other wreak havoc on the 
 streets. There's also a party mode, where you can invite up to 7 other friends to freely mess around 
 in Liberty City. One mode I enjoyed is Cops n' Crooks, where one team is on foot and there's one 
 leader and they're trying to get to an escape vehicle, while the other team is in a cop car and 
 they try to intercept the crooks. Sure the online isn't almost perfect like Call of Duty 4, but 
 it's probably the third most enjoyable that I've played. Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV will probably 
 be the best game of 2008, and it is so far. Grand Theft Auto IV is the most organic and realistic 
 free-roaming/shooting game, and no game has ever made a city feel so alive than the living, breathing 
 metropolis of Liberty City. This is simply a must play for anyone who's interested in it and is 
 most definitely one of the Xbox 360's greatest games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  It seems like its almost illegal to not like this game. I wonder if everyone rating it beyond the 
 scale is tied to some kind of protest against the empty minded politicians who lash out towards 
 the game, trying to score a few votes from ignorant and scared parents.
  
  In my opinion, I think the game fails as it tries to do too much. They should focus on the core 
 fun in GTA, rather than adding a lot of semi-inspired junk around it. Like the "friends" concept. 
 Continuously having to drag people to play dull mini-games just to pump up my friends stats with 
 them is tedious. And why would I want to dress up my "bad guy"? If I want that kind of &^%#, I 
 would just buy a barbie doll and play with it.
  
  Graphics is great, however what's up with the super black "black"? I continuously tried to adjust 
 my TV, as the black areas of the graphics just seems too black like the TV set has too high contrast 
 settings or something, quite hard on my eyes. The cut scenes has good audio, but the facial expressions 
 of the characters are a bit dated, and cannot even stand up against the now aging Half Life 2.
 
  
  The gameplay is stretched out over too many mini-games, and although this is supposed to give you 
 freedom, it instead forces you to play a lot of casual games that are plainly tedious. I also feel 
 its too weak as a FPS to be a good shooter, its just too hard to aim and control your character 
 well enough like in a well balanced pure blood FPS. The third person view also makes you lose control 
 of the situation quickly when in a firefight. 
  
  So, whats left? The most polished and well functioning part of the game is the driving. Crashing 
 through pedestrians and stealing cars is a lot of naughty fun, but I kind of had my share of that 
 in the numerous previous installments, and in similar games like Saints Row.
  
  For a game that scores 10/10 here on Gamespot, I must say I am quite disappointed. **10**? That 
 should be a PERFECT game, I just cant get that to make sense. I think someone got carried away 
 by the hype here... Perhaps the reviewer was scared to not like it a lot, as he would be picked 
 on by the other gamers. If he likes it most of all, he must be coolest of all and perhaps people 
 will respect me again, he thought...
  
  I guess if you're a die hard GTA fan, nothing can ever convince you that your taste is biased and 
 it is in fact a game with a lot of boring parts. But, that is the reality IMHO. 
  
  This is another game I will shelf and never finish unless I truly find some empty and boring points 
 in my life where I'm desperate to have something, anything, to pass time. Or I may just find some 
 bubble wrap and pop it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  So I went out and bought this game, 10/10 I thought this has to be good. Boy was I ever wrong. 
 No, no graphics are superb, but I cant help feeling that with all GTA games this is a little bit 
 like polishing a pile of turd. Yet again rockstar have failed me, and this time its for the last 
 time. 
  
  Music: Hardly knew any of the songs compared to San Andreas.
  
  Graphics: Pretty Impressive
  
  The real let down cmes in actual gameplay. the game just invents 
 its own rules. And to be quite honest I have had it. In one mission I had to escape a three star 
 wanted level. And in my bid to escape, I managed to pick to the only road with road works blocking 
 my escape. (How unlucky indeed) In other missions you cant get away from police they are everywhere. 
 Its too far fetched for my liking. If they want realism then the police should pull you over for 
 running a red light, for speeding for just about every crime you commit. You can gun someone down 
 in broad daylight but ya cant shunt a police car with out the national guard being called. But 
 thats ok cos the graphics are good. They yet again havent thought it through which forced me to 
 cheat which I hate doing. Nobody and I mean nobody has completed this game without cheating. Deny 
 it all you want on here but I know how the game thinks and you know you reached for that cheat 
 button. I cannot beleive they force people to cheat in order to finish the game. Which is funny 
 cos its the only game I've had to cheat with in order to finish it. I strongly suggest you stay 
 away from this game unless you like cheating in which case fine. Bad game, badly thought out, polished 
 poo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Yes GTAIV has finally come, only their are somethings missing. While GTAIV is fun to play the story 
 it has nothing to support it, most of the fun extra missions or things to do, are gone. Delivering 
 pizza, taxi missions, Vigilante missions and other are all gone, leaving you with almost nothing 
 to do after finishing the main story. Yes the main story is great and playing through it is a adventure 
 and is fun to play, as soon as your done your left in the expansive urban city with nothing. Even 
 the rampages aren't as fun as they used to be because of the lack of ways to kill, you can hit 
 or shoot and thats about it, you can't set anyone on fire or anything like that. The new engine 
 that R* put into GTAIV is impressive and Euphoria only makes it better, and the new cover and shoot 
 system is a great addition into the GTA universe. The story is very good but is not fantastic, 
 if this game was made into a crime-thriller book it would be a good read. The characters are convincing 
 enough to be believable but some of them start to feel stale by half way through the game, except 
 for Niko, the main character is easily the best written character in the game. The civilians are 
 realistic as well, not real world realistic, but enough to know that your could possibly be in 
 a real city. The list of vehicles has been shorten greatly, a lot of the vehicles from the last 
 installment of GTA are gone, apparently some where in development someone said "Hey, lets take 
 some of the thing that makes GTA fantastic and get rid of it". Like I said GTAIV is fun for the 
 time of the story but after the story it falls short of the reputation that GTA has gotten over 
 the years. This game really doesn't deserve a perfect scores from so many different people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB-Graphics
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say I have rated this game 9.0 due to the fact that you can continue 
 playing once you have completed it.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game look really crisp exactly the way a next gen game/console should look. 
 The detail in the NPCs are really good. The detail in the cars and buildings are good although 
 I believe the detail in some of the buildings could be improved.
  
  Gameplay
  Overall the game plays pretty well from the new combat system to the new handling of cars. The 
 new combat system introduces the covering feature in which when in a gun fight you can take cover 
 behind anything and everything which I think is a good new addition to the game.
  
  Content
  Once this game is completed there is not much to do. Compared to San Andreas this barely 
 has 1/5 of the things SA did once you had finished it. There is a lack of cheats also which I personally 
 like to use once I have completed the game.
  
  Storyline
  The storyline of the game is quite basic and gets pretty repeatitive as you progress through the 
 game. You find yourself doing the same kind of missions all the time such as, drive from 'A' to 
 'B' and kill 'X' and return to 'A' to pick up your reward.
  
  Overall
  I think this game is lacking quite a few things considering we are ment to be going forward and 
 improving games. This is taking a step back to GTA III.
  
  9.0 - Don't believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eater_Of_Worlds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The old GTA games for me were always about doing really crazy things link sky diving, causing huge 
 car crashes, or doing one of any activities. While GTA IV is a good game and everything the game 
 has it does well overall it kinda feels Rockstar is taking the series in a different direction 
 that San Andreas was going. 
  IV has a cool story but really most of it is spent just doing ideal work that just seems to be 
 there to make the game longer. But in the end i thought the story came together well; while you 
 may not feel emotional evolved in the story I always thought that the GTA stories were more like 
 crime action movies and captured the players attention in the same sense. (8/10) 
  Graphically the game looks very good for the size of the map and while the character models don't 
 look the best the environments sure make up for it. (8.5/10) 
  The gameplay is still fun and responsive but in IV you die way easier then you did in any of the 
 other games. At some parts you better be prepared to use the games cover system and take it slow 
 instead of charging in. Outside of gunplay the drive is still easy to pick up and do. The only 
 downside to the gameplay at all is that three activities offer the the player, bowling, darts, 
 and pool are to easy and offer no real change. (8.5/10)
  In multi-player the game offers a lot to do but such as racing, death match, and several other 
 objective based game types. Oh, and a co-op mode. All of these getting kinda boring though because 
 the game wasn't really built for multi-player but they are fun while they last. Just don't be hoping 
 for to much. (8/10)
  Overall a good game but not what I thought it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhut091293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Yeah. Finally, GTA 4 is back on the way.
  
  Story:10/10
  
  The story is all about Niko ,a truly gangster on the way to become a king of Libert City.
  The 
 story is full of suprised, with many twist that can make you sit on your chair until the end of 
 the game.
  
  City:10/10
  
  Liberty City is more alive than any other. You can feel it. People walking in the street, doing some 
 stuff that you may never seen in any other game before. It is innovation.
  Feel the alive city and let it control you.
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  
  Now, lets talk about the 
 gameplay. It easy to catch, but not to control. Missions is longer that the pre-GTA game, and you have 
 more choice to do.
  Cell phone is great, you can do many things with your cell phone: calling your friends to go out, buying 
 weapons, doing missions. That's great.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  
  The graphics improved much than the pre-GTA game. But frame rate is sucks, and popins is sucks too.
 
  I prefer the Xbox360 version than the PS3 version.
  
  Sound:10/10
  Great. Radio is great. The sound of GTA4 is perfect.
  
  Overall:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ufmo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ever made. If you haven't bought this game just do it ........ NOW. single 
 player and xbox live is great. Everyone should own this game. game play and control is great. AI 
 is smart enough and the story is the best. Online play will last forever on this game. Can't say 
 i have ever had more fun playing this game, specially with friends online but i could do without 
 the 8 year olds without parents that shouldn't be playing this game.
  
  Only a few downers on this. I wish the online play was more massive like 100 players at a time 
 lol or maybe a gang wars mode where you have a permanent online turf war 24-7. Now thats not asking 
 too much is it lol. Oh and you should be able to shoot two handed guns from vehicles.
  
  So if you are not a kid you should get this game if you don't have it already. Happy prostitute 
 hunting .. hmmmm maybe i need to stop playing for a little bit..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkarim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode in this game is awesome at the least. The game starts of with you being 
 able to explore three islands of Liberty city. The storyline is very intricate and well detailed 
 and again is an instant classic. The city is very open and the graphics show a lifelike city and 
 citizens who all seem to be doing something which is not what was seen in past GTA games. Many 
 things you can do with a cell phone and real time friends in the game such as playing darts, drinking, 
 going to a strip show are just a few examples. The physics engine is great and is very lifelike 
 for example if you hit a pedestrian slowly the will be lifted onto the hood of the car and if you 
 are going fast they get launched. Too keep my reviews short I like to review three aspects of the 
 game. number one the playabillity is a 10 because it is very interactive, number two the graphics 
 a 10 they really are an upgrade then many games out there and lastly is it worth it. Being an owner 
 of the game I can easily say it is one of those games you could get bored of but after awhile you'll 
 again pickup and play. Lastly it does have multiplayer its not the greatest but at times highly 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when you put GTA IV in your Xbox 360 is the new graphics, the graphics 
 have got a huge overhaul since GTA San Andras but with this hudge bonus many faults appear.
  
  Dont get me wrong GTA IV is a very good game but all of the old features like the jet pack 
 and the airplanes have vanished. The game has become more realistic now that may sound nice but 
 the replay value after completing the story and the achievements is very low.
  
  The game is revolutionary because of the multilayer features something never included in previous 
 GTA games.
  But even this is disappointing only a few game modes are fun and either played by other people.
 
  
  This game is good but if you aren't a achievement fan then this game is a rent. But even some of 
 the achievements are impossible and frustrating,
  
  Hopefully the next GTA games is more like the others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estovakia
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game, i just played the SP through, and the most notable thing i saw was the 
 REALISM. So ok, they sacrificed some fun to make it lifelike, but they exceeded my expectations. 
 Fun is for SR2. To truly enjoy it, you need an imaginative mind, or LOVE MP.
  Graphics are a 9/10, lest there is a rather minor weapons selection. Outfits aern't so great, but 
 they do the job. The community was a major fail, but 45% are good.
  The best modes are Freemode and Deathmatch, but to each there own. The Guilty Pleasure is because 
 its always fun to take your time on one person. The driving is highly realistic; hard, but in a 
 lifelike way. Weather conditions melodramatically effect these such things. There is alot of glitches 
 and myths, quite fun ones as well. Some of the "friend" NPC's can be annoying, but you learn to 
 live with them due to the benefits, such as a car bomb, helicopter, taxi, weapons shipment, and 
 all the such. The gameplay could have been better, and Niko was a bit too tough at times, but like 
 all else, you learnt to live with it.
  
  In short, it could have been better, but they made a professionalistic 3rd person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  One of the most hotly anticipated games of 2008 ended up being good, but I really think there could 
 have been more. The story mode is good and there are some fun missions, but other missions just 
 simply have you go to some place and kill one or several people. Once you complete the story mode 
 whether or not you continue to get 100% completion and/or make use of the wide variety of multiplayer 
 modes is questionable. About the multiplayer modes, I must say that freeroam can be quite fun, 
 as there's little more thrilling than causing trouble in LC with your friends over the internet. 
 But it does lag, especially if you are the passenger of a car driven by your friend. Deathmatch 
 can be fun but you'd have more fun in Call of Duty 4. Racing has plenty of variety as well but 
 you'd get bored of it faster than Forza 2. 
  
  I also lament on the fact that in a city smaller than San Andreas, the roads are too wide, the 
 traffic in some areas just moves too slowly, and (although no big deal) , no George Washington Bridge 
 replica.
  
  In the end this game has its purpose and is quite action-packed but there's certainly more that 
 they could have done, especially after a 3+ year hiatus of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braseface
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Dope game, and lots of shooting people in the face. I haven't gotten through the entire game, but 
 from the missions I've done, I was addicted. Online play with friends is a nice touch also. You 
 can gear up, and ride on other fools with your homies in the car. It is a bit sims like, and I 
 don't care about taking 5 minutes out of my gameplay just to change my shirt. I just want to play.
 
  
  Dope game, and lots of shooting people in the face. I haven't gotten through the entire game, but 
 from the missions I've done, I was addicted. Online play with friends is a nice touch also. You 
 can gear up, and ride on other fools with your homies in the car. It is a bit sims like, and I 
 don't care about taking 5 minutes out of my gameplay just to change my shirt. I just want to play.
 
  
  Dope game, and lots of shooting people in the face. I haven't gotten through the entire game, but 
 from the missions I've done, I was addicted. Online play with friends is a nice touch also. You 
 can gear up, and ride on other fools with your homies in the car. It is a bit sims like, and I 
 don't care about taking 5 minutes out of my gameplay just to change my shirt. I just want to play.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: e424pd5
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Ok I'll start with the good. This game is big with no loading between parts of the city plus it 
 not to bad to look at. Lots of stuff to do. Endless fun online with friends. Alright now the bad. 
 The single player campiagn is just like every GTA you've ever played. Same missions, same goals, 
 same rewards, same everything. Oh you can take you "girl" bowling, as if that wasn't boring enough 
 in real life. Drunk driving is pretty fun though, I was laughing the whole way..... untill I hit 
 a nasty curb, flipped over the bridge and died! This game has it's moments but it gets boring in 
 a hurry if you don't play online and in fact I would have given it a 5 if it wasn't for the multiplayer 
 aspect. But it's not enough to keep it going, it only makes you feel you didn't completely waste 
 your money on yet another GTA that feels so similar. Vice City is king and there will be none better 
 till Rock Star changes the series in a radical way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordrazmon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this game IS great in many aspects!
  It has solid graphic, especially for being so big! 
  It has no loading times when you're driving 
 around the city or entering buildings!
  All movement in the game, including running, driving, walking in stairs etc. are EXTREMELY realistic!
 
  Crash with a motorcycle at full speed and you'll be sent flying like a 100 metres, and then rolling 
 another 20 metres on the ground, which would probably lead to you death: P But anyway, it's really 
 realistic!
  
  
  There is some annoying things about this game though...
  For example... You get friends... Not one friend, but many!
  And you have a cellphone... Which 
 means they will call you, and they will want to meet you! And if you don't want to meet them, or 
 as in most cases, you can't or are too far away from them to make it there in one hour (Oh yes 
 there is a time limit) , they will dislike you and sometimes get pissed on you.
  
  Ok if you only had like one or two friend that you had to meet occasionally, but there are many 
 more!
  And the thing is, the meetings you have with them doesn't lead anywhere, which makes it even more 
 annoying!
  
  The game has also been stripped off by many, what I thought was good features from San Andreas.
 
  For example, the skill system is gone. For instance at GTA SA, if you used a weapon for long enough 
 you would master the weapon and be more skilled with it, which is a pretty nice feature, letting 
 you decide for yourself whether you want to be a skilled gunsman or if you rather use heavy artillery.
 
  
  You also gained driving skills, in both car and motorcycle, which helped you decrease the drifting 
 when driving cars, and helped you stay on the bike when driving MC.
  
  You also had the ability to choose if you wanted to get fat or to build up your body at get lots 
 of muscles.
  
  All this is now gone.
  
  Lots of Bonus features are also gone! You can't do paramedic missions, not firetruck missions, 
 not even Vigilante missions that gets you bonuses at least!
  
  The Rhino (The armored car) is also gone which would have been really fun to drive around with in 
 N. Y. C. to go a little Berserk.
  
  Also there are no regular bicycles, you can't fly airplanes (although Helicopters you can fly) !
 
  
  Despite the lack of all this, and probably much more, this still is a great game, although I am 
 a little sad and wondered why they stripped off so many good features from earlier games...
  
  I can only hope that they take back or add some more nice features to the next GTA!
  
  
 Also all about critics giving it 10/10 is just way overrated!! I mean it's good, but it's not a 
 masterpiece! Not many games should be awarded 10/10 and I can honestly say that this game don't 
 deserve it because it lacks some nice quality features, which COULD have made this game a superior 
 one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how a game like this can get a rating of 10 from Gamespot. It is very fun, but 
 it is flawed in many spots. Things like the cars are TOO realistic with their turning and aren't 
 anything like the previous GTA games, and that's a bad thing.
  
  Also there aren't as many clothing options it seems in this game as there were in the last and 
 the whole not being able to run when on your phone sucks. If it wasn't just me I could swear that 
 the police are WAY more numerous in this game, catching you for the simplest of things, it's hard 
 enough stealing a car without them noticing, now I have to do a mission where I fire a single bullet 
 and nearly get 2 stars?
  
  Not all of it is bad though, this game has gorgeous graphics and voice overs for the characters. 
 It runs smoothly, but the online play is rather laggy, even to the point of sometimes being unable 
 to play if to much is happening onscreen, but the way online is setup it's nice and fun. Also this 
 game has the best storyline out of all of them, with multiple paths you can take.
  
  Now more on the online, it could have been WAY more user friendly. It isn't something that you 
 can just open and play, first you have to load your game which takes about 3 to 4 minutes to do 
 then you have to get on your phone and choose the online options you want, then you have to wait 
 for it to load which takes around 5 to around 20 if you are just plain unlucky.
  
  Anyway the game is good, but TOTALLY overrated, get it if you are a fan of GTA and you shouldn't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentallemon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Im going to start on a good note, the games graphics, physics and lighting have definately gone 
 up a whole load and the driving is a real blast, all so realistic. 
  
  The new combat is brilliant, finishing moves, combo attacks etc. really brings a new feeling to 
 it instead of the old punch.... punch..... punch. gets real boring, real fast.
  
  My problem does not lye in those areas of the game though, the thing i want to bring up first is 
 the gun fights, they are simple and meaningless, i think you could go through the entire game only 
 using the pistol!
  Headshots kill instantly and it is the easiest thing in the world to get a headshot on this game. 
 
  
  Second is the really frustrating friends system which by the way is just about as annoying as the 
 fitness rate in san andreas! You'll be driving at 180mph along a road on a mission and all of a 
 sudden roman rings you cuz he wants a "game of darts", OMG!!! i cant handbrake turn whilst my phone 
 is out, SCHREECH, bang, dead. True story. Thats not all of it, its just the constant feeling that 
 because your getting on with the game you feel you have to drop by "little jacobs" or something 
 before he gets upset, which is like someone prodding you in the back of the head whilst your trying 
 to complete the game!!!
  
  And lastly i should like to bring up the lack of achievement in the game, in gta3 you had packages 
 which as you collected meant you got weapons in your garage, in vice city, the same, in san andreas 
 it was graffiti tags which got you weapons. Not only that you could do police, fire brigade, ambulance, 
 ALL GIVING BONUS'S TO GAMEPLAY. In this game "O look i shot 200 pigeons and got an achievement 
 of a few gamerpoints, i think i'll go out back and CELEBRATE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerroc
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Estuve esperando mucho tiempo por este juego, y realmente la espera tuvo su recompensa, los graficos 
 son muy buenos y la historia te envuelve, y mas aun cuando puedes alternar con los personajes, 
 llegando a formar amistades fuera de la historia. Lo unico mal oque encuentro es la conductividad 
 de los carros es muy sensible y no permite realizar las acrobacias que en juegos anteriores de 
 la saga podiamos hacer. 
  Niko Bellic es mas conflictivo que su antecesor CJ, sin embargo bien seguro de si para poder dejar 
 de lado los malos vicios de la ciudad. En loque voy del juego no he podido apreciar otro punto 
 que extrao de la anterior entrega, que era la posbilidad de realizarse tatuajes y peinados que 
 si bien no eran nada bonitos, daba la sensacin y la posiblidad de poder acondicionar tu personaje 
 por el momento que estaba pasando. Un lineas generales es un juegaso e infaltable para cualquier 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Gta4 is the new gta game and the 11th game of the series this is the best game of gta series and 
 best game of the year the single player story and free style crime series the best game of the 
 world this game has new feature of other gta games the new features make this game the best game 
 of gta series and world game in this game you playing as a niko belic and go every where where 
 you want this is open for you new online system this game is now come for pc and this is very good 
 news this is the best game no game beat this game rockstars is the best gaming company and gta4 
 is the best game of world i like this game this is very good i give this game a perfect 10 this 
 game is perfect for me and other people 13 gaminmg sites give gta10 and only 3 give less than 10 
 i like thi9s game rockstars games are very good 2008 the rockstar best game is now release as gta4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjohn88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The typical GTA storyline starts off you off as a nobody, making yourself known by shooting a lot 
 of people and becoming somebody. GTA IV sticks to everything that is good about GTA and adds new 
 mechanics to make the game play more enjoyable. From backstabbing girlfriends to backstabbing mafia 
 members, everyone wants a piece of Niko Belic and its up to you to give it to them and having that 
 feeling that its your duty makes this game come alive.
  
  Also a giant city that actually feels like a city with some pretty good AI make this game challenging 
 but not frustrating. Retrying the mission again right after you die is a great option they put 
 in from the needless driving around the cabs rides will save you hours. Giving you more freedom 
 to shoot where you want and who you want is a great improvement as well. They also put in a new 
 system for the cops which I call escaping the circle of death. This system does make it easier 
 for the player now that anything after 4 stars is NOT impossible to escape anymore.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about this game was how the characters seemed to simply... disappear 
 after a while. I mean you kill all of these people for them and a lot of them will just cut you 
 off from their life. Only a selected few characters stay the whole time and it would have been 
 cool to see all the characters involved in the final couple missions somehow but thats just me. 
 
  
  Anyways its a great game. The fact that there is multiplayer may help but its nothing special. 
 This is strictly a single player must play so I suggest you rent it or gamefly it, but buying it 
 and playing a couple times over with cheats and stuff isn't a bad idea either if you're into the 
 whole replay thing.
  
  What are you waiting for? Go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naros
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  The way the storyline and sidequests are integrated into the game is surprisingly fluid and never 
 has you wondering where to go or what to do. With talented voice actors and top of the line graphics 
 -- even if many games look better -- and an amazing multiplayer experience awaiting, it is difficult 
 to see what this great game lacks. 
  
  Unfortunately, after completing the storyline and most of the sidequests, the single player part 
 of the game is utterly empty, with almost nothing left to do. The environments aren't very appealing 
 to explore -- and there are no airplanes, and plus, vechile variation was greater in previous titles 
 -- and when you're armed with several machine guns, a rocket launcher, pistols, and body armor, 
 the game isn't challening at all anymore. The only difficult thing is surviving with the full police 
 force and the equivalent to FBI after you, but that quickly becomes boring. There's just nothing 
 to do, when you're done, if you aren't in the mood to endlessly search the city for hidden pigeons 
 or try to get all Xbox Live achievements.
  
  Multiplayer has a great variety of game types, including death matches (Free For All and team-based) , 
 racing, co-op, amongst many more. I won't go into these details are there are better sources for 
 that (see: http://wiki/Grand_Theft_Auto_IV#Multiplayer) .
  
  Unrelated: The 360 exclusives coming up will be interesting, as most players have left to see parts 
 of the city. Hopefully these will add the ability to go outside the city, like in San Andreas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been a big fan of the GTA series mostly because I hated waiting for the loading screens 
 on my thin PS2 (which I have given to my brother since he can't have a PS3 yet & he broke his PS2 
 somehow) . I played GTA 3: San Andreas on PC but never finished the game. It just wasn't my cup 
 of tea.
  
  My younger brother bought GTA 4 home the day it was released. He had to go to a NY Yankee game 
 and asked me if I wanted to play GTA 4. I said sure, I'll give it a go.
  
  The next morning, my brother came back from the game and asked me how I like playing GTA 4. I was 
 still playing it from the day before, 12+ hours straight (sunset to sunrise) . I like the storyline, 
 I like the game play though I still can't ride a motorcycle very well and I wish their controls 
 for the helicopter was as easy as BF: Bad Company to fly a chopper. The fact that you can take 
 cover (Thanks to Gears of War & other Tactical Shooters for making this possible) while shooting 
 a weapon helps a lot. I miss the taxicab & ambulance missions but I suppose that's progress. I 
 still haven't finished this game but it's fun when I do play. Maybe I'll pick it up for PC when 
 it's released later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  After all the crazy anticipation, a long wait and a few, annoying delays. Its here. Grand Theft 
 Auto 4..
  Now, Rockstar have been known for one of the best game franchisees of this generation, the Grand 
 Theft Auto series. That have a huge fan base and critically acclaimed as a 'game from heaven'. 
 
  But people say its not as good as the rest of them? Why? Maybe because its different. But i for 
 one think its the best in the series and different in a good way.
  
  For one, its got to have one the best video game charters ever. Best hero, best villain and best 
 Allies. Niko Belic, simply one of the most kick ass guys you will ever meet. He's reasonable, sympathetic, kick 
 ass, friendly and behind all the killing and dirty work he's a good guy at heart. 
  As well as I didn't like how they used a immigrant at first. But he's not some tough guy with little 
 to no feelings, yet hes still very kick ass and unique. I am a big fan of the mafia style, and 
 not so much the gangster. I feel Niko, is more the don who doesn't need a gang or any business
 
  
  The story is epic, like in other Gta's you work as a guy who's willing to do anything if the price 
 is right with a lot of different contractors, ranging from an illegal taxi service to helping out 
 the streets to the ghetto to the Mafia. But its got alot more story to it than that, like working 
 from an unkown ilegal imogrent to Libery citys most wanted and all the pecks and trofs with it.
 
  
  The main story will clock in about 30 hours and, like you would in a GTA game, another 8-15 hours 
 to go around smelling the roses.
  There are main choices you have to make that decide the outcome of the game, which should make 
 you want to make multiple saves or play through twice.
  The people and friends you meet are all unique with there own personality and way of life. From 
 drug junkies to the mafia to your own family to Ricky Gervas! There's a lot of variety and a lot 
 of charm in the charcters in the game.
  
  The diffreneces are its alot more realistic. Not as much as 'real life realism' but no more over 
 the top kinda stuff and its a lot more mature with the swearing, nudeity and gore not normally 
 being the punchline in this one and more the bringing back to realism part. 
  
  Also, now theres not that much to do outside of missions which makes it alot easier to finish the 
 game.
  You can buy your own clothes, go dating with people via internet, go out with your friends (drinking, strip 
 club, comday show and bowling) . And afew small Extras like surfing the web and watching tv. Thats 
 about it.
  
  But the missions are soo much more now, They've all got there own back story to them and funner 
 and more epic than before. There's a lot of filler missions too, to make up for the lack of diversions.
 
  
  The mulitplayer is a good extra, no halo or gears. Its basicly an online version of the psp mulitplayer.
 
  
  
  I LOVED IT and still blood thursty for the DLC episodes in 2009
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadudeabides83
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  To be concise this game is without a doubt worth the buy. It may not be as in depth as San Andreas, 
 or as innovative as GTA III, or even as polished as Vice City, but when the next installment of 
 GTA comes out we probably will revere this one a lot more. The graphics are top notch (even though 
 I still get frame rate problems during high speed chases) , the controls are tight and easy to comprehend. 
 The Gears of War style of cover and shoot is a nice touch , and the storyline is epic (seriously, 
 Niko Bellic is an easy character to sympathize with) . 
  
  The only gripe I have is with Vigilante. It is barely timed, and it isn't continuous. The timer 
 stops when you are in the vicinity of the target, and when you kill the target the mission is over. 
 The difficulty doesn't increase in terms of the amount of people to kill. There are different types 
 of vigilante in this installment, however, with gang activity and the "most wanted" activities, 
 which makes up for a little.
  
  It's not a perfect ten. There are flaws. But, my God, what a great game. If you can play this game 
 for one hour and not be hooked, you aren't the type of person to be reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkillGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  this game owns and i hope it wins the game of the year award this game is way better then metal 
 gear solid 4. gta4 has more freedom and is a long game to finish 100% metal gear solid takes like 
 20-25 hours thats how short it is and theres alot of cut scenes to. gta4 is much better then mgs4 
 and gta4 ios the best game ever you got to admit people that hate gta4 are probably people who 
 like mario, halo, gears of war or they not alowd to play it becfuz it to violent and there jeleous. 
 gta4 better win awards only good thing in mgs4 is that its good consol seller i love ps3 so its 
 helping ps3 grow but ilike gta4 wayyyyy better. im not saying mgs4 is bad but its over hyyped people 
 this is something i gonna tell yu GTA4 IS THE BEST GAME EVER. so goodjob rockstar games you impressed 
 me again well done you manage toiget10 and i hope you get the game awards. GTA4 OWNS!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the best games I've played yet, at least for the Xbox 360. It's not 
 quite as big as San Andreas but only a fraction smaller yet it is 100% city. Liberty City has been 
 redesigned into a massively dense metropolis. It seems like there are hundred of streets and thousands 
 of buildings. The graphics are unique looking, they're not perfect but they are superb and to me 
 have an artistic look to it. The physics are somewhat original because of the near real time phyics 
 that are in place. I would consider the story below par, it was nothing new and not very interesting 
 however the multiplayer made up for it all. I don't think this game deserves a perfect score like 
 Gamespot gave it. As fun as it is there are somethings that aren't perfect and above all the fantastic 
 physics can at some points seem so sluggish it's hard to bare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memberthirteen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I played this game thinking it was another GTA, but it was very good. The graphics are amazing 
 and there are very few glitches. The cover system was well put together and the weapons and variety 
 were amazing. There are also many possibilities on how your game turns out, giving choices and 
 such. The multiplayer is a very fun extra which is well recieved. Driving and vehicles in general 
 are amzing in the game and it never gets old. The camera views are amazing and can be used for 
 the gamers style of play. The controls can fit any gamers style. The AIs are very realistic and 
 fun. The game is overall very good and is a great way to kick off sandbox-style games today. Many 
 gamers have said it was the best in the series and that they cannot wait for a new one. It gives 
 a great way to enjoy Liberty City, from your very own living room, and still have just as much 
 fun. 9.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Granty4835
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Graphics are Great.
  Storyline is Great.
  
  But....
  
  I just felt like I was walking though this game, following the storyline like a good little boy... This 
 is not the GTA I remember, bring back San Andreas where I used to waste hours of my life with all 
 the little side missions, playing games in the casino, flying planes, and just exploring.
  
  Dont get me wrong, this is a good game, but there is more to a game than just smooth graphics, 
 I still play Elite Frontiers on my laptop... the graphics are pretty poor but the gameplay is second 
 to none. I almost feel this game was rushed out, where are the planes..... and dont go on about 
 realism.... Its a game for gods sake!
  
  Its a shame, because I really wanted to love this game, but half way through I ended up a little 
 bored.
  
  What can I say.... I'm very hard to please.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6maxinator9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 was a game that lived up to the hype. From the day I bought it till this day, i am thoroughly 
 happy that i went out and did buy it. Aside from the obvious allure that the game gives, I find 
 its the little details that really make the game. Whether your driving a car down a street or evading 
 the cops by chopper your currently surprised by the little things that really make it worth while. 
 From the unique crashes to the every day dialog i was always impressed. Even if your not hooked 
 up with xbox live you can still spend hours and hours trying new things. The storyline was sketchy 
 at times and often left me wishing they had spent more time developing it, but overall it kept 
 me occupied. Gun play was fun and could be really intense at times, also the cover system was made 
 very well. There are annoying things in the game however, the constant loading of the game in front 
 of you and the fact if you get to top speed the ground starts to disappear. The missions often 
 got repetitive and your ally a. i. was often stupidly dumb which could be a real drag in gun fights 
 of quick getaways. Overall though, the game was and still is a blast. One of the best iv ever played. 
 If you played the others you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first got GTA IV I was very excited but after playing it I found that all isnt what it seems. 
 
  
  The Good:
  1) The Graphics are brilliant and the game runs smoothly.
  2) The SoundTracks as always are very good.
  3) Mission are some what better paced as there are 
 no against the clock missions.
  4) The addition of having a cellphone is good as it keeps you in gameplay while you use it unlike 
 the pause menu.
  5) The Story is best in the series.
  
  The Bad:
  1) By the end some people I talked to said they kind of lost the story because of too many characters.
 
  2) There is to customization which can be done to cars or anything to niko except clothing.
  3) Losing the cops this time is a bit too easy as you just have to leave the police circle they 
 are looking you in.
  
  
  In the end i would like to say that GTA IV is a must buy but if your not much of a GTA fan you 
 should still rent it. Must Play.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmo643
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea what all the hype is about this game, its the same exact game that we have seen 
 from this series for like the last decade, same thing... no clue why this is all the sudden the 
 best game on the planet.... its a GTA game, if you like the old ones you will like this one... its 
 the same stuff you do on all the old ones..
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah , blah 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnsrshwn187
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games out right know i love this game it is hot. But one let down is after 
 the story line theres hardly anything else to do (unlike saint row) so i play online or play the 
 game over again. But other than thas the game is awsome the graphics, it is very realistic so be 
 carefull. My best part is when you jump off the motorcycle or jump out the car it's funny the way 
 he gets thrown around like a rag dall, that is very realistic. This game is just awsome you have 
 two see it to belive it i mean just!!!!!!!!! You have too it's the best game out. POINT BLANK !!!!!!!!! 
 @@@@@@ !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ............................  
 ................... ...................... !!!!   PLAY IT                       ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zax360
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  wow i dont think they could have made it any more expansive great game sry im not good at writing 
 alot so forgive me for that bunch of scrambled up letters ------------------------------------------------- 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaa a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaaa a a a n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n 
 n n n n n n n n n v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v cx c c c c c c c c c c cc c c c c c c m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m xcc c c c c c c cc c c c c c cc c c c c c mm mmm m mm m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m cc c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c m m mmm m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m cc c c c c c c c c c c c c c mc m mm m m mc c c c c c 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senses_blank
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Well i guess this game has a few flaws. One i think is that even though the shooting has improved 
 from the former GTA 3 style it still does not feel realistic. But that does not really effect the 
 game much. The missions at times can be repedative but the missions are normally pretty solid. 
 One awesome thing they added to a few missions is Player's Choice (as i call it) . Some missions 
 give you the option to either do one thing or the other, for example either killing somebody or 
 letting them live. And you will find at the end of the game that your choice effects how the game 
 will end. Driving has improved tremendously, and so has traveling all together. You can take subways 
 and cabs to get to your destinations much faster. As far as online goes it's about as good as Rockstar 
 could possibly make it. It gets boring after awhile but there are plenty of different modes that 
 you can play.
  
  This game is worth $60 especially for the 360 because they are receiving exclusive downloadable 
 content.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  With GTA IV, Rockstar intended to make its splash on the next-generation stage. In some ways, the 
 game surpassed my expectations, but by and large, I was disappointed by the entry.
  
  Compared to past GTA's, GTA IV is much more realistic -- everything from the physics to the animations 
 and the environment reflect a sharp shift from the cartoony aesthetics of its predecessors. The 
 game mechanics are also markedly different -- players can hide behind cover and use free aim to target. 
 These elements combine to create a more realistic experience.
  
  However, GTA IV suffers from some major handicaps that debilitate it from breaking any major new 
 ground. For one, while the missions are fun and diverse, they are not much different from the past 
 games. You perform some mix of driving, shooting, fetching, and free roaming -- all of which were 
 revolutionary at the time of GTA III, but are now starting to show their age.
  
  For another, GTA IV includes some unpleasant residues from the past games, the most prominent of 
 which is the "girlfriends" mechanic -- which forces you to take your girl or your buddies out on 
 dates. The dates aren't bad per se, but the constant barrage of calls from your friends and the 
 cumbersome friendship system get in the way of enjoying the game. 
  
  Moreover, faulty game mechanics (close-quarters shooting is a nightmare) and glitches (disappearing 
 cars, pop-up objects) interfere with the game experience, and it's stunning that Rockstar has still 
 not successfully addressed such basic issues.
  
  My biggest disappointment, however, is that the story lacked the cohesion, focus, and drama to 
 truly break the glass ceiling of storytelling in games. R* still has more work to do if it wants 
 to surpass cinematic crime dramas like Goodfellas.
  
  Despite its faults, GTA IV is still an excellent game, and remains the undisputed king of the sandbox 
 genre. The main character, Niko Bellic, is multi-layered and compelling, an unlikely combination 
 in an age of rubber-stamped heroes. Further, GTA IV featured a few genuinely exciting missions, 
 though they were too few and far between.
  
  Overall, GTA IV was a disappointment for me, I think in part because the developers are running 
 into a creative wall with respect to how much variety one can create within the restraints of the 
 sandbox crime drama. But if anyone can break invisible boundaries, it's Rockstar. Here's to hoping 
 GTA V will "pull me back in" with the seductive mix of great characters, setting, and gameplay 
 that Vice City had once captured me with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhostAPC
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV IS THE MOST ADDICTING GAME I'VE EVER PLAYED. Now that said, it does have it's 
 faults. Is it perfect, by all means no. But is any game perfect? Not in my opinion. But lets start 
 the show.
  
  
  The story mode is Oscar worthy. The guys at Rockstar deserve an Oscar for creating an experience 
 that is so memorable. I'll admit I cried during the Roman's Sorrow mission. But really every single 
 Rockstar game has an amazing story. But then it's the fun you can have in free mode by your self, 
 the physics engine that can get a little wonky at times, but its still fun! And after you get tired 
 playing with yourself, (heh heh) you hop online and play with your buddies doing the Exact same 
 thing you were doing offline, SEAMLESS TRANSITION. But really the game kinda ends after story mode. 
 After that you just sit, you've killed all of the flying rats, found all of the secrets. What now. 
 Play story again since there are multiple paths to take! Really though this game can get boring 
 after a year of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  ----------------------------------
  Gameplay: Awesome
  Sound: Good
  Graphics: Amazing
  Replay value: Ultimate
  -----------------------------------
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is probably 
 the best game I have ever played in the series. The storyline is exellent, the graphics are amazing, 
 and the acting is cool! You play as a Niko Bellic, who just arrived to Liberty City in search of 
 the American Dream. He meets up with his cousin Roman. Roman is kind of a guy who is full of crap. 
 Niko thought that Roman had a mansion, tons of fast cars, chicks and best of all, millions of dollars. 
 But that wasn't all true, you'll find out what I mean when you play the game.
  
  The storyline in GTAIV is exellent, Niko is in search for someone from his past. Which is rather 
 difficult because he doesn't know where to start. So he works for people that are willing to help 
 him in return. There will be some betrayal, and there will be blood.
  
  The game is really great, I would recommend this game to any and everyone! It is that amazing!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  So I got this game a couple of months ago (mid-June) , and I start playing and I say, "Hey, this 
 is a pretty good game." So, at the end of July, I just forgot about it. Then, about a week ago, 
 I finally started to play again, and it was that day when I remembered how great Grand Theft Auto 
 IV was. Everything is great, the graphics, the weapons, the gameplay, the characters, the storyline, 
 everything! Trust me, if you're going to get this game, don't think it's too overrated or some 
 crap like that. It's a very good game with very good graphics and everything like that. So take 
 my word for it, if you're going to buy this game, don't think it sucks, because it's one of the 
 best games I've ever played (right next to GTA III and Vice City) and trust me, it doesn't suck. 
 So go get yourself a copy of Grand Theft Auto IV today! (I have the XBOX 360 version and for some 
 reason I like that version better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma_PS2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  okay, I seriously don't understand the big deal about grand theft auto, I have played all of them 
 and all of them are the same. All you do is add one little thing in there every year. DOn't get 
 me wrong because the game is a little fun but it is not worth a 10, none of the grand theft auto's 
 deserve a 10, all you do in the game is kill people and try not to get caught by the police, woopdy 
 doo, so fun (sarcastic) , the game is way overrated and should not get a 10. San Andreas was the 
 best one yet and I only give it a 8.5. Well this game just happens to be a game that I would not 
 buy or play for longer than 30 minutes, it's boring and the graphics are never that good and sound 
 could be better but if Gamespot wants to give a 10 then that's their dumb mistake, Not a Good Game, 
 7.0!! Sorry to all the Grand Theft Auto fans but this game is not worth it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretasianman8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a lot different and less wacky than previous games like san andreas. That doesn't mean 
 it's less fun, but more believable. Liberty city is incredibly realistic. Pedestrians react to 
 your actions and socialize with one another. Same goes with the cops. The graphics are good and 
 the views from tall buildings, such as the rotterdam tower are amazing. You could literally see 
 the entire city up there. Now the shooting mechanics and cover system are a bit rusty, but blind 
 firing makes it a bit easier. Driving is terrific, and very realistic. Bikes are a bit out of control 
 at times when you are driving at very high speeds. Also dangerous because you can be easily knocked 
 off. The story is one of the best parts. You have to play the entire game to fully understand it. 
 Once you've beaten the game, there's still plenty of things to do, other than going on a killing 
 spree or visiting a strip club. The game has excellent replay value. All of GTA4's elements blend 
 together to make one big must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aserbianguy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a realistic enviroment with a wide range of cars and civilians. Great driving physics 
 and gun control is a big improvement to the previous games in the series. GTA 4 is endless play 
 even after you finished the story because there are seemingly endless things to try. A few things 
 that were wrong with it was these was no planes you could fly, only helicopters. Instant classic. 
 The game needed more creative cheats, but the game did cover the regular cheats. There could of 
 been a better range of weapons like shovels or golf clubs. GTA 4 has amazing graphics and gameplay. 
 In my opinion the best feature that was added was the new cover system which makes gun fights easier 
 and more realistic. One of the first things I noticed was the car damage. Your car will only take 
 damage in the place it was hit so there will never be the same dent on your car. Over all the game 
 does make up for these weaknesses and is a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overlord93
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  should have been a great game, but was lacking in detail, and in "fun". San andreas would certainly 
 be a better buy
  The story line was alll there, and the graphics and that were all up to scratch, but it all felt 
 hollow, repetitive, and dare I say it, boring. I found that they had taken the "lol" out of gta, 
 yeah, sure, there were a few funny easter eggs, but, everything seems a bit too "perfected"
  so what about the multiplayer? well, more dissapointment, although it will bring a couple hours 
 of fun with your mates, roamin round the city, finding jumps, builings etc. There is nothing much 
 else to do, and with the dissapointment of the minigames u get in singleplayer not playable with 
 friends, this game just doesn't spend long in your disk drive, If halo 3 was all hype, and dont 
 know how to describe this.
  I suppose I'll just be goin back to COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlanty5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has many amazing qualities about it and every single one is a shout for joy. 
 But, small annoyances set it back. These might be small, but together they rain on GTA's parade. 
 Graphically if you look at how big the city is, it looks amazing. The scenery is breathtaking, 
 well as breathtaking as a game can get, and almost everything is detailed. GTA 4 is a big step 
 up from San Andreas or any other previous game. The story is innovative and immersive. Without 
 doing any side missions, it took me about 15 hours to complete it. But, the side missions are a 
 must play. In my opinion, the story beats any other GTA stories in every way. Included with the 
 story are terrific characters. They have there own personality and the voice acting is incredible. 
 The actual game play is awesome. Easy controls, great gunfights, cars are fun to drive, and the 
 sound quality is great as well. 
  The Flaws (In my opinion) : The biggest flaw is having cops active during missions. I'm not talking 
 about missions that involve the cops, but the missions that have nothing to do with them. I know 
 it isn't realistic, but you have to draw the line somewhere. It is very inconvenient to have to 
 fight the mission objective and the cops at the same time. The next isn't really a flaw but something 
 that is missed by myself. They left out many cool features that were in San Andreas. Like the barbershop, 
 gym, increasing stats, choice of the size of food meal, and many others. This shouldn't keep you 
 away from the game, but they were nice additions. The last of my flaws is no in mission checkpoints. 
 This was never in any other GTA game, but it should have been in this one. Some of the mission 
 are long and having to starting over is annoying. This also intertwines with the cops. Some times 
 at the end of a mission you have to evade the cops. If you die while evading the cops you have 
 to start all over. All I'm saying is that a few checkpoints would be nice. 
  This is a long review and I thank all of the people who are nice enough to read all of it. GTA 
 is an amazing and wonderful game. There is just a few annoyances that take away from the experience. 
 Go buy this game, or don't. I don't care.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spada92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is incredible. it really is. ive noticed a lot of people are saying its not good at all 
 or after 5 hours it gets boring. now while i do believe it is not the greatest game ever, i still 
 think is one of the best. it is just so much fun. i really like the online too. i dont know why 
 so many people dont like it. also, i just want to say this to the people that said the driving 
 in this game is bad. you are retarded and just because you suck at driving, doesnt mean its bad. 
 ive had absolutely no problems with the driving. the game does glitch sometimes and i kinda wish 
 the story was a bit longer (even though the story is sick) . so this is a really good game and should 
 not be missed. dont believe all these hateful reviews. all of them are completely exaggerated. 
 the game is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budokai_freak91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ok Im telling you gamespot rated this game after playing for like 20 minutes. Grand theft auto 
 IV is a good game but thats it its only a good game, Its actualy inovative and awsome when you 
 start playing the game but after 5 hours it gets boring and you realise there was way too much 
 hipe for that game. Grafic wise 9.5 for a game that big they sure put a lot of details and everything 
 is nicely polished, their character and vehicle design was great. Gameplay wise 7.5 it was good 
 at the begining but then is started to get boring so I got the cheats and it was great fun but 
 you know that gets boring after a while. it was not the fact that it was repetitive because it 
 wasn't all that repetitive its just that the game itself began to wither with time. Story and content 
 8.0 like I said the game was great at the begining but then it withered and so did the story. Sound 
 8.5 the music and all the other sound were good but I didnt quite like v. o mostly in the cutcenes. 
 So my final verdict on Grand Theft Auto IV: its great for the first 5 hours but then it becomes 
 good so if your a realy big fan of the serie go buy it, if you fan of sandbox games go rent it 
 and if your like me keep on playing GTA San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game Got a 10 and thats what it deserved, this game is a masterpiece from beginning to end. 
 In the beginning you are introduced to the main character Niko Bellic, and you just got off the 
 boat to Liberty City waiting for Nikos cousin. You start off with little money but gain money as 
 you progress. They have improved many things in this game compared to the other GTA series. The 
 graphics improved, the gameplay improved many things have gotten better. The new shooting system 
 is better, which also comes with a cover system. The new shooting system lets you aim and you can 
 move the cross-hair anywhere you want. The driving also has improved if you crash into a wall at 
 high speeds you fall out the front window, which is pretty realistic. The story is one of the best 
 stories of the GTA series. It takes you through 94 missions. In a mission that tells you to kill 
 2 people you have a choice who you want to kill. One of the best things is the free-roaming. You 
 can do almost to about anything, Bowl, go online at an Internet cafe, clubs, eat, go to strip clubs 
 etc. The online multiplayer is also something to checkout. The bad thing about it is that some 
 people pick all of Liberty City for a warzone in deathmatches. Overall this game is highly reccomended 
 for all those who want a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Technically if u take how huge liberty city is and all the detail in it including all the pedestrians 
 and random things like an old newpaper flying by in the wind or a preacher on the street u can 
 just ignore those small glitches. There are so many details that u take for granted soon after 
 u start playing. The story is very good and characters are all very memorable. new cover system 
 is very smart idea to put in gta. online is great but obviously not as fun or addictive as halo 
 3 and cod 4. basically u need to play this game and playing it twice makes u get more out of the 
 story. although u cant rpg it up like it san andreas with the car upgrades and house buying and 
 gun skills its still an amazing game. its clear rockstar took their time in the level designs. 
 there are a few small graphic glithces here and there but thats the only thing to complain about 
 this game. i enjoyed it alot and it was worth the wait.
  
  btw this is my first review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonspawn31
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the story of an immigrant, Niko Bellic, trying to pursueThe American Dream". Finding 
 work doing the only thing he is good at, killing, Niko works his way from a tiny apartment in Hove 
 Beach to penthouses in Alquonquin. He meets many characters the cocky Playboy X, the 'roid junkie 
 Brucie Kibbutz, and the uncomprehensible Little Jacob. The first thing you may notice is the graphics, 
 Rockstar has given us a detailed rendition of Liberty City (NYC) . The next thing you will notice 
 is the driving has been overhauled. The new system allows the RT to add gas, LT to brake, and the 
 A button to handbrake. The driving feels more intuitive then ever before allowing the driver more 
 control over his car. Now here is my favorite part of GTA 4, the physics engine, Endorphin/Euphoria. 
 The bodys accurately respond to such thing as a punch, gun shot, or even getting run over. Sure, 
 this engine has its flaws, the "retarded Niko" walk after certain moves or the ability to jump 
 of a skyscraper and live. Yet that is one of the many reasons I like GTA 4. Now here are the "flaws" 
 according to Gamespot members in GTA 4. These include lack of planes, parachutes, tanks, and the 
 army. All of these, save the parachute, have obvious reasons of not being in there. Planes= people 
 recreate 9/11 like maneuvers in the game, tanks & army= there is no army base in NYC. This is all 
 because of Rockstar's desire to make a realistic game that will keep them ahead of the curve. This 
 a game to buy if you want a great sanbox game but if you want the dirty humor and unrealistic (which 
 isnt a bad thing) game save your money for Saints Row 2 where you character is fully customizable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd1451
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  in my eyes this game is easily going to make game of the year... its story mode was long and always 
 had me on the edge of my seat... there is a variety of weapons and cars..... the only thing i didnt 
 like about this game was that the online was a little bit ..... well it sucked...... but the game 
 itself was great... even after i beet the game twice i still saw myself playing it every single 
 day... its so addictive..... i love the fact that you can go around the city and never run out of 
 stuff to do from bowling to playin darts to going out to a bar to going to the strip club its all 
 very fun and a great investment if youre lookin to get a game........ i think they went a little 
 too far with the characters accents expecially the jamaican guys voice... i never would of been 
 able to understand a word he was saying if it wasnt for the subtitles..... even with them i still 
 couldnt understand wat he was trying to tell me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camscrote
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  there was alot of hype surrounding the release of gta 4 and when it eventually was, it was hailed 
 with a large amount of perfect reviews. however, upon playing the game and getting through a chunk 
 of the campaign, i feel as if these reviews were too lenient on the game.
  
  I will start with the bad parts of the game. the most frustrating thing for me so far has been 
 the absence of mid mission saves. there has been countless times where i have got to the final 
 part of a lengthy mission, only to die and have to start the whole mission again from the start. 
 i think mid mission checkpoints or saves would of made the experience a lot less frustrating. another 
 frustrating and perhaps undeveloped feature of the game is the use of its cover system. this is 
 definitely a step foward for the gta series, however i dont think the have implemented it as well 
 as other games. by far the best cover system in a game to date is gears of war, and having played 
 that game and then experiencing the cover system in gta 4, it is really hard not to notice how 
 short gta 4 comes compared to gears. gta 4's cover system consists of hiding behind cover, peeking 
 out to shoot and blindfiring. yes, all the essential aspects of a cover system, but that is all 
 it has. it does not have the ability to roll out of cover and into the next one, nor does it let 
 you swat turn, and move from cover to cover as smoothly as gears. and for that, the combat in gta 
 4 still remains slightly undercooked. another annoying thing for me was the camera controls in 
 the game. naturally players would use the right stick to look around in 3rd person games. this 
 is the same with gta 4, however the camera resets behind the player as soon as you use the left 
 stick. this basically means its hard to move and look around as the camera instantly resets when 
 you start to walk/run. you have to be standing still to look around properly.
  
  with that said comes the good parts of gta 4. although not the best around, it still has great 
 graphics and looks good. the voice acting and cutscenes are sick and make you feel like you're 
 right at home with the gangsters you work with. the damage physics are great and makes it fun to 
 crash into people in your car. this is definitely the best gta in the series, however i think R* 
 still has a bit to go before hopefully perfecting a gta game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBOXMEMBERx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game is only one player or online so you cant play with friends in multiplayer. 
 also with this game from most out of the series that have taken out a lot of stuff i liked. for 
 instance customizing cars jet packs bicycles and various other things. now out of all th games 
 in the series i still think san andreas was the best. now the graphics are good for the background 
 and the cars but when it comes to the weapons its like playing on a n64 now i do relize there is 
 and update coming for the game customizing cars but still. but overall outstanding graphics. replay 
 value is pretty high you will probably end up beating this game 3 or 4 times before you get tired 
 of it. difficulty overall pretty easy but can be very very annoying at times. mainly because some 
 missions you have to protect people i mean you do a geat job protecting them but they just cant 
 seem to protect them selves. but its still a must pick up game for the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Bam
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm gonna get a lot of flaq for giving this kind of a rating and I really did try to like 
 GTAIV but these have to be some of the worst controls of a game I have ever used and I know that's 
 saying a lot and pretty harsh for this game but I was expecting so much more but instead I'm dealing 
 with a broken cover system, a horrible lock on targeting system and some of the stupidest AI I 
 have ever seen. One mission, three leaf clover when it was my character and two others trying to 
 outrun the police and escape with mounds of cash I found myself leading these two instead of following 
 them if it werent for the videos I watched after finally giving up after not knowing what to do 
 with these two morons I would'nt have been able to finish it and also towards the end when you 
 need to find a car and escape from the police neither of them are firing back, it was me all on 
 my own defending us and both of them got lost when I found a car and I had to go back and get them. 
 I don't know if it were just my copy that has all these issues or what but this wasn't the only 
 mission. I've given up on this game, it's beyond frustrating trying to play something as broken 
 and god awful as this but I will admit the story and voice acting along with the graphical detail 
 to the city was very good and almost made me think I was looking at NYC and not a game but with 
 the controls and AI as broken and stupid respectively as these, I'll remember those two aspects 
 more then I will the look and sound of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV, years of anticipation and excitement. The first step into next-gen, no more 
 silly "GTA: Random Parody City" games, a true sequel to GTA III. Did it disappoint? Not really. 
 Did it live up to the hype? Not by a long shot.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are very good, very VERY good actually. The player models are very detailed 
 and well-animated. There are some bland textures on the un-used buildings and some other quirks 
 like that which prevent if from being perfect. But take into consideration that they had to create 
 an entire city and you forgive a bland texture on a building you'll never use.
  
  Sound - What is there to say? A pretty good soundtrack, the cars go vroom and the guns go bang. 
 Everything is in its right place, nothing stands as absolutely superb and nothing is a downfall. 
 However, the voice acting is terrific, which is a plus for any game that's trying to pass itself 
 off as serious.
  
  Controls - The controls are solid. Niko responds very well in almost all situations. The only problem 
 I ever faced was with the cover system, Niko occasionally didn't like to cover. But over-all, the 
 combat, the maneuvering (on foot and in any vehicle) , navigating the menu or the cell phone, everything 
 operates as good as you could ask for.
  
  Gameplay - This is where the game hits a snag. Is the game fun? Yes. Is shooting crackheads and 
 beating people up for money fun? Always. But you do it in EVERY mission. A friend of mine said 
 "Every missions is one of two things. Chase someone down in a car, or help someone clear out a 
 crackhouse." And it's basically true. There are minor variations. Like in two missions, you have 
 to use a police computer before you chase them down. Oh boy! :D
  
  It's even worse by the end of the game. The last leg of the game it's the same thing over and over 
 again and it becomes a blur. Before you know it, it's the last mission and you're glad for it.
 
  
  Also, I would like to mention that Gamespot's listed "diversions" from the plot are BS. No, killing 
 people at random is not fun for any more than 20 minutes. NO ONE watches TV or uses the internet 
 in the game because they're both useless. They're nice touches, but they're useless. Jumping out 
 of helicopters at max altitude gets boring after the third time. Everything but the main game gets 
 boring, fast. The main game gets boring fast, but the other stuff gets boring faster.
  
  The friend system is a very cool addition and I hope it's something they keep, but refine heavily. 
 I'm sorry I can't go see BEEG AMERIKAN TEETEES with you every five seconds, Roman, I actually have 
 some crackhouses to clear out with Jacob. Does that piss you off? I'm sorry dude, but I'm busy. 
 I don't hang out with my friends every 2 days in real life, why should Niko?
  
  The online play, however, isn't so bad. It still has the issues that roaming around killing things 
 gets boring, but it's a lot more exciting when you have 10 people doing it with you. Not to mention 
 the 800 game modes or whatever it has. Couple that with full access to Liberty City, and it's actually 
 quite fun.
  
  Of course if you don't use XBox Live you're screwed.
  
  Story - Story has never been a strongpoint in the GTA games in all honesty. Gamespot also called 
 it wrong in that you feel bad for Niko and his struggles and blah blah blah. I'll admit he's by 
 far the most likeable character in the series yet, and this story is by far the best of the series, 
 I didn't really feel that impacted when you find what Niko's looking for. The final mission, depending 
 on the ending, was pretty moving or not at all. And the "not at all moving" ending is from the 
 better choice. So, the story is not bad at all, but if you're playing GTA for the story alone, 
 you're getting TOTALLY ripped off. Go play an RPG or watch a movie or something in that case.
 
  
  Fun factor - The game is pretty fun in small doses, you CAN divert yourself from clearing out crackhouses 
 and having car chases from time to time, but it just gets old. It's the kind of game you beat once, 
 maybe twice if you REALLY enjoyed it and want to see the other ending, but the online play is the 
 only thing keeping it afloat if you want to play it on a daily basis, and even then it's a stretch.
 
  
  IN SUMMATION:
  
  Definitely, definitely pick it up if you played GTA III, Vice City and/or San Adreas and wasn't 
 tired of the formula, you won't be disappointed at all. But the rest of us who don't buy into hype 
 and look a game for what it is will be content to know that the gaming industry gave GTA an undeserved 
 collective blowjob. If morals aren't an issue with your gaming, EVERYONE should at least rent it 
 though, definitely a must-play, not necessarily a must-own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dru987
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Since GTA III first hit the scene in 01, I have been a fan of the series. It was ground-breaking, 
 it was fresh, and it lay the foundation for the "sand-box" genre. However, my limited vocabulary 
 cannot express how disappointed I am in the newest installment. I have not finished the game and 
 I have zero intention of ever playing it again. 
  
  Despite the amazing new engine that runs the game (graphics, sound, and AI are superb) , you are 
 left with a game that is an empty shell. The story, which starts out interesting enough, falls 
 off quickly to the point where you are meeting random people and doing the same 5 tasks you've 
 been doing for the past 7 years. I was annoyed to the point where I would skip cut scenes due to 
 the complete lack of interest in the story. Usually, if the game is good enough as is, you can 
 get by without real care in the character development and growth but I also found the driving very 
 frustrating (core game play) . This may just be me but the past GTA's car seemed to handle much 
 better. I heard from a friend that this was due to "realism". If I'm running around doing pointless 
 tasks for pointless characters, I don't want to waste time looking for a realistically good car 
 to get me there. Also, during the chain missions, if at any point you fail you have to start from 
 the beginning (you know, the part where you are looking for a realistically good car to get you 
 there) . I feel that a game based on driving should make driving the most exciting part. The gun 
 combat is much improved over the past games with the addition of the cover system but once again, 
 this is not a shooter. In the vein of driving; the music has always been a key component and a 
 staple of GTA games (Vice City/San Andreas blew me away) . IV's music selection is terrible. The 
 commercials are better than the music and they get old fast. While there are some really great 
 tracks, I quickly reverted to playing my own music because the good tracks are spars and mixed 
 up with a horde of songs I never want to listen to. 
  
  I realize I'm in the minority because just about everyone I've talked to raves about the game. 
 I feel that the game only has a few problems (even if those few problems are the core game play) 
 and the next GTA has potential to be the great game I hoped IV would be. With the new engine, fantastic 
 AI, and the improved combat system, I'm looking forward to the future because the present is just 
 to disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SniperMC23
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Very fun until you beat the game. The only thing left to do is play online which is not the best 
 thing to do. Online modes are very laggy and most of the game modes are not fun at all. The team 
 deathmatch mode is bad. You just run around in a little square and shoot each other. To me, it 
 is not the funnest thing to do. The only fun online mode is free roam. Of course you will get some 
 stupid people that do not want to play the rest of the people are playing. The best you can do 
 online, is to play with your friends. That is the only way to have fun online. Back to the normal 
 gameplay. The mission are pretty easy and are better than the other GTA's in the series. They aren't 
 as easy and actually have some sort of storyline to them. The cell phone thing isn't the best idea, 
 but it works with cheaters that are lazy and don't feel like typing in the cheats, they can just 
 click them. I give this game a 10 offline gameplay, and an 8 online gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobby2k7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  We had to wait all this time for Grand Theft Auto IV and it dosen't live up to its expectations. 
 A great feature rockstar has added is all the choices you get to make, a few times through the 
 game you get the choice of who to kill out of two people. Going on dates with girlfriends and going 
 put with your friends is good, also it is made a lot better because it is unlike San Andreas where 
 you just took them to the same place everytime and they would never say ought different, this time 
 you have different conversations and if you take them to the same place all the time they will 
 complain. The new driving system is brilliant, good cars on the game could be more though. There 
 a whole lot of things that let this game down starting with there is no aeroplanes, can't buy properties, 
 can't customize cars, IV dosen't have enough missions and its to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solderofwar
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I dont want to make a long review but I give gta4 a 7, its a fun game but compared to most games 
 out there its trash. All that huge hype and the fact that they had more than 3 years to work on 
 the sequel to one of the bigest games in video games to date. Its grand thieft auto, all i want 
 to do is drive, shoot and fly ect. Do stuff i cant do in real life. Yes the story has a minor role 
 for me too, but I only played it to unlock the entire city and get the most out of the $60 as i 
 can. I see so many people giving it a 10 out of 10 and i dont see how. I cant understand it. And 
 im not just some loser who dont like it, Ive been playing Gta since gta3 came out, and then gta: sa. 
 And I was pumped about gta4 as much as the next guy. And i bought it the first week it came out 
 and i beat the game too. And when I was done I felt nothing, I felt like i had wasted my time and 
 i shut the game off. Unlike when I finished cod4, i felt like i had lost a friend when everyone 
 died around me in the end. And when i beat Zelda-tp. i wanted more. But when I was done w/ gta4, 
 It felt like i had done everything i could in the game. and i did. I drove every car, shot every 
 gun, flew the helicopter. The most fun i had on that game was going up the empire state building 
 and crashing the helicopter to the ground and then using the cheat code to fix the heli. Online= 
 trash. I have hopes still for the next gta or watever it may be called but i just hope that people 
 get it out of their heads that its a game and i want to tear some body parts off some people...
 
  
  my best way to describe it is like the Wii, Halo3, or Star wars ep 3. Or the complete opposite 
 of batman the dark knight (amazing!)
  rant, love, hate. I don't care, I'm just saying how I feel/ ranting.
  
  ps. how come a game 
 can get an excuse that the grafix will suck, it doesn't matter because the gameplay is all that 
 matters? Y y y. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Let me be honest. I was never into Grand Theft Auto. The only thing I ever did in those games were 
 steal cars and drive them through the city and I was bored when I played them. Mostly the first 
 Grand Theft Auto. Then I played GTA2 and it was basically the same overhead gameplay but with improved 
 graphics and the first to be done by Rockstar Games. Bottom line, I never got into the third one, 
 Vice City, San Andreas, or any of the other ones. Not even Saints Row did it for me. True Crime: 
 Streets of LA kinda did it for me but then Grand Theft Auto IV comes out and I was expecting the 
 same results that all the other GTAs did. This is the first GTA that I actually enjoyed playing. 
 It's addicting and I didn't put down the controller when I played it. Unlike those Italian settings 
 that the first four GTAs did and the hood life of San Andreas, This one goes back to Liberty City 
 and you play with an Eastern European named Niko Bellic. In one word or more, he's a murder for 
 hire kind of guy. He just kills for money. In my opinion, Niko is more of a badass than any of 
 those main characters in the other games. He's all those qualities that you would expect from a 
 hitman. In story, the game is all about murder, betrayal, justice and revenge. Mostly betrayal 
 and revenge. You end up meeting interesting people with their own personalities, so aside from 
 Niko's cousin, Roman, you meet people like Manny Escuela, a Puerto Rican who has a purpose to "clean 
 up the streets of gangs", Brucie who is a steroid junkie and constantly loud and yells a lot, and 
 plenty others. You do all these things for them and you get paid for it. The only frustrating thing 
 would be the cops all over you and having difficulty losing them. The online gameplay is great 
 too. Deathmatches, races, a lot of cool things to do both online and off. Grand Theft Auto IV is 
 a game that I really enjoyed playing and just doing the missions and the dialogue is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet1917
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so, I know I'm going to get probably get a lot of "You can't review a game!" or "WTF?! GRAND 
 THEFT AUTO IS TEH **** But I really don't care. I intend to give you my honest opinion of the game. 
 I have always been a closeted fan of Grand Theft Auto. I was incredibly excited to hear that they 
 were making GTA IV. They promised the world, and for the most part, they delivered. My main gripes 
 here come from several parts of the game. 1. The dating system is essentially worthless unless 
 you count giving boys who have never had a date the experience of dating... A NON LIVING IMAGE. 
 True, you get perks from wooing the girl, but lets face it... the perks are rather lame. One girl 
 you get a discount on clothes for dating... clothes... in a game where your main goal is to run around 
 with a gun. Somehow that doesn't make much sense to me. But moving on, my other problems include 
 multiplayer. It is fun... but drops wayyyy too often. "OH! I'M IN THE LEAD! I'M GOING TO WI... WHAT 
 THE?! THE GAME DISCONNECTED! SON OF A *****!" That's what your online experience will be like... and 
 that's if you have a strong connection. Another problem that plagues all GTA games is the lack 
 of things to do when you're done with the game. You basically just shoot up the town, and while 
 this is perhaps appealing to teenage boys or psychos, I find it a bit tastless. HEAR ME! I have 
 no problem with violence in video games. I actually enjoy it, but when all you do is kill random 
 people all the time, it tends to get boring. Another thing is that they made the game too realistic. 
 Now you may say "Mike! Isn't that a good thing?" No. No it is not. You used to be able to drive 
 at epically high speeds, and make that turn before you went flying into that building... now if 
 you want to do that, start turning the wheel about a mile and a half before you have to make that 
 turn. The game is an okay game that deserves some merit for realism and a rather fun experience. 
 It is not long. I got it the day it came out, and only played 2-3 hours per day, and had it beat 
 in 4 days. Oh, and hidden packages are now replaced with Pidgeons... there are 200 of them, and 
 I pitty the fool who wastes his life collecting them. As I have stated GTA IV is a decent game 
 and well worth a RENT or if you really want to... buy it... then I would still suggest you rent it 
 first. The story is so-so. The graphics are amazing. The realism is true, but not really needed 
 in GTA. So I give the game a 7.0... because it's not deserving of the 10 Gamespot gave it. I have 
 tried to give an honest review here, so I really don't care what you people have to say. I'll probably 
 have lots of GTA nerds complaining though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  For fans of the popular movie series The Matrix, this game is currently the closest equivalent 
 that we have in the real world. Liberty City feels like a true living, breathing metropolis. From 
 the people walking on the street, to the in-game 'internet,' to the several television and radio 
 stations, Rockstar comes eerily close to duplicating a real-world experience. There are countless 
 things to explore and discover. I spent 50+ hours playing this game and finished all of the story 
 missions, but I still feel that I haven't even scratched the surface of all that the world in this 
 game has to offer. For example there are nearly 50 'stunt jumps' to find throughout the city, and 
 I was only able to find a handful of them. The standard game-play that made this series a success 
 is still present. The joy of recklessly barreling through the city streets or dispensing gratuitous 
 amounts of violence never gets old. There are a large number of story missions to complete, and 
 the game developers did a great job of not making these seem repetitive or boring. In addition 
 there are a bevy of side missions to try including a street racing circuit, cop missions, and drug 
 deliveries to name a few. One of the new features in this installment is the 'friends' that you 
 encounter and interact with. There are numerous activities you can do with them, including pool, 
 bowling drinking and going to strip clubs. If you do this enough with them, it will unlock your 
 friend's special ability that you can call on to help you out when you need it. Some of these special 
 abilities include selling you weapons at a discounted price or sending some thugs with guns over 
 to back you up The new targeting system and new method for clearing your wanted level are welcome 
 improvements as well. So, in conclusion, Rockstar has hit the nail on the head yet again as the 
 deliver everything we have come to expect from Grand Theft Auto, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gredenko
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Es el mejor juego d la serie!!! Tiene d todo!!!! Celular, clabes, es lo maximo!!!!!! Alfredo Jerez 
 naci en Caracas, Venezuela, es hijo de Marisela Gmez y Alfredo Jerez. De pequeo se le conoci 
 como un nio tierno y educado, pero a medida que fue creciendo, esos conceptos se le fueron borrando 
 de la mente, de esa forma, ganarse un poco de respeto con sus compaeros del colegio. Tiene tres 
 primos de hermanos de parte de mama, Catrin, Gonzalo y Meiber. De familia de su padre solo conoce 
 a su primo hermano, Jorge Galaz, y a su hermana Maryori.
  Alfredo Jerez naci en Caracas, Venezuela, es hijo de Marisela Gmez y Alfredo Jerez. De pequeo 
 se le conoci como un nio tierno y educado, pero a medida que fue creciendo, esos conceptos se 
 le fueron borrando de la mente, de esa forma, ganarse un poco de respeto con sus compaeros del 
 colegio. Tiene tres primos de hermanos de parte de mama, Catrin, Gonzalo y Meiber. De familia de 
 su padre solo conoce a su primo hermano, Jorge Galaz, y a su hermana Maryori.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gameplay is a lot easier and more enjoyable this time around thanks to the easy to use 
 cover system; some of the best online play to hit the 360; a wide range of vehicles and guns at 
 your disposal; lengthy storyline with some of the best Grand Theft Auto characters to date; graphics 
 look pretty amazing; an amazing soundtrack with a wide range of different music styles; Liberty 
 City is amazing in every way 
  
  The Bad: A small amount of graphical glitches that are easy to ignore; driving is a lot harder 
 to get used to than in previous installments; major RPG elements have been taken out 
  
  Alright, we all know about Grand Theft Auto. Whether you've heard controversy about it on the news, 
 or on a website... you know about Grand Theft Auto. Well, Grand Theft Auto 4 has been one of the 
 most anticipated games ever since people were finished with San Andreas. It's been a long time 
 coming, but now Grand Theft Auto is ready to reinvent itself in this long awaited sequel.
  
  Niko, an immigrant on his way to Liberty City, is ready to start a new life. His cousin, Roman, 
 has promised Niko beautiful women, a mansion, and all sorts of things that just seem too good to 
 be true. However, when Niko arrives, he finds out that Roman is living in a run-down apartment, 
 he hardly has a girlfriend, and everything he had gloated about was a lie. Disappointed, Niko tries 
 to make some money in the big city by helping out Roman and his friends with anything that they 
 can think of. 
  
  The story gets a lot more deep. Betrayal, love, plot twists, and making the right decision pop 
 up everywhere throughout the 30 hour story. Niko is also one of the most realistic characters to 
 ever star in a Grand Theft Auto game. Unlike many of the other characters in previous entries, 
 Niko has real human emotions that present themselves throughout the story. 
  
  In this entry in the series, it's all about making friends happy. Roman introduces you to a number 
 of strange people, who, in turn, introduce you to more people, and so on. Each character has his/her 
 own personality. They like to do certain things and hang out at certain places. It's a bit of challenge 
 to keep every single person happy, but it's all held together nicely by the cell phone.
  
  The cell phone, which is received early in the game, keeps track of everything that a cell phone 
 should keep track of. Friends numbers, the date, time... everything is held together by it. Friends 
 will often call you about an important mission, or simply to go get a drink at the bar. The cell 
 phone is also customizable. You can customize the ring tone, the background, and a bunch of other 
 things to make the cell phone fit your personality. This is totally optional, however.
  
  Going out with friends is usually pretty fun. Various activities can keep you entertained. You 
 can go play pool, darts, and even bowling. Most of the activities are designed fairly well, and 
 are a fun little distraction. One of the funniest activities has to be going to a bar. Once drunk, 
 the screen will shake back and forth like a metronome, and Niko will fall every two steps if you 
 don't carefully guide him. Driving drunk... is just stupid... just like it is in real life. 
  
  After making specific friends happy, they will eventually offer you their services. These are 
 very useful. Friends can offer you guns on the fly, or even 24 hour access to a helicopter. However, 
 if you make friends angry by not picking them up, picking them up late, or taking them to a place 
 that they don't like, your friendship level with them will go down, and you'll have to try that 
 much harder to please them.
  
  The gameplay in GTA 4, is somewhat like that of previous entries. You get called to do a mission, 
 then you go complete the mission (which usually involves you killing someone else) , then you get 
 called on another mission. However, you don't have to finish the missions right away. You have 
 an open world to explore, and destruction to cause. Just like in previous games, the free world 
 means that you can kill, basically, anyone, at anytime, wherever you are.
  
  The open world and the freedom that you have is unparalleled. You can go wherever you want to go 
 in the city. Taking a helicopter to look at Liberty City from a bird's eye view is breathtaking, 
 and walking around, you actually begin to notice that Liberty City is a living, breathing world 
 in itself.
  
  Now, to the actual gameplay. From the very first mission, you realize that driving is a lot tougher 
 an more realistic this time around. These cars control and handle like real cars. They're tough 
 to get used to at first, but eventually you'll get the hang of it. The biggest, and most vital 
 addition to the gameplay... would have to be the cover system. By pressing the Left Bumper, Niko 
 can take cover behind anything... yes... anything. He can then blind fire, or shoot around it. It's 
 a little different than other duck and cover games, but it still works just as well. 
  
  The next addition has to be how you get away from cops. You still have the star meter depending 
 on how cruel and heartless you've been, but now it's handled differently. Instead of just having 
 a small or high number of police chasing you depending on how many stars you have, GTA 4 uses a 
 radius. If you are inside this radius (Red Circle) the cops will still chase after you. If you 
 can manage to get out of it for a few seconds, the cops will stop chasing you. The thing is, the 
 more stars you have, the bigger the radius will get, making it harder and harder to escape. 
  
  Another thing that's worth mentioning is the RPG elements from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 have been cut out of this game. Running around town a lot won't upgrade your running skill, and 
 riding a bike everywhere won't increase your BMX skills. There's virtually no RPG elements, and 
 considering that most people adored upgrading their character in San Andreas, some may not find 
 this game as appealing. 
  
  There's a load of customization options for Niko. You can give him glasses, a hat, a suit and a 
 ton of other things. There's even times throughout the game where you have to wear a suit or tuxedo 
 to do a mission. This makes the game feel a lot more real, especially when your complimented by 
 your girlfriend on a date on how nice you look.
  
  Now... Multiplayer. You can access a number of multiplayer modes through your cell phone. Once you 
 select a mode, you'll jump right out of the single player story into an online game. There's a 
 ton of modes available. There's a game called cops and robbers, where the robbers try to get to 
 a certain location on the map before getting killed by the cops. There's also Free Play. A mode 
 where you can simply go around and kill people, or hang out and take out some cops. 
  
  The online modes are fantastic. You can hijack cars and do almost anything, just like in the story 
 mode. One problem is the lack of customization with your online character. You pick up new customization 
 options as you gain levels, but still, the customization to your character isn't exactly ground 
 breaking. 
  
  The graphics in the game look pretty amazing. This is surprising since earlier Grand Theft Auto 
 games didn't look that good at all. The water effects look great, cars look awesome and the characters 
 have realistic movements in GTA 4. You'll see occasional glitches pop up, and the frame rate can 
 get a little choppy, but it's nothing that can't be overlooked. 
  
  The music from GTA 4 is awesome. Tons of great songs and multiple radio stations will please any 
 type of music lover out there. The voice acting is also fantastic. Every line is well spoken with 
 the correct amount of emotion and feeling to make you feel like you know what that character is 
 going through. 
  
  Online play, a 30 hour story, and goofing around on the streets of Liberty City... Bottom line: 
 You're gonna be playing this game for a while. Believe me when I say that this game is sixty dollars 
 well spent. 
  
  Altogether, Grand Theft Auto 4 is what we've been waiting for. It's a crazy open world where the 
 sky is the limit. This game needs to be in your collection. It's one of those games that just pushes 
 a system to its limit to provide an experience unlike any other. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Certainly the video game series to attract the most attention from parental groups and politicians, 
 the aggressive protesting of games like "Grand Theft Auto" is - in a way - dismaying. It's also 
 a matter of choice - parents neither have to buy the games for their child, nor do they have to 
 allow them to play it.
  
  Is the series violent? Certainly, but I was taught right and wrong as a child and, as an adult, 
 I can appreciate the "Grand Theft Auto" series for its ability to create an impressively detailed 
 (down to the radio channels that deliver various tunes and oddball rants) world. The groundbreaking 
 open structure (I can drive around, I can go on a mission, I can drive a taxi to earn some cash 
 or just stand in the middle of the virtual street for an hour if I wanted to) of the series has 
 been often imitated but never really equaled.
  
  The previous games ("III", "Vice City", "San Andreas") all built upon the prior edition, but the 
 first next-gen title in the series truly needed to not just be a stepping stone from the title 
 before it, but a grand leap forward. The game delivers on that promise and beyond, as not only 
 does it expand upon the core gameplay, but makes the game feel considerably more cinematic than 
 the prior releases. The humor of the prior games is still there (check out a few of the billboards) , 
 but one of the game's most significant changes in the storytelling and tone. Despite some wisecracks 
 from some characters, this is a more operatic crime drama than the prior games and there is significantly 
 more dialogue than the prior games. The story takes on a greater level of importance this time 
 around and the game is all the better for it. 
  
  As for the story, it involves Bosnian immigrant Niko Bellic, who is on the boat to Liberty City 
 (think New York City) during a stylish opening credits sequence. As you drive through the more 
 industrial part of the city with chatty cousin Roman, you can instantly appreciate the kind of 
 upgrades that Liberty City has seen in the years since we've last seen it. The city's industrial 
 sector is an impressive portrayal of urban decay, but different areas of the city are more upscale, 
 with brownstones and a somewhat brighter look. At the opening of the game, a terrorist alert is 
 in place and the bridges to other areas of the city are blocked off by police barriers, but they 
 do open up later in the game. Along the same lines, it's also a good idea not to drive out onto 
 the runway at the airport - the police don't take that lightly.
  
  Niko was told by his cousin Roman of the kind of success that one can achieve in Liberty City. 
 However, when Niko arrives, he finds that Roman wasn't exactly telling the truth. This becomes 
 particularly obvious when the two pull up to Roman's apartment in a slum building. From humble 
 beginnings, Niko starts to learn his way around the people and places of Liberty City. However, 
 it's not long before Niko learns that Roman has some serious gambling debts, which end up putting 
 Niko in contact with other members of the Liberty City underworld. One of the many elements of 
 the game I enjoyed was how new characters are woven into the fabric of the game and others are 
 taken out of the picture - sometimes surprisingly.
  
  In terms of characters, where "Grand Theft Auto IV" shines is the script. The game's script isn't 
 Scorsese, but it is a leap from previous games in the series and really stands as a solid example 
 of how games have become more cinematic. Not only is Niko a well-developed character, but the dialogue 
 is actually well-written and we get more about Niko's past as the game goes on. Not only is the 
 game itself an involving expansion upon the games in the series before it, but I also kept playing 
 because I genuinely was interested in how the story would unfold next. This also extends to the 
 supporting players, who are mostly pretty well-developed characters. There's still a lot of the 
 usual "GTA" humor present, but overall, this is a more serious game.
  
  As for the gameplay, it takes the elements of the previous games and builds upon them nicely. While 
 very different in ways, anyone who has played one of the games in the series previously will be 
 able to pick this game up and play quickly. Early on, Niko gets a cell phone from his cousin and 
 it's through the phone that the player can communicate with the world of Liberty City. Meet a criminal 
 and win his respect and you'll add his phone number, which allows you to call him for jobs or to 
 even do things like play pool, go bowling, go to see a show, eat or go to a bar (or, a bar of the 
 strip variety) .
  
  As for the bar part, it's the game's most horrendous element. Go drinking with a friend and you'll 
 see Niko barely able to walk down the street. Oh yeah, and the screen will spin and roll like it's 
 in the wash. It's a truly nauseating effect that makes it difficult to do just about anything - 
 especially driving, as Niko is often the one asked to drive the other person home.
  
  The kind of missions - give chase, kill, threaten, deliver, steal, etc. - you'll find in the game 
 are pretty familiar to those who've played the prior games. The missions occasionally feel a tad 
 repetitive, but generally are well-constructed. Again, the quality of the writing is good enough 
 that I actually looked forward to completing the missions to see what would happen to Niko next. 
 One difference here is that there will be some missions where the player is given the chance to 
 let the target go, and what they choose will have consequences later in the game. 
  
  Liberty City is really pretty massive, and players will be impressed at the detail that has gone 
 into the city. Not only do the areas feel distinctly different, but block-to-block feels different. 
 One can also appreciate the kind of work that has gone into the specific details - signs, store 
 names, etc. You still can't go into the great majority of buildings in Liberty City, but there's 
 definitely some interior sections, such as the internet cafes. The internet cafes (called TW@ - 
 get it?) allow Niko to browse websites, read the local news, check email and go onto dating websites 
 to try to find new women to go out with.
  
  I was a little dismayed at the amount of things that you can buy in the game - maybe the next game 
 could have stores all together in one or more main mall areas. You can buy things like clothes, 
 guns and even hot dogs from local street vendors (if you shoot the fuel tank attached to most of 
 the hotdog carts, the cart will go airborne.)
  
  Money can also be used on dates or when meeting pals. On the GPS map, you'll see a series of different 
 destinations - everything from restaurants to pool halls - and it's up to you to decide what activity 
 would be the best choice for who you're with. As for dates, you'll have the chance to date a number 
 of different girls in Liberty City (there are also the chance to have "paid" dates, if you get 
 my drift) and they all have different personalities. Some will be displeased if you show up wearing 
 the same outfit, some won't. Some like bowling, some don't. Winning over the woman you're with 
 will not only lead to intimiate benefits, but additional abilities, as well. Winning over your 
 criminal friends will also lead to additional benefits, too.
  
  The "friends" element of the game is a "love it or hate it" aspect and players may find their feelings 
 about it change depending on the day. While there were times when I found it amusing to go play 
 pool or drive over to the club, there were also stretches where the calls from friends to go hang 
 out became annoying. The games (such as pool or bowling) are all well done, and the control scheme 
 for these moments (as well as the rest of the game) is intuitive. Rockstar has once again made 
 a game that most gamers will be easily able to pick up and play with no fuss. 
  
  Thankfully, while meeting up with friends does have benefits, you don't have to and can even just 
 hang up on them when they call. One upgrade in this version is not hearing the same dialogue from 
 familiar characters over-and-over again. While you will hear the same lines at times, they're shuffled 
 enough to not have the lines start to feel too irritatingly repetitive. The other issue with dialogue 
 is that the pedestrian dialogue is better - there's less wacky nonsense (although there's still 
 funny lines) and a bit more in the way of things you may actually hear people say.
  
  The other main element of the game - shooting things - has been tweaked for this game. In a move 
 that will surely have PETA joining the ranks of those upset with the series, one of the minor/"hidden" 
 tasks is to wipe out the city's pigeon population. The biggest difference to the gunfights is the 
 fact that Niko can take cover behind objects and shoot. While I didn't think this system was without 
 flaw, it did add another element to the game's cinematic fights. The trigger locks on and using 
 the thumbsticks allows one to either aim at someone else or tweak the aim on the person or thing 
 you're already aimed at. A little health bar shows how much damage the person you're currently 
 aiming at has taken. Additionally, the shootout animations have been upgraded and characters will 
 limp away or fall a certain way if they get hit. Cars will also show more specific damage if hit.
 
  
  For those who aren't in the mood to steal a car and drive over to their next destination, one can 
 easily hail a cab. The cost of cab fare is pretty reasonable, and for an extra fee, one doesn't 
 even have to wait out the entire trip. Players can certainly either yank people out of their car 
 or steal one (Niko breaks a window and then hotwires the car) , but watch out for the police, who 
 are certainly very aggressive, but a little easier to lose this time around, as you'll see their 
 search area (a larger search area for a higher star rating) on your GPS.
  
  Get out of the search area and keep from being seen again and the wanted rating will go away. If 
 the cops see you again right after getting out of the search area, you'll have to get out of that 
 area. While there are some Pay N' Spray type repair shops, they're few-and-far between and the 
 primary method of escaping the cops is getting out of the search area. Driving seemed somewhat 
 tougher this time around, as driving control seemed a little loose to me, although all of the cars 
 handle noticably differently. In terms of going on the run, a big difference this time around is 
 the ability to hop fences or have Niko literally pull himself up and over taller fences or walls. 
 Now the character is backed into a literal corner less often.
  
  Graphically, the game keeps the same general look as the prior games, but offers a solid upgrade. 
 The game certainly doesn't offer the finest graphics you're going to ever see on a console, but 
 considering the sheer size and detail of the in-game world, what's seen is satisfactory. I appreciated 
 the smaller touches, such as the flies that circle the garbage cans or the greater detail to the 
 store signage on many stores. Many citizens of the city walking through the streets are carrying 
 something, which they'll drop if you bump into them. Characters have moderately more detail to 
 them and the environment in general has more detail and texture. The framerate does get a little 
 rough during some of the most intense moments, but the framerate holds up well the majority of 
 the time.
  
  The game's 5.1 audio is incredibly intense during the gunfights and some of the more aggressive 
 driving moments (such as the intense police chases.) Otherwise, the audio has a lot to offer, including 
 some marvelous voice acting, fantastic musical choices and some hysterical radio talk shows and 
 ads. Some of the sound effects from previous games are brought back here.
  
  Playing the game on XBOX Live adds a whole new dimension to the series and may prove more fun for 
 some gamers than the main game itself. There are more than a dozen different variations (everything 
 from racing to objective games and more) , although I particularly liked the free mode, which set 
 players loose on a free-for-all throughout the city. While running around the city in one free-for-all 
 match, I was amused to see a pair of players work together and hijack a bus - one drove, one was 
 in the passenger seat, ready to attack. Some players would leave and others would come along. One 
 of the best aspects of the whole thing is the sheer size of the areas, which - combined with the 
 radar - allows players to either choose to go brute force or be more strategic with their approach. 
 The issue with online play that I encountered was that the framerate could be choppy - not enough 
 to ruin things, but certainly noticable - at times.
  
  Final Thoughts: "Grand Theft Auto IV" is a remarkable title, boasting not only exceptional online 
 play, but a terrific main story that contains much finer dialogue and character development than 
 previous games in the series. The game also takes things to another level in terms of core gameplay 
 and presentation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is probably a videogame series that you heard of before even if you never play 
 videogames at all. This time around first on the current Generation consoles PlayStation 3 and 
 Xbox 360. This time around you play as Niko Bellic coming from a war torn part of Europe to America 
 to live with his cousin Roman for a better life in America. Then of course the crime based drama 
 that is GTA begins. The story is one of the best stories I ever experienced in a Videogame. New 
 features include a cover system when under fire not as good as "Gears of War" per say but still 
 one none the less. Gun play has been much improved. The Single player will keep you busy as the 
 game is a pretty good size length. There is also a good amount of bounus stuff to do with a lot 
 of mini games and side-quest. The Muliplayer mode is fun having many game modes. The only 2 problems 
 I have with multiplayer is how gun fights happen. Sometimes you can shoot someone in the head 3 
 or 4 times and then they turn around shoot you twice with a pistol and you die. Seriously does 
 that make any sense? The other problem with the game is its networking sometimes the game will 
 just randomly boot you from the game your in for no reason. One other problem is that some vehicles 
 in the game are not available in the game. I can understand why in some game modes but why not 
 in online Free mode with friends? 
  
  With those aspects aside that's not what keeps me from giving the game a 10 like everyone else. 
 When you take out almost all of the elements that made a game fun in the past, what the hell? What 
 happened to "If it ain't broke don't fix it." The game has a 6 star felony system (if you played 
 these games before skip this little section) that is rated on the severity of your crimes.
  
  In the old games when you got to the all powerful 6 stars the army would come to kill you sending 
 an all powerful tank. In this game the swat comes (they come at 4 stars) and just send more enemies 
 at you. Making the achievement survive 6 stars for 5 minutes a joke. Airplanes and Helicopters 
 can't co-exist anymore for the fact that all you can fly are Helicopters. If you like using cheat 
 codes like in the old games, they are still here but they are not as fun as the old games for the 
 fact of the whole "Realism" crap. No flying cars. No all pedestrians having weapons. No spawning 
 tanks (they don't exist anyway!) . No Super punch and Super jump. The codes are boring and unoriginal 
 and if that's not a slap to the face they have to be done with the Cellphone. The cellphone is 
 how you access almost everything in Single player to continue your adventure. You have to dial 
 in the number for codes. Once you use the codes once they are saved into your phone but when your 
 being chased down by the cops you really can't do anything. The moment you get shot you automatically 
 put up your cellphone. Thus making it more of pain to enter codes on the fly with the phone rather 
 than putting in a button combination.
  
  Overall its a great game don't get me wrong. Best in the series? Yeah realism wise sure but on 
 terms of fun? No. Taking out most of the vehicles and GOOD cheat codes is what made the game fun 
 in my opinion.
  
  9/10 Great but, don't remove the fun stuff next time Rockstar maybe you shouldn't have spoiled 
 us with San Andreas eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best in one of the greatest video game series ever created. Rockstar has added 
 a ton of new things and have removed some to give room for a sequel and to enhance gaming experience.
 
  
  Graphics. 
  If you have a good tv (not necessarily HD) and you customize your settings the way they should 
 be, the graphics in this game will be a masterpiece that will not leave you wanting more detail 
 or shading in any area. The graphics are as good as they are gonna get ( for now) in such an immense 
 detailed location. 
  The city is the main part of the this game. Liberty city really is alive during the day and takes 
 on another form at night. the city is incredibly detailed, no two streets really feel the same. 
 you will want to look into every alley, every corner, every restaurant; because everything has 
 so much detail and is so beautifully rendered. The character models are excellent and the nico's 
 model is flawless. also you almost never see Pedestrian clones; rockstar put sooo much work into 
 that area.
  9.9 out of 10
  
  Sound. 
  the sound is basically perfect. No voice overs seem out of place or cheesy. the dialogue is brilliantly 
 written and hilarious at times ( especially when you get your friends drunk) . The radio stations 
 are perfect. some you will hate. like 2 or 3 out of 15 or so. so thats not an issue. there is a 
 rap station to reggae and dancehall stations ( which the Caribbean fans like me truly appreciate) , 
 a rock and pop station, 3 talk ( comedy) stations) an R&B station ( that is amazing) a reggaeton 
 station (spanish musica) (i still love it) . and many many more. 
  10 0ut of 10
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is great but it is not without flaws. It has been tremendously enhanced. Nico 
 runs better, shoots better, fights better... and the list goes on. The shooting system is great. 
 locking on with the LT button and firing with RT and using the right stick to target certain points 
 ( legs, head) all shots can be strategic with the perfect physics engine that has been added to 
 the game. Where people not only react to the force of the bullet, but also the internal damage, 
 and the pain. so you can have great fun filling people with holes. the biggest addition to the 
 action other that the brilliant aiming system is * drum roll* ..... A cover system. the biggest 
 desire for a gta game. the cover system works, it good but not great, not gears o war great, not 
 uncharted great. The gameplay greatly slows down and feels clunky when you are using cover. Example, 
 when you want to press up to a wall , its not always the one you wanted so you try to get off it 
 (getting filled with bullets) and you finally get around the corner and enter wall cover, you move 
 very slowly in cover and you have to get to the end of the cover to fire and its a pain trying 
 to leave cover so if an enemy surprises you then you are doomed. Its just slow and clunky. and 
 when you want to peek out and shoot or blind fire, it take like 2 seconds too many (especially online) . 
 Other than the sluggish cover system gameplay is good.
  9.5 out of 10
  
  Story
  This the problem with the game, the story start out excellently, with a bang. there is a lot of 
 excitement, and constant plot developement. And then in about 26 or so missions its done. what 
 i mean is ... that the story is developing and building up and then you move to the next city and 
 the story is put on pause and all the the missions to come arent on the main focus or the original 
 story. the other missions are like side quests. the main story doesnt resurface until at mission 
 87. I thought the focus would be main story developement through the whole game and the main reason 
 nico came to Liberty city which was built up to the 88 mission started there and ended there, very 
 anticlimactically. o well it was a good run.
  8 out of 10
  
  Enjoyabily 
  There are a lot of things to do, not Sanandreas much, but a good amount. the extras will take 20 
 hrs tops. there are 10 fun assassin missions ( short lived) , 10 vehicle thefts , 30 vehicle retrivals, 
 200 pigeons to shoot ( all over the city) lots of girls to date (lots) , a most wanted list to clear 
 for the cops (loads of fun) , vigalante missions rock and 50 stunt jumps to nail. o yea you can take 
 out your friends and make them like you. do all that stuff and have 100%. the things that are most 
 fun are short, like the 10 car thefts and the assassin missions and the most wanted list. but it 
 will keep you for a long time, plus 14 online modes. Free mode is the best but it mostly no fun 
 unless you have a headset
  9.5 out of 10
  
  An excellent game, a must have for anyone who doesnt hate videogames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geon_lansis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I waited long for this game, and it didn't disappoint. The graphics are good, though very blurry, 
 graphics are good. It's like the other GTA series, but more realistic, which comes to personal 
 choice, for example, physics on each different cars are very much varied, and handles more like 
 a road going car, which is harder to drive or escape from the cops. Some like it, some don't.
 
  
  Camera is a bit different too, because I notice the car is more slanted to the other side of the 
 screen, which, funnily, bothers me a lot. Why wouldn't they just make it center?
  
  This game has plenty of missions and side missions to offer, and have PLENTY of gameplay time before 
 you finish the whole game 100%, that I can assure you. It's very VERY worth my money to get a copy, 
 and with the on-coming waves of new characters you meet in the game all the time, it always gets 
 interesting. You'll also encounter different choices, each made will have different consequences. 
 Some very impacting (at the end of the game) , some not really. AI pals are a bit dumb, which is 
 frustrating, and missions are quite hard sometimes, but all and all, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox1397
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit i had my doubts. When i heard that GTA IV was coming back to Liberty City i had 
 my doubts. i was hoping for Rockstar Games to come up with a new city. As soon as i popped the 
 disk in my 360 i was amazed. From the moment i finished my first mission i was addicted. i had 
 to get the Liberty City Minute Achievement and beat it in under 30 hours. Every aspect of this 
 game is awesome. The graphics, the storyline, and the characters. i think everyone would agree 
 that Niko Bellic is the best Protagonist in the GTA series. His internal conflict, his troubles 
 with his brother, and at the same time he is trying to make some money. We all feel for him when 
 he has to continue killing. Another skeptic i had was would it live up to past GTA games. You know, 
 what we all love. The destruction, the random killing, and flouring your vehicle and bailing out. 
 Would it feel the same. It did and the Rockstar crew made it even better. Just try this go all 
 out in a fast car and hit a tree. See what happens. Its AWESOME!!! This game is a must have, even 
 if you have never played a GTA game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  To start this review off... i am a great fan of GTA, ive played all the 2D overhead view GTAs and 
 GTA 3, Vice City and San Andreas. Ive watched Grand Theft Auto develop and form, becoming the well 
 loved and controversial series we know it to be. So lets get this review under way!
  
  -Graphics and Visuals
  The GTA series has never been known for its graphics, but GTA IV challenges 
 this. The game is beautiful, the explosions, the gun fights and.. the physics. Cars handle like 
 the real thing and the first person driving view has been prepped up with the ability to see the 
 front of your car. -Story
  The story is typical GTA fare with one man rising to the ranks of the criminal underworld. This 
 time however, you play as a foreigner who is new to the openness of America. The story however 
 isnt that compelling and frankly got to be a bit of a bore. There seemed to be no clear cut vendettas 
 to carry out and the purpose of rising through the criminal underworld seemed a bit pointless. 
 -Gameplay
  For GTA console players, the new aiming system is a godsend. Its just so much easier to aim and 
 auto-aim. PERIOD. Weapons make an important part of GTA's gameplay (rampages) but the ones in GTA 
 IV are your usual fare. Where is the flamethrower?? Chainsaw?? **** (xD) NONE. There is nothing 
 special about the weapons.
  
  -Music
  The radio in GTA gives it that special feel and touch that from the certain era the game portrays. 
 THe music in GTA IV is terrible. Not like Vice City and San Andreas. -Overall
  GTA was a fun game for the first few days before it wore off. The radio was nothing special, the 
 story a bore and "friends" system got a bit tedious. Grand Theft Auto IV resembles GTA 3 in its 
 presentation (minus graphics) . However, good graphics dont make a good game alone. GTA IV was a 
 total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Grand Theft Auto series, ever since I played GTA2 on the Playstation. 
 And I loved ever one since then, and I ain't been disappointed with one yet and GTA IV isn't no 
 different.
  
  Some of the things I loved:
  The story is really great, I will admit it isn't as good as some of the one's before it but it's 
 better than most other games that try to tell a good story. You play as Niko Bellic who is an illegal 
 immigrant from Eastern Europe. Niko is also a veteran of the Bosnian War so he knows what battle 
 is like and isn't afraid when things start getting crazy.
  
  Also IV has two different ending which right there tells you it has replay value in the game. You'll 
 want to play two times to just see both of the different ending that it has in it.
  
  The gameplay is great just like it always has been, with all of the nice guns you can go kill people 
 with. Going around and steeling cars and just crashing them then go and do the same thing over 
 and over. You now have a cover system which is great so you want get all shoot up. The driving 
 seems more realistic now which is good also, some people might not like it. Which I didn't at first 
 it just takes time getting used to.
  
  Liberty City is just great it really looks really good a big improvement over the last two times 
 you saw it. It's just huge, not as big as San Andreas though. It's really nice being back in Liberty 
 City though and you'll feel the same way. It's really nice to see all the people that's in the 
 city to it's basically like real life, seeing all the people go about doing there own things it's 
 really nice.
  
  The sound is basically just perfect, at least for me that is. The games soundtrack which is great 
 and something that I always look forward to in a Grand Theft Auto game. Some time's I'll go and 
 steal a car and just drive around listening to music, which I've done that with every GTA game. 
 Voice acting is fantastic, which it basically has been ever since GTA 3 which is something I have 
 always looked forward to. 
  
  The characters are also nice a lot of them are funny to which is great. I always look forward to 
 see all the characters and see what there personality's are like. Just like in real life you'll 
 grow to like some of them and hate other ones, which in my opinion gives it a more real like feel.
 
  
  Some of the things I didn't like:
  There's only two things that I didn't like one of them being the online part of the game. First 
 off I never really like playing online I'm more of a single player campaign person. It's fun but 
 it basically isn't for me I'd prefer not playing it but a lot of people like it.
  
  Another thing is the game starts off slow and may seem a little bit boring for the first few hours 
 when you first start off. But then after that you'll just simply love everything about it.
  
  Overall Grand Theft Auto IV is one of my favorite games on the Xbox 360 and one that I can 
 play for hours and hours. It lived up to all my expectations that I had about the game, it didn't 
 disappoint me one little bit in any way at all. I really recommend it to anyone who has played 
 the other ones and liked them you'll really like this one to.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbo006
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Great graphics and a very solid story line. The physics engine is brilliant and the gun fights 
 sometimes make me feel like I am playing Gears of War.
  
  The map is nice but I feel that with the massive use of the SatNav system, you don't learn short-cuts 
 and routes as well as you did in previous games. 
  
  When it comes to playing without wanting to do missions, the map falls massivley short of the map 
 in San Andreas. You can't climb a huge mountain then get on a push bike and jump off the mountain 
 with a parachute, nor can you get involved in massive police chases through the country, diving 
 over broken bridges and through small villages..... you also can't find a harvester to run around 
 in... but that's another adventure.
  
  From first appearance the game it looks like the developers have used some features seen in SA 
 such as the method of outrunning police but they have massively improved it to go with this.
  
  The missions as a whole seem to have more substance in this game and some of them are brilliant 
 to the point where I wish that I could replay them at choice.
  
  I cannot however comment on the multiplayer features of this game as I have not tried them but 
 I am told by the vast majority of GTA4 players that the multiplayer is great.
  
  As a whole however, I find it hard not to write a review that simply says where and why the game 
 falls short of what we were provided with in San Andreas but this is definitely only overall. After 
 all of this, I do feel that maybe this game is just the first in another trilogy like we saw in 
 the previous generation of consoles where GTA3 was brilliant but simple, then VC was fun with some 
 nice new features and finally the 3rd and final of the generation, SA, was outstanding and had 
 more replay value than most games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrotech73
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  this game is a very awesome game it has a understandable yet i believe a boring storyline and an 
 amazing gameplay. 
  You come to Liberty City (city was inspired by New York) as Niko Bellic a russian soldier who came 
 for 2 reasons because his Couz Roman Bellic invited him and he wants to find an old war buddy who 
 betrayed him and many of his friends by killing many of them.
  The gameplay is very good, i'll start with the combat. In combat you are able to use many weapons 
 all just like previous games you have the "Kind of weapons" thing where you can have 1 hand gun 
 1 melee weapon 1 assault rifle etc. When in gun fights you can take cover in alot of spots just 
 by pressing a button when you're in cover you can blind fire where you can sacrifice your accuracy 
 for safety and just bring your arm around the wall or over top the barrel or whateva and just start 
 shooting where it will be very inaccurate.
  or you could target an enemy in cover and shoot where you will move up so you can see better and 
 shoot much more accurately.
  When driving it is very life like on this game if you just tap your door into another car unlike 
 the previous games it won't look like it was smashed head on by a truck or something on this game 
 it will be more like a very small dent even the roof of your vehicle can be dented when you roll 
 or something. and when your car is upside down it will not blow up anymore.
  On this game you can also go on dates, unlike San Andreas you are able to choose the activity you 
 can go out for food or go bowling or have a game of pool, although Rockstar has limited your options 
 of activities by upto 5 or 7 activities you can do when you're doing things with girlfriends or 
 high relatioshipped characters from the missions you do.
  When you're speeding at high speed on the highway with a Cheetah or something you won't have all 
 those fps problems you'd normally have when speeding on San Andreas when the game takes its time 
 to load the roads.
  You can use the internet on this game but even the internet has its limits and it even has littler 
 limits on this game. you can go onto date websties or buy a car website or something. you can check 
 your email and reply to your dates you've tried for on the date webstie or something. i didn't 
 rly use the internet much so idk much about it.
  When at a safehouse you can watch TV although it's also very limitted. (what's with all these damn 
 limits  . ) there's not much entertainment on TV and what's the point when you have your own TV 
 that doesn't have the limits.
  
  and that's about as much i have experienced on this game althought i could have mentioned the phone 
 but there isn't much to the phone either it also has its limits.
  
  i haven't heard much of the multiplayer either cause i never could be stuffed to set up an xbox 
 live acc
  
  It's a pretty damn awesome game fellas so try it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanDerSar01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  So, the game in what many people billed as the greatest game of the year even before the game was 
 out in stories and delayed. Me, personally was looking forward to this game. GTA: San Andreas was 
 good, possibly the best one up to that point. So as i get an Xbox 360 at my birthday and GTA IV 
 with other games.
  
  Well the story is pretty much like the rest of the other games where your in a situation where 
 you need to go out of (hopefully) , so the main character goes from a silent killer, a hired gun, 
 a returning face to Niko Bellic, fresh off a ship from his home nation of Bosnia, where he served 
 in the Bosinian war. Arrives in the new-looking and returning Liberty City, persuaded by his cousin 
 Roman by his letters that he is living the American Dream of cars, maisons and women, only to find 
 out that Roman has lied about the dream, as he is in several debts with crime organisations, forcing 
 both Niko and Roman to venture through Liberty City.
  
  The storyline is short where it feels that GTA III, Vice City and GTA: San Andreas was both longer 
 than this, despite it's dozens of missions, that they seem easier. The characters in this story 
 have a stronger feeling in the game than ever, with the main character Niko having suffered the 
 feeling of war before coming to Liberty City has his reasons for coming to America: not only to 
 look for a new life with his cousin Roman but to also find the traitor of his unit back in the 
 war. So although the storyline is short, it provides a twisting story that has decisions for the 
 player to make that will effect Niko's story and self.
  
  The gameplay is as good as ever, with a selection of weapons and cars, helicopters and bikes. (although 
 sadly the planes are unuseable in GTA IV) , a nice and easy targetting and good punches and kicks. 
 The graphics are great, though when it's night it can be very dark in HD. From the first sight 
 of the towns it definatly evidences that Liberty has changed since last sawed (GTA: Liberty City 
 Stories) as the buliding are different, it's taken more spaces than Liberty Stories.
  
  Rockstar has gone all the way in this one with entertainment, a TV with some on-episode shows, 
 a phone with custom ringtones and etc.
  
  The conclusion of the game is that it is good enough for a 9.5 rating at the most, despite some 
 set-backs. GTA IV is definatly the game to look forward too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  As I stated above GTA IV has made it into my top 10 games of all time.
  
  Let me begin by first saying I've never once played any of the GTA games before and didn't have 
 any desire to. What got me to buy the game was me trading in to bad games in Lost Planet and Enchanted 
 Arms. I decided to take a chance on GTA IV, and I am glad I did.
  
  Let me go over all the reasons why I loved this game. First is the story which truly surprised 
 me. It's captivating, drawing you in with the great story of a immigrant coming to America looking 
 for revenge. The characters were great and truly life like. Also I liked how I as a player could 
 control many of the small and one or two big decisions of the game. The second thing was the game 
 play which took a little getting used to but was amazing. The third thing was all the extral things 
 you could do. From just going around blowing things up and trying to get away from the cops to 
 trying to do all the stunts in the game.
  
  I only have to small problems with the game. First and the biggest was the saving. Once a mission 
 started you couldn't save. So if it's a really long mission and you just about completed it and 
 you die you have to start from the beginning which pissed me off a couple of times. The second 
 was the slow load times, but like I said these are small problems.
  
  GTA IV is a classic game in my book, one of the best I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray4594
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is probably the best game in the series. Its new and improved graphics running on the 360 
 and PS3 makes this games graphics look amazing. And with the new Euphoria engine running, it makes 
 running people over with cars so much more fun. With a deep and dark story line about Niko Bellic 
 who is trying to escape his past by going to America to live with his cousin Roman who says he 
 is living the "American Dream" But when Niko arrives things aren't what they seem. What can I say 
 about the online play? Wel its just amazing. Now you get to run over people online with other real 
 live players too. You can go into a death match and just kill anyone on sight, Or go into team 
 deathmatch and work as a team to beat the other team to a bloody pulp. You can do the traditional 
 high speed racing, or you can GTA race and use guns and just blow each others cars to oblivion! 
 There are just so much modes that you can play in GTA4's multiplayer. And for the people who just 
 like teaming up with other players and just start killing cops. Well have no fear there is an free 
 roam mode in multiplayer. Thats was just a hint of what GTA4 is like, this is a must buy even for 
 the people who aren't familiar with the GTA series. But make sure your over 18 or your parents 
 allow you. So go and pick up your GTA4 now and start running over pedestrians and out running cops. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV brings the famous sandbox, car stealing, gun wielding back to Liberty City 
 in this next generation game. Liberty City itself is based off New York City. You are Niko Belic, 
 a mysterious immigrant that has just arrived at the docks of Liberty City with visions of an amazing 
 world that your cousin has been lying to you in letters. Basically the game has experienced improvements 
 in graphics, physics, story plot, and character involvement. Cars drive more realistically, individuals 
 walk and fall over in realistc motions, rain acts realistically when it lands on streets, and characters 
 don't appear as cartoony as they did in previous Grand Theft Auto games, and fire and explosions 
 look beautiful. There is also mulitplayer which does a satisfactory job with deathmatch and other 
 interesting modes. Unfortunately, certain aspects in the game are a letdown. Although most of the 
 graphics look great, trees look extremely ugly. My personal letdown was the number of buildings 
 that could be entered. I was looking forward to being able to enter buildings on every block, unfortunately 
 you can only enter certain hospitals, safe houses, stores, and restraunts. It doesn't feel like 
 a sandbox experience if you can't enter a house or create a firefight within an apartment building. 
 Another negative is the lack of co-op play online, which today is becoming a staple in pretty much 
 every game out there. The plot keeps interesting throughout the entire game, but the seemingly 
 constant introductions of new characters makes the plot extremely confusing. A character gives 
 you a job to do, but you can't remember who he is or where he comes from, so you are stuck doing 
 a mission utterly confused why your helping this person who you thought was your enemy a few hours 
 ago. Overall you should but GTA for the singleplayer experience, which is thrilling, suspenseful, 
 and often quite a tear jerker. Multiplayer provides additional fun for a while, but loses it's 
 excitement after a while, but the positives outweigh the negatives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCNfreak011
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am a HUGE Grand Theft Auto fan. Primarily a San Andreas fan, 
 and no, San Andreas was not the first one I played, and yes, I have played all of the originals. 
 
  
  With that out of the way, let me tell you how excited I was for IV. I checked gamespot, IGN, gamespy, 
 and the rockstar site multiple times daily, watched the trailers so much that I could quote all 
 of them word for word, at night I had dreams about tearing through Liberty City, and during the 
 day I had daydreams about tearing through Liberty City. I rarely was thinking about anything else... 
 I was more hyped than I was for Halo 3, and boys and girls let me tell you. i was effing HYPED 
 for Halo 3. 
  
  When April 29th came, there I was, in line outside of gamestop, my fingers itching to get my hands 
 on my copy of the game. I was home at about 12:45ish, and sat up and played straight through the 
 night into the morning, finally collapsing where I sat somewhere around 10, slept until 3, then 
 woke up, unpaused, and played some more.
  
  I was in love. But the game wasn't even that good. The reason GTA was given a 10 was simply because 
 it was GTA. Sitting on my couch on the 29th, I would have easily hands down given it a 10 myself. 
 Hell, I would have sucked its **** if it asked me to. The fact that I had been waiting SO LONG 
 to play it made finally getting my hands on it complete bliss. But then you start to realize that 
 there are a bunch of problems, and a bunch of stuff taken out that was in SA. And that 10 starts 
 to go down.
  
  Let me first tell you what IV does better than its predecessors. The graphics are ASTOUNDING. That's 
 the only word for it. I can't even say anything else. Just... WOW. The targeting system... Can 
 I get a hallelujah? After the horrible one that has plagued past games, this one is simply amazing. 
 The wanted system is also vastly improved, going from cops spawning around the corner and automatically 
 knowing where you are, to actually having to have line of sight to you to be able to tell your 
 location, and having to be called in from another part of the city. And the city in itself is just 
 cool. I mean, I've never been to NYC, but if it's anything like Liberty, then I definitely need 
 to pay a visit. It definitely feels more alive and real than any of the past ones could. And multiplayer... 
 Crazy... But I'll get to that in a bit, it deserves a paragraph of its own.
  
  Now, though, we'll go over everything that annoys me about IV. No planes or parachutes, bad controls, 
 like 5 weapons total, story isn't compelling, characters aren't compelling, in fact they can be 
 downright annoying, almost zero customization, tries not to be linear, but fails, new realistic 
 approach doesn't feel very GTA-y. That's the summary, and I won't go into too much detail, because 
 it's mainly self explanatory, but let me just say, after the sheer amount of stuff to do in San 
 Andreas, this game feels pretty bland, and after a little while, you'll have had enough. Of single 
 player, that is.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast to play. You can do races, deathmatch, team deathmatch, territory control, 
 and most of the other expected stuff, but then you have games like Cops n Robbers. This in itself 
 would be an awesome game, and in my opinion justifies the purchase. Two teams- one cops, one robbers. 
 The objective is simple- robbers need to make it to a getaway vehicle, and cops need to do everything 
 they can to stop them. It's insane amounts of fun, you'll end up in epic chases and even more epic 
 shootouts in the middle of busy city blocks while trying to escape or pursue.
  
  All in all, the game doesn't quite live up to the hype like I expected to. Maybe my standards were 
 too high, or maybe this game isn't all its cracked up to be. San Andreas is a hard game to top, 
 and while IV does improve on some parts, it certainly lacks in others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProximaCentuari
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ok this is my fisrt review.
  
  This game is truly amazing and the best. The gameplay so far i am concerned is excellent. It is 
 a great sandbox game .You can do nearly whatever you want in the game. looks dead realistic especially 
 when you are in a car because the handling is very realistic and great. It also keeps you satisfied 
 for 20-40 hours so that is fantastic. Many games ive played so far on the 360 except oblivion dont 
 offer that much .
  
  Now for the thing i just like about video games is the graphics.
  in gta the raphics arent as good as gears of war but they are still great.
  if u sit in a taxi 
 it seems so real if u look out of the window.
  
  the game is very very good also because of the story. in the game you are an illegal immigrant who 
 gets involved with the mafia to get cash and pay his cousin roman depts and to truly enjy the american 
 dream, There is more to it but i dont wanna spoil it for you. lot of tilt.
  
  Gameplay 10
  graphics 9.5
  story 10
  tilt 10
  value more than 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iraqi_Gangster
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Back in 2001, Grand Theft Auto III totally blew our minds. It was the first game to give us radio 
 stations with DJs and mixing, highly detailed graphics in a big open-world, cinematic storyline 
 with dramatic cut scenes and terrific voice acting. Grand Theft Auto IV is no different from that. 
 And that is not a bad thing. Rockstar built the engine from ground up (know as RAGE) and put some 
 innovative features in it.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European man who just got out of a boat to Liberty City. Greeted 
 by his cousin, Roman Bellic, the two expect to live a luxurious life blinded by the American dream 
 but things will not go as expected. Roman's gambling debts will put the two cousins in desperate 
 situation and find themselves working for the different criminal factions in the city. You will 
 get into a complex story that will end differently according to choices in the game. The story 
 is well written and the complex characters each with their own unique background will totally blow 
 your mind. The first thing you see in some mission is "choice". Yes, choice. You get choose whether 
 a man lives or not or killing one of your friends. Each has their own pros and cons. I don't want 
 to spoil it for you but most the choices don't have a great impact on the story instead they provide 
 side missions and more. The game has taken a realistic direction instead of the usual-sandbox gameplay 
 that the other GTAs was a about.
  
  As usual, the present time New York inspired city comes back again and even more detailed. The 
 map is smaller than San Andreas's but more detailed and alive. You won't feel that this city is 
 dead or looks like a ghost town. When roam around, you hear a woman talking on a phone, an old 
 man sitting on a bench and reads a book, a beggar sleeps in the dark dirty allows and beg for money 
 on the streets (and you can give it to them) , or a man preaches about morals and political issues 
 and city lights flashing brightly from a far, the sun casting shadows on the street. So yes, you 
 will get blown but sometimes the shadows flicker but that is no problem because these little visual 
 quirks won't ruin the nice visuals. The character models look great also. Facial animation makes 
 character's emotion believable and the textures make it realistic. The animations are smooth; the 
 strippers are a good example for that. The greatest part about the game is the physics. It uses 
 Euphoria's physic engine which allows for realistic animations. This can make you laugh out loud 
 because it funny when you get thrown out of motorcycle and hit something. The frame rate is a little 
 bit lower in the city than it is in beaches and oceans but it is still smooth. Effects are even 
 better. The screen still blurs a little when drive fast around the city and it adds a feel of speed 
 and the weather effects are great. Your car gets dirty with blood when you hit someone; your clothes 
 get bloody when you get shot so yes it got bloodier.
  
  The core free-roaming is still around but you will get emergency quests via your phone. Your phone 
 is one of the most innovative features in GTA. You can call buddies to hang out with you, girlfriends 
 to date, take pictures, check your organizer for appointments, customize your phone (themes, ring 
 tonesetc) , call 911 and accessing multiplayer. It is the most important thing in the game. The 
 game provides new covering mechanics. Now, you can take cover behind a wall or almost any object. 
 You can also switch from a cover to cover just like in Gears of War but getting out of cover is 
 a little bit annoying. Locking on a target just got more fun. Now, when you lock in to someone 
 you can move the rectangular around the body. This provides a good way to hurt your enemies in 
 many different ways. Shooting the head will cause and instant death, shooting the hand will stagger 
 them for a while and shooting the legs will make them fall. It is really funny to shoot a guy's 
 privates. The melee combat has couple of tricks up its sleeve. Now, the B button is for standard 
 punch, Y for alternative punch, X for kicks and hold A for block. You can also dodge someone melee 
 attack. All you have to do is it to press A just before the enemy hits. Combining that dodge with 
 B or Y will result in a powerful counter attack and it can disarm armed enemies. 
  
  The driving mechanics are headed for realistic feel. Each car has its unique speed, weight, strength 
 and handling. If your car gets damaged a lot, the engine might stop working especially in sports 
 cars. Holding B while driving a vehicle will switch the camera to cinematic mode or focusing on 
 a target while following him in missions. The game has fewer vehicles but more detailed and unique 
 than SAs. Stealing cars have evolved. Now a locked car does not mean it can't be stolen instead 
 Niko will hit the window with his elbow and open the car then you have to wait for the hotwire 
 process but you can fasten it with pressing R or L triggers. Now, to avoid the serious motorcycle 
 injuries, Niko will wear a helmet. The helmet will reduce the damage slightly. If you hit hard 
 with a car, you will be thrown out of the window and as I said this earlier but it will make you 
 laugh out loud. 
  
  The game focuses on the social aspect a lot. Now you can hang out with friends and improve your 
 relationship with them. Befriending them has benefits not just a casual thing to do in GTA IV. 
 You can go play pool, bowling, and darts. You can also go drinking, see a show and check some hot 
 half naked strippers in Liberty City. Girlfriends have benefits too. Having a relationship with 
 a lawyer will save you from the cops and a nurse will save your life. You get to sleep with them 
 too but don't expect some hardcore action. The camera will only show the exterior of your girlfriends 
 and Niko and his lady will "ah and uh".
  
  Your missions just got more excited and various. Some of them include choices. Most of the mission 
 circles around killing and stealing. Some of them maybe different but don't think that kill n steal 
 will all be the same. For example, you go to a park to kill someone but you don't know who it is 
 so you have to call him and see who is talking on the phone then kill him. There are side missions 
 too. Most of them are stealing cars for a friend of yours, work as a taxi driver for your cousin, 
 or be a duffle bag boy for a Jamaican friend of yours or meeting complete strangers on the street 
 and do missions for them. The story mode can beaten under 30 hours (and there is a achievement 
 for that too) but the side mission and getting all the achievements can lengthen the experience. 
 There are no more Fire fighter mission nor or health emergency mission (can't remember its name) 
 but the vigilant mission remain and will force to locate wanted criminals in the city. The game 
 has little problems with AI, especially the friendly one. Your enemies are not so smart while in 
 the same time not so stupid. But these flaws are passable and won't ruin the experience
  
  The Cop n Crook experience has changed a lot. When you do a crime, a flashing circle will appear 
 on your GPS. This indicates the last known place of your whereabouts. To run from then you gotta 
 out of the circle and wait ten seconds then here you are gone. The circle will get bigger when 
 the stars increase and it will be easy until the FIB (just like GS said, it is not a typo) show 
 up. You will get chased by helicopters, police cars and FIB Buffalos. There are no tanks or military 
 when you get 6 stars because the game got more realistic instead of the regular sandbox style gameplay.
 
  
  What about the voice? What will a game to without voice? Unlike previous GTAs, Rockstar didn't 
 hire AAA celebrities to do the job but the actors do a good job playing the characters and don't 
 fall flat. Niko has Eastern European accent and Little Jacob has Jamaican American accent which 
 you won't understand a word of what he says. The game's mixed licensed soundtracks are the best 
 you will see in a video game. There are plenty of radio stations to listen and each of them play 
 specific genres like The Beat only plays hip hop. The radio stations features many know DJs instead 
 of the AAA class celebrities and do great job mixing up the songs. The game feature many great 
 artists like Swizz Beatz, Kayne West, Nas, Busta Rhymes, Ne-Yo, Lloyd and many more (sorry, I only 
 recognize the hip hop singers) . It is chilling to listen to Kayne's Flashing Lights while driving 
 at night on the Broker Bridge.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a realistic masterpiece of this genre and it really improves the free-roaming 
 experience with a dramatic story, terrific story, great mixed licensed soundtrack and stunning 
 visuals. The only problems you will come across are the friendly AI issues and the flickering shadows. 
 If you have any doubts about this game not being feature rich as SA, I recommend renting it because 
 this is worth the try. The game is great and deserves to be on the best game of 2008.
  
  Don't care about the M rating, this game deserves to played.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: julle23
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  GTA4 is a very hyped game (like halo2 wich sucked) but it got its good sides. first you move alot 
 more real life stylish not like a **** robot or something, second the pedestrians are alot more 
 life like and they react to what you do alot better ( one time i almost drove over some1 and when 
 i got out he started yelling at me and i thought thaat was so **** cool) .
  third its got awesome multiplayer (: D) multiplayer existed b4 but only in a mod (MTA) wich had alot 
 of bugs and such, but it was fun to run around and cause havoc with ur friends and now its even 
 funnier. It has party mod so u can play with ur friens against other parties of friends and it 
 has like 500 game mods and free mod is among them!
  
  howewer the downsides is no airplanes, no car modding, less space
  and no military (all the police 
 men have m4s instead) .
  
  but give rockstar a brake the needed to build the game from ground up in gta: sa it was just a upgraded 
 version of gta3 so they had alot time to focus on other things . so maybe when the next one comes 
 all will be there only time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonvts
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  GTA 4, for the best part of my playing experience of this game I was simply addicted I could not 
 put it down, the story is compelling and exciting with the addition of decision making, makes the 
 story very immerse. The characters are likable and believable, at times you feel for Nico and his 
 predicaments. Having played the recent incarnations of GTA on the last generation consoles I was 
 well aware of what I was in for with GTA, but there are many factors that were below my expectation, 
 The sound track though good is nothing in comparison to Vice City or even San Andreas which in 
 my opinion before GTA4 had the weakest sound track of all the GTA games. I would happily listen 
 to every radio station on Vice City though in GTA4 I find 2 maybe 3 stations I actually enjoy listening 
 too, also the lack of humorous adverts on the radios was a disappointment a very small aspect of 
 the game but still something you become to expect from the GTA series. 
  
  The driving aspect though improved from San Andreas can still be improved, I don't expect driving 
 sim style driving but something more realistic would be much appreciated especially when one of 
 the main aspects of this game IS DRIVING. The driving engine isn't bad per say you get used to 
 it but every car feels like your driving a boat, but it gets the job done and is adequate for the 
 missions and the addition of weather characteristics and them acting on the cars is well executed.
 
  
  The combat, with the addition of being able to hide behind scenery, cars well any world object 
 gun battles are much improved over the last games. Some people seem to complain at the limited 
 number of weapons but the weapons given are more then adequate for the game.
  
  As for the difficulty I would say it's too easy, there is no mission I really struggled with all 
 are pretty simple prospect of drive here kill this guy. If your smart and make sure you have full 
 health and Armour and have the best weapons available to you then there really is no need for concern 
 with regard to the missions.
  
  The character interaction is great at first but after a while I got fed up of people phoning me 
 all the time asking me to go bowling or to play pool. Novel at first but down right annoying after 
 3 or 4 occurrences. The characters themselves however are well thought out and interesting, you 
 do find yourself liking or disliking certain people in the game sometimes even caring for them. 
 
  
  The game world is beautifully executed and well rendered, everything has been thought about and 
 at times its nice to just go adventuring about the game world, though not as big as say San Andreas 
 but the detail in each of the islands is nice with different districts and areas distinct from 
 others, each area is recognisable which is great when finding your way around. When getting about 
 the Radar in the bottom left is the same as previous GTA games and works well, there is an addition 
 of GPS apparently but I NEVER had it work more than once.
  
  I found myself flying though the game from one mission to the next compelled by the story, however 
 as soon as I finished the story I have lost interest in it, originally I planned to play it through 
 again and make different decisions but so far I have not, I just don't have that drive to play 
 it through again not just yet anyways.
  
  Customisation has been limited in GTA4, forget changing Nico's appearance as you see fit, its clothes 
 and that's it, no tattoos, no hair styles, no changing body weight, then the clothing is very limited 
 and often looks very samey I assume that there are clothing packs planned as DLC from the xbox 
 market place but I for one would not use Microsoft points on something that trivial especially 
 something I expected in the game anyways.
  
  The ability to "level up" has been dropped so no longer do you have to increase your driving skill 
 or stamina etc. I guess this will be welcomed by some and frowned upon by others, it doesn't effect 
 the enjoyment of the game so its no bad thing.
  
  The Multiplayer side of the game is good but not compelling, there is nothing new in the multiplayer 
 its just bits of missions , racing or mindless killing which im sure you will have done lots of 
 anyways in the single player mode so it offers nothing new.
  
  My conclusion is that GTA4 is a cracking game for the story and character development but there 
 is only so much fun to be had from driving from one place to the next and killing someone. I'm 
 not sure where else this series can go to be honest. I may have focused on the negatives of this 
 game, rather than highlighting the many positives the reason being that so many reviews have given 
 this game an air of perfection and it simply isn't a perfect game, there is so much that feels 
 like it is missing, in many respects GTA has taken 2 steps forwards and one step back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zasx9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  When I was reading about this game a while back I wasn't very impressed. I knew this would b another 
 typical Gta game. Now once i played it at a friends I was actually impressed with it. I liked it 
 so much I went out and buyed it the next day. Ya i know ur thinkin "wtf i thought u said u wern't 
 impressed???" well i wasn't then I was..... and then i wasn't again.... let me explain...
  
  After playing it for a few days i didn't do much missions. I was to busy with the achievments and 
 stuff :P. But then i started playin the story. It seemed what i expected. But then It became a 
 chore of Go there, shoot people, run.... BORING!!!!! Im not joking its the same routine over and 
 over and over!!!! Eventually 4 months later!!!! i beat it after i fixed my mind towards beating 
 it one day. I was happy cuz now my friends could stop buggin me about beating the stupid F**K... Which 
 is another thing i don't get. My friends, well only one friend that does this, comes over often 
 and is always askin y arn't u playin gta4?? ANd i obviously respond its boring and COD4 is better. 
 And of course i get a fanboy response and basically am ready to throw them out....
  Idk y i told u guys that im just writing this cuz im mad about that always happining....
  
 
  And the last complaint i have about this game is the biggest of all!!!! THEY STRIPPED DOWN EVERY 
 GTA ELEMENT POSSIBLE!!! This means that there's no TANKS, no PLANES, no PARACHUTES, no Flamethrower, 
 no CHAINSAW!!!! WTF!?!?? seriously u took every freakin fun thing out!!!! This game isn't meant 
 to be realistic!!! its no fun when it's realistic!!!! And i know there comin out with those downloadable 
 content things. Well they shouldn't have to!!! They spent about a million years makin this game 
 and they don't have a simple chainsaw? or tank? or Plane???? Instead they spend a million years 
 makin it look good and realistic!!! WOW!!!! NOT FUN!!!!
  
  Now some good things is that the multiplayer is pretty fun with friends online. NO coop which sucks! 
 but aye u got a massive online expierence wich is good. And they has freemode in it which is the 
 only thing that is makin me come back to it online. They also have good challenging achievments 
 that aren't so hard like *cough* GH3 *cough*..... but ya...
  
  Personally this game really isn't that great, and isn't worth 60 bucks at all!!!! i actually have 
 a few friends that sold there's cuz it sucked so bad. But aye if ur a die hard GTA fan than have 
 at it!!!! 
  
  Thank you for reading my review/rant!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Grand Theft Auto franchise since the third. It always has a few issues 
 but it always remains really fun to jump in and play. GTA 4 is pretty much the same in this regard. 
 It's not perfect but it's one hell of a game.
  
  The story in GTA 4 is as solid as ever. The characters are well done with good voice work, the 
 city and missions have a good feel to them and for the most part I was pretty satisfied with the 
 story. The main storyline took me about 25 hours; I mostly just focused on the missions but occasionally 
 went out of the way and did something else (I leave the carnage until after the game) . One minor 
 issue is that some of the European accents may be a bit hard to understand (European myself so 
 I feel a bit of a hypocrite here) and that Niko always complains about money in the storyline, 
 which is ironic cause you really never need it all that much.
  
  One of the best improvements in the new game is that they fixed a good amount of the minor annoyances 
 in GTA. You can now restart missions if you fail them but all the ammo you used up and health will 
 be lost so it's not always a viable option. With a couple exceptions (last mission, ramp + bike 
 = hell) the missions are less frustrating but it still occurs; less often but still a big pain 
 when it happens. The autosave feature is a lifesaver although the lack of safehouses in the first 
 island after you lose it is a bit of pain, the taxis outweigh this somewhat (instant transport) .
 
  
  But like I said, GTA was always just a fun game to play but always had a few issues. Well, there's 
 still a few here and it's in the gameplay. Shooting (a problem in the past) is still a problem 
 at times. It keeps improving but never perfect. The lock on range is improved which is good and 
 seeing the health of enemies is a solid addition. That being said, it's still finicky. Someone 
 will be right in your face and it'll lock onto the person behind them, moving the lock on from 
 person to person is a bit of a pain and the cover system although a welcome addition is also not 
 fully flushed out well. A quarter of the time you won't take the right cover that you want and 
 sometimes you'll have one "splendid" time getting out of cover. Still, overall it is an improvement; 
 buying weapons is now a lot quicker and easier and being able to pick up ammo from the same gun 
 classes is definite plus. Also, the grenade system has been drastically improved and is spot on.
 
  
  Some people have had issues with the new driving but after getting used to it I've grown to like 
 it. One small problem is that the radio stations are a bit harder to hear even when maxing out 
 the volume in the settings. Plus there seems to be a bit too many of the in-game commercials now. 
 Walking on the other hand feels quite sluggish and got me a long time to get used to. You walk 
 by default (instead of jogging) which is a pain in the ass and Niko takes a while to turn around 
 although I like how you don't run out of stamina now. That being said the jumping has been drastically 
 improved. Another minus is how awkwardly the controls are mapped onto the controller. Not a huge 
 issue but it took me almost over half the game to get hang of the controls 100%.
  
  The physics in the game are really cool. Running over people has never felt the same and it's very 
 satisfying when you shoot a cop in the legs with a shotgun and he actually flips forward off his 
 feet. The graphics are spot on but it's paid a bit with the performance. It's not unbearable and 
 it's pretty consistent but the consistency's average isn't great. At first I couldn't get over 
 it but then I just forgot about it and its forgivable when you look at the big world you're in. 
 
  
  GTA 4 is a great game, don't get me wrong. I loved GTA and I still love GTA, I always have and 
 probably always will. But it's always had its frustrating moments and they still exist here. The 
 relationship system is something I'm totally not interested in (I just started ignoring all the 
 "friendship" calls after a while) and the new cop system makes it frustrating to get away from 
 1-2 stars as it's totally random how many cops are on you (once, with one star I had a helicopter, 
 4 foot police, and 5 cop cars in such a small area) . It also requires you to have a decent car 
 to get away from the cops, that being said when you do, it is easier. You can say a lot of good 
 and bad things about GTA but it does one very important thing: its fun. It's just a fun game to 
 play, fun to run around and shoot people, fun to race, fun to just get in a helicopter and jump 
 off in the middle of the city and more often than not, its plain old good fun action.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_rock1987
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that this is a good game. I don't want anyone to think that its 
 somehow a bad game because its not but the fact is that the only difference between GTA III, San 
 Andreas and this one is the graphics. 
  
  When i first got the game i played it about 4-5 hours a day for 5 days straight and then i just 
 got tired of it. No i didn't get "burned outon the game like some do on some games because i 
 really didn't play it enough to do that. I've played Smackdown vs Raw 2008 non stop for the last 
 3 months and that game is a complete P. O. S. Maybe its because i have played San Andreas so much 
 really right up to the point of getting IV but it just became very dull. Oh well heres my positives 
 and negatives.
  
  Positives:
  Graphics (Huge improvement over III and Andreas) 
  Great Audio (Very good soundtrack)
  Realism (As if you were watching a real person commit a crime 
 on live TV) 
  Awesome Crashes (Yes i did just type this as a positive) 
  
  Negatives:
  Same Game Different Name ( GTA San Andreas 2?)
  Niko runs funny (Give me back the old straight 
 forward running motion)
  
  Super Negative:
  No 2 player mode like in San Andreas (unless you have Xbox live)
  
  All in all the game is 
 worth buying and playing. I'm gonna take another week away from the game and then try and jump 
 back to it and see if it i can enjoy it like i did when i first got it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artekus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  First things first, this is a very good game with nice graphics, a decent soundtrack and realism 
 but Rockstar has made the game too realistic for its own good and as a result has lost some of 
 its GTA zing. Part of the fun in playing the previous titles was the crazy vehicles and free roaming 
 which have been really toned down which has come as a shock to many including myself after playing 
 San Andreas. Most of GTA iV you are confined to the streets seeing the same boring style of buildings 
 which can make the game feel one dimensional, the only respite being the helicopters which can 
 be fun flying in and out of the buildings but that gets old fast. Speaking of helicopters the only 
 outlandish vehicle reminiscent of past titles is the attack chopper which features machine guns, 
 besides that the vehicles are average and after a while traveling the city becomes a chore that 
 the taxi's are a god send.
  
  Some other features that were not included since San Andreas are car customization much to the 
 dismay of many, while not essential to the game it is a nice touch. Just like the more clothing 
 choice and the RPG elements no longer present.
  
  The great thing people loved about other GTA games was the completely ridiculous and over the top 
 missions like stealing a jet pack from a secret government base in the desert. The missions in 
 GTA IV are repetitive with only a handful of over 90 missions actually standing out as really enjoyable, 
 notably "Three Leaf Clover", the majority being kill someone or follow someone then kill them.
 
  
  I think this game became way over hyped which has let many down. This has left an opening for Grand 
 Theft Auto's rivals, notably Saints Row 2 (released later this year) , which claimed by many to 
 be a GTA clone, has retained the appeal that the previous games in the series possessed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krunkcity3000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  A month before GTA4 was released, I read an article on the lack of advertising for the game compared 
 to other major titles (Halo) . I think I know where all that money went. It went into paying off 
 reviewers to give this subpar game 10's on every website you could imagine. This game is by no 
 means perfect. I would say this game is average at best. There is absolutely 0 innovation. Compared 
 to the last GTA release (San Andreas) this is actually a pretty average game. When I first heard 
 about GTA4, I said to myself "WOW, this will just be GTA: SA with better graphics". As I thought 
 about it, I came to the conclusion that a souped up GTA: SA isn't a bad idea. GTA: SA still is 
 the pinnacle of the series. It had the most mission variety, intriguing story, tons of vehicles 
 and varied settings. None of the above applies to GTA4. The missions in GTA4 ( with the exception 
 of maybe 2) will bore you to death. Maybe it's because the game seems to drag on forever without 
 mixing up the missions. You basically have 2 main mission types in GTA4. 1. Chase Mr/Mrs X around 
 for about 5 min until they reach their hideout/stash house then kill everyone inside. 2. Go to 
 the shipyard/ abandoned building and get my drugs/money from the bikers/russians. So you can guess 
 that playing the same 4 missions over the course of 20 hrs is not revolutionary. Not to mention 
 the fact that the story is pretty plain. One thing GTA4 does pull of is great voice acting with 
 out all the Hollywood big names like GTA: SA. OK now for the really dissapointing news, there are 
 fewer vehicle variations in GTA4 than in SA. There are no tanks, rocket packs, hover jets or bicycles. 
 There is no real estate aspect either. Remember how you could buy and own several businesses or 
 territories in GTA: VC and SA? Well you can't do that here. You can only gain new hideouts by doing 
 main story missions and none of the hideouts are anything to write home about. Just basically apartments. 
 No penthouse with a helicopter on top or anything like that. Also the setting in GTA 4 is just 
 a NY clone. Not an entire state like in SA. So what does 4 have that SA doesn't? A cell phone and 
 an annoying buddy system that has friendly npcs call you during heated missions asking you to go 
 bowling. All in all this game is a step back in every aspect except graphics. Even the soundtrack 
 isnt as good as previouse titles. Rockstar and everyone who gives this a 10 should be ashamed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Underdose_
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  A great looking game, excellent graphics, astonishing game play, and a soundtrack that i liked 
 a lot (not like the one in Vice City) . But somehow i feel a lot of stuff were incomplete. like 
 the lack of clothes stores, the Internet was cool but a lot of functions that u think it should 
 work, doesn't . 
  
  A lot of stores and places that u can't get in. But at some point, in the game, you start forgetting 
 all those problems and start liking the game even more. That said i should say that the person 
 that came up with the auto-saving is a genius, also the ability of riding caps is a plus.
  
  
  Overall this game is Super Fun and Highly Addictive, Niko Bellic has a strong personality 
 and makes it feel good to control him :) , The story is very good, and it develops magnificently 
 as you move on in the depths of new york or i must say Liberty City. If you have played any GTA 
 game before you know this is a must have, and if you never played one, this is your time to come 
 out of the cave you've been hiding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Assuming they're not hiding until Q3, everyone else will be kicking themselves. Ever since GTA 
 III, they've all been standing on Rockstar's shoulders and leaping off in new directions, like 
 war and destruction in Mercenaries, super-heroics in Crackdown, and goblins and Jean-Luc Picard 
 in Oblivion. But Rockstar kept its eye on the zeitgeist, and GTA IV's big innovations aren't amazing 
 physics, spectacular graphics and epic environments - although it has all those - but convenience 
 and multi-tasking. There is no longer any wasted time.
  There have been hints of this before: listening to Lazlow while you chased down gangsters, using 
 disguised ramps to outrun the mafia; doubling up the entertainment. But GTA IV doubles up the interaction. 
 The mobile phone is central to this, allowing you to make phone calls and text-message people one-handed 
 while you walk or drive; networking, socialising, organising, and listening to that ringtone you 
 downloaded for America's Next Top Hooker. It's a tool for manoeuvring between GTA's activities 
 and gameplay ideas quickly. It feeds you certain missions, and lets you phone in the results. When 
 you hear a song on the radio that you don't recognise, you can dial 948-555-0100 and the game will 
 text you the artist and song name. The phone's well-realised, too; you even hear that interference 
 noise when it's about to ring. When you fail a mission, you can answer a text to teleport yourself 
 back to wherever you spawn after the cut-scene briefing finishes.
  
  To replenish health, you eat food. Simple. You can also buy body armour.
  You also keep your 
 weapons when you die, so as long as you're never taken alive, you can do just that. When you succeed, 
 the game auto-saves. Once you've wined and dined your friends and family, you can use the phone 
 to order supplies - Little Jacob the arms-dealer will pull up in an alley nearby, Brucie will fly 
 his chopper to a nearby heliport, Roman will send a cab. The cabs are very useful. Any cab you 
 see can be whistled for, or leapt in front of, its customers ousted and thrown to the kerb and 
 the driver instructed to take you to a waypoint, social venue, or any of those familiar little 
 initials on the mini-map that initiate missions. Hit a button and you're teleported there via a 
 short loading pause. It's pricier to do, but hey, convenience costs. If you drive yourself, GPS 
 navigation uses the mini-map to guide you to your mission-specific destination or waypoints. However 
 you travel, you can look around with a free-look right-stick camera, and a button for locking the 
 camera onto targeted vehicles and individuals assists with pursuits.
  Besides the phone, the second-best thing GTA IV does is realign the combat to match the Hollywood 
 driving. A Gears of War-style cover mechanic slams your back up against most surfaces, even cars, 
 so that you can creep up to the edge, hop to adjacent cover points without exposing yourself, and 
 fire on your enemies with a flexible targeting system, which locks on but frees you to drag the 
 reticule to a head, or kneecap, flick to other targets or go completely free, crouch to improve 
 aiming or click to zoom slightly, all without tying your fingers in knots. As you approach an abandoned, 
 rundown hospital packed with drug dealers, or tumble into cop-filled streets to affect a getaway, 
 or jump out of an elevator in a goon-filled hotel corridor, your heart rises, where often it sank.
 
  
  Side missions include doing drug deals for Little Jacob and the usual taxi and vigilante stuff, 
 although it's accessed differently.
  There's also a sense of refinement in areas where GTA has always been strong, like driving and 
 carnage. Now you can lean out of the window and fire in any direction, providing you can direct 
 the right analogue stick at the same time as steering and managing the throttle - slightly awkward, 
 but then it would be - and technical advances improve basic acts of destruction. Along with tumbling 
 lamp-posts, there are fire hydrants to crash over, innumerable variations on  
 and some environmental damage; actual structures maintain their integrity, but you can chip away, 
 they hang onto bullet holes, and anything you can see through is no sort of cover. The NPCs know 
 this, too, and rarely stay in the driver's seat for long if you lock onto them with a gun - something 
 else you can do now, with a matching blood-spray effect on the punctured windscreens to announce 
 the truth of your aim.
  Windscreens also take a battering from heads, because you can be thrown through them on violent 
 impact. Explosions rock you and anything else in the world - try going up to a group of people 
 with a live grenade - and it's possible to entertain yourself by walking into moving cars, or hitting 
 bikes at speed to send their riders into the air. You have to look before you cross the road. The 
 effects are comical at times, but GTA IV reserves the absurd for exceptional circumstances, like 
 a man trying to cling onto his carjacked sedan as you accelerate away. Bodies can't be broken into 
 pieces, despite the blood, so it's never disgusting either.
  The world itself is smaller than the state-sized San Andreas, but locations have character. The 
 kidney-shaped island that hosts Broker and Dukes - home to the airport in the east, a carnival, 
 a fair amount of green-space and tree-lined avenues - is the aftermath of a collision of awkward 
 terrain and an expanding population that scattered confusing sloped road junctions and incongruous 
 architecture across its span, patrolled by the Russian mafia. The smaller Bohan, also accessible 
 from the start, is a rougher northern relation, linked by massive bridges and home to an uneasy 
 gathering of immigrant neighbourhoods and housing projects. Beginning the game in Broker, Dukes 
 and Bohan allows for a diversity absent from the opening throes of San Andreas.
  Heading west to Algonquin, there's an apparent bleakness, but only north of the game's equivalent 
 of Central Park - a large green expanse, swollen and tunnelled through in places. Head south towards 
 Star Junction, GTA IV's Times Square, and the streets and their occupants smarten, franchise shops 
 and eateries cluster, framed by tall arches that climb above the mezzanine level where buildings 
 start to form the skyscrapers that dominate the financial district beyond. There's a stronger police 
 presence, too, because these people are worth protecting.
  
  You can pick up small objects and throw them, although you're not the Hulk or anything.
  Star 
 Junction itself fills your screen with neon - ads and outlets, like Pirate Music Store, Shark Credit 
 Card ("Extortionate Value") , make-up billboards for Max Renda, spinning pharmacy signs and glitzier 
 Cluckin' Bell restaurants, where you can quickly top up your health. It's clean, but dirty. It's 
 a far cry from the decrepit Alderney to the west, a blue-collar spread of industrial buildings, 
 housing projects, sagging telegraph poles and corrugated roofs pocked with holes, overgrown parks 
 full of rusting cars, half-built houses overshadowed by the monstrous freeways and the skyline 
 of Algonquin visible beyond, glistening with derision over the broken roads and the homeless shuffling 
 along them. Wherever you are, incidental drama plays out all around you; fat cops chase bag-snatchers, 
 and inattentive drivers bash into one another. It took us about 12 hours to unlock all the islands, 
 by way of some mucking about, and as usual the rails are quietly oiled for you by long-standing 
 strengths of GTA's design, like roads where there's just enough room to drive between columns of 
 traffic without impediment.
  Elsewhere, GTA had been doing joke websites for years (remember Kent Paul?) , but GTA IV has an 
 entire joke Internet, accessible through terminals and TW@ cafes, and home to email access, novelty 
 sites and social portals like Love-Meet. You use the Internet to receive requests for exotic car 
 thefts, and to entrap people. Similarly, you can dial 911 on your phone, so you can prank-call 
 the cops and steal their cars, and search for people on their computers. Or you might be sent a 
 photo on your phone to help ID a target. We don't feel guilty about imparting this, because GTA 
 IV is rich enough that we can afford to fritter away a few of its very minor reveals.
  
  The fake Internet is updated regularly with new stuff, like bent news reports on your antics.
 
  Theoretically, strong and innovative missions should coalesce from so much environmental variety, 
 and the phone, web and physics innovations, but the best scenarios are down to the series' traditional 
 strengths - solid driving controls and car handling, which encompasses a broader spectrum of grip 
 and suspension, rather than relying on speed to do most of the differentiating - and the fact that 
 you're more comfortable, manoeuvrable and secure in control of Niko than any of GTA's previous 
 anti-heroes. By the time you unlock Algonquin, the game is in its stride; you rob a bank, assault 
 entrenched mafioso and drug dealers in complex, multi-tiered environments, race to escape the police, 
 and everything feels better for destructible scenery, variable weather and lighting conditions, 
 detailed sight gags - like a precious coffin wiggling precariously out of the back of a hearse 
 as you enact a bumpy escape - and the script variation when and if you have to try again.
  The storyline that arcs from Broker to Alderney handles Niko's past and present with decent range 
 and subtlety. The old mood-swing effect - relationships accelerating from cautious introductions 
 to strong bonds and pivotal drama in just a few cut-scenes - is almost completely eradicated, and 
 cut-scenes are improved by physical interaction and behavioural animation, and a clever script. 
 Niko himself is quickly sympathetic - his moral latitude is rooted in horrible war stories, but 
 he's warm-hearted - and imposing, and his influential relationships are with rounded individuals, 
 albeit often in caricatures' clothing. Situations and developments are rarely contrived, as the 
 dialogue lays the foundation for dramatic events and betrayal subtly, in a way that you can appreciate 
 more when you see them a second time.
  The moral awkwardness of Niko's situation is fed into a degree of decision-making on your part, 
 too - take a life, save a life; choosing who to side with - and although it was difficult to discern 
 the impact of this stuff on the first play-through, the game promises that it has repercussions. 
 Thanks once again to technical advances, particularly graphically, Rockstar manages more drama, 
 and interactive drama, in these significant showdowns, rather than resorting to bosses with large 
 health bars.
  This sort of attention to detail, which exceeds your expectations, is apparent throughout, with 
 vast expanses of content tucked into areas that even thorough investigation might not uncover. 
 The comedy club has been trailed pre-release, and features routines from Ricky Gervais and Katt 
 Williams, but you can watch TV programmes too; police behaviour is reworked to rely on visual identification 
 to keep the heat on you, allowing you to slip away if you can get out of sight of cars and choppers, 
 whatever your wanted level (no mean feat, as the police will box you in and try all sorts now) ; 
 you can't customise Niko's physical attributes or upgrade him, but you can change clothes, and 
 buy anything you see in a clothes shop, and the women you date will notice if you dress poorly. 
 They also nag.
  
  Cars no longer explode just because they've been flipped on their roof.
  And the things you do 
 with your friends are activities themselves. Bowling is based on speed of release and timed aftertouch; 
 pool is fully-realised billiards, albeit with simplistic cuing and physics; drinking ends in falling 
 around, and is funnier than it ought to be; and strip clubs are, er, unchristianly high-definition. 
 If you get tired of other people, you can put your phone in sleep mode, take a slow cab ride and 
 put on the radio - home to a pleasant variety of styles and some superstar DJs (Iggy Pop, Juliette 
 Lewis, etc) with brilliant chat shows and radio ads. The hybrid car advert, the debates about medical 
 insurance, the Ikea baiting, Dragonbrain. There are plenty of secrets to unearth, too; watch out 
 for pigeons.
  Then by pulling up your mobile phone, you can select multiplayer. Via a lobby system that allows 
 you to form teams and check out other players' details, you set up games that apply old norms and 
 GTA-skewed derivatives to the game's fabulous open world. In a world of lock-ons, with weapon spawn-points 
 on the mini-map, regular and team deathmatch come down to knowledge of the terrain, which is only 
 acquired through persistence, but the team-based Cops n' Crooks, where one team starts on foot, 
 escorting a VIP to an escape point while the cops spawn in a police cruiser and try to chase them 
 down, is an instant hit, and others like GTA Race are more than they sound. With guns and rocket 
 launchers, bad losers make it more entertaining for the front of the pack. Then there is Free Mode, 
 which lets you do whatever you want in Liberty City with up to 15 other people, and leaderboards 
 for all. (Look out for more thorough commentary on GTA's multiplayer post-release.)
  
  360 Achievements are difficult to obtain. We played for 25 hours and got about 200 Gamerpoints.
 
  Like the PS2 games before this, though, some of this comes at a cost. We've all read by now about 
 the PS3 install time (look out for a special Face-Off feature next week) , but the frame-rate also 
 takes punishment throughout, polluted by Rockstar's unashamed ambition, with noticeable pop-in 
 in places. It never once stopped me enjoying myself, though. The only things that did that were 
 the occasional stickiness of cover points when trying to manoeuvre quickly, the continued absence 
 of mid-mission checkpoints (itself only irritating when a mission begins with a long drive, which 
 is rare) , and some clunkiness in ladder-climbing and vaulting objects. And perhaps Niko's arsenal, 
 which is quite basic, even though it's versatile.
  Otherwise, GTA IV is the 10/10 you were expecting. Almost everything you do in Liberty City would 
 be good enough to drive its own game, and the best parts would be good enough to outrun the competition, 
 but the reason it works so well is that Rockstar has made a game that requires no patience to play. 
 This, as much as its usual coherency and the best script in the series, is what makes GTA IV the 
 best openworld game yet, and why it will take something miraculous to rob it of game of the year 
 status.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillmatic-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Get right down to it.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay was great, the cover system sunk in real well, although other than that, they 
 didn't take any chances in making some major gameplay enhancments... which was the "safe" thing 
 to do.
  
  Graphics: For an open world like GTA IV, the graphics are great, although if you are a Graphics 
 junkie, you wont be impressed by the actual visual appeal, but you will be amazed at the wide diversity 
 of citizens, vehicles, and everyday routines in real life.
  
  Story: This is where it got boring... it comes to the point where your just doing chores for people, 
 and the story line is dull at it's best.
  
  Multiplayer: Doint what ever you want around the the city with your friends can be very fun- but 
 once you do everything you can around the city- it will get to the point where you have the choice 
 between playing a game like Gears of War online, or GTA IV online- I mean we all no the GTA IV 
 in terms of a shooter online, is bland.
  
  Over all this game is good, far from perfect... but if your a hardcore GTA IV gamer, then this might 
 be the best game you've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musica12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of video games over the years, from Super Nintendo to the Wii and Xbox 360, and 
 I gotta say.... This is by far the best I've ever played. The GTA series before IV was almost cartoony. 
 They seemed good then, but after playing IV, nothng seems to match up anymore. The graphics are 
 down to the last detail, and if I didn't know any better, I'd swear it was all real.
  
  Over time, you end up growing to love the characters. For me, it was especially Niko. At first, 
 I was a little skeptical about it, but soon after I started playing, I couldn't get enough of him. 
 As quoted in the art book that came with the special edition of the game (Which I bought for $89.99, 
 even though I already owned a copy of the game, since I love it so much) , "A man with a past, present 
 and future, each embodied in his physical presence.... He was created to be more o an anti hero 
 than a hero, capable of making positive actions within his criminal world. Above all, we wanted 
 to give him the air oa strong man weighed down by ambiguities and choices." 
  
  The excessive detail in everything really makes you care about the actions and the consequences 
 of everything that the characters do.
  
  The physics are so amazing, it makes crashing and being blown sky-high fun.
  
  Bottom line, 
 no matter what, in my opinion, GTA: IV is the kind of game that you could play over and over (I'm 
 starting a new game for the third time soon, actually) , and not get tired of the plotline or missions. 
 ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextgengamer101
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's just awesome i mean it's GTA you can very well imagine how it plays. It's a free 
 roam game you can do what you wish. The controls are simple and easy to learn. 
  
  Graphics: Simply stunning, Liberty City is just so alive and nice and the characters are also well 
 done. This game is beautiful and will make you come back for more .
  Sound: The music is nothing special but its not like music is what makes GTA games. You have radio 
 stations while in the car which play various songs that you may know but it features songs by known 
 artists like Busta Rhymes, Kanye West, Nas, Ne-Yo, The Smashing Pumpkins, The Who, Elton John, 
 Bob Marley and more. The soundtrack may appeal to some people but most of us will be too busy crushing 
 civilians and cops with the cars we stole to pay much attention to the music. When you talk about 
 the voices though, they're just awesome. . The voices really suit the characters . I personally 
 am not blown away by the soundtrack but the voices deserve praise.
  
  Story: You are Niko Bellic and your cousin Roman invites you to live in Liberty City with him claiming 
 that he has a mansion, money, women, sports cars or to make it simple... that he's living the American 
 Dream. Niko accepts Roman's invitation but when he arrives he realizes that Roman is broke, full 
 of debts and that he's a mere cab driver. Niko is now stuck living in Roman's filthy apartment 
 but Roman tells him that one day they'll be rich and living the American Dream. 
  
  Replay Value: You do missions that advance the storyline but you start a mission whenever you wish. 
 When not doing missions you can carjack, shoot civilians, go visit the various entertainment spots 
 of Liberty City , play mini games like darts and billiards, go on a date with your girlfriend, 
 kill as many cops as possible and use the cheats to get cool vehicles and weapons. In the beginning 
 all this is fun but after doing everything a couple of time it gets kinda boring but trying to 
 get all achievements will keep you busy though some may be boring or too hard . Oh... and of course 
 there's online play which features a lot of modes and lets you play with 15 other people. 
  
  In conclusion this game is a must-buy do not hesitate, not even slightly... GO BUY THIS GAME
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10... easy and simple
  Graphics: 10/10... this game is beautiful
  Sound: 8.5/10... nice character voices but not so nice soundtrack IMO
  Story: 8/10... a bit too 
 clich but still good i mean, it's GTA
  Replay Value: 9/10... keeps you busy for months but will get boring.
  
  Overall Score: 9.1 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamfudge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  gta 4 is set in liberty city which is a replica of new york, when i first started to play the game 
 i couldnt believe i was finaly playing it i had waited so long ,you start off as niko bellik a 
 guy from eastern europe who has come to america to his cousin roman who says he is living the american 
 dream but turns out is living the quite oppisite.
  
  The first missions involve you to do some jobs for romans taxi business and you meet some characters 
 you will meet throughout the story, Niko has come to america for revenge to find the guy who cost 
 him alot ,throughout the game you make many decisions to kill or to let people go and this doesnt 
 really affect what happens but the last decision does have quite a big difference 
  
  Before the game came out there was alot f talk of realism and in the game you can point out little 
 details which make this ame stand out but a magor missing thing from this game which was in most 
 of the others is FUN no cheats, no crazy weapons ,no robbing places, not many things to do and there 
 are many more but i can think over this and think this one as GTA3 and how revelutionary it was 
 for the series well its not as revelutionary but i think its a step forward and the next game will 
 add many new elements from the past and new
  
  A magor part of the missions involve driving but i sometiomes can be bothered so i just get a taxi 
 and also the phone which you will use alot for example to call people for what you need to do, socalize 
 with others ,take pictures for pleasure nad missions and also many more
  
  in conclusion i think this is a step forward for the series with the added multiplayer which is 
 ok but free mode is so fun with a group of friends
  
  (sorry bout spelling) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Like I said , I haven't played such a good game in a VERY long time. I will start with the spine 
 of the game. As Niko Bellic, you come to Liberty City looking for the American dream. Things don't 
 really go so well, though. I'll start with the storyline. The story , missions wise, is actually 
 quite repetitive. Do about 5 missions for one dude where you kill some people, then after a few 
 be convinced by one of their friends to kill them. After doing that about 3 times , you get to 
 CHOOSE between killing the person that gave you the missions and their friend. O_o. While this 
 may seem boring, the way it's done and the under text really bring out the game's fine points. 
 The story its self is actually very well written and executed and has emotion and humor. The amount 
 of things to do in this game is just unreal. You can do pretty much WHATEVER. There's limitless 
 possibilities from holding up a cluckin' bell to jumping out of helicopters. It's really, really 
 fun. The graphics, sound and everything like that are just amazing also. The multiplayer is good 
 too. i mean, you can do all that stuff with just more people. What's not to love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I never got into the GTA liberty city or GTA vice city.
  
  I didn't even try San Andreas as I knew I would not like it.
  
  But when I read these amazing 
 reviews for GTA IV, I had to try it. 
  
  What a let down. 
  
  The game is fun for the first few hours, then got boring quick for me.
  
  What I love in a 
 game is the gamplay. Like the great gunning and cover of Gears of War, or the tight fighting controls 
 of street fighter, or the fun jumping of Mario. 
  I get bored running errands throughout the city to get money and upgrades when the process is absolutely 
 tedious and boring. The graphics aren't anything special, the gun mechanics and cover system are 
 weak. 
  
  The story is somewhat interesting, but I found myself not caring after awhile. 
  
  The game 
 forces you to be violent when there are situations that did not require it.
  
  I also felt very nauseous after playing about 40 minutes. 
  
  I think the editors at GS were 
 on crack to give this game a 10.
  
  To get a 10, a game should be universally appealing and timeless (like the Legend of Zelda-Ocarina 
 of Time) . 
  
  I just don't get the phenomenon that is GTA. To each his own.
  
  I will say, this game sold very well on ebay even 2 months after it came out-which is appreciated. 
 Made buying this game an overall $18 loss.
  
  If you didn't get into the previous editions of GTA, don't bother trying this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The gta franchise has always had its good moments and bad moments, but this time Rockstar has made 
 one heck of a game.
  Gta IV has almost anything a next gen game could have. The games story is amazing, I bought this 
 game in late april when it came out, but I never had the chance to review it until now, the game 
 follows the story of Niko Bellic, a Russian type immigrant that comes to the u. s. in seach of a 
 new beginning, but he ends up finding that not everything is picture perfect, and you cant trust 
 anyone. Niko finds himself helping his cousin Roman, because he is having trouble his money, I 
 could go on and on about the story but I would get into to much detail, and I would spoil the story.
 
  Instead of the story though the game has a great multiplayer that will keep you up late into the 
 night.
  The cool thing about the game though that differs from the rest of the gta franchise is that it 
 has a real destructible engine, so when you you destroy your car, it looks realistic, also whenever 
 you get shot in the game, there are blood stains in your cloths.
  The only problem that I have a couple problems with this game though, the story is too short for 
 me, and you cant do some of the stuff you do in san andreas, for instance, piloting a plane, or 
 going into a police station.
  This game is a must by for your xbox, I recommend buying this game immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TexEagle
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Terrible controls, awful. Controls are HUGE for a game, so if the controls are bad the game is 
 going to be bad. Missions are all the same. 1) Drive somewhere 2) Kill a bunch of people 3) Drive 
 back racing away from the cops. YAY!! the game looks pretty, but with all the graphical glitches, 
 who knows man. Also the game freezes on everyone's XBOX and takes forever to load. How did this 
 game get a 10 on gamespot, or anywhere. Gamespot, you gotta stop giving into the man, and give 
 honest reviews. I still dont know one person who played all the way through the campaign, I know 
 I couldnt. The online is decent i guess, except for the fact you can't split screen, and Halo 3 
 and Call of Duty can be played online, so why play GTA 4? I dunno, it is an alright game, but not 
 a perfect game by any means. That guy who reviewed this game is a jerk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggaMyke
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I love this game, as I said, it never loses it's fun-factor. There is just endless amounts of things 
 to do. I love the little details such as shooting someone in a car their head falls on the horn, 
 shooting out tires, doing burn-outs and tires blowing out, etc. The fact they added the multiplayer 
 feature turns this game from a 9.0 to a 10.0. Driving is another very cool aspect of the game. 
 Sometimes I will just drive around for a while, maybe run some people over or shoot at them. They 
 made driving way cool. Flying the helicopter though, is a bit difficult, also sometimes when you 
 try to enter the helicopter Niko kind of runs around it like an idiot. Minor glitch. I have only 
 completed around 40% of the game because I am just so easily distracted and intrigued by all of 
 the other things you can do in the game. (Throwin money at them ladies at the strip joint, lol) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of those games that does just about everything right. It's a true sequel to GTA III 
 and just as revolutionary although in more subtle ways. Vice City and San Andreas while great in 
 their own right added a lot of things to a solid foundation but III and IV are the true godfathers 
 of the series imo. Rockstar decided to not just add to their previous games but overhaul it and 
 rework it from the ground up. The graphics, environments, characters, combat system, driving etc, 
 etc are all reworked from the ground up and executed perfectly. Having to make choices based on 
 how you treat various characters and npcs only adds to that. What Rockstar did here was amazing 
 . They set the standard again for more great GTA games in the newest generation of consoles. This 
 game is so well done and so immersive. Plus it now has multiplayer. How can you go wrong? I think 
 people even with all the great reviews still overlook how well done this game really is and what 
 Rockstar was able to accomplish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Hart
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Why am I the only one who doesn't think GTA4 is awesome? I've seen some crazy review scores. And 
 I keep asking myself, why?
  
  This game is not amazing, I'm sorry but it's just not. No matter hard I look at the game, I can't 
 see what makes it deserve it's scores, if I have to score it I'd give it a solid 7/10. It's average, 
 it's repetitive, it's boring.
  
  Firstly, lets address the Russian/Serbian thing. It's not as deep as some of you think it is, and 
 it doesn't develop the story at all. It's a normal clichd crime story, the only difference is 
 that they all have horribly annoying accents. Yes Nico regrets the war, ooh how original, a main 
 character with a dodgy past, how original. I'd rather a main character who is a horrible stereotype, 
 to the extent that it's funny or cool.
  
  Secondly, this game is thoroughly annoying. I can smash through people, lamp posts, fences, heck 
 even other cars, but when the spindliest little tree gets in the way, I stop. And that's not the 
 annoying thing, the thing is that usually in a mission where I have to chase someone or something, 
 if I hit one of these indestructable trees, I then get delayed so much that I cannot complete the 
 mission. The game just isn't forgiving, it requires me to have lightning quick reactions and an 
 ability to know whats around a corner before I get there.
  
  Yes this may be somewhat realistic, but let's face it, who ever plays GTA to see a realistic depiction 
 of a car chase? I want to have fun, I want to plough through pedestrian and foliage alike.
  
  Thirdly, where's the story? All I can see is a series of courier missions strung together by 
 some weak dialogue. Theres nothing driving the story, theres no goal, theres no prize. Theres no 
 reason, theres no mystery. In other sand box games, Mass Effect for example, I always felt that 
 there was a reason for me to do the next mission, like there was a sense of time passing by, even 
 though there wasn't.
  
  Fourthly, the graphics are horribly average. The characters are the best looking part of the game, 
 but even they look average, their expressions are muffled and horribly mechanical. With a game 
 as hyped as this I was expecting something at least above average. Instead I got something which 
 was boxy, mechanical and uninspiring.
  
  Fifthly, why the crazy amounts of tutorial missions? I am clever enough to realise how to use a 
 car, a motor cycle and a boat. You know why? Because they use roughly the same controls, I don't 
 need it spelled out to me in 500 foot tall pink flourescant letters. And even if I wasn't clever 
 enough to work out the controls, I can just hit start, go to controls and look it up myself. Please 
 stop spoon feeding me this stuff!
  
  These things just overwhelm the good things about this game, like the hilarious radio stations 
 and the ability to shoot down random pedestrians. I wanted a fun game, instead I got a realistic, 
 gritty, clichd, boring, annoying and over-hyped piece of rubbish. I have stopped playing this 
 game, I've only played 6 hours, and that's all I need to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H_U_R_D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  GTA 4... GTA 4... where to begin eh?
  
  Rockstar has served up another amazing GTA, that, while is very similar and the formula has not 
 changed very much, is still probably the best game hands down that any of u will play this year, 
 if not ever. Let us talk about the gameplay: Rockstar has decided to tighten up the realism in 
 their physics, using their new R. A. G. E. gaming engine (also found in Table Tennis) . While some have 
 gripes about the driving being too difficult from the previous series of games, i find it to be 
 just right, though after playing San Andreas thru six play thrus, it does take some getting used 
 to. There are fewer weapons in the game than in San Andreas, or even Vice City. While this sounds 
 like a setback, there is still enough variety to hold your palette. There are 2 kinds of pistols, 
 shotguns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, and melee weapons. The newest change to one of the most 
 popular weapons is the RPG, which, like everything else in the game, has been made to be more realistic. 
 No longer do rockets travel at insane speeds, but they can however be skipped, yes skipped like 
 a rock on water. Now, there have been some things in San Andreas taken out. For example, money 
 in the game is pretty useless. Guns, food, activities, and clothes. That is all u can pretty much 
 spend your hard-earned dollars on. Speaking of activities, most of them that u did in San Andreas 
 are back, and now, u can do them with a friend. This gets annoying, especially when your friend 
 calls u during a mission, and their liking of u goes down... terribly stupid, but i like playing 
 darts and pool and bowling, and seeing Katt Williams at the comedy club. Oh, i almost forgot, unlike 
 in San Andreas, u dont have to worry about having 8 girlfriends, and the Hot Coffee thing too (Rockstar 
 makes fun of it in some of the game's billboards) . U have 3 girlfriends (not including Kate McCreary) , 
 and having each of them at a high fondness will unlock a special ability from that person that 
 u can call them for. Carmen Ortiz, for instance, is a nurse, and if u call her on your cell phone, 
 she will replenish your health. The cell phone in this game is more useful than in San Andreas, 
 but im not going to get into it here. As for shooting people and things, there is a new cover mechanic, 
 so it is a lot harder to die than in SA. I almost forgot, a new feature is the ability to go on 
 the internet at one of the internet cafe's strewn on the map. The websites are mostly for show, 
 but one website shows special maps of all the stunt jumps and hidden packages, as well as some 
 others (it's a secret!) . Since i cant recall anything else, lets move on to graphics
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are fantastic, just fantastic. Sure, there are some games where 
 the graphics are better, but for a game on this large of a scale, these graphics are great. Though, 
 the trees if u look closely are rendered like a ps2 game. The explosions are fabulous, the player 
 models are great, cars are really nice, environments, especially Star Junction, look unreal. Animations 
 are smooth, really smooth, like when u have to bust the glass of a car, then hotwire it... very 
 nicely done by Rockstar.
  
  Story: Probably the best story in any GTA, u are Niko Bellic, fresh off the boat from Europe, coming 
 to America to seek out the American Dream, and start fresh. Now i wont get into the details, but 
 this story is nice and strong, and it branches a little bit, as there are two endings. You will 
 like it trust me, its full of awesome characters that most of u will like. It will take about 35 
 or so hours to complete, but if u blaze thru, it will take maybe 20 or 25 hours.
  
  Multiplayer: Now this is where the fun is at. Compared to San Andreas' multiplayer, which was 2 
 people going on rampages thru out San Andreas, GTA4's multiplayer is something else. Up to 16 players 
 can terrorize the city of Liberty and there are quite a few modes of play that are really exciting. 
 Cops & Crooks, Mafia work, street racing, are just 3 of the 10+ modes of play. My fav is team deathmatch, 
 b/c nothing beats 2 teams of 8 going at it in Liberty City.
  
  All in all, this is one of those games that people are going to remember as one of the greats of 
 all time, if not the best of all time. While it isn't perfect, it comes close to it, and u will 
 be enjoying this came for months on end, because i kno i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  
  The Good
  
  - Dialogue/Story   No other game comes 
 close, it's like watching the Sopranos all over again. Brilliant! Second to none.
  
  - Scale   No loading times when you're driving which explains why visuals are average.
  
  - 
 Taxi   I don't think I could repeat missions without riding a cab and skipping the repetitive driving, 
 thank god for cab drivers?!
  
  - GPS   Thank you Saints Row! ;)
  
  - Wet conditions   When it's wet, suddenly the streets look 10 times better with the added reflection.
 
  
  - Cover   In a fight, the cover option is priceless but a bit clunky as you can get stuck when 
 an enemy gets too close.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  - 
 
  
  - Credits = 25 Mins?! Are you kidding me?! Everyone on the planet seems to have worked on the game...
 
  
  - Restarting a mission   Can be frustrating to start from the beginning every time, there needs 
 to be a save before the real mission starts.
  
  - Fighting controls   Quite average if not bad in some instances however the new cover system is 
 a good addition but needs work.
  
  - Presentation   Expected better, I understand it's huge as far as map size but other games have 
 done a better job, even Oblivion and that's 3 years ago.
  
  - Melee fighting   Pretty weak, needs work
  
  - Camera angles   When driving a car it can go 
 too low if you're changing elevation and you have to keep adjusting.
  
  - Mobile Text   Unreadable on a 42" TV, come on!
  
  - Text over background   Is sometimes hard 
 to read so you have to move the camera around to read it.
  
  - 30 Hour achievement   Sucks! Since I'm not planning to go through the story multiple times I 
 have to run through it the first time and you have to miss side missions and other activities for 
 later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchiefnev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  honestly, i didn't see this coming. after so much anticipation and hype over gta4 i was sure this 
 game would force the poo from my anus the minute i began playing. not to say necessarily that it 
 didn't, but lets just say that the excitement didn't last quite long enough. despite having never 
 played any other games in the series, i was sure gta would fulfill all my rpg fantasies and become 
 an outlet for all the big black man rage inside my thin, lightly tanned body. i was sadly mistaken. 
 the thrill of gta4 lasted about fifteen hours of playing time, and about 5 days in total as i waited 
 for school to end each day so i could find more side quests to explore in the large and beautifully 
 rendered world of liberty city. however, things can get boring pretty fast in liberty city, and 
 one finds himself wondering what the point of all this time spent really is... i mean the story 
 was good, not great, but solid and entertaining, and i loved the little bits of humor strew about 
 the game, but somehow the quests began to blend together and i stopped wanting to play entirely, 
 not because its a bad game, just because i was so disappointed. now everyone is entitled to their 
 own opinion under normal circumstances, but i don't consider the appearance of a perfect 10 on 
 gamespot a normal occurrence so i think ill just go ahead and let it be known that in NO WAY, EVER, 
 IN ANY WORLD should gta4 earn a perfect 10. my personal range of acceptance is 7-8.5, maybe a 9 
 on a good day, but never a 10. a ten would be an unbelievable rpg with a fantastic story, good 
 gunplay (or swordplay or whatever) , nice CUSTOMIZATION, and great replay value. gta4, however, 
 is a glorified shoot em up, with poor but tolerable gunplay (tolerable cuz we all know it sucks 
 but say its ok because gta is god) , a solid but not fantastic story, very, very poor character 
 customization, and little replay value at all. again, gta 4 is only a glorified shooter with some 
 nice rpg elements, and a long play through time. i hate that there is so little in the way of customization 
 for niko, and the way you can get and "keep" your own car doesn't feel right. there is a very unsettling 
 feeling of detachment around gta4 somehow, because nothing feels like it's really mine... and i 
 don't know how else to explain that. this game could have been so much better if only there was 
 more focus on the basic things that make a run of the mill rpg a good rpg, and though its not a 
 bad game, gta4 falls quite a bit short of the mark in my opinion. gta4 doesn't need to be what 
 oblivion was to rpg junkies, and in fact it shouldn't be, but where are all the countless wardrobes 
 and weapons, and what's up with the cars in this game? why couldn't there be more in it to make 
 this game feel like my niko might not be exactly the same as my friends? but who knows, maybe not 
 everyone is looking for the depth that i expected. i hope you like it if you get it, this was just 
 20 minutes of my time. don't walk away feeling that this game is bad or even ok, it is good... just 
 not a 10, and not worth $60. more like an 8.4 marked down to $40. c ya, and go see the dark knight, 
 it's fantastic :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Everything
  Cons: Friends get irritating after a while
  I don't need to explain to anyone what this game is about. If you don't know, you should be punished. 
 But I will say what its qualities are. This game is stunning, plain and simple. It has all the 
 aspects of a great game. Good, funny story with excellent characters, voice acting and motion capture -- check. 
 Tight controls, both on foot and in vehicles -- check. Reliable gun controls -- check. Beautiful graphics -- check. 
 Online multiplayer with a variety of modes -- check.
  One thing that is important for a game in a series like GTA is to fix the problems of previous 
 games while also adding new gameplay mechanics. The most important repair in the game comes from 
 the shooting controls, which for the first time feel NOT sloppy. Innovation comes from the cell 
 phone, which allows you to start missions, look for something someone else wants, and call friends 
 and girlfriends to go do stuff. My only gripe with the game is that, after a while, it gets really 
 annoying to have to go do stuff with friends. If you befriend them enough you will unlock their 
 abilities, but most of these are useless. But that is a tiny problem. This game is phenomenal! 
 The nerd in me has to comment on the physics engine; it just looks so beautiful when you throw 
 yourself off a building and your ragdoll body twists in the breeze.
  For anyone with an Xbox 360 or a PS3, this game is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has been a legend for high quality game play, major controversey, and stylish 
 graphics. The newest addition to the series, Grand Theft Auto IV is no exception. Immediately this 
 game brings a sense of nostalgia (definitely not a bad thing considering the quality of game play 
 for many current gen titles) at the same time some refreshing changes to the series. The combat 
 for instance feels much more together. With this in mind Grand Theft Auto IV was shaping out to 
 be one of the best games I have ever played, however, the notion of being a perfect game eventually 
 wears off like the effects of a bad painkillers.
  After about 10 hours of gameplay I started to notice a sense of repetition to the game. All of 
 the missions had a similar objectives (i. e. chase, follow, and kill) It then didn't take me too 
 long to become bored with mission modes. In GTA IV, you also must take your friends out in order 
 to establish positive relationships with them, but seriously, there is only so many times i can 
 play darts before i get sick of this aspect of the game. Many of Nikos catch phrases start to become 
 repeated and eventually become annoying. And finally, Driving from one end of the city to the other 
 becomes tedious (though you can unlock a taxi cab services with Niko's cousin)
  If you can look past the sense of repetition I find it very easy to reccomend this game. After 
 all, what game isn't repetitive to some regards? Aside from its flaws Grand Theft Auto IV is a 
 very enjoyable game with a solid story line (that makes sense) , a deep realistic world, and several 
 plot twists to keep you hanging on. In short, GTAIV is a solid game and worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sierra_Cosworth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Just the same as San Andreas, GTA IV was hyped to the point of insanity, but it didn't stop me 
 getting it the day it came out.
  
  Movement : 8.0
  
  The movement in GTA IV is so much more logical now. Instead of running when you push on the thumbstick, 
 you walk. To run you hold down A, and to sprint you keep tapping A. It is a system that is difficult 
 to adjust to, but once you do, it's easy to control your character.
  
  Driving System : 10.0
  
  This is the part where GTA IV really excels. This system is comparable 
 to that of 'serious' racing games, such as Forza and PGR 4. Each car handles differently, an example 
 of this would be the Blista Compact and a Stretch. The Blista is much more nimble, and also faster.
 
  
  Damage Engine : 9.0
  
  The damage engine in this game is incredibly accurate. If you slide a car on its roof down a grassy 
 bank, the paint on the roof will scrape, there will be dents on the roof and there will also be 
 mud on the roof. Similarly, if a bus hits a car in this game, the game knows that the bus has a 
 greater mass, so it can force vehicles out of the way easier. In real life if a car is involved 
 in a nasty accident, chances are, the driver and the passengers will all be dead, it also happens 
 in this game. The only problem with this is that you can die as well.
  
  Story : 6.0
  
  The story in GTA IV is now more cinematic than the outlandish tales told in previous GTA games. 
 This is the mistake Rockstar made. Instead of just giving us a story, some guns and a few missions, 
 you now have a backstory. You play as Serbian ex -soldier Niko Bellic. You were lured over by your 
 cousin Roman, who claims in multiple e - mails that he lives in a mansion with 4 hot tubs and 15 
 sports cars. In reality, he lives in a small apartment in the seedier area of town, and has set 
 up a small taxi business! The first part of the game is spent getting Roman out of debt to Albanian 
 loan sharks. The rest is spent working for random people.
  
  Side Missions : 9.5
  
  Eventually you have to go out with friends. This brings up a list of activities you can play, such 
 as bowling, darts and power boating. The funniest one is at the Split Sides comedy club, where 
 you can see real comedians Katt Williams and Ricky Gervais. Going out on dates however is slightly 
 different. You can't go to more than one activity during a date.
  
  Multiplayer : 8.5
  
  The multiplayer in this game is alright , but nothing spectacular. There are many modes, but 
 they all boil down to the same tactic. Kill the other team till you win. There are team deathmatches 
 and some modes where you must fight against the computer as a team. The only flaw with the multiplayer 
 is you can't connect to some matches. The best multiplayer mode is easily Free Mode or Party Mode. 
 You get to free roam the city with friends and just generally mess about.
  
  Final Verdict
  
  Buy this game. It genuinely is a Guilty Pleasure shooting policemen and being 
 a general psycho. This game will not be out of the charts for some time, especially as there will 
 be episodic downloadable content available. If this game isn't already in your collection, you 
 should think of getting it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  A review In single worlds and to the point 
  
  PROS
  - Best graphics from the series with nice physics
  - Great voices and music collection
  - A 
 more Realistic world from the previous games
  - More Realistic damage system
  - Cover system during fights
  
  CONS
  - Repeative and not so interesting missions
  - A 
 smaller experience from San Andreas
  - Gameplay is a bit confusing
  - The story is not so thrilling as some older GTA games
  - Noticed some bugs during missions
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Conclusion
  Well a great game no question about that but i can hardly call this a classic
  or the best of 
 the series
  
  It feels like work and it is smaller as an experience from San Andreas
  It also lacks variety and you do some of the same things again and again which makes it boring 
 sometimes 
  
  Overall Score 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killertrumpet92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I just got my 360 and picked up a copy of GTA4 to go along with it and I was amazed with how cool 
 this game is. The graphics are sooooo much better that San Andreas. I think that every thing is 
 better.
  
  When I first started playing I was in awe of everything. The first thing I noticed was the improved 
 driving mechanics. All of the cars handle differently and more realistically. It did take me a 
 little while to get used to it. (NOTE: I was coming from a PS2 w/ San Andreas) . After a while though 
 I was drifting around all of the turns w/ ease. 
  
  The next thing that I noticed was the improved gun mechanics. The aiming was relatively the same 
 but where you shot the people greatly affected what happened to your victim. If you shoot some 
 one in their leg they will fall and then limp away, if you shoot them in the arm they will hold 
 their am, and a head shot is an instant kill. I would have a lot of fun with this. Also if you just 
 aim your gun at someone they will hold their hands up with fear and if they are in a car and you 
 do this they will eather get out and run or hold their heads down low and drive away. 
  
  Lets talk about the missions. the missions will start off slow with simple delivery's but they 
 will pick up and you will be sent to hunt down and kill hords of bad guys. 
  
  I think that this could be one of the best game that I have played in a loooong time. I suggest 
 anyone with a 360 go and buy this game as soon as possible.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is simply an amazing game, that not only exceeded my expectations, but I'm sure exceeded the 
 expectations of every Grand Theft Auto fan across the world.
  
  The gameplay makes you forget you're playing a "Grand Theft Auto" game, with an amazing cover system 
 and exceptional weaponry. Diving and ducking, taking cover, blind firing and targeting, everything 
 is great. The features could have made a great game, easily better than Kane and Lynch: Dead Men, 
 without the large scale world of Liberty City. When it comes to driving, it's never felt more real, 
 and although hard to get adjusted to, it's definitely better than all games incorporating vehicles 
 currently out.
  
  Then there's multiplayer. While I prefer some match types to others, there is no doubt that all 
 of them can be fun. Rockstar provides you with a vast array of match types, and I'm addicted, personally, 
 to 3 of them. Hang Man's Noose, GTA racing, Cops and Crooks and Free Roam are amazing. To be honest, 
 I haven't played the others much, but I played Turf, and while it was entertaining, it wasn't as 
 good as the other selections but that depends on every person playing it.
  
  The physics engine. This is the most amazing engine I have ever seen. Everything has so much impact 
 on everything else. Bodies, dead or alive, are subject to the world, and they try to preserve their 
 existence as well. It's definitely the most enjoyable physics engine out now. Amazing.
  
  The story. Shoot me, it's the best one of the lot. I am Eastern European, so I feel Nikos pain. 
 The story isn't your typical one, and branches off very vastly, with many options and decisions 
 to be made. It's definitely an asset to the game.
  
  The sound this game provides is superb as well from shots to cars, even if you step out the car 
 when you stand near it you could hear the radio which is more realistic and convenient . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Gta Iv one of the most anticapated games of the gaming world. But what that all worth it? well 
 the plain answer is yes we were given what we were told we were getting but that is all .
  
  Storyline
  
  Niko Bellic has just stepped off the boat into America the land of opportunity 
 where his supposedly rich cousin Roman lives but not all is as it seems as Niko is thrown into 
 a world of crime drugs blood money and death as he is pursued by Russian gangsters betrayed by 
 friends and his true motives are revealed.
  
  The breakdown
  
  The Storyline
  
  6/10
  
  A very good storyline does not match up to such games as Metal gear solid 4 but does 
 supply some great moments and twists but i wont give anthing away from that
  
  Fun
  
  8/10
  
  This game features amazing ragdoll physics which match up to saints row's and there 
 is nothing more fun then shooting somone in the head and watching the pool of blood form underneath 
 them!
  
  Difficulty
  
  5/10
  
  Gta Iv's difficulty is very wishy washy in some areas its very easy but it others its so disgustingly 
 hard you want to destroy rockstar for that one mission .
  
  Weapons
  
  4/10
  
  In diffrent gta games there were many many weapons but in gta iv it seems to of just stuck to two 
 diffrent sets of weapons so they are not very fun
  
  
  Achievements
  
  9/10
  
  The achievements in gta Iv are very good and balanced
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  10/10
  
  This 
 game features some of the quickest most fun gameplay you will ever find
  
  
  
  The score
  
  I rate this game 6/10
  
  1+ Good storyline
  2+ Excellent gameplay
  1+ 
 Very fun
  2+Good achievments
  
  1-Too much hype
  2-In some parts tormenting difficulty 
  1-Not enough weapons
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirhcx
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Considering that I have been a GTA fan since GTA 3, I can honestly rank this as my worst experience 
 with a GTA game. GTA SA was my all time favorite until it tied with Saints Row. GTA 4 cannot be 
 labled under fun in anyway; It has a boring story, lame cheats, and no customization! R* took cheap 
 efforts at hiding their laziness, such as; limited weapons due to the mayor, and cops are panicy 
 due to terrorists.
  
  REASONS FOR LOW SCORE
  
  *too realistic
  *no customizartion
  *no tanks
  *no hunter helicopter
  *wierd physics (I shot a RPG at the ground and it skid away)
 
  *lame story
  *low amount of cheats (GTA SA had over 80 )
  *low amount of vehicles
  *low amount of weapons
  *crappy activities
  *the cop evasion system is annoying, but easier 
 than other GTA games
  *alot of other stuff, but I got other stuff to do other than bash GTA 4 all day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series has been a major source of debate for a long time. Its controversial 
 themes are frequently targeted by those who advocate anti-gaming politics. Even so, GTA continues 
 to thrive as a franchise and now Rockstar has finally completed the long-awaited Grand Theft Auto 
 IV. For the past several days, ive been playing the Xbox 360 version of the game and have only 
 just gathered my thoughts on Rockstar North's latest open world action adventure.
  You play as one Niko Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant (evidently Serbian) , who heads to Liberty 
 City -- a virtual replica of N. Y. C. -- to stay with his cousin, Roman. Upon his arrival, Niko finds 
 that "The Land of Opportunity" isn't all it's cracked up to be and that living the "American Dream" 
 is not quite how he pictured it. It's certainly not like Roman described it in his e-mails either. 
 Roman promised him babes, fancy cars and a life in the lap of luxury, none of which turned out 
 to be true. His cousin barely managed to set up a small taxi business and he wanted Niko to be 
 part of it. He agrees to help his cousin. 
  Early on we discover that killing and enforcing are what Niko seems to do best. He'll be asked 
 to do a variety of "favors" for numerous characters around town, most of which are influential 
 and well-connected in Liberty City's crime world. Taking out assigned targets or threatening them 
 won't present a problem for Niko, a war veteran with a dubious past. Thanks to his often ruthless 
 ways, he'll be able to earn money and wing his way straight into the city's crime elite.
  
  The storyline is clearly an aspect of the game Rockstar invested a lot of time and patience in. 
 Apart from that, I'd like to compliment the devotion that was put into making Niko's character. 
 You need only gaze into his eyes to understand that he did some terrible things when he was a soldier 
 back home. Occasionally, he tries to explain what turned him into the man he is today and you can 
 almost sense the pain and inner-torment when looking into the expressions on his face - a big hand 
 for both the artists and animators. This is shown through a variety of cut-scenes during the main 
 campaign. Whilst we're on the subject, each cut-scene was directed with skill and does an excellent 
 job of introducing you to every character in the game, on top of treating you to a series of twists 
 in the plot.
  
  Characterization is clearly very important to Rockstar. Also, the way you interact with characters 
 and how you treat them has a heavy impact on gameplay. For example, Niko often runs into more opponents 
 than he can handle. If you've been friendly enough with some of the characters throughout the game, 
 they may send someone to help you (particularly useful on hard missions) . How do you go about doing 
 this? Simple. Characters will be calling you on your cell phone, asking you to hang out with them; 
 go out for a drink, see a show, have lunch, play pool, go to a strip club, play a game of darts 
 and so on. You're not obliged to do this if you're not in the mood, of course. However, neglected 
 friends usually get offended and as such can refuse to help you later on. On the other hand, if 
 you're good to them, they'll prove useful indeed - the character Little Jacob, for instance, can 
 be phoned at any time to let you know where you can get a discount on arms.
  
  Another important aspect of character interaction and seeing your friends regularly is the extra 
 dialogue, the amount of which is really amazing. Characters tend to give their life stories or 
 divulge additional info about the city itself and various places of interest. Chatting with other 
 characters, Niko may also reveal more info about himself. You don't need to go through these segments 
 in order to finish the game, but you'll definitely miss plenty of cool and funny moments.
  
  That's the secret of GTA IV. Nearly everything you do further immerses you in the game's setting 
 and drives you to explore the open world. And Grand Theft Auto IV does a fabulous job of making 
 the player feel he's truly traveling around a contemporary urban environment. Realism has gone 
 up a notch, as the game makes way for drastically improved visuals and top-notch physics. Vehicles, 
 in particular, now react far more convincingly than in any other GTA game before. They've toned 
 down the arcade-style driving. Pulling off various stunts with your car is possible once more, 
 except now they are more bound by realistic physics (which is a good thing) .
  
  GTA IV reduces the amount of activities when compared to the previous game, GTA: San Andreas. You 
 cannot go the gym to beef up Niko's muscles. And eating a ton of cheeseburgers won't turn you into 
 a massive, wobbly mound of lard. To compensate for this, Rockstar did something even better. They've 
 emphasized the importance of communicating with other characters and creating a relationship with 
 each one of them. And to answer your question straight away: "Yes Niko does go out on dates with 
 chicks and yes he does get to sleep with them." He can pick up hookers too. Oh and if that gets 
 boring, he can always go to a strip club for a lap-dance. 
  
  Another major improvement is the addition of cover mechanics during shootouts, making GTA IV rather 
 enjoyable as a shooter. Granted, taking cover may not always work the way you want it to - hiding 
 behind pillars as such can sometimes be difficult, as Niko doesn't always turn in the direction 
 you wish. These occurrences were sporadic and hardly enough to overshadow the overall quality of 
 the game. Otherwise, combat sequences work very well. Niko can duck, crouch, jump from cover to 
 cover, fire while behind cover without looking and so on.
  
  The AI puts up one helluva fight. Multiple opponents take advantage of their numbers. Enemies on 
 the run will do their best to outrace Niko, as they jump from rooftop to rooftop, drive away in 
 vehicles, fire back accurately (not too accurately, of course) , etc. Cops are also very persistent 
 and you'll have to be a skillful driver to elude pursuit, especially when you have a police chopper 
 on your trail. Believe me, you're gonna want to avoid being captured, because the police confiscates 
 your entire arsenal and requires a certain amount of bribe money.
  
  As a shooter, GTA IV has more to provide than the newly fitted cover system. The freedom to use 
 tactics and approach each situation differently is also a huge plus. One time I had to take out 
 three main baddies in a strip club. First time around, I stormed the place like Rambo and my targets 
 got away very quickly. Second time around, I parked two cars on opposite sides of the joint. I 
 entered the club, took out two opponents and quickly made towards the exit. I jumped into my vehicle 
 and drove it swiftly to the other side of the club, where I ran over my last enemy before he managed 
 to open the door of his get-away car.
  
  i've barely scratched the surface here, because there's so much more to the game, believe me. It's 
 not just about exploring vast outdoor areas of Liberty City, but visiting an impressive assortment 
 of indoor sections too. Whenever you're bored, just return to your "crib" and watch TV (with a 
 variety of channels on offer) or if you're in the mood for cabaret, stop by the local low-budget 
 shows, and so on. Unlike before, there's a wider choice of cool stuff to do this time around, such 
 as accessing your phone, calling friends, sending messages to unlock missions or even going to 
 an Internet Caf, surfing the game's fictional World Wide Web, checking your e-mail, reading blogs 
 and other web pages - again, potentially unlocking more missions. (Granted, this is all right, 
 but if THAT is your idea of fun in a video game, then, you have ... problems. - Ed)
  
  Those who are keen on stunt driving, there's the cool cinematic camera, which may be activated 
 by pressing down the 'B' button. There's also a slow-motion camera effect that can be turned on 
 by clicking the left thumbstick. The slow-motion effect delivers a more cinematic experience, especially 
 when activated during massive explosions or collisions.
  
  The audio is once again first-rate, featuring excellent voice acting and a mixture of realistic 
 sound effects throughout the game. Our only gripe is with Niko's Serbian, which is God-awful. (Not 
 that any non-Serbian will notice. Which is most if not all of you. - Ed)
  
  Continuing the tradition of radio stations, GTA IV includes a huge choice of tracks and radio shows 
 players may listen to while driving. Although you cannot import your own tracks, there's something 
 in the game for everyone. Adding further credibility to the setting, completed missions have an 
 impact on the game world, as the player gets to hear news reports on radio shows about some of 
 his handiwork (people killed, things blown up, etc.) .
  
  Multiplayer fans should have fun as well. The game works quite well and was rather stable during 
 online matches, which can accommodate up to 16 players. i've also heard that additional servers 
 are now available on Xbox Live to support the increasing amount of players online. There's a decent 
 choice of modes on offer such as the usual Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, in addition to modes 
 like GTA Race, Cops 'n Crooks, all of which are enjoyable in their own way.
  
  On a quick side-note, i've heard that the PlayStation 3 edition has a slight advantage in terms 
 of visuals, but then it doesn't include Achievements and the expected downloadable episodes, both 
 of which are exclusive to the 360 version.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the best games ever made, with a single-player campaign 
 that can take you around 25 hours to complete (depending on how you play it, of course) . Improvements, 
 particularly those made to combat and vehicle physics, make the game more accessible, more enjoyable 
 and far more realistic than before. There's enough here to lure even the most demanding gamer. 
 The standard choice of weapons is present during the single-player game, along with a huge number 
 of vehicle models, and, of course, a chopper. You cannot fly a plane though. But with the amount 
 of stuff you can actually do in this game, mentioning something like that would be like complaining 
 about the frame color on a Picasso painting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-games741
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  yes gta4 is probably the most anticipated game of 2008. Yes its has a great storyline, yes the 
 setup of the game is great but it lacks that will to play. I'll start off with the money thing 
 its just totally old and bogus, there's not much to do after the main storyline just boring side 
 mission. It takes about 30-40 hours to complete and the story just runs out and repeats itself 
 (find this kill that its all the same)
  
  gta4 has great things about it like its graphics and its realistic movements but im sure im not 
 the only one who thinks the pigeons are annoying. Oh yes and there's just those little things like 
 the camera just a bit awkward, the way he walks down the stairs, the way the cars explode with 
 there wheels catching on fire and the annoying phone calls from a friend and if you decline it 
 you lose respect i mean come on.
  
  Ok so overall gta4 is a great game good graphics, good motions, pretty much good everything but 
 its just those little things that let this great game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I loved Grand Theft Auto IV because of the depth of the game the detail that Rockstar put into 
 this game is unheard of I have never seen a game with so many things to do you can try to complete 
 the story (too hard for me) or you can take a cruise around Liberty City. You can go bowling with 
 a friend or just settle down and watch TV.
  
  The gameplay is really fun you don't even have to play the main story (but I recommend that you 
 do so you can go to the second island) my favorite thing to do is get a helicopter and fly to the 
 top of the empire state building and use the motorcycle cheat and drive the motorcycle off the 
 top the view is breathtaking. The two complaints that I have about this game are that the driving 
 physics take a long time to get used to and that there are too many missions where you have to 
 chase something or race and I am bad at driving so I always get stuck and it makes me not want 
 to do the story missions.
  
  The graphics are amazing the detail of the city is great from the slums in Bohan to the bright 
 lights of star junction. And a small thing I love about this game is how the water looks. realistic 
 looking water always makes me like the game I don't know why I just like it.
  
  The music in the game is great as it is in all GTA titles the talk channel is always funny it is 
 another thing that shows the extreme attention to detail that Rockstar put into this game.
  
  It is quite obvious that Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the best games for the 360 and that everyone 
 should have a copy. The addition of online play is just another reason why you should go out and 
 buy this game right now. Even the sixty dollar price tag shouldn't be enough to keep you away from 
 this game sell a kidney or something if you can't afford it right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ball1n076
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I was watching and monitoring this game for the longest time, all the way till its release. When 
 I first placed the disk into my drive, I thought will this lead up to all of its expectations. 
 I mean when you think about San Andreas, and Vice City, GTA IV has so much to live up to. Whether 
 it is the fantastic inclusive storyline or the marvellous free roam in both games. GTA IV took 
 a unique approach on living up to the expectations and succeeded. It did not have a better storyline, 
 but had the most complex mapping "ever known to man". This game also had so many different features 
 and "oddjobs" which have never been seen before throughout the series. The free roam can keep you 
 occupied for ours which is a constant throughout the GTA series. In conclusion GTA IV must be apart 
 of your collection, and is a marvellous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagivercetti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Crime must be paying for Rockstar, as Grand Theft Auto IV (GTA4) is proving to be one of the most 
 enojyable games in the series, if not in the market right now. Fresh off the boat as illegal immigrants 
 Niko Bellic. Players begin their immersive journey into the world of the New York-based Liberty 
 City, where the former Bosnian War veteran has travelled to in search of his rich cousin, only 
 to find out that Roman Bellic is no more than a two-bit taxi driver still searching for the American 
 Dream. As with previous outings, GTA4 is centred around non-linear gameplay, where players get 
 to have free roam of the city, partaking in storylines that propel the game forward, or enjoying 
 side-quests ranging from car races to just roaming the vast virtual city. Niko starts with carrying 
 out tasks for Roman and begins meeting the other inhabitants of the city, from mob bosses who want 
 this unique talents to friends and even girlfriends he can hang out with and bed. Aside from hijacking 
 cars and mowing down pedestrians and the police, Rockstar has added social elements that truly 
 transport players to another reality. In between missions, Niko can choose to play pool or go bowling 
 with new friends, like arms dealer Little Jacob, or ask women out on dates. These mini games, while 
 simple, add a new dimension to the life of Niko, in what would otherwise be a crime-ridden existence. 
 Further into the game, these added social choices also closely reflect the type of person you want 
 Niko to be. Is a date more important that hanging out with Roman, and who would you run to when 
 both Roman and Little Jacob ring for assistance? Do these choices affect gameplay? Absolutely. 
 Help Roman enough and you get to use his taxi service for free, while Little Jacob repays your 
 loyalty with a discount on weapons. Such attention to detail is what places GTA4 in a whole new 
 category compared to its predecessors.
  
  While violence forms a huge part of the game, killing isn't always the only option. Early in the 
 game, Niko has to save Roman from a loan shark and instead of knifing him as I was told to, my 
 punch threw him out of the window and into the river below. Was he dead? Did it matter? The mission 
 was complete albeit laced with some moral ambiguity. The game also features a redesigned and more 
 realistic looking Liberty City. Buldings, cars, structures and pedestrians are rendered with such 
 detail, it acutally becomes easier to recognise roads and destination points while driving. The 
 residents of Liberty City also bring so much life to the city, filling every nook and cranny that 
 I found myself trying to avoid running them over, unlike in previous games. Try being the operative 
 world of course, because what is GTA without some mindless violence? The game also adds in new 
 modern elements, such as the use of a cellphone and the Internet to call for backup or stay in 
 touch with friends, and even voice-enabled GPS navigation systems in fancier cars. Adding to the 
 realism is the removal of game options such as secret packages and even health packs. If your life 
 is running low, simply pop by a restaurant or hotdog stand to grab a bite. If you're bored, turn 
 on the television. Yes, in-game entertainment has gone beyond the music-filled radio stations and 
 Rockstar even got British comedian Ricky Gervais to contribute some skits. The two hours of in-game 
 TV content include hilarious cartoons like the crazy Republican Space Rangers and commercials for 
 shows like Waning With The Stars.
  
  One key question most gamers would have is - should I get the PS3 or Xbox 360 version? Having played 
 both versions, I can safely say there are only slight differences in each. The PS3 version requires 
 installation onto the console, which cuts down load time considerably. Using the Six-axis controls 
 to guide the motorcycle and boat was fun for a while, but doing the same for the helicopter was 
 annoying and unnecessary. Graphics wise, the Xbox360 provides slightly more detail but the PS3 
 has better colors. In the end, the most important factor - aside from paying more for the PS3 version 
 - is buying the same version as your friends, so you can all play online together. But is this 
 game perfect? Having spent my college years with GTA3 and months playing its sequels, there is 
 no denying that GTA4 is the new pride and joy of the family, providing new elements that enhance 
 the game, but there are little changes that irk me. Despite having more songs, the radio stations 
 are not as impressive without the classic tunes that filled previous outings, most noticeably GTA 
 Vice City and GTA San Andreas. The surprising thing for the game though is the lack of violence. 
 Yes, you can start pummelling innocents and ramming into cars, but there is little to differentiate 
 the amount of violence from many other shooting or action games in the market to support the idea 
 that GTA4 is bloodier or more profanity-ladden. It is simply about the choices players make and 
 this game offers that aplenty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok ok, with what to sart now?
  
  After months of waiting for the big "thing", we waited, we played, and what now?.... are we still 
 playing?...
  
  Without additionnal content, or DLC, there is a certain limit of what you can do in its city, even 
 after having the weirdest ideas and some nice ones, after a while, things get a little repetitive, 
 but wich game dosent?
  
  Graphics: This is some , i can see, the best graphics i have seen FOR THE SCALE of the game. Lots 
 of people say there are games with nicer environments, and characters , and weapons and so on, 
 but most of there games are level/staged set, not open sandbox game feel to it. Characters are 
 really nice, vehicules, buildings, it just seems so real and plausible. The view you can have by 
 boat, or helicopter, in any weather effect is surprising. I must admit the rain effect on the road, 
 car, people and buildings is amazing as well.
  
  Sound : GTA series have been always apart from other franchises by having an excellent soundtrack, 
 and this one continues the saga. Having so many hits, commercial or underground, in so many types 
 and genre of music is just amazing. some complain because the soundtrack of GTA is too "dark" too 
 "underground", i like it, it is what makes me wanna know more about each and every band i hear 
 on the car's radio. Gun sounds, are nice, pedestrians chat are always as funny, always hearing 
 something new every time. The attention to small detail is always very interesting, the little 
 "fuzz" on the radio before receiving a phone call is one of the view i can name...
  
  Gameplay: Ok some people say Gta is repetitive, but Gta as always been about being a criminal and 
 killing people. But how creative can that be?... alot.. a crap lot of ways of doing it in Gta. If 
 it isnt a new way ot killing your targets, its a new scenario or a new weapon, it is mostly always 
 interesting, until you reach the end because you have experienced most of the possibilities. Stealing 
 cars, robbing people, stealing drugs, killing, drug dealing, swearing.. is what Gta is about, with 
 an A+ storie worth of big movies or tv series. The physics behind Gta are just amazing, the way 
 people fall, the way cars get destroyed.. it is just eye candy. Of course Gta is mission based, 
 go there, do that, come back, call me, shoot him etc.. but what the heck, it is what you are supposed 
 to do in a criminal simulator! still mission have great variety in them.
  
  Multiplayer : Yes this is new to the Gta franchise, people tend to dislike it, saying it lacks 
 in mode, or in ways of playing it, i say the limit is your own imagination. This game is the kind 
 of game better off played with some friends. The community is filled with different people, as 
 any other videogames community. It as a ton load of mods and more that we could have asked. But 
 with the money and rank involved, people tend to rely only on that, to move higher faster, getting 
 mor emoney, more clothes, and putting aside the fun of it and the mass destruction on the road 
 to max lvl.
  
  
  Yes i played all Gtas, i liked them all, for what they were, i still love them all... I am not 
 a fanboy, i am a videogames lover and a buyer. I am thinking for the price of this game, with so 
 much to do, with a online portion of the game as well, this game is the perfect buy for any action/videogame 
 lover, with its great longevity (and by the way dont listen to the people saying it took them 24-30hours 
 so finish it and that the game is short, its the same people lvl freaking fast in mmos, complaining 
 about nothing else to do at top lvl lol) . It is long, it is good, and it is worth 60$.
  
  Have fun.
  
  I give a 9.5 because nothing is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexnollent
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Right, I know everyones going to deny me with this review but READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISAGREE!
  
  All GTAs have been a great success, but then GTA IV comes in.
  I mean it's the best game 
 for graphics but for what else??
  All the gameplay is practically the same as other GTAs. The story line is great but people like 
 me just want to go around killing people. Thats what GTA is about. Also, the big 10 it got from 
 gamespot is just not right. I mean, gamespot is my fav review site but it should of got something 
 like a 9.7 at the most. And, the big hype towards it's release was so overrated! It was only because 
 of the other gta games! So in conclusion, it IS worth buying and it IS a great game, but it was 
 totaly over rated! My idea for a next GTA is to not make one because you will probably get the 
 same 10 and people would write reviews like me. So i'll give it the 7.0 for the graphics but take 
 this review into account!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kora_red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I choose to split this ranking process into three parts: Gameplay, Missions, and Story.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  I find it quite impressive that the developers decided to change a tried and 
 true setup in the hopes of improving it. The aiming system has been successfully reworked and while 
 driving may take a little while to get used to the ability to fire your weapon while driving is 
 very useful, though difficult. My favorite addition to the series is the ability to use taxi cabs 
 as a customer to move throughout the city. Also, the physics of this game are perhaps the most 
 realistic I have encountered in a game.
  
  Missions: 9.5/10
  The missions in this game are very well done. They are realistic in nature and rarely leave you 
 thinking "There's no way." Also, unlike San Andreas, almost all of the missions are held together 
 by the storyline and therefore help ensure that the details of the story are always present in 
 the mind of the player. 
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  The storyline is very well done. It has twists, the characters feel real, and the introduction 
 of the execution feature allows you to kill your primary enemies in impressive and memorable ways. 
 This prevents the recurrence of underwhelming deaths like that of Tennpenny from San Andreas. I 
 was disappointed however by the fact that neither of the two possible endings allow for a happy 
 ending.
  
  Overall Score: 9.5 (You're collection isn't complete without it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakerskate21
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Wow... I never though that a game would ever be this deep and intense. I have played for like 80 
 hours and I have only beaten like 70% of the game. I really love the storyline. Great missions, 
 Great guns, Great vehicles and great EVERYTHING!!!!!!!!!!!! I love going on dates with girls, and 
 headin to dinner with a friend. The bars are fun, bowling is fun, and all the minigames is just 
 amazingly fun. I spend alot of time exploring the whole city. I like to race down the highway as 
 FAST as I can. Anyways, I don't belive I will ever like a game as much as I like grand theft auto 
 IV. Alot of people say san andreas is way better, but this game is revolutionary.... I really hope 
 people will buy this game and never let it go.... Anyways, I love this game, Number one game of 
 all time!!! Also, if you want to fight about this game vs San andreas PM me or talk to me on youtube.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementNose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  The Nose of Judgement Reviews:
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4
  
  -GRAPHICS --------10
  -GAMEPLAY --------9
  -STORY --------------10
  -FUN ------------------10
  
  GRAPHICS: play 
 in important part in GTA4. They give the player a sense of realism.... and hell they do! 
  
  GAMEPLAY: is great, it has improved . But... it has minor issues.. for example, while you are moving 
 Niko, he becames stuck while turning on halls or small rooms..
  
  STORY: the best so far, creative, interesting.
  
  FUN: with a great multiplayer, this is one 
 of the most addictive games of all, even if you are playing offline!
  
  OVERALL, gta 4 is an amazing, revolutionary game, that everyone must have. Well, not infants of 
 course. The reason why I gave it a 95 is because there will never be a 100% perfect game, lets 
 be honest. But GTA4...... is a masterpiece.
  
  Thanks for reading The Nose of Judgement's Review! Please check out my other reviews!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is definately going to be in the finals for game of the year. Now lets start, Grand Theft 
 Auto had so much media hype and every kid from 12 to adults at 50 were exited for this game. Knowing 
 how San Andreas was, we were all expecting a great game with a free world were u can do just about 
 anything and its just extremely fun. The graphics in this game looks great, looking at this on 
 a console was just mind blowing. Its very detailed, making killing cops and hi-jacking cars just 
 that much funner. The storyline was also great. The sound in this game was also fun, very realistic 
 but il really cut to the chase, the gameplay. In GTA we all love just to roam around, killing cops, 
 hi-jacking cars, speeding on the highway, riding helecopters and running from the cops, hell, iv 
 spent hundreds of hours playing San Andreas and still havnet beat the storyline =S. GTA 4 dose 
 that all and makes it much funner. You just cant desribe all you can do and im not going to make 
 a 9000 word essay describing it because my opinion is probably different than yours. My advice, 
 Gamespots Advice, IGNs Advice, its a great game and if you like games like this, you should give 
 it a try
  
  
  My rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games 
 on it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of 
 other awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game 
 is a great game, on the system.
  I like to keep my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to the point. If theres an 
 official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because they are the best reviewers 
 in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Replay 9/10
  Single+Multiplayer 10/10
  
  Overall = 48/50 = 96% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4.. So much has been said about this game, and everybody is lyric about it. For this one, I 
 waited to write a review after the hype was cooled down, so I could have a clear view at it...
 
  
  Actually, I still feel this hype, because the game just doesn't lose it's brilliance. Everything 
 you do in this game feels so right. I mean, not the killings, stealery etc. but it just FEELS so 
 good! The shootouts work just as fine as gears of war, the driving is equally compared to Forza 
 2 (yes I mean this!!) and Liberty City is alive and never dies. This city is how it should be in 
 Assassins Creed, which city's were so obviously scripted! And LC is so big! You know, I really 
 like to call a cab, sit back and just watch how perfectly detailed everything is. You really get 
 emotionally involved with Niko and Roman, and the characters you encounter during your progress.
 
  
  And the moment I took the chopper and rose above the city, I knew there is just one number worthy 
 of GTA 4... Because there just isn't anything wrong with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnage_Dragon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I cannot begin to describe the infinite pwnage of this game. First is the graphics. Some of the 
 best I've ever seen, ever. If you were wearing video goggles, you might forget you were even playing 
 a game. Another thing is the physics. Now, instead of jumping in a car and flying around corners 
 at 500 mph, you have to use these things called "brakes" or risk flying into the water or another 
 car. Then the AI. Really smart. Deapending on who they are and what both of you are armed with, 
 they might or might not fight back. This means that if you start pounding on the old lady, she 
 won't fight back, unlike previous installments. Also the new limb technology is great. By that 
 I mean when you shoot a person in the leg, they won't run away, they'll fall to the ground. And 
 pointing a gun at a comuter causes them to leave their car and run away, instead of just wait for 
 you to get out of the way. Then the big one; Gameplay. Probably my favorite feature is what I call 
 "What it costs to be a n00b" which is that when you use cheats, you lose the ability to get certain 
 online achievments. Another thing I like is it's realism. No more rocket launchers by swiming pools, 
 no more jetpacks, and no more Area 69. I miss it a little, but besides the Heart of the City easter 
 egg, I'm kind of happy I can't get totalled for accidently flying over a top secret military installation. 
 Another thing is the cell phone and internet inserts. They may not seem that helpful at the begining 
 of the game, but as you progress they will make you wish they put it in San Andreas. I could go 
 on about the awesomeness of this game, but if I did, you wouldn't be reading this right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandhu16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the best single player game I have ever played. There's so much to do in the game that 
 you'll never get bored. The story is interesting and keeps you hooked to the game. The missions 
 are fun but they get repetitive after a while. The shooting mechanics in the game are good and 
 the cover system works well. The driving is also excellent though challenging at first. After I 
 finished the story mode I didn't have any motivation to want to play the game again other than 
 going for a few achievements. The ability to make choices in the story was also much appreciated 
 as it gives you more control over how you want the story to play out. The game also has a nice 
 twist ending that ends of the game really well. You can easily get over 40 hours of gameplay from 
 this game and it is definetly worth buying. I havn't played online much so I can't really comment 
 on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is definitely the best GTA I have ever played. It fixes problems that were found in past games, 
 and also throws in an online multiplayer, making sure you've got at least a hundred hours of gameplay 
 at your disposal.
  
  The best thing that GTA4 does over its predecessors is improve the shooting. The shooting in past 
 games always felt like it was clunky and needed some work. GTA4 improves this by adding a cover 
 system and just overall makes the shooting system feel way better.
  
  The storyline in the game is pretty good as well. It's got some twists and turns, and a really 
 cool ending as well. The only thing that sucks is that in the middle of the game, the story can 
 just feel like you're doing random missions for random people without purpose. But, the story is 
 still pretty cool and has alot of memorable characters.
  
  In terms of the gameplay, the missions are always a lot of fun to do. Sometimes certain missions 
 don't have alot to them, and you'll finish the mission like "what... that's it?". But in general, 
 most of the missions are really cool and are alot of fun.
  
  In terms of the graphics and sound, the graphics are really amazing when you consider that this 
 is an entire city. Sure you can walk up to certain small spots and pick out little flaws, but as 
 a whole the city is so huge, so great-looking, that it feels like you're in a living breathing 
 city. The sound is really awesome also, because the voice acting is always nicely done and the 
 music selection (and radio talkshows) on the radio are all awesome (and hilarious!) .
  
  The multiplayer in the game is pretty cool also and has a ton of different modes you can try out. 
 It doesn't feel like something I would "seriously" get into for 5 hours a day, but it's fun enough 
 for a few matches now and then.
  
  Overall, this is just a great addition to the GTA universe. It improves alot on the previous games 
 and really feels the most complete. The main storyline is long, and its got a TON of side-missions 
 for you to do once the storyline is done as well, plus online multiplayer will keep you coming 
 back every now and then. Overall, GTA4 lives up to the hype and is definitely a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok i am going to fix this review. When this review first came out i was not the one who wrote it. 
 I let my cousin write it and now i am going to fix this. Now i have never seen a good series of 
 games fail this bad. The cheat codes are way to limited and i get that some people dont like to 
 use cheats but the cheat codes are half yhe fun of a GTA game and provide entertainment after you 
 beat it. The online multiplayer is cool and new at first but after a while randomly killing people 
 around the world gets boring. Now in the first review my cousin mentioned something about not liking 
 meeting rednecks and racists you meet online but in my opinion that just makes the game more fun. 
 The actual story however is actually pretty interesting if you have the patience to play through 
 it but that is just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the game, I was so excited about it. I felt like a little kid opening a Christmas 
 present. Even while I was playing it, I was just in awe of the physics and mechanics that went 
 into the cars and landscape. Unfortunately for the people graphics, those need to be revamped completely. 
 My only complaint about the movie outside of the graphics, is the dialogue. I grow sick and tired 
 of listening to people cuss when it's not even relatively necessary. But hey, we live in a world 
 without morals these days and who's to say that cursing every other word in a video game is wrong? 
 With that out of the way, I think the story line is amazing and the weapons and vehicles make up 
 for any complaints that I previously had. Wonderful game, deserves the 10 it got on GS, but only 
 because of the dialogue, I give it a little less than what some people may think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best title in the massively popular series of games. Those new to the 
 revolutionary "sandbox" universe of GTA may wonder what all the fuss is about. Those who have never 
 bought into what Rockstar has been selling all these years may continue to do so. GTA is not for 
 everybody. It's violent. It's repetitive. It's vulgar. It doesn't have the best combat engine. 
 It doesn't have the best driving engine. It doesn't have the best graphics. What GTA has always 
 had, however, is an entertaining story, a vivid open world to explore/destroy, and an unbelievable 
 attention to detail which makes the games so goddang immersive.
  
  GTA IV takes all of that, cranks it up a couple of notches, adds some grit and realism, and introduces 
 vastly improved shooting mechanics, a driving engine that lends real weight and inertia to vehicles 
 (which hearkens back to the brilliant Driver on PS1) , a surprisingly fleshed out online multiplayer 
 experience, and one of the best physics engines I've ever played. Fans of GTA are really getting 
 their money's worth with this one.
  
  I'm not going to go into the story line here (as is the case with most of my big-budget release 
 reviews) , since you probably already know enough already. I will say you play as Niko Bellic  
 a character of questionable moral character, hailing from Eastern Europe (most likely Serbia) , 
 who comes to Liberty City, America to make a better life for himself and get some sweet revenge 
 along the way. The main story will probably take you over 50 hours to complete, as long as you 
 don't blaze through at top speed. And how can you? With such a fantastic city at your fingertips, 
 you'll find yourself getting lost in the scenery for hours at a time. Plus, with so many ancillary 
 characters, side missions, comedy clubs, etc. to enjoy, you're looking at hundreds of hours of 
 possible content. I beat the game in 70+, and I've barely dipped into the online portion.
  
  Speaking of the online portion, forget about "maps" or "levels." There's you, your opponents 
 and teammates, and Liberty City. That's right, all the burroughs, all the vehicles, all the pedestrians, 
 EVERTHING. If that just doesn't scream "Awesome!" then you must have wheat grass running through 
 your veins. There's a ranking system, character customization, and many types of game modes, ranging 
 from your standard deathmatches to team v team objective-based rounds. It's all very fun stuff.
 
  
  The one thing that has not been kind to GTA IV is the historic flood of perfect review scores. 
 Yes, these scores were undeserved. It's hard to know the real reasons behind such a phenomenon, 
 whether financial incentives or blind fanboy reviewers were involved, I honestly don't know. What 
 I do know is, as awesome as many of the missions are, they do get repetitive. As awesome as Liberty 
 City is, it's not the prettiest graphics engine you've ever seen. Your friends call you A LOT (that's 
 right, you have a cell phone) , to the point that you just want to shut it off to explore the city 
 in peace unless you're one of those Achievement types who wants to get everyone to like you over 
 75%. The story is great and engaging the whole way through, but some of the characters you encounter 
 are too annoying or far-fetched and work to detract from the otherwise high-quality of the plotline. 
 I also found the radio stations to be of less interest than in other entries (Vice City being the 
 crme de la crme) .
  
  I could get into a lot of other stuff, but that is all information one can quickly glean from a 
 million other places. My reviews are my opinions, and my opinion is that this is the best GTA yet 
 and a great game that everyone should try. It starts out slow, so to the newcomers, give it a few 
 hours if you find yourself disappointed. Does GTA IV live up to the hype generated by all the perfect 
 10s? No, but it stands as the best the genre has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt437
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  After a long wait for this game, i feel sort of dissapointed about GTA IV. The stroy for this game 
 is very solid and is interesting. You also play as the likeable character Niko, who for once has 
 some heart in him. This is what i think of the game :
  
  Good:
  -Realistic enviroments
  -Nice to see some realism in car crashes, bullet holes in cars, smashed glass etc
  -Good story
 
  -Multiplayer is good fun for a while
  -Nice weapon set
  -Black hawk helecopter was a good asset
  
  Bad:
  -Starts off incredible boring but gets more 
 interesting
  -The graphics arnt too good
  -What happened to the planes??, not even the Dodo!!!!
  -Game over too quickly
  -Lost its fun 
 factor to it, was good in the old games to go around killing police etc but now doing so is nearly 
 impossible as you die too quickly and cant use the fun filled cheats because you cant unlock achievements, 
 dissapointing
  -Multiplayer is fun, but very limited
  -Not as good as i anticipated
  
  Overall:
  I know many people will disagree with this review, but it is MY opinion, i respect 
 your opinion so please respect mine! Its a good game but not as good as it could have been 8.5
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4_2112
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is undoubtfully the best game i have ever played. This game is filled with tons of really 
 awsome things.
  
  In GTA IV you play as an Eastern European named Niko Belic that comes to America to live the American 
 dream only to find out that his cousin Roman Belic was lieing about the American dream.
  
  The game takes place in Liberty City, but not the same Liberty City you remember. Its a model of 
 New York City and its much bigger than before.
  
  The main storyline should take you about 30 hours to complete, but with all the other distractions 
 around the city you can double the amount of time. Most of the missions are pretty easy so you shouldnt 
 fail them alot, but if you do its ok because now you get a text on your cellphone (yes you get a 
 cellphone in GTA and it is really useful) that lets you start the mission over.
  There is alot to do in Liberty City weather your getting drunk with a friend or your in a big gun 
 fight with the cops you will always fine something to do.
  
  The multiplayer in GTA IV is really amazing. There is 15 game modes and they support up to 16 players. The 
 modes range from deathmatches to street races and everything in between. One of my favorites is 
 free mode were you and your friends get to do anything all around the map its realy cool and you 
 will have a blast. Multiplayer is acsessed from your phone.
  
  The physics in GTA IV are really impressive. It uses this new engine called Euphoria and everything 
 looks really realistic.
  
  The graphics have improved alot since the previous GTA games. The lighting effects are stunning 
 and the sound effects are excellent.
  
  Some of the new features include a cover system which is really handy, the cellphone, being able 
 to climb walls and fences, and much more.
  
  GTA IV is a game that should be enjoyed by anyone and you should buy it.
  
  Graphics-10/10
 
  Gameplay-10/10
  Controls-10/10
  Tilt-10/10
  Storyline-10/10
  Sound effects-10/10
  Characters 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analRAPIST69696
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  None of the other GTA games come close to this one. GTA4 is everything it was hyped up to be!
 
  
  The story is long, which is good. I worried it would be too short since most games these days arent 
 long enough. Although i will admit some of the missions were pointless and seemed like they were 
 there just for the purpose of making the game longer. So something to work on for the net GTA game 
 is to make an even more in depth and better storyline so each mission feels like it means something.
 
  
  The map is huge. Sometimes there is a long distance between where you are and where you want to 
 be, but dont worry because in this game the taxis are useful. You can flag down a taxi and pay 
 a small fee to get to wherever you want, or you can call your cousin for a ride. There is also 
 a very complicated underground subway system that goes all over the city.
  
  The difficulty is perfect. Some missions are a little challenging but thats okay, none are impossible.. 
 not even the last one. No cheats are needed to beat this game but i will admit i referred to a 
 walkthrough for help on a couple of missions.
  
  Outside the missions there are lots of things to do and people to meet in this game. You can go 
 to an internet cafe and pay $1 to use a computer and look online for a girlfriend. If she is interested 
 in you she will email you where and when to meet her. At the end of your first date she will decide 
 if she had fun or not and may give you her phone number. Dating is a litttle tricky in this game 
 since there are many places to take a girl. You can take her to comedy clubs, strip clubs, nice 
 restaurants, fast food, bowling, and more.
  
  Multiplayer is great in this game too. There are so many different modes. Cops n robbers, car racing, 
 deathmatches, and many more. As you rank up your rewards are clothing. There are many interesting 
 clothes to unlock so there is a reward and purpose for playing online.
  
  This game is one of few that deserves a 10. Not only because it lives up to all the hype and is 
 by far the best in the GTA series, but because there is so much to do outside of the missions that 
 you can spend hours at a time exploring the city or playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwervin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I just got a chance to finally buy the game, although I have played it before. At first you get 
 a chance to watch the opening video, which just like the other GTAs, delivered most of the background 
 story. You're a European, you're poor, and you have no idea how anything works in this country.
 
  
  As Niko, you've been falsely lead by your somewhat dimwitted cousin into believing that America 
 was a land of opportunity. He leads you to believe he's living the dream, and with that information, 
 you curiously head to America to see what it's like. Unfortunately, cousin Roman is involved in 
 several underhanded things, and as your cousin, he gets you involved. This is where the story turns 
 into the same GTA we've all come to love.
  
  What I first noticed upon picking up this game was the shiny details and new look of everything. 
 Curiously, I dusted off my PS2 and popped in San Andreas and I looked at the differences. The visual 
 scenery is stunning. The visuals truly deserve a 10/10 on this one.
  
  The physics feel so much more realistic. The cars handle better and the way everything moves is 
 just a lot nicer and more polished than more games. I haven't played through the whole story yet, 
 but one thing I noticed is that it's believeable. You aren't Carl Johnson running from the FBI, 
 being framed by crooked cops and forced to do missions for them, etc. Although I could be wrong, 
 it might have stuff like that later on... but I highly doubt it. So far the game looks like it 
 packs a cool unique story. 
  
  I absolutely love the new refined gun battle system. I love being able to finally take cover, because 
 it really wasn't fun standing there all the time shooting your enemies. I haven't played enough 
 of this game to truly get the full feel of everything, but so far I'm likeing what I see.
  
  All in all, I think this game has been tweaked to a whole different degree if you compare it 
 to the older games. It definitely gives it a real next-gen feel, and I think it's worthy of it's 
 score of a 10/10. If you have the money, go out and buy this game, it's worth the money. If not, 
 renting is fine, but I doubt you'll get the full experience that way.
  
  Still haven't tried the online play in the game, which is a first for the series, btu I'll get 
 around to it eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Many people were expecting an exact replica of the old Grand Theft Auto games, with boosted graphics, 
 and maybe a couple more things to do. Okay, that is what Grand Theft Auto IV is, and much more. 
 But for some reason this whole new ordeal within the series, let a lot of people down about it. 
 Anyways, back to the game.
  
  The graphics in GTA IV, are very nice. It really shows how great the 360 can be, when the graphics 
 run so smoothly, and high upon the entire city. There is plenty of music to listen to, fit for 
 every style of listening.
  
  The driving in GTA IV, is more challenging, but more realistic. A lot of people did not like the 
 driving, but once they grow used to it they love it. When you first start, you may feel a little 
 strange with the camera, and the controls while driving. Get used to it, believe me, you will learn 
 to enjoy it the way it is. 
  
  The gun-play in this game, is much, MUCH better than the previous GTAs. You can actually take cover, 
 and engage in tactical shoot-outs in some cases. You can roll, duck, and dodge, and a bag of chips 
 to go with it. Or you can take the old genre of GTA, stand there, and blow the living hell out 
 of everything, just with better graphics to enjoy it more. 
  
  The online play in GTA, is just plain friggin' cool. You easily jump into a game, fit for whatever 
 your choice was. Plenty, plenty of activity. You can even go in free mode, where you can explore 
 the entire city with a group of friends, or strangers. Remember when playing Grand Theft Auto 3 
 when it came out, and you thought. "Wow it would be cool to drive around with a friend". Yeah well, 
 here you go. That and a whole lot more. You have to play it to believe it.
  
  The only, single, greatest, ugliest, worst downfall of this game I can really spit out, that deprives 
 it from a perfect 10 in my opinion. 
  
  YOU CAN'T FLY PLANES?! WHY OH WHY WOULD THEY DO THIS. I'm driving into the airport for the first 
 time. Planes.. everywhere. Big, imposing, beautiful jumbo-jets just waiting for my grip on the 
 controls. Small private jets, planes.. PLANES-GALORE! Oh wait. I can't fly that one. Maybe this 
 one? No.. What about that? Not that either? I can't fly.. any of them? They took out the planes? 
 W... why? Yes, it makes no sense to me either. NO SENSE.
  
  The helicopters are fun to fly around in though. You will get used to it.. just go out and get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was considered one of the greatest games ever by many. Gamespot gave it a shocking 
 10, which was only handed out to maybe 5 other games at that time. Yes, it is a really great game, 
 but no, it is not perfect. Just thought I'd throw that out there before continuing with my review. 
 Anyways...
  The Good: Long game with a very memorable story, awesome characters- Niko is one of my favorite 
 videogame characters ever, fantastic environment along with nice visuals, excellent missions for 
 the most part, addicting multiplayer
  The Bad: Some missions or achievements are just plain annoying, occassional glitches here and there, 
 aiming, and the online is not very competitive
  --
  I primarily enjoyed Grand Theft Auto for its story, and what a terrific story it was. You play 
 as Niko who tries to live a different life and make a decent living in Liberty City. At first, 
 your only connection is with your cousin Roman, but you gradually hook up with numerous guys and 
 girls throughout the story. These characters are vital to progressing through the story, as they 
 are your source of missions and money. The story takes around 40 hours the first play through... at 
 least it did for me. It can easily be completed in under 30 hours if you are focusing on completing 
 the main missions. Yeah, some missions are side ones, while others are significant to the events 
 leading up to the conclusion. One really cool feature in the story is the decision making. Similar 
 in BioShock, this game has critical decisions Niko is forced to make and it is awesome to see how 
 these choices affect what happens. 
  Now let's talk briefly about what missions there are. Most of them require your typical GTA stlye 
 crimes, such as shooting up some place, or stealing a car and losing the cops. However, there are 
 other missions you can do that I classify as side quests. You can date girls you hook up with, 
 and you can take some of your friends ou to play billiards, darts, or visit the strip club. Some 
 missions are fairly easy, while others are tedious and challenging, but overall rewarding to complete. 
 Thankfully, when a mission is fairly harder than others you have completed in the past, you generally 
 recieve more money. Still, there are some that are really annoying and they don't feel worth it 
 after you fail several times, but that's just me. 
  The controls in this game work fairly well, except for shooting. Yeah, it's not the biggest deal, 
 but sometimes Niko doesn't aim at what you want him to aim at. A cool feature in this game is the 
 cover system that was added in. You can now post behind a wall and pop out to shoot your targets. 
 Driving is pretty awesome in this game. The controls are fairly easy to get the hang of. The only 
 vehicle I had trouble controlling at first was the helicopter, but it doesn't take very long to 
 master. Overall, I'd say the controls are sharp unless Niko is aiming at the wrong thing. 
  The graphics in this game are pretty good, too. The City looks beautiful, and all of the people 
 in this game look fairly realistic. Niko looks awesome, and so do all of the vehicles and what 
 not. Some people say that this game has the best graphics on the 360, but I have to disagree there. 
 I think Call of Duty surpasses this. Yes, they are completely different games, but this one feels 
 a tad bit more animated than Call of Duty. But don't get me wrong, this game's visuals are really 
 great for the 360.
  Another really enjoyable thing about this game is the thoroughness put forth. During the story, 
 Niko has access to the Internet and he uses a cell phone, recieving calls and text messages often. 
 Online is even started up by activating the cell phone. There are a failry wide variety of weapons, 
 too. You have weapons such as bats to sniper rifles and rocket launchers. Nothing is better than 
 stealing a car, running the guy over, and then firing a rocket at him. So yeah, even when you are 
 stuck on the story's main missions, there is always something else to do. 
  The online is really addicting, as mentioned before. The only problem I had with it was the fact 
 that it wasn't very intense... but I guess this really isn't the kind of intense game. Anyways, 
 playing with your friends is always fun, but there is bound to be some "gangsta" annoying you. 
 Doing whatever you want online is really fun. You can choose whether or not to have cops, and all 
 of that good stuff. There are your traditional Team Deathmatch type games there, too, but really, 
 I think the highlight it the free mode. Still, kudos to Rockstar for featuring so many online options 
 for this game. 
  And then there is the challenge of the game: completing it at 100 percent. After you finish beating 
 the game, you may have a sudden urge for attempting a 100% completion. I did not do so, and trust 
 me, it is a frustrating process. Some of the things you are required to do are so time consuming 
 and flatout pointless, that it just isn't worth it. The primary goal that I find rediculous is 
 hunting all of the pigeons of Liberty City... That would take me forever. But yeah, this game can 
 be played for a long time. If you are interested enough to play through the story and comeback 
 to play this for a 100% finish... It would probably take you well over 50 hours, plus the online. 
 However, don't consider that an automatic plus. Some people I know weren't even interested in finishing 
 the game. And if you're looking for competitive multiplayer, look elsewhere. Otherwise, this game 
 is fantastic.
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is a must buy, if you asked me. However, it has its flaws every now 
 and then, and it is not perfect. It doesn't have everything, but it does indeed promise a lot. 
 Whether you're seeking a deep story or addicting online, this game is a definite purchase for you. 
 In conclusion this game is pretty much worthy in anybody's collection, and you get your money's 
 worth. With its great story, seemingly unlimited missions and achievements, addicting online, and 
 a hell of a lot of fun, Grand Theft Auto is pleasing to any gamer. Thanks for reading.
  -Oblivion
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonicguy12
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is not like the others in the series. In this one they tried to go for a more 
 realistic type game play instead of the old GTA arcade type style. The first thing you will notice 
 is that when you go to drive in a car you will have a hard time at first. They went with a more 
 realistic driving feel and it is nowhere near as fun as the other GTA games. In the other GTA games 
 you could spend time trying to pull off unrealistic jumps in your car. In this one you can't do 
 any really cool type jumps except for the "unique jump" spots where your car enters slow motion 
 when jumping. There is also no nitrous in this game. The other thing that really disappointed me 
 was that you can't level up stats in this one. In GTA San Andreas you could spend time going to 
 the gym and getting your guy stronger and riding bikes get bike skills to ride them better. The 
 good of this game is the cover system. The cover system actually works really well for the most 
 part. I had it glitch up once or twice throughout my time playing but other than that it worked 
 perfectly. Money in this game is also pointless; all you can do is buy weapons and clothes. The 
 story line to this game is actually pretty good but the campaign gets really repetitive and the 
 only fun missions are towards the end and there is only a couple I found to be fun. The multiplayer 
 is also really bad in this game. The connection is really bad and you can shoot someone way before 
 they shoot you and not hit them once. It feels very random on who kills who when playing online. 
 The free roam online is fun though and will give you hours of entertainment with friends. So in 
 a whole this game is not worth the price tag. You could easily just buy GTA San Andreas and have 
 more fun and get more game play hours out of it then GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbrogs001
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is just off the hook! It is obvious a lot of people didn't understand this game! It is 
 hard for some to accept that GTA 4 has focused the gameplay more on realism, than on arcade play 
 of previous GTA games. I had a problem with the driving camera angles and a few other areas as 
 well. But once I got used to them, and accepted things like, "OK, I gotta drive the cars like real 
 cars!" Then the game started to show it's true beauty. The amount of detail put into this game 
 is astounding. It is not perfect, but nothing is broken, or in any way make the game unplayable. 
 But for a game like this, to have the amount of realism incorporated into it, all the way down 
 to pieces of paper flowing down the street, to steam rising from the sewers, shows that rockstar's 
 focus was to give gamers an experience, where other games just want to give you something to do 
 for a while. The story in this game is top notch in my book. The story blends movie style stories 
 with real situations that people run into in real life. The characters all seem to fit perfectly. 
 One thing a lot of gamers haven't realized about all GTA games is they all contain a message that 
 is often overlooked. The moral message in this one is "Maintaining relationships". That's why the 
 cellphone plays a key role in this game. It is known that a large majority of gamers are anti-social, 
 or just lack people skills. GTA 4 is trying to change that. For a game this large and detailed 
 to work as great as it does, with only a few minor problems is commendable, and should be respected. 
 Even little details like when you fail a mission. All you have to do is bring up your cellphone 
 and it offers the option to retry the mission, and you're right back to it. GTA 4 for me stands 
 at the top of my list of great games right along with Zelda OoT, and Final Fantasy X. I have had 
 a great time with this game. Cant wait for the DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Let me start off by saying I never really was into this series. I got this game because it was 
 the first GTA game on a new console. I played this longer then any other GTA game I played. But 
 I quit playing it because it got very very annoying, just like the rest of them. Till this day, 
 I have know idea what the big deal is with this game. First, the stearing on the cars is horrible. 
 It might be the worst driving I've ever experienced in a video game. I lost a lot of missions and 
 got caught by the police just do to the fact that the driving conditions suck. Second, could they 
 have made this guy Niko run any slower. Third, for most of the game I felt like I was doing nothing 
 but taking people out on dates. Shooting pool, bowling, darts, eating cheese burgers and going to 
 shows. I feel like this bullcrap just delays the game even longer. Fourth, it seemed like every 
 other minute my cell phone was going off with people giving me another mission to do or asking 
 me for another date. Fifth, and maybe the most annoying part of them all, I didn't like it that 
 when I got killed during a mission, I had to start from the beginning from where I got into my 
 car on the other side of the city, witch meant I had to go through all that driving again. It would 
 have been alot better if they had started you at the beginning of your mission, instead of making 
 you go through that driving for miles garbage. People who beat this game obviously have alot of 
 time on their hands considering the amount of work you have to do in the game. Checking E-mails, 
 text messages, voice mails, taking people out on dates, buying clothes. If there wasn't all of 
 this waste of time, the game would have been alot more interesting to me. Give me one mission at 
 a time and then go on to the next. For you GTA fans, I applaud you. Playing through all this. I 
 just cant get into a video game thats over 100 hours, unless it really catches my interest. Like 
 God of War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmythegent
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  After three previous incarnations of Liberty City in past GTA games, did Rockstar finally get the 
 city they originally intended to have? Well though its not quite official, I think its safe to 
 say that they did. GTA 4 drops you down on the edge of an incredibly detailed (though not as detailed 
 as the media wants you to think) city with living, breathing characters with lives of their own. 
 From this point you begin a journey which starts out as discovery but soon turns into a tale of 
 redemption. Veterans of the cult series will immediately recognize a completely overhauled control 
 scheme, both on foot and while in vehicles. This is due part to the creation of the most realistic 
 main character in a GTA game. Niko Bellic, a tough eastern European hit man who not only possesses 
 an arsenal of spectacular weaponry but also a swagger and personality of his own. Throughout game 
 play, Niko will scratch the back of his neck among other regions, cough and make obscene facial 
 gestures. Which adds to the realism of the game as a whole. However this is not to say that Niko 
 is the only life like character. Each and every single pedestrian has been detailed down to their 
 feet with creative etchings of artistic talent. So is the same with the realism of the architectures 
 of Liberty City. Unlike other sandbox games, GTA 4's buildings look as if they have existed in 
 this massive world for decades. Once more this adds to the overall realism of the game. Add all 
 of that to the dynamic story line which will take anywhere from 30 - 45 hours and you get by far 
 one of the most realistic living world ever created in a video game. As for the story, its sadly 
 the same old thing as previous games. Once more just like in the previous games, the story turns 
 into a revenge driven adventure throughout the city. Various odd jobs continue to plague the main 
 story creating an incredibly tedious experience while playing the game. However since everything 
 has in fact been overhauled and changed from past games in the GTA world, all of the old tasks 
 given to perform during the various missions all seem new in slightly different ways. Which still 
 makes the main story fun to play through. But if we want to talk about fun, than we must mention 
 GTA 4s highly addictive online multiplayer experience. Yes for the first time in a GTA game there 
 is online play, and with online play comes exclusive downloadable content for the Xbox 360 which 
 is to come later this year. Overall, despite the very few flaws of the game, GTA 4 was definitely 
 worth the wait of more than 3 years by showing us that what we thought may be an all to familiar 
 game is actually a completely different gaming experiecne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHeint
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Most people don't need to read a review on GTA IV because they've already purchased and tested 
 the game for themselves. But the truth is that GTA IV, like some of its predecessors, doesn't live 
 up to the hype. 
  
  First thing - The RAGE graphics engine and the games new Euphoria physics are simply outstanding. 
 The game looks wonderful compared to other sandbox games of this magnitude and scale. Pedestrians 
 and characters can be blown through the air and rolled under moving cars. And the vehicle damage 
 is outstanding and very realistic. Plugging a car full of bullet holes or causing devastating car 
 crashes can result in infinite outcomes and this is where GTA IV is at it's best. But the formula 
 remains the same. Pedestrians and cars go in circles or load up in the same locations always doing 
 the same activities. The city, once fully realized, is very lifeless for this next-gen title.
 
  
  The story is simply the best in a GTA game to date. There are a few choices you have to make that 
 define the outcome of the game. And the characters are less annoying than that of previous GTA 
 titles. One of the main features presented before launch is Niko's cell phone. It is used widely 
 throughout the story and gameplay but in all, the phone is nothing special. In fact it can be a 
 little annoying.
  
  Niko is responsible for doing missions with characters but he's also expected to "hang out" with 
 them. This is simply one of GTA IV's major downfalls because the activities like drinking, bowling, 
 and eating are in fact annoying and very repetitive. There is no interactivity except with the 
 mini-games like playing pool. You can't really drink with the characters; you simply wind up drunk, 
 on the street, unable to walk. And if you drive the cops will instantly chase you.
  
  The story is good but only the true Rockstar loyalists will play though it more than once. After 
 the story has been realized you can go for 100% completion of the game, which is an unrewarding 
 hassle. Unlike previous GTA's, this time around you are NOT rewarded for the effort you put in 
 to shooting 200 hidden pigeons or tracking down all the Unique Stunt Jumps. 
  
  Once the story is complete there's not much to do. Rockstar could have implemented something to 
 add replay value but even the multi-player lacks and gets boring quickly. Even in free-play mode 
 much of the game features are disabled and leave friends with little do actually do. 
  
  There are even places marked on the map, both in-game and on the paper map shipped with the game, 
 that didn't make it into actual gameplay. This can give many gamers an unsatisfied feeling as they 
 first start exploring Liberty City and soon find themselves with what seems like an unfinished 
 game. Basically there are very few innovations and no features of value. The gameplay lacks considerably.
 
  
  Even in the original Saints Row you could replay previous missions, enter and interact within numerous 
 interiors, and build a nice, customized, car collection. Many people expected GTA IV to surpass 
 this level of gameplay but they have actually failed. Rockstar seems to be weak and fearful to 
 add controversial aspects into a CRIME GAME, instead they add silly little things like Internet 
 dating, wow what fun. Why can't we rob stores, sell drugs, or live out other crime fantasies?
 
  
  Now every GTA fan awaits DLC for 360 and some stuff for PS3. But what about the competition - Saints 
 Row 2 - with the already long list of innovative features nowhere seen in GTA IV? Three months 
 after the release, after making a killing profit, Rockstar has yet to release a single download 
 to improve on the lacking gameplay. I guess we will have to wait, open our checkbooks, and buy 
 additions to this game we already paid good money for. The future of GTA IV is unforeseen but as 
 the game stands now, it lacks way too much for all these perfect scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COOL_GAMER_1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  So like alot of people i rushed to the shop on April 29th to get my copy of GTA4. When i got back 
 i played it for a few hours and it was great but it was missing that gta feeling.
  
  pros.
  entertaining story
  great graphics
  funny characters
  some pretty fun activities ( 
 like drinking and then trying to drive home )
  
  cons.
  multiplayer could have been better
  no customisation
  cant really buy anything with your money
 
  bad driving controls
  not enough weapons
  the friend system can be annoying
  
  all in all this game was hyped up to much it does not deserve a 10 but if you are a fan of the 
 series go buy it if you are new to the series rent it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto franchise has come a long, long way. It all started in the beginning on the 
 PS1 and progressed onto the PS2 and so on and so forth. GTAIII was a revolutionary title that sought 
 many spin-offs and imitators, and GTAIV is truly one of those games that has to be experienced 
 by those within the gaming realm.
  
  Gameplay:
  Where oh where Johnboy do I begin. This has to be an entirely revamped and re-developed Grand Theft 
 Auto experience. From the new health and armor meter system and replenishing Niko's health by simply 
 stopping by a hot dog vendor to outrunning the cops via Saint's Row mode and the less need for 
 implementing cheat codes really makes this installment the best in the series by far. You take 
 on the role as Niko Bellic, a fresh off the boat Serbian immigrant looking to make it big in Liberty 
 City. With the help of his cousin Roman, he manages to get deep into the gangster underworld and 
 blow things out of proportion until we find ourselves knee deep in dirty shcciisee. With newly 
 added driving controls, a unique cover system, the use of the new euphoria physics engine, an all 
 new highly likable cast of characters, a new online mode with various deathmatch and co-op missions 
 alike, GTAIV will stay in your console well after the H-Bomb goes off in your neighborhood.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not only pretty, they're sexy to boot. Utilizing the new RAGE 
 engine seen in Rockstar's Table Tennis is more than award worthy to bring the realm of Liberty 
 City to life like never before. From the character animations to the weapon physics and reloading 
 and the use of great explosions and particle matter effects, this Grand Theft Auto is not only 
 the bests looking, but probably in the top 5 best graphical games on the 360 to date right up there 
 with Gears of War and Bioshock.
  
  Sound:
  Come on, this wouldn't be a genuine GTA game without a fully licensed soundtrack. Fully equipped 
 and ready for the road, GTAIV's musical score shines with a variety of stations available on the 
 radio. The only thing that was left out was the use of in game custom soundtracks to hear your 
 own tracks while in your car. But that minute at the very most at this point. Wonderful character 
 dialogue is implemented with great use of voiceover work that really bring the characters to life. 
 A great job done here and no complaints or hiccups whatsoever.
  
  Control:
  This is where the real diversity comes into play. Unlike in any other GTA game to date, GTAIV allows 
 you to control Niko in a way like no other. He moves and runs to a realistic point and with the 
 added feature of a duck and cover/blindfire experience, this really makes combat a breeze and fun 
 and interesting to execute. Overall, the control is near perfection and the use of a cover system 
 now makes zeroing in on that kill all the more juicy.
  
  Overall:
  This is a must have in terms of any gamer's library. The newly added features are more than just 
 a bonus to have at hand. From the extreme graphical upgrade in comparison to it's underachieving 
 graphics of the previous installments, to newly added combat and cover system to just as much mayhem, 
 carnage, and blood tracks you can suffice, Grand Theft Auto IV leaves no rock unturned as it delivers 
 more than the best this time around with enough extras and an online mode to keep players coming 
 back for 4th, 5th and 6ths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealtorb
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is not inherently challenging or difficult. It is not inherently unique, nor 
 does it do much to differ from its predecessors. But it does manage to do everything that it sets 
 out to do, rarely falling below the mark. What it lacks in originality, it makes up for in variety. 
 But most of all, it manages to be fun. A lot of fun.
  
  As I began the game and progressed through it, I felt the grip of the main character, Niko Bellic, 
 continually tightening around me. Everyone has praised him up and down as being so intensely likeable, 
 and I'm proud to say that he is. He is a compelling character who, by controlling him throughout 
 the course of the game, you can't help but become attached to. At his roots, Niko is just another 
 guy who wants to live a normal life, not having to worry about anything. But those he is surrounded 
 by are constantly dragging him down, back into the firefight-engulfed streets. 
  
  Which brings me to the rest of the "cast." Rockstar has crafted some truly amazing and original 
 characters. The voice acting is superb, and the dialogue is entirely entertaining. I won't go into 
 the characters in detail, but the people with which Niko interacts manage to help make the game 
 what it is without stealing the spotlight from him. One or two may get on your nerves, but those 
 same characters may be another person's favorite. Basically, there is something for everyone in 
 this regard.
  
  These same characters will have you going on side missions for them and even going on "dates," 
 so to speak. In the game, you are provided with a virtual cell phone with which you can call up 
 people you've come in contact with. You can ask your friends to go bowling, throw some darts, hit 
 up a strip club, or go get drunk, among other things. And the best part is that there is no catch. 
 You actually go bowling and play darts and pool and get drunk yourself. Getting drunk was perhaps 
 my favorite thing to do when interacting with the other characters. The reason for this is the 
 amazing ragdoll physics, which I am a sucker for. You stumble and fall on things/people, and move 
 "realistically." The same applies when you get hit by a car, or exploded (yes I said "exploded.")
 
  
  The main plot is merely ok. It's got a twist or two, sure. But it's nothing you'd enjoy seeing 
 in a movie theater. The reason I loved the plot is the dialogue. It's great and flows very smoothly. 
 What trumps this, in my opinion, is the engrossing world in which you play. The ambulance picks 
 up injured people. The police really arrest crooks on the street and, after chasing them down, 
 cuff them and put them in the back of the patrol car. The firefighters actually can be seen going 
 to work in the morning at the station. All of it comes off as very "real," and it's a great feeling.
 
  
  As for gameplay, the main story arc is fairly repetitive. It gets to the point that you realize 
 it isn't "if" but "when" the crap is gonna hit the fan. So-and-so sent you to protect someone? 
 Well expect a hit squad to try and mess you up. Someone sent you to deliver some drugs? Oh, well, 
 surprise! There are some more dudes you have to cap. It's a good thing Grand Theft Auto IV's gunplay 
 is very polished. While it is by no means deep, it works, and it works well. You can hide behind 
 cover, pop out and shoot, and return to cover a la Gears of War. 
  
  There is an auto-aim system in place that is accessed by holding down the aiming trigger completely, 
 but free-aim is utilized by only halfway depressing the trigger. It's very easy to use. This comprises 
 the majority of the "campaign." The good thing about the story missions is that the folks at Rockstar 
 manage to keep the ways in which you kill people very diverse and very entertaining (sadistic, 
 I know) . It never really gets stale. Just when I felt like I was going through the motions, something 
 new was tossed my way and got me right back into the action.
  
  The main story can be beaten in less than 30 hours (I think I completed it in around 25 hours) . 
 Of course, it doesn't stop there. Plenty of other activities litter the streets of Liberty City. 
 You can participate in street races, steal cars for a couple of your contacts to earn money, deliver 
 drugs, assassinate people, and chase down crooks. You know, just your average run-of-the-mill activities 
 (note: sarcasm) . But more than that, you can go on the previously mentioned "dates" with friends, 
 even going so far as logging on to a virtual "internet" of sorts that exists only within the game. 
 This allows you to find singles to date and fake websites to read, all of which are hilarious and 
 well worth your time. You can go to a comedy club or spend your time watching fake TV shows in 
 your apartment, or even playing a made-up arcade game called "QUB3D."
  
  Essentially, there is a good deal of things to do to keep you busy. I was entirely overwhelmed 
 when I first started. There are many, many things in this game, and the graphics engine does an 
 impressive job of rendering it all. The graphics in this game are nice. They aren't awesome, but 
 they are nice. I have no complains as far as this topic goes; they get the job done. Sometimes 
 things might look a little clunky, and sometimes they take a little too long to render. This last 
 part is only a complaint when you are driving too fast and something appears right in front of 
 you. It is incredibly annoying.
  
  The sound in this game is very remarkable as well. There are a number of radio stations to choose 
 from while driving. Though there aren't a whole lot of tracks on each station, the fact that, as 
 a whole, there is so much music is a welcome feature in the game. Hard rock, the classics, alternative, 
 jazz, take your pick. They're all here. The sound effects themselves are not wholly outstanding 
 but there isn't anything that is to be desired.
  
  Now here go my complaints (and where things turn cynical) . Your friends within the game can get 
 annoying. They incessantly call you because they are apparently extremely lonely without you. They 
 always want to do stuff with you, and if you say no, then you lose "reputation" with them. Luckily 
 there is a way around losing your rep (say yes then cancel plans) , but I still started loathing 
 answering the phone. Another annoying thing is getting hit by a car. If said car just so happens 
 to run over you and stop on top of you, you die instantly. If anything stays on top of you, you 
 die instantly. This is widely regarded as a very bad thing. It happens at very inopportune times 
 and it sucks. Also, sometimes the AI gets stupid. This only happened to me two or three times though, 
 so it's not too big of a deal when they decide to run out and get killed. Also, it's beastly hard 
 to drive vehicles. I got used to it, but it's still daunting.
  
  Here is a sort-of short description of multiplayer: You join a game. There are a ton of gametypes. 
 You hope the gametype that you feel like playing is "race" or "deathmatch" or some deathmatch variant, 
 because if it is "Team Carjack City," no one else will play with you. You get in said game and 
 have a lot of fun, but all these noobs are wailing and hollering because the host had auto-aim 
 turned on. You suffer these peoples' annoying voices, and play what is a pretty fun multiplayer 
 game. It has no depth, but it's fun. It's especially fun with friends, so if you have any, tell 
 them to play with you. Picture four of you in a single car, arms all out the windows, doing drive-bys. 
 It's extremely fun. But when someone makes you explode, it sucks. And there you have it.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is not a great game because of any one aspect. If anything, it would be due 
 to the variety of things you'll find yourself doing and enjoying as a whole. You can do whatever 
 you want, whenever you want, and have fun doing it. If you want to watch fake TV in the game, you'll 
 have fun doing it. If you want to try outrunning the cops on a 6-star rating (which was not discussed 
 in this review) , you'll have a grand ole time. The game is a great game, and while there isn't 
 a whole lot of replay value, I've already logged in something like 65 hours into the game. That's 
 a lot more than any other game I own. It's not perfect by any means, but it is great. I'll be holding 
 onto it for a while, that much is certain.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this game has great game play & physics along with the graphics, but the online gaming kind of 
 has flaws, like a game menu that will never go into the game if the leader isn't there, the least 
 they could do is have a majority rule in there AGAINST the leader if he's there or not, so we know 
 what's happening. also, there's the fact that everyone calls you on unwanted times, & if you don't 
 say yes, your friendship meter will lower, & then you'll have to go out with them constantly. seeing 
 as this game is good, it's pretty annoying, with other things too, if you're being chased by the 
 cops & you go into a restaurant to replenish your health, they won't talk to you, but people don't 
 care if you're around when you're being chased. so it's engine is pretty good, but it's annoying. 
 so if you don't like annoying, skip it & buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxilo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite games EVER this is game you will love and you wont want to miss out on it will 
 you?
  well i think you need to get it many things to do around liberty city, like bowling darts, girlfriends, 
 or just roam the city, you can go in many different buildings get chaced by the cops, fbi, army 
 all them also the great thing about it is the graphics the best graphics ever, and the gameplay 
 is awesome, its better then any other gta but gta sa has more cheats and better, on this one there 
 are many diffrent cars instead of the same ones most of the time, and your car can break down and 
 smash into peices
  
  you can go to shops and buy new clothing you can go to garages and mod your cars you can do job/missions 
 to earn money, and buy houses. so you have to get this game NOW. dont just sit there go get it 
 now i mean it you will love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shizmonke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Gta 4 is probably the most highly anticipated game of the year. With the game being out for almost 
 3 months it has shattered sales records and has received massive critical acclaim. With good reason 
 to, because very few games can fully live up to the hype they deliver, but rest assured Gta 4 does. 
 Let me start by saying that Gta 4 hugely improves upon its predecessors making it the best game 
 of the series.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awesome when considered that this is a sandbox game which really cant 
 be held up to the standards of other games. The aspect of the graphics that really shine through 
 (no pun intended) is the lighting. The lighting is just flat out amazing. When you step outside 
 in the game you almost feel like the light is actually shining in your eyes. One of the most technically 
 amazing things in this game is the explosions. There is nothing more satisfying than taking your 
 rpg to a cop car and watching it explode into sheer awesomeness. Now with all these good graphics 
 in such a open world you cant expect it to be perfect because its not, but the problems are only 
 minor and barley hinder the game play. These problems are a few frame rate issues, but this is 
 due to fact that the game mainly runs at 60 fps and when it drops down to 30 fps (which still isn't 
 bad) you can tell. The other issue is some minor clipping issues, but both of these problems can 
 be easily overlooked.
  
  Sound: The Gta series has always been known for its amazing soundtrack. This one is no different 
 Rockstar is amazing at selecting music that sets the mood of there game. The sound effects in this 
 game really set the city off making it feel alive and breathing. Examples of this are screaming 
 pedestrians, honking horns, and powerful sounding guns.
  
  Gameplay: Now the gameplay is what has really made this game so much better than the gta games 
 before it. Rockstar has added quite a lot to enhance the gameplay. The major improvement is the 
 combat. They went with an over the shoulder view this time which works rather well. You can free 
 aim or you can lock on. While this has vastly improved the combat its not perfect. While the lock 
 on works you have the usual problem with lock on targeting. Prioritising. sometimes it just doesn't 
 lock on to the enemy who is the most threat to you. Now to remedy that you can use the free aim, 
 but this is also a little flawed. I noticed the aiming to be a little to jerky (for lack of a better 
 term) , and it also feels really akward and hard to use at close range. One of the new additions 
 to the combat is the cover system. Which works extremley well. You can take cover behind almost 
 anything in all of Liberty City. Which in itself is a true feat. Now with any cover system there 
 is a certain stickiness to them, but not nearly as bad as Gears of War. The driving has also been 
 changed. Its now more realistic than arcade like which can be a love it or hate it thing. Although 
 the content has been reduced when compared to San Andreas its all been refined. They went for quality 
 or quantity. As for the Multi player I am so impressed with what they did. It has 15 modes and 
 you can use all of liberty city. Almost every aspect from the single player has been carried over. 
 Meaning cops, pedestrains, traffic, all except the story line. All in all the gameplay is amazing. 
 It cant be held up to games that only focuse on 1 aspect because its when all these things come 
 together that this game becomes great.
  
  Fun Factor: Now this is what gta is known for, just being a overall fun game with limitless things 
 to do. Gta 4 still has that and more. Everything in this game has just been fine tuned and the 
 level of detail in this game is absolutly amazing, and the story has been completely rethought 
 and it makes it great. no longer do you get a charater who is just a total meat head but you actually 
 feel a connection with Niko.
  
  In conslusion, this game is just an outstanding game it really shows why gta is the king of sandbox 
 games, and why its going to stay like that for years to come.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Funfactor: 10
  
  Final Score: 9.5
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strokinit1251
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Play it even if you've never played any other games from the GTA series. 
 You will not be disappointed. Missions don't seem repetitive, and there is so much to do in the 
 game that you never get bored. The side missions are fun and challenging. The characters are hilarious. 
 And Nico the main character is a murderer you can't help but root for. I played it on it on the 
 360, so the achievements add a whole new element to the game and even become a challenge on their 
 own. You will find the game really never ends and even after the story is over the fun has only 
 began. The story by the way, is a truly memorable experience that will truly grab your attention. 
 It doesn't feel cheap and secondary to what people usually attach to the GTA games, which is violence, 
 drugs, sex, etc. Although the story is full of all that, it really works. Buy it rent it borrow 
 it steal it. Do whatever you have to to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game really set a hight standard for all other games. What I mean by that is that unlike other 
 games they went all the way in, like hours of Internet browsing, hours of TV, hell of a lot of 
 selection of cars, stores, clothes, weapons, and unlike other GTA games or other games you don't 
 bump into the same person, its very rare which is awesome. They didn't have fake Persian actors, didn't 
 have fake Jamaican voice actors, or other races, you heard real accents, a large variety in music, 
 and so on. Now when it comes to action it was amazing how much GTA improved. You could duck, shoot 
 better, hide, use any objects to throw, use or anything. The stunts are crazy, better than before, 
 scenery was beautiful, It reminded me so much on New York, the Statue Of Liberty looked amazing 
 but the face had a similarity to the the first female lol, but the story line was almost like watching 
 a rated R movie, it was cool though and I actually enjoyed it. I give this game a 10, cause they 
 set a record. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthisaki
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Where to start GTA4 is definitely a leap forward in next gen gaming, with its superb sandbox layout 
 crossed with a solid amount of enthralling missions. 
  
  Well ill start off with the story, i have to say it didn't draw me in like previous GTA games I 
 don't know what it was but I didn't find myself wanting to play the game but forcing myself to 
 play. But on the upside, this flaw is really the only flaw I found with the game. 
  
  From its impressive graphics down to the finest little detail (flying through the windscreen. ouch!)
 
  To its outstanding Realism when it came to strolling down the street bumping into people getting 
 brushed aside or brushing them aside, to its camera work when being drunk and stumbling around 
 like a cricket.
  
  Game play, if I had one problem with the game play it would have to be its controls when it came 
 to driving the cars, I found that it was hard to turn corners at reasonable to high speeds and 
 not get spun around. Shooting was definitely a breeze with the use of auto lock and cover protection, 
 the missions were definitely less strenuous and a lot nicer to play through.
  
  I highly recommend this game to any fellow gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flambemoi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  When I played GTA SA, I wondered, how could they possibly make this better? It has everything you 
 could want in a game, maybe not a master of certain game types but certainly a jack of all trades. 
 It had something for everyone. It improved on GTA VC and GTA LC, adding just the right amount of 
 new activities and new vehicles to keep one busy long after completing the main story line. Can 
 I say the same for GTA IV? Unfortunately, no. GTA IV has interesting missions which are fun, but 
 at the end of it all there's not a whole lot else to do after finishing the game. Sure you can 
 hunt down 200 pigeons, but.... why?! The achievement for doing so... maybe. What happened to bicycles? 
 What happened to tatooes and haircuts? If GTA IV is a sandbox game, then GTA SA was a full beach! 
 Don't get me wrong GTA IV has better graphics, and some good moments and little minute details 
 as well. It's overall a good game, I had fun playing it. MP was OK for me, not mind blowning like 
 COD4 or RS6. Am I looking forward to DLC? Maybe, depends on the price and what is being offered. 
 Am I looking forward to GTA V? DEFINITELY!! Maybe Rockstar will expand on Niko's experience, adding 
 more and more and more... now that they have a base game to start with, they should be able to make 
 a beach out of a sandbox :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has been called for everything due to its 10/10 score and im going to be honest with all 
 of you this is not the best GTA yet because its missing what we all loved before like the pointless 
 car tuning or the parachute or the country we could explore in a tractor or even go of road in 
 a quad bike this is and there is no way to escape it a watered down GTA just so we can have realism 
 which most of us like but why do we lose the GTA formula along the way?
  
  Well gta iv has superb characters Niko is funny but roman and the others are a little tedious and 
 i guess just not that likable but niko is the main guy so lets talk about him hes out for the american 
 dream and basically you do the same stuff in previous gtas you kill chases etc but thats not gta 
 ivs problem its that after the SP the game is not like gta at all its just another good SP game 
 with a decent MP put in aswell it just does not feel like the good old days of pointless fun and 
 thats annoying due to the wait for this game i some times think devs just want the game to be like 
 movies well im sorry ROCKSTAR but your a game dev not a movie director so you should make the game 
 fun not like a movie. I do like gta iv is single player has some fun missions like taking a girl 
 in the car and she grabs the wheel trying to get you of the road or helping roman from being held 
 hostage and i also like the combat. 
  
  Now lets talk MP now after i heard about this i was telling my friends and basically getting hyped 
 and after i played it i could not of been more dissapointed it was nothing like i imagined it would 
 be the cops robbers was weirdly unsatisfying and slightly boring and the other game modes like 
 party mode is a lot of fun with a friend but with others i was honestly bored.
  
  SO LETS GO THROUGH THE PROS 
  Excellent single player
  fantastic voice acting
  very detailed 
 realistic world
  
  cons
  but it does not feel like the old gta
  dissapointing MP
  you can really only buy guns after SP
  has lost the fun factor ( ex pointless fun)
  
  VERDICT
 
  GTA IV has a fantastic SP but after that this game dissapoints it may have a realistic world with 
 girls calling you etc but its just missing what made gta what it is but its still a must buy game 
 just dont expect the gta of old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabstun
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps it was all the pre release emotion, but when I finally played it, I just kept wanting more...... 
 Driving was like in the racing games, and well, gta has never being a racing game, and if I would 
 like to play a racing game I would have buyed a racing game, weapons and armor are out of the way 
 and a little un practical to attain, and the mobile.... it just rings when you are actually getting 
 to something else, some people are just not that depending of a mobile phone..... you maight be 
 missing something out. On one aspecte I just kept waiting, and waiting in the game was the ability 
 to get my self into some properties, and you just cant buy properties, what is that about, a gta 
 were you cant buy a house? or your own business? Your own strip club? And that is about all the 
 things I have to say about this game, I really was specting it with my hopes up, but I just kept 
 wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Witch_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to point out that I was extremely hyped about the release of GTA IV and I'm 
 very glad to say that I am not at all dissapointed.
  When you first start playing you may feel that you're in a interactive cutscene or everything is 
 scripted but no, everything really is this detailed and this perfectly atmospheric.
  From the second you step out of your good for nothing cousins apartment you will be hit by the 
 unbelievably vibrant and visceral world that you're in. Rockstar really have made Liberty City 
 feel 'alive'. From the tramps begging for a few dollars to the steaming manholes, they truly have 
 thought of everything.
  The story in the game will have you hooked from very first frame. Every character in GTA IV is 
 more believable than any GTA character before, you begin to feel for the characters and motives 
 behind doing things in-game go from 'ooh I'll get points if I help him' to 'oh no Roman needs my 
 help!'
  Fans of the Grand Theft Auto series might be surprised when they experience the new driving physics. 
 But if you let that put you off then you're doing yourself no favours, they're bang on the money, 
 never feeling as though you turned a corner unrealistically and never being too punishing. When 
 your racing through LC streets it really does feel like something straught out of Hollywood.
  The graphics are also something to behold, every last street has tons of detail and after finishing 
 100% of the game, I have yet to find something ugly.
  Many fans of GTA were excited to hear that GTA IV will feature online multiplayer. These people's 
 hopes will not have been crushed, there is so much longevity added to the game (not that it needs 
 it) by the multiplayer that it could easily have been sold as a cheap retail game by itself. There 
 are an abundance of game modes to choose from, ranging from your traditional Deathmatches to your 
 innovative 'Cops 'n' Crooks' in which a team of criminals must escape a team of police. You can 
 have teamwork pushed to the max or just all-out mayhem in Free-Play, your choice.
  It really is very difficult to find a flaw in GTAIV with the best single-player experience to date 
 and good multiplayer, but somehow it is flawed. I don't know how but it is. Maybe it is the lack 
 of crazy stuff to do like San Andreas or the rags to riches style of Vice City. I can; t quite put 
 my finger on what it is but you never know, this mysterious flaw could well be addressed in the 
 upcoming downloadable content for Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar and Grand Theft Auto have enjoyed a ton of success over the years. GTA 3 was considered 
 a revolutionary game when it was released in 01, and since then Rockstar has built upon that formula 
 with Vice City and San Andreas. So it comes as no surprise that GTA 4 is an insanely hyped game 
 with major expectations. So did Rockstar deliver on these expectations or fail to deliver on the 
 hype?
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4s story at heart can be best described as satire on American Society and Pop 
 Culture. However deep themes mean nothing if the presentation, characters, and a well paced story 
 can't match it. In this area Rockstar may have done there best work. GTA 4s story leans more towards 
 grit and reality instead of the cartoon like feel GTA 3 and Vice City had. You start as the main 
 character Nikko Bellic. He is a Russian who has just come to America in Liberty City (New York) , 
 to meet up with his cousin Roman. Together they begin there journey for the "American Dream". Something 
 that has been messed around with many books and plays such as "The Death of a Salesman" but now 
 in the world of Grand Theft Auto. 
  
  The formula for the story works as every GTA game. You go to a specific point in the city. Watch 
 a cut scene go kill somebody or grab a package and another cut scene. This formula stays true in 
 GTA 4 and for the most part would be repetitive if the missions didn't offer variety and game play 
 modes. For the most part there is so much to do in Liberty City that it really can become overwhelming 
 in certain cases. You will meat a ton of characters, personalities, rob a bank, runaway from cops, 
 board choppers, boats, etc. Even side mission cut scenes have been given a ton of detail. Simply 
 put Grand Theft Auto 4 has one of the best narratives in gaming this gen. Probably only surpassed 
 by the likes of Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  The biggest thing GTA 3 was loved for was the massive feel of freedom in Liberty City. SO it honestly 
 is no surprise that for Grand Theft Auto 4 Rockstar decided to focus on Liberty City again. If 
 GTA 3 was this amazing revolution, then GTA 4 maybe this amazing evolution. Never has Rockstar 
 or any open world game for that matter had a city feel so alive and have so much life. The pedestrians 
 that litter the city walk around, react to the rain, and branch out. The radio stations are hilarious, 
 the comedy acts are all well thought out, the advertisements around the city are well presented (not 
 in-game ads, ads for fake fast food places in GTA 4) , to the hilarious and well thought out Television 
 shows and ads you can see in your apartment. GTA 4s Liberty City just feels alive, dynamic, and 
 offers a ton of freedom. 
  
  The next part of the city gameplay revolves around the Cell Phone. This is your organizer and your 
 primary tool for the game. This is how you will organize dates with girlfriends, take friends out 
 to a meal or a strip club, or arrange street races. You can even pick up jobs such as drug dealing 
 and boosting cars for Steve. Then there is all the stuff you can explore into the city, the random 
 encounters with characters for side missions, etc. Simply put Liberty City is rich with detail, 
 quality mission variety, and hours upon hours of gameplay.
  
  This detailed city with a variety of missions, well done story, and hours upon hours of gameplay 
 is usually a sweat GTA game. That concept worked with GTA 3, Vice City and San Andreas. The 3 games 
 were able to avoid the poor gunplay that has forever been against the franchise and be considered 
 AAA successful games. However Rockstar made sure that the 4th time would finally be the time Rockstar 
 delivers on the gunplay as well as the City. Simply put this is how GTA should have always controlled. 
 The Resident Evil 4 camera for aiming, the new cover system, the new controls for shooting out 
 of vehicles. Everything has been redone and revamped for more precise shooting. Now you can shoot 
 out tires instead of hoping to blow up the vehicle. Now you can go for headshots instead of spraying 
 and praying. The only set back against the game is that on the 360 the controls are a bit different 
 from 360 shooters that use these concepts. On the PS3 they feel natural, with the exception of 
 cover. 
  
  The next big addition is the online Multiplayer. This can be done through the cell phone. Just 
 press the button and boom you enter the online lobby where you can create your character and try 
 some of the very good game modes. Lets start with the biggest one for people looking to just mess 
 around. Free Roam. This is plain and simple, you and 15 of your buddies running around and messing 
 up liberty city. It is all about having fun, with no ranking and or set goal in mind. If you thought 
 Liberty City is fun to go buck wild in on Single Player, Free Roam is a far superior beast in that 
 area. However no mp can be successful without actual rank gameplay and that is where GTA 4 delivers 
 some very good game modes. The cops and robbers mode is simple fantastic. Even superior to the 
 cops and robbers made through Forge in Halo 3. There is the street racing mode, which gets the 
 added spin of weapons. The online coop missions with time attacks, and a solid deathmatch variant. 
 If you think GTA 4s mp will overshadow Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 in terms of competitive gaming 
 then no it will fail on that end. If you think the mp will be a nice addition to an already impressive 
 single player experience and be up there as a solid MP experience for those wanting something different 
 and looking for more MP fun then GTA 4 will deliver. 
  
  GTA 4s core gameplay, lively city, fun mp, and detailed characters would mean nothing without some 
 technical improvements and MY GOD are they impressive. Lets get this out of the way there are games 
 that look better than Grand Theft Auto 4. However not one of them has the scale of Grand Theft 
 Auto 4. Simply put Grand Theft Auto 4 is huge. Has an exceptional lighting engine, detailed character 
 models and some of the best physics in gaming. GTA 4 runs on the new euphoria engine and just about 
 everything in the game is effected by them. One of the biggest getting used to changes will be 
 the car control because of how the physics work with the cars. They all show a different weight 
 and drifting feel. Watching characters fly, bounce and bend in multiple ways just leaves you in 
 awww. plus its FREAKIN SWEAT. To add to that the audio is well written in terms of the script and 
 the voice acting is probably the best in the series. Making not only the best characters in franchise 
 history but also the best voice acting. 
  
  GTA 4 however is not a perfect game. You will end up with some visual glitches here and there, 
 and there are some pacing issues. First the start of the game is just average at best. In fact 
 the first 10-15 missions can drag a little but this is a product of having so much gameplay mechanics 
 that the first 10-15 missions feel like tutorial stuff. Some of the writing and story elements 
 tend to feel tacked in certain side quest moments (however the main story flows in a perfect manor) . 
 The gunplay and cover system while defiantly an improvement can be a bit clunky when compared to 
 the likes of a Gears of War or an Uncharted. Throw in some missing stuff like The Army and Planes 
 and some will cry foul. Also while 100% completion in GTA 4 is bound to be fun, too much of that 
 100% is filler like kill 200 pigeons and not some exciting things or limited fetching. That and 
 for the most part GTA 4 is the easiest Grand Theft Auto.
  
  That said GTA 4 is an excellent package. The game is LOADED with content and hours of gameplay. 
 It could take anywhere from 50-60 hours to complete The campaign 100% and there is an alternative 
 ending based on your choices in this game. The very well done MP will only add to these hours of 
 gameplay. Simply put Grand Theft Auto 4 is a big game that will eat up hours of your life and time. 
 Grand Theft Auto 4 more than earns the 60 dollar price tag and is an excellent game. Probably one 
 of the best games this gen. 
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dough007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  When I seen that Grand Theft Auto IV was already rated a 10 out of 10, I just had to play it for 
 myself. Well, I guess everybody was right. Just the little features impressed me to the point where 
 I knew it was rated a 10. The driving was so realistic. When you beat somebody up, you keep hitting 
 them when they are down. I was shocked on the variety of activities you can do by yourself or with 
 your friends like Michell at the start when you go bowling with her. I was amazed when I was getting 
 chased by the cops, and my car flipped over in the water, and I could swim. It took along time 
 for me to swim away though. It was pretty funny when I got into a helicopter and then I got 6 wanted 
 stars. I knew I wasn't going to escape so I crashed into the police cars. I tried to run but then 
 I got back in the helicopter and then it blew up. You can never really get away if you have 6 stars 
 unless you cheat. Their is many things you can do I can't even explain. So this is a game you need 
 to get. It will probably be the longest game you'll ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalaspect
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  No doubt a worthy offering, another brilliant effort from Rock Star. The musical range is thankfully 
 more expansive than in San Andreas, but still does not hit the high note that Vice City did. That 
 soundtrack somehow just popped, capturing the era and adding a fantastic atmospheric feel that 
 nothing else has been able to replicate. While the many rave reviews will outline the things that 
 this title got right (of which there are plenty) , in my opinion, this game has lost a lot of what 
 made previous GTA's kick. The main character for instance does not have the heart and moral fiber 
 that CJ had. While he maintains his personal code of honor, he is not redeeming his childhood home, 
 struggling against an unfair and oppressive system, or even seeking vengeance for the wrongful 
 murder of his momma. Instead he is an amoral antihero, living out his dark whims. (Not to mention 
 being comparatively old, crusty, and shabby looking even in a suit) . The removal of the skill level 
 system and body modifications also seemed to take a bit away from the depth of the title. The pervasive 
 sarcastic and lewd humor seems to have been drained from the landscape. Store fronts and adverts 
 seem to have less character and satirical comedy. I miss how it seemed like every sign and icon 
 was infused with wit in Vice City. The humor and character set also seems to have gone more and 
 more fey as the series continues. Nothing directly wrong with that per se, but I would have resonated 
 more with heavier hetero fan service. A lot of modern comic writers seem to ascribe to the school 
 of thought that alternate directly translates to funny, but I don't buy it; it comes across as 
 heavy handed and unappealing. Litany of complaints aside, it is still a kick ass game top to bottom; 
 a thousand cheers for a studio with enough heart to give us something that is genuinely satisfying 
 and Adult. Decrying the "ID" only cripples and truncates your personality and subjugates the self 
 to the public will. Critics who use this as an excuse to ban video games may as well ban movies, 
 books (including their well thumped bibles) , music, and every other form of media capable of conveying 
 drama. It is only the people who are uninformed, uneducated, and foolish enough to believe (without 
 a shred of empirical support) that video games are only for children that can even foster such 
 ideas. They are wrong in that fundamental belief, and that basic flaw pervades and corrupts all 
 of their other ideas on the subject. If movies were stigmatized as being "for children" and sterilized 
 until nothing was left but PG titles imagine how much that would suck asteroid. Same bloody thing. 
 These people would do well to remember: children do not script, or program games; adults do. And 
 when those adults are writing/drawing/creating images for their own entertainment, they should 
 be free to do so at the full level of their intellectual and emotional depth. At least the dollar 
 signs tell the true story; Rockstar kixa$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I don't like reading large blocks of text, so I'll start with a brief description and then list 
 what's good and bad about it.
  
  If your wondering whether to buy this game, just ask yourself, did I like GTA III when it came 
 out? What about Vice City? San Andreas? If the answer to any of those games was yes, then go out 
 and buy it. If the answer was no to all of those games, then you should rent it first. Bottom line. 
 If you like Mercenaries, Saints Row or any of the previous GTA games, buy this. No question. Now 
 I shall list the pros and cons of this game
  
  Pros- 
  Great story and main character
  Lasts for a good 60 hours not counting online play
  Great graphics and frame rate
  Combat system 
 is fresh and fun
  Highly detailed breathing city
  Realistic human reactions (Ex. When you aim at someone through their windshield, they get scared 
 and try to drive away, ragdoll like effects, etc.)
  Lot's of variety and freedom to to several activities
  16 player online play is loads of fun
 
  Lot's of multiplayer modes
  Lot's of achievements that are hard to get, so they make you feel successful when you accomplish 
 them
  
  Cons-
  Some noticeable glitches in lots of areas of the game like combat, shooting and driving, and other 
 things
  Story was a tad short for my taste
  Online play has LOADS of glitches that although are sometimes funny, are mostly irritating
  Multiplayer 
 overall could have been better
  Games soundtrack was better in San Andreas than in this game
  Driving in this game is more realistic 
 than in other GTA games, but isn't as fun
  No more bicycles, no more weight gain/loss or muscle gain/loss, no more exotic locations (Ex. Deserts, 
 mountains, etc.) , less clothes to chose from, no more buying hideouts, less extra activities (Ex. 
 Paramedics, Fire Trucks are gone)
  WAY less vehicles
  No tanks = (
  No airplanes = (
  No more skill gaining (Ex. Weapons skills, driving skills, bicycle/motorcycle skills, etc.)
  
 No going underwater
  Overall a HUGE step down from San Andreas
  
  What I just described to you may turn you away from this game if you've played San Andreas, but 
 trust me. The amazing graphics and physics and overall presentation of this game will change your 
 mind. Trust me
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EphemeralDives
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to decide where to start on this one. So much of it is personal taste.
  
  First, the controls are horrid with cars being unmanageable and the camera rotating to the most 
 inconvenient angle possible.
  
  Second, the game's atmosphere stinks. Literally. You are a jerk and you are interacting with jerks. 
 You are wearing scummy, gang-banger clothes and everybody you talk to is hostile. Even just asking 
 for a hot dog is difficult and if you happen to bump the hot dog vendor when you walk up to him 
 - forget eating. And don't get me started about trying to ease around a corner in a car and nudging 
 a police cruiser...
  
  Finally, the game has no depth. You run the missions given or there isn't anything meaningful to 
 do. Yes, you can run down back alleys knifing people - for jollies I guess. Yes, you could drive 
 around (if you can steer the bloody car) running people over - for jollies. Otherwise, there isn't 
 anything in this game to do.
  
  People claim that this is a "sandbox game" and that you can go anywhere and do anything. They obviously 
 have never played a real sandbox game. When I can't tell if I can open a door until I walk up to 
 it and try - the game is not a sandbox. When I can't go off of the story line and still find meaningful 
 content, it is not a sandbox.
  
  The multiplayer is slightly more interesting and that is why I gave it such a high score. The tactical 
 thinking required in some of the scenarios was nice. However, if that's your thing, you'll get 
 more enjoyment out of CoD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is an awesome game. It was fun, interesting, had a great storyline, etc. But some 
 people didn't like it. I liked to freely roam and do crazy yet entertaining things. what people 
 didn't like is when they did that people would randomly call them asking them to do something and 
 if they said no they would get penalized. It happened to me to and it did get frustrating. Also 
 the missions, I thought they were fun. However some people didn't like the fact that the missions 
 pretty much stayed they same, like go kill this guy, and go kill this group of guys, and chase 
 this guy while your at it. The missions were fun, but later into the game you kind of expect what's 
 going to happen. I did, and it was still fun to me. However some people don't like that and want 
 to do something different. Well, I do too, but that's why I do random things in free roam. I did 
 get over the random people calling me. What I do to keep from getting penalized and not go on the 
 date at the same time is I agree to go on the date then immediately call them back and cancel the 
 plan, that way I don't get penalized. Overall, this is an awesome game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the longest game I've ever played and by far the best GTA yet. You take control 
 of Niko Belic, a Russian Immigrant to Liberty City. The game starts off with your arrival at the 
 city and from there onwards, the game is very much what you make of it. The game has a lot of optional 
 things you can do in the game world from merely cruising around the massive city in whatever car 
 you can get your hands on from bowling to helicopter tours. Going to an internet cafe and signing 
 onto a date site might get you dates or checking your emails to see if your friends need any help 
 with anything. The Story alone would take approximately 30 hours doing back to back missions, adding 
 side quests such as police missions and going on dates easily adds another 20 hours of game play. 
 To some extent this is where the game falls short, in that it takes immensely long to complete 
 the game. You find yourself on a constant roller coaster ride where the story dips and dives and 
 yet takes a very long time to get anywhere. The game takes a long to finish (however when it does 
 so, it is a satisfactory ending) . The game world in itself is a joy to explore, whether doing missions 
 or not. There is plenty to do from buying new clothes, to playing darts, or hunting down the 200 
 pigeons which have taken the place of "collectables". The weather and time of day changes in a 
 realistic manner that is also more often than not visually awesome. Doing missions at midnight 
 in the pouring rain is completely different from doing it on a sunny Friday morning. The city feels 
 very alive, with rush hours, realistic congestion and population. The dialogue is funny, if not 
 sometimes very rude. The physics of the game engine are excellent, making fire, explosions, and 
 the ways the world reacts to crashes etc very lifelike. It's almost fun just crashing cars to watch 
 dents appear. Each vehicle handles in a different way, which also changes dramatically according 
 to weather as well. This is cool. 
  The game play is almost as vast as the story length and game world. There are just so many options 
 that the learning curve is quite large. The driving takes a while to get the hang of, as does the 
 combat, but the long learning curve is only a fraction of the games length so it barely noticeable. 
 It's also well integrated into the story so learning isn't hard. The combat has a new lock-on system 
 as well as cover which can feel quite clumsy at times where death results from a mere confusion 
 when trying to switch weapons or because Niko slid in behind the wrong wall or doorway you wanted 
 him to. These cannot really be mastered easily if at all, and remain a fault throughout the whole 
 game. 
  In conclusion, GTA IV is well worth the money if you're willing to accept that it has an 18 rating. 
 It does contain a lot of violence, drug use and enough dirty mouthed people to fill England tenfold. 
 It does also have some awesome game play moments and although all the reviews gave it 10/10 or 
 5/5 I wouldn't say it was that amazing. It is however good fun. Well voice acted, well constructed, 
 visually astounding considering the sheer scale of the game, great characters, and although very 
 long, pretty good fun. 
  The multiplayer has a lot of game modes, which is a good combination with 16 players in one game 
 at once. You can do a lot from "free-mode" where you can roam the city with up to 16 others to 
 team death matches, races, gang wars and a number of other modes. The game needs at least 16 players 
 and almost as many game modes because it actually isn't all that much fun, and diversity is needed. 
 The combat gets boring and repetitive fast and the lock on doesn't always seem to work so you can 
 be killed with a pistol when you are firing an M4 machine gun, both holding the triggers exactly 
 the same. It is however good fun now and again. You can customise your online character, changing 
 clothes, hats, gender, and race. You can also pick up your friends during a game, and drive around 
 in your vehicle of choice, firing out the windows doing drive bys on your opponents. This added 
 feature makes the multiplayer fun both as an individual gamer, and as a team player, even if you 
 only play a few games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomdragon200
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  So far I havent played GTA as long as most but i've noticed some bad things and some good things. 
 So let me start off with the good, GTA just like all the others is huge it has about 5 main island's 
 with 3 smaller ones. The city Liberty City is based off New York, you get a wide range of weapons 
 and there are a lot of missions. For the car crazy people out there there's lot's of different 
 cars you can get you're hands on and some new and different motorcycles and aircraft's and boats. 
 The graphics are fantastic the explosion's look very real and there are a lot more fun way's to 
 wreck you're car and kill you're guy (you can shoot him out the front window if you hit something 
 hard enough :D ) . On the down side many of the characters talk in some accent or another some not 
 making any sense at all like Jacob, dont know if you can change this but so far i've noticed that 
 you cant just free aim with a gun you have to target someone to get them which can be annoying 
 if you're trying to shoot someone high up and you change to the civilian on the left. And there's 
 one thing i've never liked about the GTA series and this one has it to, you cant just go around 
 the whole city you have to unlock other area's first. On the good side however the first area you 
 get and all other's are quite big and in the beginning you start off with 2 rather than 1. I'n 
 all i would recommend buying this it is very fun and c'mon it's GTA, however if you dont like a 
 whole lot of accents in a game it may be a bit annoying to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursiveSaturn
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV -----The newest and supposably biggest sequel this year. Over 6 Million Copies 
 sold. Grand Theft Auto IV starts in the Big Apple, New York City. You are an immigrant from a European 
 country who is coming to America because of what your cousin Roman has told you (which was all 
 a lie) . The characters in GTA IV are played by really great voice actors and have great personalities. 
 The cover system is a nice addition to GTA but is a tad bit sticky when it comes to getting off 
 cover quickly. The guns sound great and there are plenty of little details added to Grand Theft 
 Auto that just make you smile. The storyline is good and the missions get difficult later in the 
 game but GTA IV is lacking alot in the single player experience. Rockstar has removed classic spare 
 time activites that were included in the firetrucks, ambulences and the noodle/pizza delivery missions. 
 Taxi driving is still slightly present and vigilante takes place from a computer in the Police 
 Cruisers but without all the activites, GTA IV feels empty when you complete the story. A new addition 
 to GTA IV is the internet and the cell phone. The internet allows you to access a dating site in 
 which you can meet 3 different girls to date. They are both unique and are also played by very 
 good voice actors. The dating in GTA is optional and isnt really intresting. You also have a cell 
 phone now which you can use to contact people for a variety of things. Sometimes you must call 
 people for missions but mainly you call the people in your phone book to hang out with them by 
 going to a variety of places. You can go to the bar and experience the difficulties of walking 
 around smashed from booze as well as driving. You can go bowling or play darts. See shows at the 
 Comedy Club (which features comedians like Kat Williams) or the Cabaret Club (which is like a magic 
 show) . Most of the activities arent very entertaining and really dont make up for the lack of the 
 vechicle  Onto Multiplayer! Grand Theft Auto has finally 
 made an actual attempt at Multiplayer. I have to say that the multiplayer isnt really bad. The 
 modes consist of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Turf War (like Halo 3s Territories mode) Hangman's 
 NOOSE (You must rescue a mob boss from the Swat Team or NOOSE) Cops n Crooks (You must get your 
 boss from Point A to Point B Alive) Race, GTA Race (Racing with weapons) , Bomb Da Base II (You must 
 work together with 3 other players to destory a transport ship) and of course Free Mode. The Deathmatch 
 modes are perfect and simple. It can be quite difficult when you play in one of the big areas. 
 Turf War isnt a bad mode and works out smoothly. Hangman's NOOSE isnt bad but is kind of bland 
 and easy. Cops n Crooks isnt too bad but can be very difficult and annyoing when you cant get a 
 car for your boss. Race and GTA Race are fun but you pick you car and most car are different when 
 it comes to turning in the race so people new to the mode usually lose easily. Bomb Da Base II 
 is fun but gets old after awhile. Free Mode is ok but they dont give you anything fun to do like 
 Bowl with your friends. You can turn the police on and off and pick certain sets of weapons to 
 have spawn on the map but the ranking up in GTA is very difficult and is a long and bland process. 
 You dont get many choices to customize your character and certainly not as many as Saints Row. ----------All 
 and all GTA IV doesnt deserve that 10 out of 10 but is more like an 8.0. This is a must buy for 
 any GTA fan but really isnt that great and doesnt offer alot when it comes to spare time activities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F3l1P3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Since I started the game I knew this one was going to be anooother thing, as in the other game 
 i played from GTA you started moving to this place, then you should start your new life in a "new" 
 place (if you played all GTA you know what i mean) , this is particulary funny, interesting, dump, 
 however you want to call it since you can do what ever you want, robbing a car; why not? but get 
 ready for the consequences.. you say police? of course the will look for you till you runaway or 
 you give up (recommend the first one if you don't want to lose all the weapons you got in your 
 missions) . You can do any kind of job from picking someone up to killing some guys that are disturbing 
 or not paying, you got a mobil phone, your best friend :) you can call you mission givers to start 
 a multiplayer from there, since it doesn't have a menu.. XD you can customize you telephone! at 
 least when you got one customizable jajaja
  I hope you like reading my review, write a comment If i missed details or info :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWulf666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  The Good: A hilarious yet serious adventure of one man and his troubled past (haven't heard that 
 before) as he struggles for revenge and well-being. The humor presented and hidden in this game 
 astounds me once again. So many references and jokes to remember from well-made characters. Random 
 men and women on the street add flavor and a hint of realism. Races, drug runs and hanging out with 
 your friends added more to this game than just missions in a sandbox. The city feels so much like 
 the real thing especially from an aerial point of view. Realistic melee combat and gun models. The 
 cars themselves look diverse and detailed. Enough gaa gaa over the single-player. The real redeeming 
 quality of this installment is the multiplayer. A fast-paced, massive battle with up to 16 players 
 as small teams defend themselves with up to 7 or 8 color variants. The grand-scale fire-fights are 
 sure to be pleasant and renewable memories for us all as Take-Two as delievered us want we really 
 want: a damn near perfect multiplayer game of Grant Thaft Auto.
  
  The Bad: I found the pyhsics engine to be nowhere close to realistic as it should be. The driving 
 schematics are a little held down by that fact. The MP5N submachinegun became the go-to-gun because 
 the other weapon choices were weak. Shotguns should be removed from this game. Point blank headshots 
 from the SPAZ 12 (or Remmington) would not be enough to bring men down and I am standing two inches 
 from their face as they stand with their hands up. The phone calls became highly annoying as your 
 carry out your missions (or try to that is) or other activities. The drug deal missions or deal missions 
 in general all ended the same way and became lackluster. Every missions that weren't deals were 
 copy-paste previous GTA missions. For example: the mission where a truck blows up a building and 
 on the way there, the car can't take too much damage. GTA 3 had the Triad mission where you blew 
 up the fish factory. Same design as in GTA4.
  
  Overall, if you can get past a unrealistic and boring singleplayer, you can find the humor and 
 fun of the multiplayer action that may win "Best Multiplayer Game of The Year". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelito0611
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Rockstar has triumphed with this action packed third person shooter. The main character is Nico 
 Belic, a Slavic immigrant, who comes to mythical Liberty City to see his cousin Roman. Nico is 
 a no nonsense kind of guy and soon he is sucked in to the underbelly of this corrupt society. It 
 has moments of high intesity as well as some comical aspects ( wait till you meet Brucie and Bernie) . 
 You have the ability to drive any vehicle in the game accept for the jets in the airport (awwwww) ; 
 but there is a sweet helicopter you can fly. Don't listen to the critics that say this game is 
 going to bring on the APOCALYPSE; any mature adult will take it for the entertainment aspect. Being 
 an M rated game, it is definitely not for the kiddies although you still encounter them during 
 online play. The action is familiar to those GTA fans but novices will pick up the play fairly 
 quickly. It is totally immersive and you will be swept in to the fantastic story. I was not to 
 happy with the Multiplayer aspect of the game but it was still fun to do the "free roam" section 
 where you are allowed to go everywhere in Liberty. 
  Please pick up this game; you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retherex
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  they should have had local multiplayer as well i mean when my freind came to spend the the night 
 over my house we were getting ready to play gta4 for the First time hoping we could play together 
 but instead we had to take turns. They should at least have content for that it would be worth buying 
 making gta4 more fun to play so i think rockstar games should make content for local multiplayer 
 they had it in san andreas why not gta4. They did a great job for online multiplayer having 16 people 
 roam they city goofing off but local multiplayer you can do stuff together without having lag. Some 
 peoples freinds dont have 360s or xbox live you know and plus it wouldnt hurt to spice the gaming 
 experiance up a little up to add other content because after a while the game does get pretty boring. 
 so rockstar gaming if you are reading this hope you give it a little thinking and add content for 
 local multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moe414
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  OK, GTA4, what can I say about it. It is nothing like what it was said it was. LEt's begin with 
 the hype. They made this game look like Goty material, maybe even game of the century, but let's 
 face it, that's just fanboy talk. They say this game attracts a "mature" audience, but do mature 
 people not enjoy fun? I'm matur, I still prefer San Andreas over GTA4 for the main reason San Andreas 
 delivered. GTA4 is like a sandbox with no sand, all you do is the story mode then they don't really 
 got anything to do. The story mode sucked, the story itself was well written, but the gameplay 
 of the story was really boring, I ended up knowing what I was going to do next mission because 
 it's all the same thing over and over again, run and gun, or drive to x and shoot x. The multiplayer 
 is boring in my opinion, and the city is like a big empty city. IT has the appearance of New York, 
 but not the feel. Well my overall opinion is that this game is a 7.5, 8.0 at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reno2199
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV. Many have been eagerly awaiting it. After a postal mishap, I received it a 
 week late and then completed all the main missions within a week, with a playing time of 17 hours 
 and no deaths or getting caught by the police.
  
  Where as this seems to make a 'short' game, anyone who has played previous Grand Theft Auto games 
 knows that the missions are not supposed to be the only focal point - arming yourself to the teeth 
 (or, for the more daring, picking up a pistol) and then shooting the nearest civilians and waiting 
 for the police is a great, if unnecessary, use of time.
  
  Obviously, the best thing to compare this game to is San Andreas. What's new? Lots.
  
  -New 
 controls. Easy to get used to, and I played a PS2 before the 360.
  -New physics. Nice explosions. You can walk into corpses and push them along.
  -New animations. 
 Euphoria is the AI system of the day. As well as the archetypal "cling on to [object] for dear 
 life" as made famous by The Force Unleashed videos, it can do other things e. g. if you're chasing 
 someone, they might retreat into a carpark for cover or to find some friends...
  -Good storyline. I won't go into details, but there are good twists in it.
  -Choices. Should 
 I kill this girl? Should I throw this guy off a rooftop because a mob boss told me to? Would he 
 find out if I didn't?
  -Smaller than San Andreas, but more building to go into. Still, I wouldn't say it felt as big as 
 San Andreas, even with this addition.
  
  So, for those that don't know, you are Niko Bellic, former member of the army "back home" in Eastern 
 Europe. His cousin says that he is living the high life to get him to go to America, but it turns 
 out that he was lying. A bit like in "The Guru", but with less Bhangra. Along the way, you find 
 out other reasons for Niko leaving his home country... [END STORY DETAILS]
  
  Choices impact the game a lot. Two examples I shall give are pretty cool (to me at least) . There's 
 a guy on a rooftop. I've been told to wipe out everyone in the building. This guy surrenders. I 
 let him live. Later on, I see him in the street. After asking how he is, he tells me that no-one's 
 going to push him around any more and pulls a pistol! I shoot him in the head. Another time, two 
 people I've been working for each tell me to kill the other. You can only choose one. I chose to 
 kill a stuck-up gangster, my friend chose to kill the down-on-his luck gangster who had just got 
 out of prison. If you kill the stuck-up gangster, you get his apartment, GTA3 clothes (easter egg!) 
 and the other guy becomes your friend and can send you backup if you're caught in a gunfight with 
 little ammo. Killing the nice guy nets you a big cash prize, but then the stuck-up gangster severs 
 ties with you.
  
  The phone is important in GTAIV. You call people, arrange to go bowling or something together, 
 eventually unlock 'abilities' such as asking your Jamaican friend for discounts guns (sold from 
 the back of his car) and dump one of your potentially many girlfriends. You can customise ringtones 
 and text message tones as well as setting vibrate functions and themes. You can also access multiplayer 
 from this phone.
  
  You know what I said earlier about taking on cops being a big thing in GTA? Online it's just as 
 good. As well as (the much expected) Deathmatch, Capture the Car (capture the flag, basically) , 
 Racing, Mob Missions (objective based online play) , NOOSE (get your mob boss away from multiple-star 
 cops) , Bomb Da Base (bomb a base...) , Deal Breaker (go for a drug deal - either side can pull out 
 the guns at any stage, so it can get a bit tense...) and Cops N Crooks (Cops and Robbers with guns 
 - not as violent on the playground) with team variations on a few of them, there's Freemode. A 
 god send.
  
  Freemode lets you do whatever you want with Xbox Live friends or random people you have never met. 
 Me and some friends held up a police station for quite awhile before leaping off the rooftop and 
 getting into cars. It was awesome. Some of the biggest WOW! moments happen when playing with friends. 
 Generally, online mode is as good as you would expect - fun for as long as you can be bothered 
 to play it, but not when you get whiney 8 year olds who claim to be 23 and try to use a deep voice 
 and claim others are hacking whenever they die.
  
  Veteran GTA players will like the modern touches. R3 button missions are gone, but you can call 
 your cousin to do taxi missions for him or jump in a police car and access the police database 
 to hunt down Liberty City's 30 most wanted or just random criminals.
  
  There is finally a proper cover system. It works like it should - press button to enter cover, 
 press again to exit. If it's high cover, Niko stands. If not, he crouches. You can hold the aim 
 button for accurate shooting but possibly get shot or you can blindfire, giving you safety at the 
 cost of accuracy.
  
  The bad points... graphics are not as amazing as some modern games are. They're good, but not mind-blowing. 
 Some missions are annoying and stupid. Compared to the fun missions (like the EPIC Bank Robbery 
 or bricking the windows in a guy's shop for protection money) , these are lousy, uninspiring and 
 a waste of time. Also, WHY IS THERE STILL NO OPTION TO REPLAY FUN MISSIONS WHEN THE GAME IS COMPLETED? 
 This was said a lot after San Andreas (especially regarding the Breaking The Bank At Caligula's 
 mission) so whyyyyyyyyy? Sometime's the AI will get stuck in walls. Sometimes you are given 12 
 seconds to get across a whole section of the map. The more awkward weapon select buttons mean you 
 can no longer select weapons whilst running. They have been mapped to the D-Pad.
  
  Overall, this game gets a 9/10.
  Gameplay |||||||||| 10
  Graphics |||||||| 8
  Sounds |||||||| 
 8
  Overall Value |||||||||| 10
  Tilt ||||||||| 9
  Average ||||||||| 9
  
  Very good, not quite the leap forward expected, but definitely a good game. The good definitely 
 outways the bad. All in all, an exellent buy for anyone, especially old GTA fans. Despite the lack 
 of planes and parachutes, it remains easy to enjoy.
  
  PARENTS BEWARE: No matter what your kid says to you about the game being 'tame' or not that bad, 
 there IS violence and blood and a LOT of swearing. aI'm not discouraging you to buy the game, but 
 just make sure you know what is in the game. The kid will enjoy the game regardless, but just keep 
 in mind that it's been given an 18 certificate for a reason. That's not to say that you shouldn't 
 buy your 16 year old son the game. He's probably heard worse things come out of a football (soccer, 
 for y'all Americans) manager's mouth and more blood in the film Hard Boiled. It's all up to you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meteorwings
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  GTA IV isn't bad, but isn't good either. There are some fun things to do but there are also things 
 that can frustrate you.
  
  Story:
  The story is good but can be better. You start of as Niko who is on his way to his cousin. Once 
 you met him you'll see he lives in a dirty house and only owns a taxi company. Once your hanging 
 a while with him you'll realise that you are looking for that special someone. After you keep playing 
 the game you will meet a lot of people who got missions for you. At the same time you do missions 
 for them, they help you finding that special someone.
  
  The missions and cut-scenes:
  Every time you start a mission, you'll see a nice cut-scene which are fun to watch. The missions 
 are mostly of the same. Its mostly like: take down that guy or gang, get the stuff and get away 
 from the gang or cops. like nine out of ten missions comes down to shooting which could be a bit 
 boring after a while. Of course you can do some side missions like racing or flying a helicopter, 
 but those are always like the same which get bored too.
  It's also frustrating when you need to start a mission all over. and by that I really mean ALL 
 over. When you are driving for 3 minutes to get to your location and you'll die at the shooting 
 place, you got to do that driving all over again. Which can be frustrating when you got to do a 
 mission over... and over..... and over again.
  
  Much to do?:
  Well... no... there is not much to do. When I was getting GTA IV I heard there was a lot to do in 
 the city. The only things you can do is pool, bowl, dart, eat or drink and that's about it. This 
 is my first GTA game and i was hoping there was a lot more to do, but that really disappointed 
 me.
  
  Controls:
  The controls are good. You'll learn shooting in less then a minute, and car driving ain't that 
 hard as most people say.
  
  Conclusion:
  GTA IV is a good game, but not the best i ever played. I was hoping for some more variation and 
 some less frustration. Of course there are some fun things to do and Niko is a funny person to 
 play with. Also some characters you'll meet in the game are awesome (like Brucie) and the cut-scenes 
 are fun to watch.
  
  Good:
  - Cut-scenes are fun to watch
  - Long single player
  - Funny characters
  - Controls
  - Story
  
  Bad:
  - Not much variation
  - Doing missions 
 over and over can be frustrating
  - Story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDustyOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is FUN, but has some stupid AI problems. It is forgivable though due to current technology 
 levels and........
  
  ... because of the slight downfall of AI to online multiplayer. The cops are just REALLY dumb sometimes 
 and don't always see you killing people.
  
  It is fun though. Just plain fun. 
  
  My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. 
 My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. 
 My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. 
 My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. 
 My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. My review. 
 My review. My review. My review. My review.
  love it or shove it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Well thats about explains the most of it, this is, by far, the best of the series of this game 
 to date.
  At first I was probably like everyone else when i found out that they went and made IV, i was like 
 WTF, aren't they at like 6 now. well i guess they wanted to go back to Liberty City and make a 
 whole new one. I figured they were going to keep the original map and make it better or something, 
 but boy was i wrong. They remade their own version of New York and New Jersey, and it was great, 
 huge too, as big or bigger then San Andreas, but those too were very close in size, San Andreas 
 has more open land so that may make up the difference. 
  
  Gameplay: Overall I am very impresses with the overall gameplay of the game, the varying mission 
 really kept you into the story, bringing in new characters to get potential jobs, varying difficulties 
 throughout. Thats just a little bit of it, I love the way they brought back most of all the vehicles 
 from every other GTA game, plus adding a few new ones, also, making some of the cars looks relatively 
 close to the original like the infenous as a mircielago, my favorite in the game, especially cause 
 they gave it the stock doors. Also, I am glad of the update of the cell phone feature, actual using 
 numbers, organizer, contacts you can call about at any time, and not missing calls cause of a fall 
 of hit by a car or something, and not just simply answering it when u get out of a car, it happens 
 anytime. The extras after the story are awesome, the races, the new most wanted and vigilante setup, 
 plus all the USJ and the the rats, which are like hidden packages you can shoot, awesome, funny 
 when they get shot too, POOF! lol. O yeah, I am so glad they got rid of the gang zone system, that 
 wasnt a real fun feature, really made you not want to visit Los Santos at all.
  Now for the downsides, not very many, but i miss that they took out the flying the plane thing, 
 plus the parachute, i miss skydiving. DOnt Forget the Hydra and the Hunter, those were the ass 
 kickery standard of GTA, o well, i wish we could fly planes too but o well. The annihilator is 
 ok but is no hunter. 
  
  Multiplayer i havent really been able to sink my teeth into because of my schools poor internet 
 service, but when i can i love it so when i can i will get into it as much as possible.
  
  Overall great game and keep pumping out those kick ass titles!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PS360-
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I will tell you why this game is not that good. Review websites gave this game tens, which in my 
 opinion, this game does not deserve. It starts out rather promising, an immigrant starting out, 
 I was thinking that maybe he would rise up and get involved with big gangs, and get lots of money, 
 that it would be a fun game to advance in, but noooo he had to keep doing these o. k missions for 
 pointless characters that dont mean anything later. The game was a big waste of time and was very 
 boring.
  
  The Good:
  Graphics/Physics play very nicely on consoles
  Sandbox freedom
  Fun the first few times playing
  guns sound good
  city looks fine
  
  The Bad:
  Old after 
 awhile (gets very repetitive)
  stupid, uninspiring story with dumb, unlikable and pointless characters
  not enough choices in 
 the story mode (could have made it better)
  multiplayer get boring quicky
  mini games (bowling, dating) all pointless and boring
  
  Bottom line:
  everything technical 
 about this game is great, but everything else that actually mean something are sub par. The story 
 could have been SO MUCH BETTER when you look at the whole city and everything they did wrong.
 
  
  Final word: Rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowdog42684
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto had a lot of time to build quite the hype train, making some of us wondering how 
 it could ever live up to expectations. I'm aware that I don't speak for everybody, but I can safely 
 say that I was pleasantly suprised with the masterpiece that Rockstar kicked out this time.
  As far as what to expect, well, if you've ever played a GTA game before, than you know the drill. 
 Don't interpret this, however, to mean that it's just more of the same because it is polished to 
 a level unlike any before and is on a grander scale than ever before. 
  While the physical size of Liberty City is not as large as San Andreas, once you boot up the game, 
 that thought will never cross your mind. This city is more bustling and alive than you would have 
 thought possible in a video game. There is no space in the game that isn't dripping with detail. 
 The pedestrians have lives of their own, will react realistically to any and all things. Liberty 
 City could be considered a work of art even if there wasn't a game to play.
  Luckily, there is. And a hell of a game at that. The lengthy campaign mode has a wide variety of 
 missions to be played that will have you hunting, escorting, ambushing and invading all sorts of 
 characters, and thanks to the improved controls, doing all of it is a breeze.... and great fun. 
 Aiming is easier and more natural than ever before, fixing one of the series' biggest problems. 
 The all-new cover system makes fire-fights more tactical and life-like.
  The story is better than previous iterations in the series, with top-notch voice-acting and great 
 directing. And while it is not the "Oscar-caliber" story that I have seen some reviewers claim 
 it is, it certainly can be moving and it's great to see video games achieve cinematic heights like 
 this. Characters like Brucie and Roman really give a zest to the dialogue, while Niko himself effectively 
 conveys the tragic emotional struggle that someone in his position should. All in all, GTA IV really 
 pushes video games closer to an artful form of storytelling.
  The story missions of GTA IV will keep anyone occupied for many hours, but it brings a lot more 
 to the table than that, such as races, optional side missions, hidden packages and, most importantly, 
 a very robust online multiplayer game. A plethora of individual and team-based deathmatch and objective-based 
 games are supported. Up to sixteen players can battle it out across the streets of the entire Liberty 
 City. The game types are varied, the matches run smoothly, and the matchmaking, party system and 
 lobby mode are all easy to use. 
  It's hard to argue that GTA IV isn't a wonderful game. Its mature content make it inappropriate 
 for some audiences, but for those who can take the blood and language Grand Theft Auto IV is a 
 game that is not to be missed. Period. Buy this game. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian_Cossack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was probably one of the most anticipated games of the generation for every 
 casual video game fan, and even a good amount of the hardcore base. It had some huge shoes to fill 
 after the success of the previous entries of the series. In a way, it more than filled these shoes 
 in a few areas, but it seems to be a little short in the pure content/features area when compared 
 to San Andreas.
  The story of GTAIV revolves around Russian immigrant Niko Belic trying to make ends meet in the 
 United States. He seems to be haunted by an event of his past, and also has to constantly be watching 
 out for his cousin Roman, and these things help create an entertaining line of events to go through 
 along with other small story pieces. The single player experience is indeed a fun one, so much 
 that it could be considered the best of the series. Only 2 little problems surround it: The difficulty 
 of the missions will be a little too easy for veterans of the series, and some of the missions 
 become a bit repetitive over time. You'll still have plenty of fun anyway with it.
  Outside the story mode, you're given plenty of things to do including: Most wanted missions, dating, 
 racing, random characters and exotic export. If you're a completionist, you'll have a blast doing 
 all of these to get 100% in the game, otherwise, an average player will only like doing some of 
 these things in small doses.
  The best part about this new entry is the attention to detail given to everything. The "blank check" 
 budget that was given to Rockstar North really helped the developers give notice to even the smallest 
 of things in the huge Liberty City. Some of the things you notice in this game will realy surprise 
 if you think about it.
  
  Now, here are my only real complaints about GTAIV:
  1. There's glitches, like when I drive into a tunnel the screen gets screwy. The huge budget should've 
 been able to clear this up.
  2. A lot of the things that we saw in San Andreas are now gone. In a couple cases (like the leveling 
 system for skills) , this is good. But I miss some other things like being able to go BMX or dancing 
 in a club. I'm guessing though that this will be seen in the next adaptation on the current consoles.
 
  
  Pretty much, if you ike any of the past entries of GTA even a little bit, then this one is worth 
 checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakhalf-life
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 is here and it is better that ever. You play as Niko Belic who just arrived 
 into america by ship to live with his cousin Roman and escape his dreaded past, but they both soon 
 slip into debt and enter the world of crime and money as they eagerly hold on by working for people 
 for money. i'm not going to spoil it all. But i can say that GTA 4 is amazing. Liberty city is 
 truly a breathing living city full of like like people and city attributes. The story really has 
 a lot of depth and is explained clearly in thrilling cut-scenes, the voice acting is also incredible 
 along with fluent animations that appear so life like, but GTA 4 really shines in its driving mechanics. 
 The car physics is very life like and vehicle damage is really amazing, both in the quality of 
 it and the reactions. The quality of the visual effects are pretty nice especially the explosions, sparks, 
 and lighting dynamics. If you are looking for a great game to last you this summer till all the 
 other blockbuster titles then this is the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvmesomchicken
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This is seriously the most beautiful game on the 360. I mean I have a REALLY small old tv, so small 
 to the point where i can barely even use the minimap, but even on my tv the graphics are AWESOME.
 
  
  When the game first starts out you are this immigrant guy named niko bellic trying to make a living. 
 and sure enough, due to your cousin roman, you get caught up in a life of crime. (duh, its GTA)
 
  
  The single player story is REALLY long, it took me about 40 hours to beat it, and theres even an 
 achievement for beating the campaign in 30 hours or under. The game still has the same old GTA 
 feel but its a bit more... unique, in this game. Due to the completely new game engine its still 
 the familiar GTA game play from vice city & san andreas, but its just soooooooo much more satisfying 
 for some reason. Driving physics are completely realistic. all the sound effects, engines, sounds 
 of a chopper flying overhead, gunshots, explosions, car crashes. everything looks and sounds just 
 absolutely AMAZING. The area you have available to you also is alot bigger than previous gta games.
 
  
  
  
  There is so much more to do in this game than previous GTA games, you can go bowling, play darts, 
 go watch plays, play minigolf, and you can walk into most of the buildings that you see.
  
  
  the multiplayer is OK, i didnt really experiment much with deathmatch and objective based game 
 modes tho. i spent 95% of my time online in this game playing in free mode which is pretty damn 
 fun when you have a full game of people to screw around with. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: km1498
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV it is a perfect showcase of how gaming should and can be done. With great graphics, 
 sound, story and multiplayer it truly is a awesome game.
  
  You play as an illegal immigrant named Niko Bellic who comes to America to make it big in the New 
 York City clone Liberty City (which is nothing like the liberty city from GTA III) . Unfortunately 
 Niko finds only crime and despair which I think is the reason that he is a very likable character. 
 I am not going to mention any more of the storyline so as to not spoil any of it but trust me, 
 it's good.
  
  A new addition to the series is multiplayer. And Rockstar hit the nail on the head with it too. 
 Although it might take some getting use too especially if your only or main experience with online 
 multiplayer is with first person shooters (like mine is) , but after a few matches of Deathmatch 
 or Cops 'n Robbers modes you will feel very comfortable with this different style of play. 
  
  The game looks and sounds great, I was unable to find any big glitches in the graphics or bad 
 sound effects that previous GTA games have suffered from. And while the soundtrack selection was 
 not that good (for my taste anyway) most people will find a radio station to there liking. The attention 
 paid to the details of the game is simply amazing. Rockstar has really thought of just about everything, 
 from in-game internet to a cool cell phone. Although there are a few features from San Andreas 
 that I would like to have seen carried over, the new stuff more than makes up for anything that 
 may be missing.
  
  With the just overall greatness that is Grand Theft Auto IV, it is simply a must own for anyone 
 who likes video games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an outstanding addition to one of the greatest series in gaming history. 
 The game starts as Niko Bellic arrives in Liberty City (New York) to see the life of his cousin 
 Roman, who says he is living the "American Dream." However, once he arrives to Romans "mansion," 
 he soon realizes that his cousin is full of lies and that the supposed American dream lifestyle 
 is still only a dream. Moreover, Niko did not only come to Liberty City to see his cousin but also 
 to seek revenge. You will go through many missions gaining respect, money, friends, and more information 
 on the "special someone" that Niko is looking for. Also, in some points in the game, you will be 
 able to choose "the path," for example you can either kill or spare the person, which you will 
 encounter a couple times within GTA 4. The visuals are mind-blowing from its gorgeous skyscrapers 
 to the crystal clear ocean waters. As for GTA 4's audio, it is superb as well, from the gun shots 
 to the different engine sounds of each vehicle to the large variety of music. To add to the great 
 gameplay of GTA 4, for the first time Rockstar has added online multiplayer to the series, which 
 includes dozens of modes, such as, cops 'n' crooks, deathmatch, mafia, and online racing. Yet it 
 needs much improvement. But every game has a downfall, some being that there is no army (meaning 
 no tanks or U. S army on 6 stars) , not a big selection of helicopters, no planes or jets, there 
 are no garages to save your cars, instead there are parking spots near your apartment. You can 
 not buy any apartments, throughout the game you will be given one apartment (unless you get Playboy 
 X's place in the 2nd island) for each island. Lastly, the missions become somewhat repetitive but 
 all are still enjoyable, especially the ending, which I must say is spectacular. GTA 4 has one 
 of the best ending (s) that I've experienced in a game. Overall, Grand Theft Auto 4 is an outstanding 
 modern action adventure game but yet I feel many aspects of what made the Grand Theft Auto franchise 
 so amazing are missing from this latest installment. GTA 4 is very satisfying overall, however, 
 it does not live up to a perfect 10.0 or even to the previous GTA games and it was definitely "too 
 over hyped." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  By far this is the best GTA game in the series. I think its one of the best games i've ever played 
 and after 4 months playing this game i'm still addicted. RockStar did a fine job with this game. 
 Almost everything in this game is amazing. The multiplayer I think is the best i've played in along 
 time, the only thing rivaling it is COD4. You can do anything in multiplayer, fly helis, drive, 
 do drive-bys, you name it you can do it. There is no words to explain the story, its one of the 
 greatest in the GTA story and the main character Niko is straight up gangsta, he might be European 
 but he is a badass and you really enjoy playing as him. The only downfall of this game was no car 
 customization, but it might be added in downloadable content coming out in october. Rockstar has 
 done some major improvements including the weapons system and it feels like your actually driving 
 a car in the game. The rage engine in the game gives the game realistic grapics. If you want to 
 buy a game and not waste your money on some crappy game, buy GTA IV for endless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great gaming experience. When i first put in the disc i was a little skeptical on how 
 it would be hearing all the amazing things about it i thought this game was too good to be true. 
 But everyone was right. This game is great! The visuals (for a gta game) are amazing. The new controls 
 in shooting and covering are much better than previous gta games. I wasn't excited with the new 
 russian character but he grew on me and kicks major butt. I like the new dating system also which 
 allows you to take people on dates or mess with them. and who doesnt love the comedy stop near 
 times square. That was another good idea. 
  
  GTA IV is a great game because it keeps the GTA formula in tact with new additions that make this 
 game the best in the series yet. The storyline is more in depth as your reactions and desicions 
 play a part in how you play the game. Driving is a little more difficult but you get used to it 
 after an hour. The new combat controls are great and much easier than previous GTA's. This game 
 is a must buy for all gta fans and anyone that owns a 360 or ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torio795
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I could sit and play this game all day long over and over and still never 
 get bored. I would definitely recommend this game to any type of gamer, YOU'LL LOVE IT! 
  
  The story missions are perfect and set out just right and the gritty gri-mey theme of the game 
 and not rags to riches but rags to slightly better rags makes the game feel real world instead 
 of fantasy. You will definitely get so oo involved in this game and never want to stop playing. 
 There could be more story missions and maybe some more characters and nicer looking women ;) . There 
 could maybe be a bit more from Playboy x, he livens the game up a lot half way through and overall 
 i think he's a wicked character, also Little Jacob. so it would have been nice to see a bit more 
 of them and some more from other characters. 
  
  Rockstar have got the weapons system on this game just right. The way the aiming reticule is and 
 the way the not so lucky body falls when it's been shot is truley something special, i prefer to 
 use the mighty shotgun, you never loose with this weapon.
  
  The graphics in Grand Theft Auto 4 are so oo much of a big step from the previous GTA games. Obviously 
 it's going to be because it's on a next gen console but Rockstar really have pushed the graphics 
 and the gameplay to the limit on this one and made something amazing!
  
  I've always enjoyed playing all of the GTA games, i think the story lines are perfect and amusing 
 and i really do recommend this game to anyone, and the gamers who do like them gritty story line 
 games will truley find this game something special and enjoy every minuite of it
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is definitely worth a 10 so my overall score for this game is a big 10 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game though it sort of detracts from the paths of it's predecessors. I 
 think that this game takes itself too seriously. It's missing some of the things that made Vice 
 City and San Andreas such great games. I didn't mention GTA III because it was the first Vice City 
 game which used a 3rd person perspective.
  
  I think that the environments are clean and very detailed. I like that the NPC's are so varied 
 and each have their own personality. I feel that this game is beautiful and very well finished 
 but could be more gritty like it's predecessors. 
  
  Niko is a very likable character and probably the most personable of all the other GTA main characters 
 but I attribute this to the writing. I'ts the same writing that could have made the game a funnier 
 experience instead of leading this game in a path that's too realistic. 
  
  Either way I feel that other than the main storyline this game posseses all the fun of the previous 
 games as far as wreaking havoc and mayhem on the city after having passed the game. The Multiplayer 
 is good. This game is definitely worth having. The story is great this game is near perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  first of all I would give the game 9.7-9.8 but it is not alowed to chose bitwen the points...
 
  but it dosent deserve the complete 10 and the is not a game that deserves the complete 10.
  this game has a very flexable gaming mode in driving, firing, moving around...
  it have a very 
 good graphic but sometimes you can see some flaws in the walls, the peoples, and the cars...
  
  it does have a cool story that can be turned into a movie or some like that, the charectars 
 are good but the way they made is not so good they kinda look like they made of wax...
  
  the city is great especialy at night, you can take a toure by a choper then you can see how cool 
 it is.
  
  one important thing that does not exist in the game is kids, schools, and animals. this matter should 
 be taken care of in the next games by rockstar... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirzahi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 is different from past games in the series, in good
  ways and bad. The game offers top notch graphics and an amazingly 
  detailed environment to play 
 in. Everything in gta 4, such as the explosions,
  cars, weather effects and the city itself look pure awesome. 
  
  The game also makes very good 
 use of its physics engine, crashing
  into a car while on a motorbike and seeing Niko go flying and getting 
  slammed into various 
 objects in painful ways may never get old for some
  people. 
  
  One of the elements of Gta 4 that i really enjoyed was its story. The plot
  is well written and 
 definitely a huge step up from previous Gta games. 
  Theres also some fantastic voice acting and Niko himself is by far the best
  protagonist in the 
 series so far.
  
  Gta 4 introduces some new changes to gameplay. The car handling feels
  a little different, theres a new cover system which makes gun fights alot
  easier and even more 
 entertaining. Theres also a neat cellphone system 
  that lets you do various things, although it can get a little annoying to keep all your virtual 
 friends happy. Plus theres a new internet system which features tons of websites, some of them 
 do have funny blogs but overall theres only about 3 to 5 sites that are actually useful, the rest 
 is wasted space imo.
  
  Another new feature in Gta 4 is it's online multiplayer mode. Some of the 
  modes are pretty 
 fun and it can keep you entertained after you beat the 
  story mode but eventually it does get a little dull. There isn't really much to 
  accomplish 
 in multiplayer. 
  
  The game is definitely worth a buy and newcomers to the series will love it.
  Although, those 
 who have played San Andreas to depth will be left wanting more from Gta 4. One of it's biggest 
 downfalls is it's lack of content. There are fewer missions, fewer vehicles, fewer weapons and 
 a smaller environment. For me, the worst thing of all was its lack of cheats. Cheats 
  such as the rhino tank, ped riot and peds with guns are what made the previous games in the series 
 gold. It gave alot of replay value to those games and it's exclusion from Gta 4 hurts the game 
 badly. 
  
  Rockstar has replaced so many fun elements from previous gta games with realism in gta 4, which 
 is pretty cool for a while but a very huge disappointment. It just doesn't feel like a true sequel 
 to San Andreas. I was left just wanting so much more. This game has alot less replay value and 
 alot more disappointment.
  
  Overall, Grand theft auto 4 is an awesome game with alot to do while it lasts, though it doesn't 
 feel as awesome as San Andreas, it is still a great game and worth a buy. You can get alot out 
 of it but as i said earlier, its just so minor when compared to San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar-Dunnie
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  After years of anticipation, and disappointment after disappointment from delays, Grand Theft Auto 
 IV finally emerges onto the next-generation of video gaming and players will not be disappointed 
 by this truely "next-generation" game. 
  
  Players play as Niko Bellic, a immigrant who moves to the U. S. to escape the struggle of home. 
 Niko is a great protagonist as he just too likable, by his hilarious sarcasm and his character. 
 As the game progresses, players begin to realize that this Grand Theft Auto game has a completely 
 different story than the others and most players will not be disappointed the story, as it catches 
 players and keeps them playing the story mode from beginning to the end without ever wanting to 
 stop, as the story is very addicting. Some new additions have been added to story play as well, 
 as players are able to do two of the following. First, some missions require the player to make 
 a choice of who they want to kill on the mission. Second, Niko talks to people on a cell phone 
 to get more mission information in the middle of a mission.
  
  The graphics of Grand Theft Auto IV are a major step up from the previous games. The characters 
 actually look like real people, and not "choppy". The buildings are very realistic as you can see 
 lights from buildings shine onto the water, which is also very realistic.
  
  The formula from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was adopted and Niko can swim in the water and jump 
 and climb fences/objects. Unfortunately, there aren't any bicycles or jets like in San Andreas. 
 There also aren't any tanks. However, helicopters are still available in the game.
  
  The taxi formula improved as well in the game, as players can halt a taxi and get a ride. They 
 can even select a location to which they would like to go by selecting it on the taxi computer. 
 Along with taxi are police cars which have improved as well. Vigilante was taken out, but in its 
 place, players can now capture criminals on the police computer, whether it be "current crimes" 
 or the "most wanted list".
  
  Driving and navigation is improved as well, as players now have a GPS in cars and routes are highlighted 
 on the map. There is also a voice which tells you which way to go, even though it is pretty pointless.
 
  
  Some other things that are new to the Grand Theft Auto franchise in Grand Theft Auto IV are: drunk 
 driving, hanging out with friends, calling people (and even police) on a cell phone, and going 
 online at an internet cafe. And that's just to name a few things.
  
  Multiplayer is a big change from the PSP Grand Theft Auto games' multiplayer modes. Players can 
 play an assortment of games, whether it be "Team Deathmatch", "Race" or "Cops N' Crooks" (which 
 is like cops versus robbers) . Players can even play a free roam, including all over the entire 
 city. And, (along with in the single player game) , players can take cover and stand against a wall 
 and aim and shoot, kinda like in the game Gears of War.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is just one step into the next-generation of gaming. Everything in the game, 
 (story, graphics, multiplayer, detail, effort put in the game) is completely "next-generation" 
 and Grand Theft Auto fans or those new to the series will not be disappointed one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lost_knight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  ok, let's be fair, now. Most of us are very excited about GTA IV, a game about this european thug 
 rampaging through american cities. Living in the american dream. Here is a list of good points 
 about this game
  -great graphics
  -good storylines
  -good multiplayer
  -many things to do
  
  So? what's the problem then? here it is
  
  -too much restrictions 
 on what you can do. You go into the gun store, use the baseball bat and kill the noobs in the store. 
 You would think that now you can take whatever you want, but it doesn't work that way, YOU CAN'T. 
 I argued with one of my friend about this, he said, "it would be too easy if you could", i mean 
 WHY?? This game is about freedom, the american dream, the game is already easy enough as it is, 
 who cares if it gets any easier? Wouldn't it be nice to rob the stores?
  
  -so many useless houses. Have you ever tried picklocking someone's house? i'm sure you have, that 
 doesn't work, i mean, give me a break?! your a thug, you do whatever you like, why should YOU be 
 limited??
  
  -have any of you tried jumping of the bridge and into the river to make your escape? if you have, 
 then you would know that, the police will reach you by boat within 10 seconds (i mean wtf???!) , 
 they would have olympic gold metal aim, and headshot you in the WATER. wow, i never knew U. S police 
 were so well trained??! what the hell?
  
  anyhow i'm not bashing the game, i loved it, i just feel like this game is holding itself back 
 from all the great things that it can do. So please, look at this review honestly, not with a biased 
 opinion. thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue505
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  I would of course say that the new GTA is an improvement, but when you compare this game to the 
 expectations for this new edition you get mixed reactions. 
  
  The story itself is great and the games has its own unique sense of humour. Combat is more or less 
 well done, taking cover fits in just fine. The camera can get annoying at times (for example it 
 gets stuck in a tree and you can't see a thing) . Visually the game is OK, but nothing special. 
 While the voice acting is well done, I prefer to keep the music off because I have no intention 
 to tolerate commercials or listen to dull radio shows while driving my virtual vehicle. And I'm 
 not about to spend half my time switching through channels, either.
  
  The city itself is something special. You get the feeling that everyone around you is a demented 
 sociopath. The way ordinary by-going people act and react is ... troubling to say the least. Plus 
 I really dislike the fact that unless you are very careful where you walk, your character will 
 aggressively bump into everyone or knock them to the ground.
  
  Friends and girlfriends are a good concept, but poorly implemented. Dates are actually quite hilarious. 
 Your girlfriend will say hi and then like a robot comment on all your possessions - your car, your 
 shoes, your shirt, your pants, your glasses, your hat ... like some cheap cash whore.
  
  It's actually quite hard to maintain close relationships with your "friends". They will phone you 
 at impossible times asking if you want to meet up. You often can't say yes because you are located 
 on the other side of town. Your friends always want that you pick them up within an hour, which 
 is sometimes impossible. Furthermore unless you go out with them regularly (for example every day 
 or so) they will get the feeling that you are ignoring them. Since time flies in GTA (compared 
 to real time) you would have to spend your entire day going out with people, which leaves you no 
 time to do any ACTUAL work. 
  It's a hassle, really. Pick people up, drive them somewhere, pay for everything, then take them 
 back home. Can't we simply meet up somewhere? :)
  
  What really annoys me about missions is, that if you happen to fail one you must do everything 
 from the beginning - right from the point where you accepted the mission. Which means you must 
 get to the location of the mission again, etc. Seems kind of pointless to me, especially when you 
 fail a mission due to poor mission set up.
  
  The city does feel alive, but I also get the impression that the city is sick. Everyone is constantly 
 cursing, threatening each other, driving aggressively, you can see police officers running over 
 pedestrians in public, etc. 
  
  Niko, with his mafia lifestyle, does not even stand out. And that is a problem, IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  The GTA franchise is known for many things, but one thing that most people never mention are its 
 superb stories and Grand Theft Auto IV is no different. You play as Niko Bellic, a veteran of the 
 Bosnian War who decides to come into Liberty City to live with his cousin Roman. Upon arriving, 
 you'll realize that Roman wasn't completely honest in his emails to Niko about life in America 
 and soon Niko fins himself helping his cousin get out of debt and more importantly, out of the 
 cross hairs of Russian loan sharks. This is only the start of a story that involves Russian, Irish 
 and Italian mafias. Much like other GTA games, there are alot of twists and turns, however this 
 time the stories biggest twist is created by the players themselves.
  
  GTA 4 introduces a new choice system, which not only allows you to choose who to kill, but also 
 affects the story and even the game's cutscenes and dialog. This gives the game a whole new level 
 of replay value as killing one person or the other has both its good and sometimes bad consequences. 
 This new feature allows GTA 4 to have 2 possible endings, a first in the franchise's history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astarothjim
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Yo que he jugado todos los GTAs hasta el momento, este en particular me gusto mas por el simple 
 hecho de que es mas realista desde la fisica hasta la los graficos mas realistas quYo que he jugado 
 todos los GTAs hasta el momento, este en particular me gusto mas por el simple hecho de que es 
 mas realista desde la fisica hasta la los graficos mas realistas quee en los anteriores juegos. eeYo 
 que he jugado todos los GTAs hasta el momento, este en particular me gusto mas por el simple hecho 
 de que es mas realista desde la fisica hasta la los graficos mas realistas quee en los anteriores 
 juegos. en los antYo que he jugado todos los GTAs hasta el momento, este en particular me gusto 
 mas por el simple hecho de que es mas realista desde la fisica hasta la los graficos mas realistas 
 quee en los anteriores juegos. eriores juYo que he jugado todos los GTAs hasta el momento, este 
 en particular me gusto mas por el simple hecho de que es mas realista desde la fisica hasta la 
 los graficos mas realistas quee en los anteriores juegos. egos. Yo que he jugado todos los GTAs hasta 
 el momento, este en particular me gusto mas por el simple hecho de que es mas realista desde la 
 fisica hasta la los graficos mas realistas quee en los anteriores juegos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richmond5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  As I watch all the official reviewers rate this game like another coming of video game Jesus, they 
 are ALMOST RIGHT. If this game was PERFECT in everyone's eyes it would of totally deserve a 10. 
 Besides supporting the next-gen graphics, realistic physics engines, and great gunplay, I will 
 just only list the downsides of this game.
  
  Lack of weapons & clothes: So Rockstar is prolly making us drool for a different city sequel with 
 more cities and probably (a) newer environment (s) (ie. snow?) . But there seems to be a shortage 
 of weapon variety for melee and rifles for this game. Okay i'm not talking about a R6Vegas-2 range 
 of weapons, but add a couple of more more melee weapons and a tad few rifles and sniper rifles. 
 Clothes in a nut-shell: needs more hats, shades, and some more suits.
  
  MP3 Radio Channel: The future PC Versions should add this due to the simpler and conventional file 
 management of a PC, but to examplify the Next-Gen transition RockStar should of added the Xbox 
 and PS3 an MP3 files playability. This would be the cherry-on-top to the freedom it gives to the 
 users and give them their own updated soundtrack and their own suited atmosphere of the gameplay. 
 I was at first planning to grab all the movie car chase soundtracks from Michael Bay movies or 
 other action hits to add a great cinematic feeling to the car chases in GTA4. But I was GREATLYdisappointed 
 that RockStar did not allow us to access our MP3's at all. This is actually the main reason I made 
 this a notch from a perfect 10.
  
  Rockstar will always out-do any Senate and Censorship, keep on trucking and churn out more GTA 
 games and characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemonnerd-22
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  this game is a bit of a let down sure the graphics are great and the game's detailed and everything 
 but it looses the feel of the other grand theft auto games. First it's just too realistic it doesn't 
 have the feel at first when you get this game you think it's just amazing but after a while of 
 game play you realize it's to good graphics. Graphics 11/10=too good. Gameplay. the gameplay is 
 very good but like i said before it looses the feel and does not live up too its reputation. unlike 
 the other gta games you just want too get it over and done with. for example the driving, half the 
 fun in the previous games was the unrealistic driving where you can just zoom up and do a 100 degree 
 turn in gta 4 you have to almost stop just to take a turn. Also it gets just a bit to hard further 
 threw the game. Gameplay 8/10. Value. this game is WAAYY too expensive $120 is alot of money definitely 
 not worth it. Overall i rate this game 7.5/10 good 
  but a bit of a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merce07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  GTA4..... the long awaited, highly anticipated game, finally here. For any fans of the game, or 
 any newcomers this game is a good buy, and will give you hours of entertainment, but when youre 
 finished the story, it just feels like somethings missing....
  
  Wow, was I ever excited for this game and it did deliver. The graphics are really good, a big step 
 up from San Andreas. The gameplay is great and theyve greatly improved the targeting system, and 
 the driving. The citys enviorment is great, you feel like youre in a real live city. Also the length 
 is good, and you should get around 50+ hours out of this game.
  
  The storyline is good, for the most part. The characters are funny, and very real. And its a good 
 length, going really fast you should beat it in around 20 hours, but if you take youre time and 
 dont rush, you should comfortably get 35 hours out of it. My only problems with the story are that, 
 it gets kinda repetitve with most missions being like, go here and kill him, or retreive this and 
 so on, classic gta style, but gets a little boring after a while. Also the game does have multiple 
 ending, 2 to be percise, one of the endings is great and involving, the other.... you probably 
 wont care about to much (just my opinon) .
  
  Ok, so far everythings great. Whats the catch you say. Well the games only problem is suprisingly 
 they took alot of what made the game fun out to make more realistic, witch in my opinion was a 
 bad move, and makes the game get boring after a while. I mean, I love killing people and running 
 them over just as much as the next guy, but it really gets boring and repetitve and makes it hard 
 for us to get creative.
  
  So what fun things did they take out do you say, well heres some of them. NO planes, jetpacks, 
 tanks, underwater swimming, countryside etc. But that stuffs minor, most ppl can get past that. 
 OK, well how bout less weapons. How bout ABSOLUTLY NOTHING TO SPEND YOURE MONEY ON. how bout NO 
 PROPERTEYS, MANSIONS, BUISNESSES. heres the biggest 
  problem THEY TOOK OUT EVERY FUN CHEAT. Now, all this stuff may sound stupid, but IMO means the 
 difference between playing GTA4 for one weekend, and one whole month of non stop play. Anyways 
 nuff said about that.
  
  Also worth noting, GTA4 has multiplayer witch is great. It also lets you hang out with youre freinds, 
 date, go on the internet and play games. Youll probabley end up using those features for a little 
 while but they wont last long or provide much entertainment (not including multiplayer in this) . 
 GTA4 also has a cell phone, witch is a REALLY cool feature, and helps organize the game alot.
 
  
  Anyways all in all, GTA4 is a great game. It has greatly improved graphincs, and gameplay. But 
 even though its technically better then other installments, the fun wont last as long and after 
 a weekend to a week youll probably stop playing GTA4 and will put in San Andreas whenevre you feel 
 the urge to cause some mishap.
  
  I give GTA4 an 8.5/10 (IT DOES NOT DESERVE A 10/10 GAMESPOT!!!!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OakLaNdRaiDer14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the storyline in this game is just a masterpiece and to me it made the game even 
 that more addicting and great. No two missions are alike, perfect diversity to make sure you never 
 get bored and feel like you're doing the same thing over and over again like in some other games. 
 Also, as you probably know, GTA has been notorious for it's not so great graphics but in this game, 
 the graphics are just top notch and a huge improvement form the blockheads in San Andreas. This 
 game will provide you hours and hours and hours of entertainment and I guarantee that this game 
 will get you hooked the first time you play. Once you finish the storyline there are so many activities 
 you can go do and you will for sure want to achieve 100% completion. Also, I thought the achievements 
 for this game were very well arranged so that you get a good amount of points for finishing the 
 game but also, a good amount of points for playing the side missions which really made me want 
 to get some points and reach full completion. But honestly, this game is just amazing, there really 
 is nothing bad about this game at all and definitely worth $59.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has absolutely blown me away. I didn't quite know what to expect from this, because lately, 
 game sequels have been a lot less then they are suspected to be, but this one is completely different. 
 GTA IV brings to the player everything that has been in the previous games, with the exception 
 of San Andreas, but also a load of new features like the cell phone, internet, new cover system, 
 insane multiplayer, (with 15 game modes!) , and a lot more. Another thing that I would like to mention 
 are the amazing new graphics. In the past, GTA games haven't been known for their graphics, because 
 they have always been on the bad side, but that has changed. The devastating explosions and gruesome 
 blood splatters have set new grounds for the series, and they can only get better from here in 
 the future. Im sure you've all heard of people saying "Games make people violent" or "Games cause 
 killing spreesl," well, this is the type of game they were talking about, and if that turns you 
 on (in a non sexual way) , then go buy this game and satisfy your hunger for violence TODAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  For all of us who had been enjoying the GTA series since its beginning this is a very accomplished 
 saga.
  
  The story is very compelling and credible (for a video game at least) , and every aspect of the 
 game has seen some improvement.
  
  The graphics are as good as the ones seen in titles like Assasin's Creed or Halo 3, the music is 
 superb and the variety and quantity of characters is just amazing. 
  
  The cities in previous games were big... but this one is simply huge. You can drive around for 
 hours without getting bored.
  
  The main complain I always had about GTA games was about the driving... I like the driving games 
 to be as reallistic as possible and the "chase the car" camera in GTA was pretty frustating at 
 times. In this edition, you can put the camera in first person while driving which is a lot more 
 real (and easy) . I still would like more realism in the crashes and traffic jams but I'm happy 
 enough.
  
  One thing you should know is that if you have kids, keep this game out of their reach... the "M" 
 rating is well earned... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I have to start by saying that I never been a big fan of the GTA series, they were a lot of fun 
 but tended to get a little bit repetitive over time and I don't think I got to finish any of these 
 games from beginning to end, this time, was different.
  
  The graphics are really good, I don't like that much the gray filter that everything seem to have 
 but the recreation of the city of New York is amazing. Such a big and detailed open world with 
 some many characters to interact with. 
  I think that the story is very remarkable too, much better than the previous games and you really 
 get absorved into Miko's life. The voice acting it is amazing and there are some characters that 
 would deserve a game for themselves like Roman or Brucie. It is also incredible the amount of different 
 things that you can do: Missions, taking out your friends, checking your email/web, shopping, driving, 
 helicopters, walking, taking the train....
  
  This is also a game when you will have hours and hours of fun. If you have a life you can be playing 
 GTA IV for 3-6 months until you finish it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamok_2007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Great game, so much to do! Even goofing around killing civilians can be fun, let alone the insane 
 missions. Music can be bland at times, but that's the only thing that isn't perfect in this game. 
 The attention to detail is impressive and it makes you admire this game even more. Combat missions 
 are intense and car chases exhilarating, even the odd jobs around the city pass the time. The various 
 customizations in wardrobes, phones, etc. satisfies each person and suits them in their own way. 
 Not to mention the always entertaining swear words in foreign accents by both you, your cousin 
 and your always loving enemies. With it's attention to detail, all around fun, and intense missions, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV for the xbox 360 is a must have, it definitely deserves a perfect 10 for its 
 clear perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  It's rated a 10.0 for a reason. It's simply a masterpiece. It's evolved so much from San Andreas 
 the only thing they have in common is the producer. GTA 4 gives the player a real live living and 
 breathing world that the player gets to explore for hours and hours at a time. The producers strive 
 for realism and entertainment was overwhelmingly successful. No there are no airplanes but who 
 needs those when you get, fast cars, helicopters, sweet crash effects, amazing realism, heart stopping 
 graphics, and a game engine that surpasses any engine out to date. 
  
  Now to pick the game apart....
  You start as a foreigner arriving to liberty city by ship. I 
 wont go into detail about the story line but I assure you it's a great one. Unlike the previous 
 titles you are now allowed to make choices that unlock or lock future missions. Most of the time 
 it involves whether to kill a person or not but the feeling of having someone else's life in players 
 hands is fun. The game is violent. But not super violent. All the limbs remain intact and there's 
 no more shooting people's heads off. But the message of 'shooting and running from cops' can be 
 a bad one. Solution: Don't play if you're too young or have an easily malleable mind. The engine 
 in this game is amazing. You can easily explore Liberty City from a birds eye or explore the city 
 street by street. And by that I mean, the city looks just as beautiful if you fly through the story 
 mode or enjoy every scene possible. I personally enjoy walking through the streets like a normal 
 individual and taking the taxi's and trains to get to my destination. I don't so much enjoy jacking 
 a car and running from cops while shooting at them every where I go. But both ways offer a great 
 deal of fun. While walking through the streets of Liberty City I noticed a great deal of realism. 
 First off you can bump into people and possibly tick them off. If you stand in front of a citizen 
 long enough after bumping into him he'll eventually want to kick the crap out of you. You can hear 
 the subways cruising by underground or up above and hear horns honking and angry drivers yelling 
 things from their cars. There's also a lot of language. Welcome to GTA. I personally don't approve 
 of the language but it's easily avoidable. Just play the game while skipping the scenes or just 
 play the game without doing the story mode. Another thing I noticed is the realism of every crack, 
 curve, and bump in the city. I was driving a taxi and noticed that the tires react with every bump. 
 Also, the car hops just like a real one would after going over bumps. The driving aspect of the 
 game is perfect. Semi-real crash effects. No more going top speed into a wall and driving away 
 with a bent bumper. More than likely, you'll be ejected from the car and thrown into what ever 
 lies ahead.
  
  Online.
  It rocks.
  Enough said.
  I wont go into tons of detail for the fact I've pretty much explained every corner of the game 
 above. Just picture that EXACTLY but with other live people. Well not exactly. If you're online 
 you wont people that are trying to act like a normal person. Not even in the freemode. Freemode. 
 Awesome. You and up to some 16 players I think can explore every corner of the city. Nothing is 
 locked and it's all open ended. But as I said, no one wants to act normal. I don't blame them. 
 That's for offline mode only. 
  It's a fun game.
  Rent it first though if your iffy about the possible sex/drug/violence aspect. But it is easily 
 avoidable. SKIP THE FIRST SCENE.
  
  Overall I give this game a perfect
  10
  out of
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Being a big Grand Theft Auto fan, I couldn't wait to get my hands on the newest, greatest installment, 
 GTA IV. I was dissapointed when it was delayed from it's initial October release in 2007, but I 
 knew those masterminds at Rockstar were holding off for a reason. A good reason. 
  When I set hands on my controller to start the very first mission, the first thing I noticed was 
 the graphics. The gleam on the water and the blur of motion is stunning. I was also asking myself 
 just who this Niko Belic character was. What he wanted or thought he wanted. It's moments like 
 these that make a game shape the gaming industry in to one of the greatest. How many times has 
 a game featured a storyline where you could understand the emotion of the main character? Where 
 you could feel as though you actually knew them? Not many.
  
  Over 100 missions and several months later, I found out who Niko was. He was shaped not by Rockstar 
 or by a predetermined story line. He was shaped by us, the players. The game features many "choice" 
 moments that transform Niko into a regretful and quiet man or a blood hungry revengful killer. 
 
  
  The game play is incredible, the physics engine is superb, the animations are fluid. It is hard 
 to find a flaw in GTA IV.
  Having finished GTA IV, I remembered back to when Rockstar delayed the game in October. They knew 
 what they were doing. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: accxmass
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  lets put it this way, folks, gta4 is a must own, this game is so fun that i almost forgot that it 
 was 3:00AM! what other game lets you bang a prostitute, then have tea with your girlfriend? nah, i 
 did not think so. sure it has its problems, like how you always die when you smack sideways into 
 a wall while on a chopper, but that makes up for it with great gameplay, cool characters and the 
 best gaming space ever! If you do not own a 360 (best playing it on) or ps3, then throw yourself 
 out of a window and buy 1. If you have 1, but dont have the game, than take whoevers paying for it 
 and throw them out too
  gamers who love gaming rejoice because the jesus christ of games has come
  
  i should start 
 saying the problems that will occur while you enjoy the game:
  the storyline starts off strong but it is untraceable after that.
  the game is dirty, like, in 
 the mud dirty. this is not intended for the young ones, so, many, boobies!
  later game missions repeat themselves
  dont have it?
  
  
  
  BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolzman2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  
  this game is one of the bestest shooting games ever here are some of my opinions this game has 
 new characters (like always) the main one is niko bellic who just came to a place called liberty 
 city in the game you will get a cellphone from your friend roman and it could be used to call some 
 people for things like doing jobs, bowling, and more stuff. The game also features online mode where 
 you can rage the city with other people online.
  
  Here are some of the characters besides Niko.
  
  Roman
  Lil Jacob
  Packie
  Vlad
  Mr. Fuastin
 
  Mallorie
  Playboy 
  Manny
  nikos mom
  Kate
  Phil Bell
  Brucie
  Dimtri
  Mrs. Faustin
  
  some stuff that aint good
  1. this game has fewer weapons than san andreas.
 
  2. cant pimp your ride like in san andreas
  3. does not have multiplayer mode without xbox live
  
  some other stuff about the game 
  
 
  so Niko always wants to make money for reasons like when they burn down romans buisness.
  you can do that better by doing big jobs that are real hard instead of small things like the taxi 
 buisness.
  almost every single mission has the cops trying to kill at the end or some other guys.
  
  some 
 differences
  1. better graphics
  2. new way to use cheats as in dialling a number on your cellphone
  3. instead of packages like 
 in gta 3 for some kind of cheat the packages ar pigeons called flying rats just kill all 200 and 
 you get the cheat for a army helicopter that has machine guns.
  
  some last things
  
  so the games like all the other gta games but with new things
  
  i rated it 9 because it was 
 missing a few things that san andreas had
  
  it will be like a nightmare if you never got this game
  
  and thats the end of the review
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is the first GTA game i played on any system and i have to say i understand why this game 
 is highly view as one of the great game seris in gaming. The weapons are fun to use, beating people 
 up for no reason is funny but cool, Missions and acting is awesome. Nice rides you can pretty much 
 ride everything in the game and go to shows and play arcade games.
  
  
  Online play is Fair only because when you get kicked out of a room you have to wait 5 mins to go 
 back to single player and 5 mins to actally start up a game. But cant complain too much about the 
 Map it takes to load up which is amazing job by Rockstar staff.
  
  
  Looking for birds and finding all the stunts to do sucks when you are trying to get points in the 
 game. Sometimes fells like the game is too slow *like slow pace* but with all they had to put in 
 the game thats okay too.
  
  
  The city fells so real and not fake every coner you trun there is a person walking or doing some 
 raddom stuff.
  
  
  From start to finish this game will not disapoint you at all. You are in total control of what 
 you do or dont do period.
  
  This game is a 9.5 in my eyes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series is a well acclaimed series of games. All games so far in the series 
 have had decent graphics and a strong and long story. So far, no GTA game has had a continious 
 story. And this game is not in any way releated to any other GTA game. This game however, sadly 
 to say, has only decent graphics. And this is a real shame considering the power of the next-gen 
 consoles. But the graphics are definitely better than previous games. The Euphoria game engine 
 also enables this game to do wonders with the biomechanics, AI and all the AI's responses. The 
 gameplay is also much like Gears of War, but in this game, there is the option of running and gunning. 
 The auto-lock on system also helps gunplay to be very smooth at times. The desicions you make in 
 the game are not very different from one selection to another. And the story's overall outcome 
 isn't that much different depending on what you choose. Overall the multi-player part of this game 
 is really good. You and a buddy can go around Liberty CIity and really get lost in it. Guns are 
 really nice and come a wide variety. Gamepaly can also change from time-to-time. Like in one part 
 of the story you're actually dressing up for a job interview. This provides a nice variety of gameplay 
 and can give you a break from the hardcore life of Niko Bellic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sikla87
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  gta4 what more can we say? we wait him since the last mission on san andreas and now it comes, 
 the thing that come in your eyes is the new york city map, i personally ever see a new york so 
 real and so realistic ... impressive, gameplay still rocks, graphic is superb, in my opinion a 
 good choiche of soundtrack can make this game the first who take 11 in value xD
  every gamer have to buy this and take in to his memory forever i mean this is a realy video experience, 
 in italy this game is first on the sold game in every store, 1-5 gamer have it and play all the 
 day xD i mean read book is better but this is realy a book that u can choose how to continue till 
 the end xD the good choose of this game are : gameplay 10 is the same of san andreas with some 
 good stuff like mode "stealth" xD
  graphics 9 is better of san andreas 
  sounds ( and soundtrack) : sounds 9 soundtrack 7 can be more good stuff xD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft has been an awaited game for many months now and now it has been finally released to 
 the public. I myself have not played every GTA game. I've only played GTA3, GTA: Liberty City Stories, 
 and GTA4. 
  Now for my thoughts on the game. Grand Theft Auto game isn't a game meant for everyone there is 
 certainly explicit content in this game, but it is what makes it stand out. Rockstar actually has 
 the "balls" to stick it to the "man"
  Grand Theft Auto: IV is what Rockstar has learned from their past mistakes. It's like an experiment 
 that you test until you finally get the perfect product and this is what GTAIV is. A perfect game. 
 Everything you hated from the past GTA games is no longer here. 
  The graphics are awesome for today's standards but still keeps it's GTA look. The strong visual 
 environments might keep you just walking around observing the streets or just filling them with 
 a nice color of blood. 
  I really don't have much to say about this game because it isn't easy to describe. It is perfect, 
 a great experience, an awesome achievement, but hey it's just GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jboy182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  In the history of video games, there are some games that immerse you into a world and making it 
 feel like you are living the experience. Grand Theft Auto 4 does it perfectly. 
  
  The story is much richer and dark than the past versions. You are Niko Bellic, a European immigrant 
 fresh of the boat in Liberty City. You were led here by your cousin Roman saying how wonderful 
 life is in the land of opportunity. He tells you that he has a mansion and lovely ladies. Its all 
 a lie. In GTA 4, you will start from the bottom and work to the top just like the previous versions. 
 With every mission gone by the game feels more deep. The missions are great. You will kill people, 
 rob a bank, race, etc. My most memorable and favorite mission is when you rob a bank. It is epic 
 on every scale.
  
  The graphics are great. There are some visual quirks, but are minor. Actually the graphics are 
 even better than games coming out and thats saying something. The past games made you feel like 
 this is just a game. You won't say that about GTA 4.
  
  The setting is also great. It takes place in modern-day Liberty City. It has been redone. It bears 
 a big resemblance to New York. It has each of the five boroughs from the city. Each with a different 
 feel. The place is filled with a population to fit it. With so many different people, you will 
 most likely never find the same person twice.
  
  The sound is great. Everything is great about it. Its all realistic. From the guns the cars to 
 the effects. It captures realism and immersion. It makes you want to be inside this universe.
 
  
  The gameplay is the best I've seen. There is so much you can do that its overwealming at first. 
 You can do just about everything you want. You can kill people, drive, race, watch tv, surf the 
 web, meet people, play multiplayer, eat, do missions, etc. It has something everyone can love. 
 The only problem is that you don't always know what places are available to go to so you have to 
 try many of them with trial and error. Thats minor though. Niko is a more agile person than the 
 rest. He can shimmy now and do many other things. oh yeah, you can now take cover. While the targeting 
 isn't perfect, its a leap forward. It makes the firefights more funner and alive. 
  
  The last thing is multiplayer. I didn't think at first it would be good, but it is great. There 
 is so many modes that it has a little bit of everything. I always play team deathmatch. It has 
 the feel of something like COD4. I like it. For R*'s first shot they have scored.
  
  GTA 4 is the best game I've played since Final Fantasy VII. It is brilliant. With all the stuff 
 its worth paying 150 dollars for. Anyone can enjoy this game. It has a few flaws, but are minor. 
 This game makes GTA feel not just like a game, but real. It makes you feel like you are in this 
 universe. Liberty City feels like a living, breathing, actual place. I don't think any game can 
 compete with that. I think that 5 years from now, we will look at this game as a part of video 
 game history as the game that reinvented open sandbox-style games. Buy this game. Its worth it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL8664
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me start by saying that I have been waiting for this game, like so many others, for a 
 very long time. I was not planning to go to my local midnight release but ended up doing so anyway. 
 I wanted to wait until I had beaten the game and let the overall exoerience soak in a bit before 
 I reviewed it, so now about a month and 1/2 after or so here goes...
  
  Story - The story is nothing crazy original, an immigrant of somewhat anonymous background comes 
 to the USA based on the lure of fortune and fame from his cousin. Upon arrival, things arent exactly 
 as told. There are no mansions, naked women or loads of cash. He and his cousin are at the bottom 
 and after some run-ins with local organized crime, decide it's time to move up the food chain in 
 Liberty City. The story does have multiple endings, depending on how you choose to do things toward 
 the end, but differences are slim overall IMO. Overall story is good but not groundbreaking and 
 characters are well written and make you like them despite how sleazy some are.
  
  Game play - It has been pretty well known that GTA games are all over the place, with your core 
 missions as well as racing, vigilante minigames and side missions etc. This game does have most 
 of those within. Some side activities didn't make the jump to the next-gen, such as EMT/Ambulance 
 missions, Firefighting missions, car customization, as well as property buying/management. These 
 left out modes are either good or bad, depending on the particular gamer. It didn't seem to bother 
 me much because there is still an insane amount of activities to do when you dont feel like chasing 
 drug dealer X from point A to point B.
  
  Control - This, IMO, is a big jump for the series. The auto targeting system is finally rather 
 reliable. In the middle of a shoot out you wont be locking on to Granny, whose running for running 
 for cover, while the boys in blue are putting holes in your backside. The car handling is also 
 great with a pretty dang respectable physics engine in place that will take some getting used to 
 at first. The new cover feature is nice and well needed during some missions. Its nice when you 
 come into a shoot out and can actually hug against the car on the street to avoid being blown away, 
 alll with the simple press of a button.
  
  Graphics - Oh yeah, this game has it going on in that department... Its aboput damn time that a 
 GTA game with such a huge world is as pretty to explore as it is fun. The graphics are definetly 
 nice, especially when hooked up to a good HDTV. the characters look great and react to different 
 situations and emotions as you would expect. Surely by now youhave heard about how well LC and 
 its citizens look and react without your interaction at all. The city does actually feel like its 
 existing on its own despite whether you are walking through Central Park aka Middle Park or running 
 people over with a stolen ambulance and shooting pedestrians out of the driverside window. Very 
 high marks are deserved here.
  
  Replayability - Outside of wanting to go back through again in order to see both endings, there 
 is tons to do in this game after its all said and done. From Pigeon Hunting to stunt jumps to exploring 
 the fictional ingame internet, this one will keep you busy if you are wanting to get the coveted 
 "100% Completion" achievement. I did and still do personally feel that it is a little bit too much. 
 I decided this when I began my quest to locate and kill all of the 200 hidden pigeons. All though, 
 it is far from bad to have so much content aside frome the core story, I felt like I was spending 
 alot of time and not getting much reward. Which caused me to dedicate less time to it and start 
 going back to other games. This is goning to be up to you where you stand on the matter.
  
  Final Thoughts - I really enjoyed playing this game. I was really excited to watch the story unfold 
 as things went on and after I got the ending, I was just as jacked to get on with playing and see 
 everything that there was to see and do throughout the world of Liberty City. Like i said though, 
 after a while it felt like I was doing chores instead of having fun, but that was probably my fault 
 for hunting for damn birds a couple of hours at a time instead of causing mayhem about the streets. 
 Make no mistake, this game is one of the best I have played in recent memory. If you have or haven't 
 played previous GTA games, you still need to play this game. It is exiting, compelling and just 
 plain fun to go through and waste some time doing crazy things in a great virtual world. Pick it 
 up, you will be glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  GTA 4's story centers around a sarcastic Eastern European immigrant come to America to get a fresh 
 start away from the corruption and violence of his home country. Whoops. Critics have often harangued 
 the violence and the criminal aspect of GTA, but what flies over their heads is that satire is 
 the premise of the series and always has been. And frankly, the violence here pales in comparison 
 to Gears Of War or Condemned 2: Bloodshot just to name two. GTA's immense popularity is not because 
 of the degeneration of our society (we've got reality television for that) , it's because the series 
 is constantly innovating and offering fun spot-on gameplay, brilliant humor, and is a game made 
 by and for an adult audience. So if your child is playing this game, blame yourself for giving 
 your child the means to get it or for not paying attention to what they are doing with their time, 
 not Rockstar for making top-of-the-line entertainment meant for adults (see the markings on the 
 box?) .
  
  GTA 4 seperates itself from the past iterations in several ways. First, the arcade feel is largely 
 gone. While the controls are vintage GTA, the overall feel has changed. In previous games, I never 
 got into the story because I would get sidetracked rampaging with katanas and molotov cocktails 
 or hunting for a tank. Now a lot of the distractions like crazy weapons and vehicles and building 
 up your character stats are gone and the story behind the madness is a truly engaging one for the 
 first time. The city is more alive than ever and there is more to do. The characters you meet are 
 all brilliant and interacting with them is seriously fun. Take your girl out to a bar and watch 
 her serious issues surface as she stumbles around slurring curses about "that fu#*ing whore" she 
 thought you were checking out. Or challenge your buddies to bowling, pool, or a friendly game of 
 darts. You ca even head to the comedy club to check out actual routines from Ricky Gervais or Katt 
 Williams. The dialogue during these bonding activities is varied and reveals much about your Liberty 
 City aquaintances, many of whom have special services to offer you should you become close. The 
 entire game is so well-written that one often gets the impression that they are playing a Tarantino 
 flick. Oh yeah, it's that good. The multiplayer aspect is also fun and varied allowing you to battle 
 stangers for Liberty City dominance or just drive around with your friends wreaking havoc. Taking 
 into account the amazing single-player game this really wasn't necessary, but the fact that it 
 is even included just makes this game that much more awesome.
  
  Now all of that is well and good, but what makes GTA 4 the second work I'm upgrading from mere 
 video game status to an official work of interactive fiction (the first was Mass Effect) is the 
 sheer depth of the world in which you exist. So far I have spent multiple hours just surfing the 
 game's internet. That's right, there is a virtual worldwide web in-game complete with dating sites, 
 a Craig's List parody, advertisements, personal blogs complete with flame wars, email, and much 
 more. Hell, you can even download custom ringtones and themes for your cell phone! That is nuts. 
 Do you know how ridiculous it feels to spend that amount of time in a video game surfing a fake 
 internet? There are also several satirical television shows you can watch in your apartment (go 
 Republican Space Rangers!) , and naturally there's the radio; the sweet, sweet, sounds of GTA radio 
 stations. There's a rock station featuring Iggy freakin' Pop as the foul-mouthed DJ, classic hip-hop 
 and R&B, smooth jazz, techno, LCHC (Liberty City HardCore) , and even an all Bob Marley station 
 just to name a few. Then there's the thinly-veiled talk radio parody station Weazel News featuring 
 the funniest Rush Limbaugh impersonator you're ever likely to hear. You even hear news reports 
 about incidents you were personally involved in as you drive. This game is DEEP.
  
  Honestly, if you like video games or digital entertainment of any kind then this as good as it 
 gets. And if you don't like those things, do your best to hide your ignorance and don't go spouting 
 off about things you don't know anything about. GTA 4 is a brilliant satire full of jabs (and a 
 few haymakers) at American politics and any violence is incidental in comparison to the brilliantly 
 crafted story and interactivity of the in-game world that Rockstar has created. I'll say it again: 
 this is not just a video game, this is interactive fiction on par with some of the great works 
 of modern storytelling. If you own a video game system and you think you can handle some naughty 
 language without getting all hysterical, buy it. It's that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdr0533
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Wow... just wow. This game is simply stunning. Absolutely awesome! Haven't had this much fun with 
 a game in a long time!!! The size of the city is amazing and all the things you can do and places 
 you can go is awesome! Simply impressed by this game. I forgot how much fun it was to go flying 
 through a city getting chased by cops and splattering people along the sidewalkks. Helicopters 
 though, not so much fun (unless sniping out the shooters ;-) ) . Controls feel great and are easy 
 to use. Driving is a pain some times but other than that, I have no other complaints about this 
 game. The music is top notch also!!! I wonder what Rockstar is going to have up their sleave after 
 this game. It will be very hard to top this one! But for now, here's to quite honestly the best 
 game on the market! 10 out of 10, unbelievable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_sangma
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a masterpiece. Yeah thats right it is. I have played GTA 3, Vice city, San andreas and 
 now this. I must say, this game deserves 10. The gameplay and the story types have no changed much. 
 Still we need to chase down crooks and rivals of bosses and stuff but the way its done is evolved. 
 There had been many new features added such as the mobile phone and taxi service and more. Yeah 
 the map is not as big as san andreas but the city is so lively. People always talk back and taxi 
 drivers chat with you just like in real life and the best part is that it does not repeat that 
 frequently. Overall this is a game every gamer must own if he/she has a 360 or PS3. I have been 
 playing the game for quite some time now on my Xbox 360. Have not tried the multiplayer mode yet. 
 Still doing the single player story missions. They have improved the graphics as well this time. 
 During the day the city looks like NFS Most wanted. Its true. Though there are minor glitches like 
 the objects appearing on the screen all of a sudden. That is forgivable since the map is so huge 
 and there is practically no loading time during cruising in the city or mission. Chow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comairjets8
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I purchased an XBOX 360 last week. I purchased it for one reason, GTA 4. I in no way regret the 
 decision either. I beat the game in a matter of 4 days, spending 31 hours on the story mode. I 
 don't think I have ever spent a more fun, engaging, and unforgettable 31 hours in my life. At one 
 point I spent almost 7 hours straight playing GTA one night. I have never come close to playing 
 video games that long ever before. I thouroughly enjoyed all of the previous GTA titles, and I 
 knew that GTA 4 would live up to and exceed the greatness of it's predecessers. This game is nearly 
 perfect through and through. The game may have some things wrong with it, most notably the driving. 
 But there was nothing that frustrated me or prevented from having fun at any point which is tough 
 to say about any game. No game is perfect, but I believe that Grand Theft Auto 4 deserved its perfect 
 rating. The fact that I have spent almost 40 hours of my life on this game in the past week without 
 ever being bored for a moment, really says something about the quality of the game. 
  
  The story campaign in this game was the most compelling of the GTA series, and one of the most 
 engaging I have ever played. You start off as Niko Bellic, an illegal immigrant from Eastern Europe 
 (but not Russia, as you are reminded of several times in the game) . Niko is picked up by his dear 
 cousin, Roman who has sent letters to Niko for years telling him of his luxurious life in Liberty 
 City. Roman parties all the time, has fast cars, and all the women he can dream of. But when Roman 
 shows up to to pick up NIko in a cab, things look pretty fishy. The mansion is a run down apartment 
 with a nasty cockroach infestation, and Roman spends his days working and his nights friendless. 
 He is in debt to what seems like half of Liberty City and you spend a good portion of time saving 
 Roman's ass from his debtors. Throughout the missions you will be faced with decisions which can 
 really show you what kind of person you are, and it makes you think about the consequences of your 
 decisions. Before blindly always choosing to kill, you should weigh your decision by how it is 
 going to effect your character. Your decisions willl end with one of two endings, depending one 
 extremely important decision you make near the end of the game.
  
  One of the classic things about GTA is causing absolute mayhem and just acting wild. In GTA 4 I 
 was so compelled by the story and set on finishing, that I didn't do any of this until after the 
 story was completed. It is great fun to go on a killing rampage and avoid the cops. I have spent 
 hours doing this, and you probably will too. Another fun thing to do is complete some of the stunt 
 jumps. My personal favorite is the river jump, which is challenging and requires a fast car or 
 a good motorcycle. I also frequently steal helicopters and ride them to the top of a tall building, 
 get out, then jump off. It sounds gruesome, but try it, if you don't think it is fun then your 
 not cool enough to play GTA 4. 
  
  The last attraction of Gta 4 is the newly introduced online multiplayer. Unfortunately I do not 
 yet have XBOX live so I haven't had the pleasure of experiencing the game online. Howver, as you 
 would expect you can use the whole area if you are playing against many people, or a smaller area 
 if you are playing with a smaller amount of people. Besides, the basic (but fun) all out kill each 
 other mode, there are additional online activities, such as cops and crooks. 
  
  If you don't have GTA already you NEED to get it, it is a must have for any mature gamer. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar North has created the best game that I have ever played. They have created a game with 
 fantastic gameplay, great online play, and a masterful story, full of grest characters. I can't 
 give it anything other than my highest recommendation. 
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, a war veteran who comes to Liberty City, USA, (Modeled after New York 
 City,) after his cousin, Roman, tells him about how he has great wealth, a mansion, sports cars, 
 etc. As Niko soon finds out though, Roman was lying. This starts Niko off on a long journey, that 
 even surpasses Assassin's Creed in terms of story quality. The cast of characters in GTA 4 are 
 all incredibly well defined, and grow on you as the story progresses. At the points where i was 
 given a decision to make, i found myself thinking of how each decision could affect the other characters 
 in the game, before I made the decision. 
  
  This game introduces new gameplay mechanics to the series. One of them is the the new gun-fighting 
 methods. It is now cover based and players can target individual body parts. As great as the gunplay 
 is though, the close combat does not work that well. Thankfully, you don't need to do a lot of 
 it. Niko also has a cell phone that can be used to access missions, communicate with characters, 
 and access multiplayer. Vehicles now control more realistically. Police chases are now radius based. 
 The A. I. in this game is very smart. Enemies will use cover, react differently based on where they 
 are shot, pedestrians will even call the police if they see you do anything bad. Once you complete 
 the story, there is still a lot that you can do. There's deliveries, "Exotic Exports," assassination 
 missions, races, stunt jumps, random characters, etc. You can also hang out with/date some characters. 
 Doing so with some provides bonuses for Niko, such as the ability to call for backup, or the ability 
 to call a discount gun salesman. 
  
  GTA 4 is the first game in the series to include online multiplayer. In multiplayer, up to sixteen 
 players are dropped into the entire city to play one of fifteen game modes, including the standard 
 deathmatch and race, and inventive modes like Bomb da Base II and Cops n' Crooks. The online play 
 is lag free and plays great. 
  
  GTA 4's graphics are much improved over previous games in the series, thanks to Rockstar's R. A. G. E. 
 engine. There is occasional pop-in. I only experienced slow down during one mission, (To the game's 
 credit though, it was a really hectic mission.) The voice-work, original score, and sound effects 
 are great, the former helping define the characters. There are also over 200 licensed song that 
 are played over the game's radio stations, covering a wide variety genres, so you're almost guaranteed 
 to find a that you'll like, (And if not, you can listen to one of the humorous talk-radio stations.)
 
  
  In conclusion, GTA 4 is the best game that I have ever played. The gameplay, the story, the multiplayer, 
 everything is absolutely fantastic. I recommend it to every. If you haven't played it yet, go play 
 it now.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value:10
  Tilt:10
  
  True Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 carries the title of being the #1 rated game of all time and the highest grossing 
 form of entertainment in a single day, yet it's unfortunate that such a redundant game holds such 
 great honors.
  
  You would assume that with 3 years in development and unlimited funding this would be a masterpiece, 
 however it is not. Due to a lack of mission variety, poor aiming mechanics, horrible driving physics, 
 an overall un-inspired world, and tacked on multiplayer gta4 makes for one horrible game.
  
  As a huge fan of the film and novel Fight Club by Chuck Palahniuk i have learned that routine 
 is not enjoyable. Going to the same job day in and day out, working for minimum wage, taking orders 
 from obese bosses, and coming home unable to sleep each and every day is no way to live. Why then 
 does Rockstar feel this concept of routine can work in a videogame?
  
  The single player portion of gta4, which is the game's main focus, can be summed up as being an 
 un-entertaining game based on routine. Talk to this person, he tells you to kill this person, you 
 drive half way across the map, kill that person, escape from police, and drive back to original 
 person who hired you. If you take that example and repeat it for 30 hours you will understand how 
 gta4 works. After the first area alone you will realize gta4 has no depth in mission variety. Unfortunately, 
 there are 4 areas within Liberty City that follow this pattern.
  
  Auto-Aim is a complete and utter joke. Why should any game ever have to rely on auto-aim? Gta4's 
 reason is because without auto-aim its targeting system is flawed. This is quite tragic because 
 with a better targeting system gta4 may have been fun, but it inevitably doesn't and thus is not 
 fun. 
  
  Saints Row was released a year and a half prior to gta4. It featured interesting side missions 
 such as insurance fraud and mayhem and incorporated some of the most solid shooting mechanics to 
 be seen in a third person game of this type to date. This is in part because Volition decided to 
 take first person shooting and transition it to third person. If Saints Row was praised for great 
 gunplay and came out before gta4 then why hasn't Rockstar learned from Volition and fixed their 
 aiming?
  
  The driving physics try to add realism to the game, but end up being a nuisance. If it ain't broke 
 don't fix it. The vehicles in previous gta's have all been entertaining to drive, but in the fourth 
 installment in this series Rockstar sucked the life out of that entertainment. Want to take a corner 
 at 60mph like you previously could? You can't. Want to come to a complete stop after driving 100mph 
 in 50ft? You can't. Want to do anything fun with your car? Well, you can't.
  
  Lastly, the one component that brought people back to gta time and time again was the open-ended 
 cities. Gta4 brings you another open-ended city, yet this time around there is nothing to do within 
 it. Sure you can go bowling or sit in a restaurant or watch a theatrical performance, but why? 
 Why would you want to do any of these things inside a videogame? It's all pointless and other than 
 those 3 activities there is nothing else to do within Liberty City. 
  
  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion exceeds any of the gta games in it's sheer vastness and how the entire 
 world of Tamriel is populated with people who own stores, have houses, and have daily schedules. 
 Every building within Tamriel is open for you to explore. You may find treasure in a cave, you 
 may steal a sword from a wealthy person's home, you may buy armor from a blacksmith, you may customize 
 your weaponry with spells in a guild, you may enter a battle arena, so many things are available 
 for you to do that you could never possibly be bored in Oblivion. Gta4 however does not offer anything 
 and instead you are left with the monotonous single player missions alone.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, there are aspects about gta4's single player that are good. Most notably 
 the story is intruiging and the voice acting and cut scenes are well done, but when you're playing 
 the game just to get to the next cut scene and not wanting to actually go through gameplay then 
 you know something is wrong. Other noteworthy positives about gta4 are the graphics, which for 
 the size of liberty city, are amazing and the sound is well done.
  
  This brings us now to multiplayer, a mutt that tries to be something it can't be. Gta4 attempts 
 at being a competitive racing game, a competitive shooting game, and a cooperative mission game, 
 but it fails miserably on all accounts.
  
  The core mechanics of shooting and driving transition unchanged into multiplayer, such a shame. 
 The helicopters are impossible to pilot effectively, drive-by's are dull, the action is too spread 
 out, driving is annoying for the aforementioned reasons, and there are 15 different modes which 
 all feel tacked on just to add depth. Multiplayer has never been something gta has needed and shouldn't 
 have been added. For multiplayer we can stick with games like halo or call of duty or project gotham 
 racing or rainbow six.
  
  Gameplay is the core fundamental of any videogame. Gameplay can make or break a game, and in gta4's 
 case it breaks it in half. There are far too many short-comings in gta4 to warrant a 10/10, let 
 alone a 9/10. With such a redundant single player campaign and un-effective multiplayer Grand Theft 
 Auto 4 gets a 6/10.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatestMEalive
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  First stepping into GTA4, you can definitely feel the difference compared to last gen GTAs. The 
 graphics engine, makes this a beautiful game. The sunrises and sunsets are beautiful, the parks 
 are gorgeous, the rain effects, storms, lighting, cars, and details of 'times square', are beautiful. 
 With that said, GTA4 was hyped to have this compelling story line that was just... the best ever. 
 WRONG. The story was dry, had a few plot holes, left you hanging, and could have just got you into 
 it more. Niko Belic's character however, was pretty good when it comes to trying to empathize with 
 him. That doesn't make a good story though. While advancing through the story on a cell phone is 
 interesting and can be fun, THE NPCs that want you attention throughout the story, are VERY ANNOYING!!! 
 During the missions, you do get to know a few of them [and their families] but that's about it... 
 I never really got to a point where I cared about them or other pedestrians in the street. [as 
 said by SOME gamer sites/television shows] *minor spoiler alert* there are 2 endings... which are 
 based on ONE decision. I won't say what it is of course but... that part in particular brings some 
 'excitement' to the story. *end spoiler* Missions were too easy... and boring. Also, I've played 
 every GTA... from 1 and London all of the way up to San Andreas. After beating all of those games, 
 I still had fun roaming around, causing trouble. This time around, after I beat the game, I continued 
 to play it for.. 2 days and havent touched it in weeks. I'm disappointed. While a great NEXT GEN 
 experience, I give it an 8.... BARELY. The Online play saves it. Playing online is an incredible 
 experience and I laughed harder and had more fun with that than ANY of the story. Still, It doesn't 
 not deserve a 10 at all, or the 10/10 some have game it. Maybe GTA 5? In Japan? lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-unit_9001
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This version of GTA is the best ever. Thanks to the perfect graphics and perfect city and perfect 
 game play and perfect story line. and there is so many things that will make you sit in front of 
 your tv for 10 hours a day playing this game. The cars you driving is so perfect in design and close 
 to some cars in design in real world just like the PATRIOT is a close to HUMMER and the city itself 
 is so close to NY city. and the missions are so interesting and not very hard. and driving cars is 
 so much better than driving cras in previous issues. the charchters in game are so cool and you 
 will work with thugs and with police too. and the game will let make dicisons in many missions just 
 like to kill target or to let him alive. so this game is a perfect game and if there is a 20 Rating 
 score i would've choose it with any doubt. and if you dont have this game what are wating for go 
 and buy now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage01aba
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  
  After a brief absence from writing reviews I'm back with possible the biggest game to come out 
 this year Grand Theft Auto IV. Wow where do I begin, Liberty City has never looked better. The 
 multiplayer in GTA IV is everything a player would want. There is team death match which is very 
 self explainable. The team based co-op missions play very well balanced. Cops n' Crooks vis a team 
 based game where for the first time ever players get to play as the LCPD. Free mode lets you and 
 your buddies do absolutely anything you want. The entire single player Liberty City is rendered 
 real time in multiplayer. The graphics are the best in the series and the best in any open world 
 game. The sound like all other games in the series is topic notch with recorded music from all 
 genres and the comedy talk is quite funny. The single player game will take over 100 hours to complete 
 everything there is to do. The main story will take between 30 and 60 hours depending how fast 
 you go. There is just so much to do in this game I can't begin to cover them all. This is one of 
 those Seminole games that everyone must play. Whether you pay sixty or ninety dollars for the the 
 regular or special editions you will get your moneys worth and much more. Grand Theft Auto IV gets 
 a ten out of ten (10/10) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 puts you in the shoes of Niko Bellic trying to get a better life in Liberty City. The story 
 of GTA 4 progresses very much like a gangster movie but only longer and more action packed. Story 
 mode took me a lot of hours (I lost count) to finish seeing that I decided to play slow and do 
 side missions at the same time. Weapons are a hoot. There are many like 9mm, Combat Sniper, RPG, 
 Knife, combat shotgun, pumb shotgun, SMG and many more. Explosions look terrificly movie like and 
 spectacular. The graphics have some glitches but overall look great even though its a GTA game.
 
  
  Controls have greatly improved. Especially the aiming which is much easier to do now. There are 
 less clothes to buy but you shouldn't really miss that seeing that it is a mostly story driven 
 game, still there are good clothes to buy out of whats there but nothing too flashy like SA because 
 its a New York based city not California state based. The whole design of the New York is truly 
 captured in Liberty City such as the stunning lookong Rotterdam Tower (Empire State Building) , 
 Star Junction (Times Square) with it's stunning advertisment lights, Broker (Brooklyn) and Alderney 
 (New Jersey) etc.
  
  You can go out on dates with various women who have a variety of likes and dislikes. You can send 
 E-Mails and surf the internet on a dating site or many other sites featuring many jokes with Rockstar 
 humor. Sound effects are incredibly realistic and voice acting is top notch even for the minor 
 roles. Overall GTA 4 is great for both GTA fans and casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This version of GTA is the best ever. Thanks to the perfect graphics and perfect city and perfect 
 game play and perfect story line. and there is so many things that will make you sit in front of 
 your tv for 10 hours a day playing this game. The cars you driving is so perfect in design and close 
 to some cars in design in real world just like the PATRIOT is a close to HUMMER and the city itself 
 is so close to NY city. and the missions are so interesting and not very hard. and driving cars is 
 so much better than driving cras in previous issues. the charchters in game are so cool and you 
 will work with thugs and with police too. and the game will let make dicisons in many missions just 
 like to kill target or to let him alive. so this game is a perfect game and if there is a 20 Rating 
 score i would've choose it with any doubt. and if you dont have this game what are wating for go 
 and buy now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar brought back Liberty City for Grand Theft Auto IV. This time Liberty City has been changed 
 and made more realistic and more fun for the player. Rockstar has also fixed all of the problems 
 in past GTA IV games, from irritating glitches and the weapon system to make a more rounded game. 
 
  
  This time round we follow Niko Bellic. He has come to the United States to start a new life, a 
 better one that he had in the "old country". He comes on behalf of his cousin Roman, who tells 
 him stories of his success. Niko finds most of this untrue, but still will try to make a living.
 
  
  The game begins and plays like any GTA game. You are first driving people around and doing little 
 tasks for people. This task all feel familiar but also new because many of the mechanics of previous 
 games have been re-worked for this game to more enjoyable to play. This first thing you will notice 
 that Niko walks like he would, not just a normal walk. The driving in the game is also different 
 and will take some use to get used too. 
  
  Things are also missing or have been taking out of this game that we present most notably in the 
 last GTA game, San Andreas. Plans are not flyable in this game, helicopters are though. A stats 
 system is gone too. You don't need to worry about eating, only to restore health. Don't worry about 
 hitting the gym either for there isn't one and that has also been removed. Dual wielding is also 
 gone. 
  
  Mission wise, many that you do feel like GTA missions. Some feel new where you will kidnap someone 
 and they will try to wreck the car, and feel more real. In the game there are also the side mission 
 for the police, fire truck, and drug runs. These have been revamped and, in my opinion, present 
 much better. For example the police mission are from the police computer and you can choose which 
 one you want to do and so fourth. Much better than the jump-in and do it style presented in the 
 previous games.
  
  Multi-player is available for you as well. You can jump into a game write from your cell phone 
 in the game. You can play with other people or people from you friends list. No matter how you 
 play it can be really fun. Rockstar did a good job with multi-player. 
  
  One of the best part of any GTA game is the free play you can do inside the game. As in the past 
 it is still fun as ever. Getting in trouble with the cops and causing the most destruction you 
 can in Liberty City is great. The affects of explosions and the colors and weather affects are 
 amazing and if you are not careful can distract you. 
  
  The strongest aspect of the game is the story. Rockstar has developed character that you care about 
 and that show emotion and that you connect too. In this game, unlike previous ones, you have at 
 some points in the game to affect the story by making a choice. This really intensifies the game 
 because what you do has repercussions on the people around you. Some of these choices are hard 
 to make, some you even have to think about. GTA IV is one of the few games that I felt the story 
 was very compelling and actually playing to complete that story and see what would happen next. 
 
  
  Rockstar was really able to hit home with Grand Theft Auto IV. Fans of the series will see this 
 as Rockstar's greatest achievement in the franchise. People who like to see a good story develop 
 will also see this as a great game, even thought it can be violent. I recomend this game 100% to 
 anyone looking for a good time with a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  http://thesupergamers. smfforfree4. com/
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: IV is proberly the best GTA game yet, most things have been improved since the 
 last Grand Theft Auto games. In GTA: IV you play as Niko Balic, a recent european imegrent sucked 
 in to going to Liberty City by his cousen claiming he had a mansion, sports cars and the ladies. 
 But when Niko gets of the boat he realises the truth, the mansion is just an old apartment, the 
 sports cars are taxi cabs and the ladies are prostitutes.
  
  First of all, the first main thing that has been improved is the graphics. Everthing has a great 
 detail to it from the buildings to the characters, the graphics no longer look so cartoony like 
 in past games. The same goes with the physics of this game, In past games when you shot someone 
 it would be cartoony, however in GTA: IV when you shoot someone the victim will wimper away in pain 
 before they get up.
  
  The enviroment now has distructable elements in it, for example when you are in a heavy firefight 
 with your foes the enviroment around were the firefight is taking place will get damaged, if you 
 shoot an RPG into a concreat wall the wall will be left with a chunk taken out of it, the covour 
 and shooting system has been improved as you can now hide behind objects to avoid being shot.
 
  
  The car physics are now more realistic, now you can't just floor it around a corner as fast as 
 you can in a car you have to acturally slow down around corners before eventurally speeding up 
 again.
  
  The mission structure has gorne back to basic, that may sound like a let down to some but in most 
 part you will have to use different tactics to pass some missions. In some missions you will have 
 to make dissisions on weather or not you kill or save someone or you may have two people and you 
 have a choice to kill one or the other, one may be helpfull for you further down the line were 
 another may be compleatly useless to you. Everything you do has it's advantages ind disadvantages.
 
  
  The characters are well disigned, it is like every character has emotions. Niko has feelings and 
 when something bad happens to someone close to him he will be worried and you can tell that what 
 he says in his dialogue. If someone has been kidnapped, Niko will sound angry in his voice.
  The cutsceen dialogue is also funny and well done, ingame dialogue when you fail a mission the 
 character you worked for has different lines they say so if you fail the mission again and again, 
 that particular character will say a different line again and again.
  
  The music in GTA: IV is nothing different then other GTA's, the music sets the feel and vibe in 
 the time and setting of this game.
  
  Like in past GTA games, this ones filled with many funny real-life spoofs and eastereggs, for example, 
 the statue of Liberty is the statue of happyness, the metalife building is getalife just to name 
 a couple.
  
  With that all said, this game certainly ain't perfect, there are a few bugs in the game were characters 
 don't do what they are supposed to do, there are glitches which also effect the enviroment of the 
 game. But this game gets a 10 purly on the basis of what said above, the negatives don't really 
 have an impact.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  http://thesupergamers. smfforfree4. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toreirga
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Here is my first review of a game ever:
  
  So, where to start, it is impossible to say something bad about GTA IV, i liked it very much and 
 i guarantee you would too. The story is very-well written and you don't want to quit until you 
 have seen the ending of the story. The graphics are so good, it seems like you are doing it in 
 real time (but you aren't) . The AI is also very good, pedestrians being driven over and blood comes 
 over the streets (very realistic) . the voice-actors do a very good job, even though some of them 
 are not well-known as in previous games. Michael Hollick did an excellent job for voicing Niko. 
 The music is quite impressive (especially Liberty Rock Radio) and there is quite alot of them in 
 the game, and we don't have to forget the funny internet parodies on some level.
  
  
  All i have to say: buy it, you won't regret it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miteme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto makes a great appearance on next generation console with GTA4. The game is great 
 from the offest with amazing visuals, voice acting and very well written. The charcters each have 
 a individual and likable personality, even if their inclusion appears to be just for commical purposes. 
 GTA4 is more story driven that its predescesors. The main character Roman Bellic has a strong past 
 and his direction through the game is very clear. Every action he makes is towards a specific goal. 
 His character is tormented by his past and this makes playing as him enjoyable. The game is well 
 scripted and realistic which all adds to the overall feeling of the game. The area to explore in 
 the game is much smaller than San Andreas. San Andreas was the size of an American state whereas 
 Liberty city is only a city. However San Andreas featured large areas of baron wasteland with not 
 to do in them. Liberty City has been built from the ground up to ensure all area is used well and 
 is invloved in the missions or side missions in some way.
  
  The only problem I find with the game is that because it is so story driven that it is not as much 
 fun as its predescesor San Andreas. The missions in GTA4 do not have much variance and usual just 
 require either killing an individual/individuals, chasing an individual before doing the latter 
 or escpaing cops with an item. San Andreas had so much more variance. Individuals who have played 
 San Andreas will remember missions where they had to scare a character into confessing information 
 by drving your car extremely fast into opposing traffic with them tied to the hood, or drving your 
 car close to the back of a fire engine to catch an character dangling from the back of the fire 
 engine. San Andreas featuted a variety of missions which made the game a more fun experience for 
 the player.
  
  If its a well paced, well written story driven adventure you are looking for them GTA4 is what 
 you're after. If you just want to have a fun time completing similar missions and doing similar 
 stuff I suggest Saints Row or when it comes out Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattia1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  ----------------------------
  
  This is the best game that I have ever played in my life.
  A concentrated action, freedom, leadership, 
 exploration with a good part of multiplayer make it a vital game for all holders of xbox and ps3.
 
  Graphically the game is almost perfect. The game boasts a system of combat more sophisticated 
 and fun than the other chapters of the series. Even the engine physical completely renovated is 
 very well done.
  
  The multiplayer modes are very numerous and allow you to continue the experience of playing with 
 a friend.
  We could go everywhere around the city in the company of a friend and do everything you want.
 
  You can also customize your character with whom play in multiplayer!
  
  If you do not have the game go and buy it. You will not regret it!
  
  ---------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raejie
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Hi guys just asking if when to arrive here in the Philippines.. i really don't now if its available 
 in the Philippines coz now im in Italy.. And im very busy here with my dad.. i don't have any time 
 to buy this game....
  
  but i know i will never regret to buy this one.. you know.. rockstar rocks! akakak
  Can you guys 
 give me some information about the performance, Graphics if this game on PC.. coz i played here 
 in my friends XBOX360 and it's cool.. but i think if i will play it on great performance PC it 
 will be better... Coz i like to play on my PC.. And also i hope it will be available in PSP.. akakak
 
  
  You know if it will be on PSP... dang, it will consume most of my time on my PSP. akakak So guys 
 if you have idea of this game when to arrive on PC or PSP kindly tell me please... 
  
  Thanks Gamespot! More Power! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potentialflip
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When Grand Theft Auto comes to mind. Occasionally one would think Felony. But in the industry of 
 the gaming populous. It quite frankly is considered the most fun sandbox experience around.
  
  Do what you want, when you want, where you want type of game. In that aspect this game delivers 
 just as it's predecessors did. But that's just it...
  
  It keeps within the formula of this in mind. You can't go wrong with it. But for me where in today's 
 society and the way the economy is. I make sure that people get the most bang for their buck. Eventually 
 one would become bored with the antics that one would re-create those same antics in real life. 
 According to rare instances I have some merritt with that statement. So what can make this game 
 enjoyable.
  
  First the setting... a total revamp of the infamous Liberty City. From simple to a more complex 
 setting modeled after the city of New York and the neighboring New Jersey. It truly is remarkable 
 with how they did it. Almost exact duplicates from even the Statue of Liberty.
  
  The story... well, if you haven't played GTA before. It's simple... you get introduced to your 
 character. You do small-time jobs for some low life before moving up to the big-time mobsters and 
 mafia bosses. Your guy Nico Bellic is a charismatic character though his character would eventually 
 become dull on a second playthrough to the point you will question about going through the story 
 all over again. The supporting characters are all typical Liberty City residents. The core of the 
 story is intriguing where your an immigrant who just when things were going your way something 
 brings you back down and eventually you got it done. The tree element is there where you get to 
 pick one or the other to progress the story. One is really meaningful as it revolves to the ending 
 you see. There's only two. Story in GTA games weren't that great to begin with so no surprise here.
 
  
  The gameplay... tuned up with a new physics engine powering the game. This causes knew animations 
 to certain things such as carjacking sequence to getting thrown out of the vehicle to driving and 
 the new cover and lock-on aim system. All new additions are great to the game. One of the new things 
 that is somewhat a downside is the star system. There will be a radius in which you need to get 
 out to take your wanted level out. At first I enjoyed it due to making you look like Jason Bourne 
 and know the map layout so you can really drive. Unfortunately, it got too simple even in 4 starts. 
 The extras are here again but you only get to do the police vigilante type missions. There's the 
 taxi mission too but I really enjoyed the emergency vehicle type missions more. Maybe in the downloadable 
 content egh? too bad it will come later than promised. Games are there but once again are not as 
 fun. The dating and hanging out is more planned out this time but the only fun is getting drunk 
 and driving. Yeah I know MADD is going insane about it but it's a game. At least for me it is. 
 Overall gameplay is a snooze.
  
  Now the fun part... the Multiplayer, lets just say it needs some fixing. Not saying it's broken 
 but it needs like some sort of band aid or something. It's not that fun, gets boring after a while, 
 not that competitive, and you can easily manipulate and cheat.
  
  Bottom Line... It's there but not really. Aside from upping what it's predecessors could not in 
 the physics and graphics front. The story and multiplayer was nothing special. Not that I'm looking 
 for a story but something new and insane instead of another drawn out guy just working up the ladder. 
 I know it's what made GTA the game it is today but be more unconventional than you have been in 
 the past at least. It could have been good but it's collecting dust I never thought it could when 
 I first bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  GTA4... Grand Theft Auto 4... *cry sob cry*... this game... is... go... go... GOD! Omg seriously! 
 This game is like if you were able to melt ice cream, and have a chocolate smoothie, but without 
 the bad dairy product melting thing... Ya, well anyways, 1st. What do I do in this game that got 
 me addicted? Well I ran over people first, I pissed people off, I ran into people with ultra fast 
 mach bike, I shot the living heck out of people with the RPG (cheat enabled wep) , blown up millions 
 of cars with that same wep, sent people and cars flying with helicopter wings when on the ground, 
 picked up hookers, and alot of other stuff. But mainly, the campaign is preety awesome, but comon, 
 screw that crap and get to the multiplayer and kill some craps on the street! Seriously, I can't 
 believe that I had fun playing Crackdown, when this was in the making, so what do I say about this 
 game? BUY BUY BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarowaz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the game of the future. Beautiful graphics, a lot of interactivity, and 
 one of the most realistic physics in the gaming industry. A lot of people say, "Stale", "Monotonous", 
 or "Not worth the money", but they don't get the idea this game is getting to. Realism=Fun. If 
 they put toony graphics in a game like this, it would become childish. It is totally worth the 
 $60. The story is almost flawless, controls are perfect, what else could you want in this game. 
 I mean, yeah, it's missing some things that would make the game legendary like vehicle customization. 
 But, in spite of that, Rockstar made an awesome game that meets all of my standards of gaming. 
 In short, GTA IV is a must have game that will change the way you look at other games. Great job 
 Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanctc24
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10.0/: the graphics are amazing like for instints you lose the hood on the car you can 
 everything that an engine has. Also wrecks on the game are so real that the slitest bump on a car 
 would put a dint in it.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0/: The gameplay changed alot from the other GTA s. if you played San andreas and just 
 started to play GTA 4 you would be ostounded by the gun play. The worst part of it is that the 
 car mode is very different and hard to conrtol.
  
  Story: 10.0/: The story line is awersome the game lets you pick either to kill or save people which 
 makes the story change in that way like if you kill a guy the story might make you lose a friend. 
 
  
  Vehicles and apartments: 8.5/: Through out the story you get apartments from your cousin or friend, 
 but you cannot buy any of your own ( which sucks ***) . The vehicles are awesome and mainly all 
 of them have changed over the series. They are missing only one thing the DODO and the Hydra!!!!!! 
 So if you think you can fly an airplane your wrong, and the only
  thing you can fly with is the helicopter.
  
  Clothes: 6.5/: This has only about 30 clothes 
 and like 15 kinds of shoes. And only 2 sunglasses which are really gay. Half of the clothes are 
 winter jackets and sweaters. The only thing good to wear is the tuxedos.
  
  I hope this reveiw helped you decide wehter to buy it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 is here and it is outstanding it has everything you've ever wanted in a third person action 
 game. It has an arsenal of weapons that you can use it has an array of very nice looking and powerful 
 cars and liberty city looks better then it did in gta 3. The characters in this game do a good 
 job of making themselves feel realstic especially in dialouge, the voice acting matches their characters 
 perfectly and the free roaming crime aspect still sets the trend for the entire GTA franchise. 
 When cars get damaged it looks real when cops chase you or when randomn acts violence occur it 
 looks real, nothing about this game is bad there aren't any flaws. 
  
  The storyline is very well written and the game play is solid, the audio as in the game music is 
 just as good as every other gta in the past. To be simply frank this game IS the best gta game 
 in the history of the GTA franchise and yes it may be semi hard but thats a challenge to try harder 
 and push further to get through this amazing masterpiece of work. Do not hesitate to get this game 
 if there's one thing iIve had the pleasure of doing is waiting for this game to come out, because 
 I knew it would be brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  The question with any Grand Theft Auto title is whether or not it can live up to the hype that 
 inevitably surrounds it. Add the pressures of a new-gen debut and the expectations surrounding 
 GTA IV were stratospherically high. Rockstar has definitely lived up to, and in some cases exceeded, 
 those expectations.
  
  GTA IV represents a complete reworking of the Liberty City we all grew to love. While there are 
 some similarities (the three-island system, names of certain locales, vehicles, etc., Lazlow...) , 
 the city itself has been completely rebuilt and expanded. The cast of characters is completely 
 different (except for Lazlow...) and the story makes very little, if any, mention of the events 
 of previous editions (except allusions to Lazlow's previous stops) .
  
  You'll adapt to life in Liberty alongside Niko Bellic, an Eastern-European immigrant with a checkered 
 past. Tempted by his cousin Roman's stories of women and wealth, Niko disembarks from the merchant 
 ship he works on to find out that things are not as he was led to believe.
  
  Gameplay-The core mechanics remain the same. You explore the city by foot or vehicle, doing missions 
 for various mob bosses and other ne'er-do-wells. But the way in which you do it has changed... for 
 the better.
  
  You can't talk about the control scheme in GTA IV without first mentioning the improved gunplay. 
 Long a serious problem, Rockstar addressed it by enhancing the auto-lock with the ability to target 
 specific areas of your enemy. If that doesn't work for you, you can pull the left trigger halfway 
 and go into a free-aim mode.
  
  Veterans of the series might be put off by the new driving mechanics. Instead of tearing around 
 corners at top speed with the yank of the handbrake, cars and trucks actually react somewhat realistically 
 (as if they had shocks) . While the soft handing of the vehicles will be irritating to some, it 
 works one you've become accustomed to it.
  
  The story itself is a bit of a departure from the usual GTA formula. While the trademark dark humor 
 remains intact (like Lazlow) , the story is less one of "rags to riches" and more "struggling to 
 get by".
  
  Visuals-Grand Theft Auto has never been known as a graphic powerhouse. But the visual design is 
 amazing this time around. The cityscapes are enormously detailed and, while there is still some 
 draw-in, it's so far away that you won't really notice unless you're looking. It becomes obvious 
 that upgraded visuals were a priority just by looking around at the sheer amount of stuff that 
 is detailed in any given spot. Scuffed paint on apartment building doors, trashbag lined streets, 
 and an amazing recreation of the Central Park and Broadway areas of New York put GTA on the short 
 list of graphically impressive titles.
  
  Sound-As usual, GTA's sound design is a home run. Excellent voice acting (without the usual celebrities, 
 no less... except Lazlow) and a dizzying array of radio stations and music genres just continue 
 the GTA legacy of standout sound. The ambient city sounds and explosions, vehicle noises, and other 
 little things that you hear everyday in real life are all here. It's truly an aural tour de force.
 
  
  Value-This is a no brainer. Rockstar always packs a staggering amount of stuff to do in their GTA 
 titles, and this one's no different. While they've trimmed away a significant amount of fat between 
 San Andreas and IV, the stuff that's left is excellent. The retooled Vigilante missions are a highlight, 
 and the jettison-ing of the Ambulance and Fire missions is an addition by subtraction.
  
  Oh, and by the way, they've finally added multiplayer. Whether you're looking for a deathmatch, 
 a race, or a more focused mission (like Cops n' Crooks) , if you're by yourself, in a team, or with 
 one other person, there's something here for you. These missions are accessed through the single 
 player campaign by way of your cellphone, and the array of modes and types to choose from is huge. 
 As of now, most of the glitches that plagued early online play seem to have been fixed via a downloadable 
 patch, so play should be smooth.
  
  Once again, Rockstar has introduced a complete gem. This game has been a classic from the moment 
 it hit store shelves. While the massive amount of changes made (except for Lazlow) for it's new-gen 
 debut could have sunk the ship, GTA IV emerges with flying colors, paving a road that future titles 
 can only improve upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxninjaman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  ok, first of all i bought an Xbox360 mostly for this game when it came out it was a blast Fun gameplay 
 ultra violent too but the thing this game seem to be missing is the San andreas magic you know 
 all those car location to make your free-roaming experience fun??? Anyway if your more of a Realism 
 person this is the one for you if not you'll rather stick to your Ps2 Gta games which are more 
 fun to hang around in but i have to admit gta4 as the best story char. etc
  
  here's the good point of this game
  The Good:
  -Finaly a gta game with good graphic's
  -Very 
 Good Story and character
  -Online is good depending on who you play with
  The Bad:
  -The free-roaming part sure got bought down compared to san andreas
  -THE GAME IS CLEARLY OVERRATED 
 i liked it but this game is far from a 10 imo
  -The Cover system is good but in this case make's the game Very very very easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overdrive918
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I took my dear sweet time with this game because of two reasons:
  1.) Half the fun of GTA, as we all know, is running around decapitating old ladies with a machete 
 and throwing a hand grenade at people that act tough around you.
  That's pretty much the main reason it took me nearly 4 full days of game play to beat it.
  
 
  The second is rather annoying, 2.) The missions are so repetitive that it makes me want to throw 
 my xbox along with a new born baby out of my tenth story window. I just can't handle it. Nearly 
 half the missions are, go pick this item up in this car and drive it over here, then when you drive 
 it over there pick this up and bring it here. mission complete. Next mission, "Hey nikki, I need 
 you to head over to ___ and pickup a truckload of ice and put it in this garage for me, will ya?"
 
  On occasion you get a few people chasing you and shooting, but that gets tedious too.
  Then the next mission is, "THAT **** SCUM, I WANT YOU TO GO OVER THERE AND PUT A BULLET IN HIS 
 HEAD!"
  You shortly thereafter go to some abandoned building, plow through 50 something thugs who are all 
 covered by a wall, so you have to wait till they stick their heads out to shoot them, and then 
 9 out of 10 times you get to the boss you're supposed to shoot, and he makes a run for it, so you 
 either have to chase him in a car, on foot, or in a car then on foot, or on foot then on a boat.
 
  point is, I've seen this scenario 30+ times.
  And if you should so happen to fail one of these missions, lord have mercy on your soul. Not only 
 do you have to drive out to wherever it is again, you have to get however far you were in the first 
 place.
  If this were any game other than grand theft auto, I would take a massive dump on it and mail it 
 back to the store.
  
  Another thing that really bugs me is that the missions don't get harder as you progress through 
 the game. To me the fifth to last mission is the same difficulty as the fifth.
  
  I know I'm trashing this game pretty hard, but don't get me wrong, I LOVE this game. Everything 
 about it next to repetitiveness is nearly perfect.
  The storyline is so interesting it's like watching a new Croatian version of the Godfather.
  
 The graphics, ridiculously good, especially if you compare it to San Andreas.
  The control, Kinda slow, but you get used to it fast.
  And they REALLY improved on the realistic 
 factor this time around, it's probably one of the best qualities that this game has.
  
  Another thing I'd like to say is that the missions started out really fun, and all of them were 
 very different.
  I'd say it's around the mission where you're trying to get to Dimitri to kill him in that warehouse 
 is when things started getting a little boring.
  
  I shouldn't have to tell you this, it should be something you already know, if you don't have this 
 game, Either shoot yourself, or go buy it.
  Grand Theft Auto is always something good to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmik-N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Gonna keep this short, this game is well worth the money, no matter what you pay for it. Being 
 a GTA game it's got al the usual elements you'll want.. well.. nearly all of them. Some of the 
 things present in other games (like San Andreas) are missing, such as going to the gym, and the 
 parachute, but there's so much more in, like getting drunk and the new cover system. There's a 
 lot of people saying it's not perfect and could be better, which is true, sometimes graphics lag 
 VERY SLIGHTLY and a few other things which may be irritating, but with so many other things in 
 the game, you can forgive the very few flaws. With so much to do and so many different ways to 
 do it, this game MUST NOT be missed out on. It raises the bar to such a high level, others will 
 find it hard to compete. The main negative point about this game is that it's had so much effort 
 and thought put into making it, that it makes the rest of your games look bad, unfinished and so 
 empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungGSReviewer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto. When people here the title they usualy think: long story, explosive action and 
 a game that will last longer than a hundred hours. Most of this is true with GTA4 but this game 
 still has a few missing elements that made the last games in the series so fun. A problem that 
 i will name first is that this is'nt as long as the last game but is easily more time comsuming 
 then most first person shooters. On my play through the story took about twenty hours. It also 
 seems like rockstar did'nt try to make a lasting experience either because their is an achievement 
 for beating the main story in less than thirty hours. Other than the time this game has almost 
 no other flaws. The look of this game is superb everything in this game looks realistic. The explosions 
 look as though they were ripped from a hollywood movie. The amount of detail added in GTA4 is superb 
 as well instead of the normal GTA jogging downstairs your character will now take individual steps 
 downstairs making the game far more realistic. Another great part of this game is the sound. Their 
 are many radio stations provided a music genre to anyone with any music favorites. If your like 
 me and enjoy the talk shows their is two talk show with hilarious topics that would keep anyone 
 laphing througout the game. The most fun part of this game though would be the gameplay. Characters 
 with hillarious personalities will give you missions. Most missions are driving to a location and 
 fighting everyone who is there but the best missions are where you get a choice between eliminating 
 someone or letting them live. One of these missions change the outcome of the single player but 
 others might offer you an extra mission or two. At the end of this single player experience there 
 is not much to do though. Their really is no mini games at the end other then make friends with 
 the surving characters. So if you want this game as a long lasting single player game then you 
 will be happy with the length but unhappy with the ending credits scrolling down the screen. The 
 other half of the game would be the multiplayer. Up to sixteen players roaming liberty city in 
 many gametypes. Their are some gametypes that can only have eight players though. The multiplayer 
 is fun but is not as fun as other games on the market right now. In the end GTA4 is a great game 
 that roughly lasts thirty hours if you take your time and after multiplayer if you have xbox live 
 then this game will last longer. If your looking for interesting story that lasts longer than most 
 this game is for you. If you just want this game for multiplayer then this game is ok but not the 
 best. In all this game is a fun experience with many cool moments along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyDirk117
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is what the current generation of games should be. Its a fine mix of visuals, real to life 
 physics, easy to use controls, and a story that will have you caring about characters who don't 
 exist anywhere but in your console. Seriously though this game is missing something. Its missing 
 that desire that i should have to play such a well made game. Honestly i don't know what it is 
 about this game loses my interest. The missions are fun (except for the "don't follow to close" 
 missions) , the new targeting system is so much better than the older GTA games, this game computes 
 some physics that will leave you in awe, the graphics are stunning, and the storyline keeps you 
 wondering what's next. But for some reason that is not enough for me to hurry home from work and 
 fire up the Xbox. I would rather scroll through whats new on Live than play GTA4. I have mixed 
 emotions about this game. I will force myself to play it all the way through, but then again, a 
 game should never be forced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Well if you have played the other GTA's then you'll soon find out that this took a huge leap from 
 GTA SA and Vice City. 
  
  The game begins with a cousin Roman the (main Character) and comes to live in America. and gets 
 in a whole lot of trouble.
  
  This game yet took away many things from the GTA's 
  
  You can no longer buy property, pimp out cars and many more things that GTA used to offer as a 
 side factor. It has nothing to do with the story yet really fun to play around with.
  
  also did I mention... NO AIR PLANES!!
  
  I noticed many times that all the missions are all 
 the same. 
  Go here and kill them" or chase them then kill them.
  All the missions are just like that. takes away from the fun factor.
  
  The game does have 
 a great factor to it though.
  
  The graphics and physics are simply amazing!
  
  Everything is detailed, which may be a reason why most of the missions are all so bland. 
  
 
  The AI is also amazing and wont just stand there till you shoot them. They will sometimes cover 
 and shoot or rush striate at you.
  Definitely FUN.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboyuno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When you start the game you will probably be compelled to play the first few missions. All I can 
 say is that once you discover "party mode" you will probably spend most of your time there. This 
 is because the game's story mode punishes you for dying, which really takes away your desire to 
 "free roam" and shoot everything that moves.
  
  Free mode lets you do whatever you want without any real punishment becuase when you die you do 
 not lose money. For exploring the city and blowing stuff up, this is the mode you want to play 
 in.
  
  When its time to put meaning in your gunplay, you go to storymode, which is great in every way 
 a game can be except for the far away spawn points and the loss of money when you die. Sometimes 
 you will literally start 10-20 minutes back to the very beggining of a mission. 
  
  Since GTA 4 has two different modes, it is a superb game. Without the free mode attatched, this 
 game would be more frustrating and less satisfying. Thank god its not. It also has great multiplayer 
 (but no splitscreen) to enjoy with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game and was worth the wait. There isn't much bad things I can say about the 
 game but some things that are annoying are when you have your cell phone out and you forget and 
 you try to run away and you can't cause of your cell but other then that there isn't anything bad. 
 The graphics are pretty good considering its a GTA game. The story is definitely the best story 
 thats been written for a GTA game and for alot of other games. The gameplay is extremelly fun especially 
 because of the Euphoria engine which is insane fun and really really realistic. The driving takes 
 some getting used to and when you run over people to blood stays on the car. The enviorment is 
 beautiful. This game is really great and really interactive. The online is extremelly fun. Its 
 great when you have alot of friends that have this game that you talk to because this game has 
 online Free Mode where you can do whatever you please with up to 16 people. Like hold up a bowling 
 alley with friends or just mess around. The racing online is a bit disappointing and frustrating 
 because its likely you aren't going to win because of the way its made. Like you will be in first 
 place and one little mistake will put you in last place or some dumbass will go backwards and ram 
 into you. And the first thing everyone does is slam into each other as soon as it starts. Other 
 than that the online is amazing. This is a must get. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanisfat
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  This is easily the best GTA ive played. The feel of this game is so realistic that the game seems 
 more like a movie, that's 30 hours long, and still amazing.
  
  The graphics are very impressive. The environments and lighting are insanely realistic, and so 
 are the cars. Niko himself is very detailed, but the other characters are not as much, not that 
 they really need to be. Lip syncing is perfect and just makes you wonder how they can manage to 
 achieve all this.
  
  The audio is very good too. The sound effects suit everything perfectly, and the character's voices 
 are good too. The in car radio has some very good music, but unlike San Andreas, you may not be 
 familiar with most of the tunes. Most are tunes youve never heard of, but they are still great 
 tunes and they can really set the mood and , especially the djs and talk show hosts.
  
  The gameplay is probably the most important part of the game. I spent almost 30 hours on this game 
 (I rushed to get the under 30 hours achievement) . And after that, there is so much more to do. 
 The missions are similar to the last games and are a little cliche. Like this "My friend ate my 
 taco, this angers me, go kill him", and then you kill the guy. Although a lot of missions follow 
 a similar idea, they are still fun to play. The driving is also great with a good choice of cars 
 and amazing, realistic handling that just feels right.
  
  There is so much packed into this game that im unsure how they fit it onto a dvd, and how they 
 finished the game in 4 years. This is video games at their best, showing what a team can do if 
 they really try. A definite 10/10.
  
  One last thing, this is only the second game I have ever played where you actually care for the 
 characters because of how realistic the developers made them seem to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Not much can be said that has not already been said.
  
  This game delivers on almost every level. 
  
  Graphics have improved by leaps and bounds since 
 we last saw Liberty City.
  
  Combat has improved. It's not perfect, but its best we have seen from the GTA series thus far.
 
  
  Storyline is the best yet. Niko is a hero you have to love and who you really end up caring for. 
 Did I mention he does great with the ladies and actually has a great sense of humor?!? Decisions 
 made while playing will change the gameplay you experience. Similar, but not in any way as in depth 
 as Mass Effect.
  
  Driving. Is. Different. But not bad. Just takes a while to get use to. It is a new physics engine 
 that can deliver some mind blowing moments.
  
  Additions include the use of a cell phone. The cell can be used to start missions, call friends 
 (to hang in whatever way you see fit) or enter cheat codes.
  
  YES! The cheat codes are back. In a world where fewer and fewer games are including the joy of 
 our beloved cheat codes and throwing them to the curb, Rockstar continues to show them the love 
 that they deserve.
  
  When you are not shooting all that moves and creating complete mind numbing chaos you can.... go 
 drinking with friends. Have fun driving home and avoid that DUI!!! Or go get a lap dance, or 2 or 
 3! Or play a game of pool. Or dart. Or take in a live comedy show with actual real life comedians.
 
  
  The only negative I can think of is the choice of radio stations. Most songs are lesser known tracks. 
 I also wish I could of shot Michelle in the face. 
  
  Have fun and enjoy!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandam86
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV delivers what it promises features innovative story-lines, graphics, AI that will not allow 
 you to push around the lil people as most of them do fight back and most of the time in gangs, 
 it will even protect females. this game has a little everything for everyone, whether ure an achievement 
 junkie or trying to get your fill of violence, this game is awesome, takes a while to learn what 
 to do, challenging, fun, however the online so far has been buggy lots of lags, and set-backs, 
 perhaps its the insane number of people allowed on at any given-time, however the strip clubs should 
 be different and the girls should all give u different hot dances instead of the same one over 
 again, lol the prostitutes have 3 levels of services so why cant the strip clubs? your telling 
 me a street prostitute has more class then a strip club??? Innovative story lines allow you to 
 set your goals in mind and never stray from them, great game overall greatness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Well i had some fun when i started i mean sure it starts a bit slow and im kinda playing with a 
 buddy and you know waiting for the action to really start. You know how games are you gotta play 
 a bit to get it going to get in the fun and start the action, only problem it never really feelsl 
 ike its started. The only improval i see from San andreas is of course the graphics even then there 
 are some 360 games tbat look better. i mean it does look pretty cartoony i hate that.
  
  On the downside, from san andreas there are features missing, like you cant work out in the gym, 
 you can't take over terrritories, you cant ride with yur gang and wreak havoc and you can't really 
 personalize much about yourself haircuts etc wifebeaters. No spraypainting and tagging and stuff 
 i just felt the heart of san amdreas that made thart game so good is somewhat lacking in this game.
 
  
  I just felt nothing really new and original about it, i mean the gta world hey i been there and 
 done that alredy. Also the aiming system is quite a pain, seeing as you cant freeaim. But theres 
 is some positives that are different, such as dating and the buddy system. It makes you feel like 
 your in there because you can build relationshipd with friends and hang out wit hthem in different 
 places like bowling alleys or strip clubs. Only problem is that it doesnt really feel woth it. 
 
  
  SO in a sense i feel i blew a bit of my 67$ i spen on this game, because i pretty stopped playing 
 it after no more than a week with only about 20% completion status. I dont know i just dont feel 
 very inclined to finish it even with all the entertaining cheats. They should of improved the combar 
 system changed it up a bit, make it look cool something like dead to rights , or true crime where 
 the fighting is just a blast .But all in all i mean it is okay but nothing too special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_8790
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  i got this game thinking about all the good things i have done in the past, and all the things 
 i read from my oxm, and online. when i first started it, it looked good. the missions went well, 
 and i got some guns. Then of course i did as everyone else, and started putting in cheats. THis 
 made it a little better, but then when i got into it i learned that it stinks. You can't customize 
 any vehicles, there are very miniscule amounts of clothes shops and styles. In the end i realized 
 that this game was not worth all the hype that it had. It said that you could go into almost any 
 building, and that there would be alot more vehicles around. You can't do any thing that was possible 
 in the last ones. Like fixing up cars, making your guy actually look cool, and getting a random 
 assortment of cooooool weapons. But these are just some of the main things that they took out. 
 The multiplayer is pretty cool but it got boring after like one day of playing it. so all in all, 
 This is not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerman632
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Ok so this game isnt exactly perfect yet its not bad at first all the thrill and excitment of actually 
 playing gta4 after all that time waiting. Well that excitment quickly wears away expecaly once 
 youve finished the story mode. Then theres multiplayer witch is extremly addicting from trying 
 to unlock new custimizable options for your multiplayer charecter or messin around in the city 
 with your freinds in free mode, actually multiplayer is problay the only reason the game didnt 
 go down in flames so if you dont have any way of playing multiplayer i would sugest renting the 
 game. But i guess if you take all that you can out of the city you can have some fun but there 
 is only so much you can do with your self but once your ready to move on to multiplayer youll find 
 that between playing epic death matches to thrilling co op games to the all so fun free mode that 
 there are endless possibilitys.
  
  
  
  
  
  SINGLE PLAYER:7.0
  MULTIPLAYER:9.0
  OVERALL:9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzzie482
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review, I am going to assume that you already know the basic info on the 
 game. I will divide the game into aspects that I liked about the game, and parts that, to me at 
 least, felt like a step backwards.
  
  Pros:
  
  The city. obviously with the technology upgrade from the last generation of consoles to this current 
 generation, Rockstar was able to create a vibrant world which feels alive. Liberty City truly is 
 a sight to behold.
  
  The controls. With the exception of drive-by shooting, the game has a control layout that makes 
 sense and is easy to pick up. While I am not a fan of the more realistic driving physics, and I 
 will touch upon that more later, the on foot controls are pretty well done.
  
  The graphics. One word: fingers. For the first time, Grand Theft Auto has graphics which are comparable 
 to other games on it's respective system. Some things, like exploding cars and the rain effects 
 are simply magnificent.
  
  Cons:
  
  The realism. For GTA IV, Rockstar decided to try to make the game feel more like real life. Not 
 in the same way as San Andreas where they made eating mandatory, but just with the upgraded physics 
 and exorbitant hospital bills. Now that's all well and good, but when trading in the signature 
 surrealism and social satire of previous games for this realism, they truly lost the feel of those 
 games. This game does not feel like a GTA game at all. Not to mention that since the crimes players 
 are able to commit in game are things that I would never want to attempt in real life, this realistic 
 feeling really forces a conscience upon the player in a way, which honestly is not something that 
 I wanted at all.
  
  The relationships. In a way, it is really cool that you can have friends which you can hang out 
 with and what-not, but it becomes incredibly tedious maintaining these relationships. You have 
 the option to turn off your phone to prevent your friends from bothering you, but this has to be 
 repeated every time you do something, such as a vigilante mission. The phone calls tend to get 
 annoying.
  
  The story. I really do not know why all the reviews online were raving about this story. I really 
 felt myself not caring about it too much as I played through the game. I think this was due in 
 part to there being too many characters you meet as you play through who you never hear from again 
 after you accomplish their missions. Overall, I found the story generic, uninteresting, and confusing.
 
  
  Lack of side missions. No ambulance or fire truck missions, etc... Come on Rockstar, these were 
 available in GTA III in 2001. Maybe it was time to move on, but it would have been nice to see 
 them upgraded like with the vigilante missions, which are really cool.
  
  No property. Your safehouses are all given to you, and I realize that buying property was shallow 
 in past games, but I always found it oddly satisfying. It made me feel like I was really making 
 something out of the lives of Tommy Vercetti and CJ.
  
  Overall:
  
  In all honesty, I have never been more disappointed by a game. GTA IV does just enough right to 
 avoid being a complete disaster, but it is a far cry from the perfect scores it was so generously 
 awarded by all the major reviewers online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvingamebeast
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This is grand theft auto it is always going to be fun
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and the game does not slow down no matter how much is on screen 
 at once.
  
  Gameplay: GTA 4 does not control like the others in the series it is very new and fun. The cover 
 system is kind of sticky because when you slide down it you move kind of slow.
  
  enjoyability: I enjoyed this game very much and to prove it I beat it twice.
  
  This stands 
 out compared to the other games in the series in a big way and after playing it you will not want 
 to go back to san Andreas or Vice city etc..
  
  If you do not think this game deserve a ten than play the story for five minutes and you will be 
 attached to it even if you suck at it.
  
  MGS4 has nothing on GTA4 but longer cut scenes so please don't take the MGS4 hype over GTA4 because 
 GTA4 will be getting new missions this fall.
  
  thank you for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennellz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all i love Grand theft auto. Have done since I was a teenager and so naturally i have 
 them all and loved every single one of them.
  
  GTA IV is no exception. I think it's a great game but I do not believe that it's better than Vice 
 City or San Andreas at all.
  The graphics, well. They are good but they are not fantastic. You find yourself is poorly lit areas 
 sometimes and i had to adjust the brightness all the time and it can be a real pain (especially 
 at night) doing missions.
  The added features are really nice like the internet cafes and the mobile phone etc.. the ideas 
 were great and hopefully in another GTA they will make those better.
  
  The map and city were nice and large and a pleasure to race around doing missions and the attention 
 to detail in some areas are really sweet like the cobbled streets in little italy and when you 
 drive over them you can actually hear the cobbles.
  However i just wish they would have done a little more. I would have gladly given up some of the 
 detail to put in some more added stuff eg.. where the hell are the flame throwers in this GTA? 
 did they forget that.
  And whats with the damn car wash?.... were they that important that they needed to be added onto 
 the in-game map?
  It felt like there were more car washes that gun stores, which was really annoying at times. Sure 
 you can make friends with jacob and get gun's on demand but really.. players should be able to 
 not have to drive from the top of the map to the bottom to just get some ammo and armor.
  
  The transport was nice in this GTA. Some really sweet cars and driving "Grotti" cars out of the 
 showroom windows were a treat. But again.. more could have been added.
  We saw helicopters, planes, fighter jets and even a jet pack in san andreas, and yes i know you 
 can't really replicate that as it would have gone too far but still.... just helicopters? no small 
 planes?
  
  Also "going drinking" was hell fun... it left me with laughing pains. However towards the end it 
 just got frustrating getting all those calls and texts from people.
  
  There was more great things and not so great things about the game but I don't have time.
  
 
  My summary is this:
  Did it put me off GTA?? no. 
  Will i buy the next GTA? of course i will. 
  Was it the best GTA thus far? Nope.
  In the whole 
 quest for so called realism and next gen graphics... some of the core GTA fun got left behind a 
 little. New things were added.. but i wouldn't miss them if they were taken out and we got the 
 old GTA back from its commercial spin and the 'next gen' washing machine.
  
  Thanks
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angeloshadows
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  simply amazing game to play on next gen systems, great game play ,awesome grapics, never a boring 
 moment in this game. Great missions in storyline ,defuelt to 100% in gta4. Fun to mess around in 
 the game. Online is great though xbox live. it is not volient in tell you pissed people off like 
 the LCPD they shoot to kill you when you kill a cop they start trying to kill you so run or drive 
 away. THIS GAME OWNS EVERY GAME THIS  SO  
 WARNING HIGHLY  YOU NEVER 
 WILL WANT TO STOP PLAYING THIS GAME. IT WILL OWN YOU. IT WILL OWN YOU .IT WILL OWN YOU. IT WILL OWN 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothybprice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  What a year... Bioshock, Halo3, COD4.... I feel just downright spoiled.. So when the crinkle of 
 the wrapper come off I was planning on sitting down for a quick 70 hours of GTA4......
  
  I am about 50% of the way through and finding this game somewhat like Crack Cocaine. It's not very 
 good for you yet very addicting... I'm staying up till all hours of the morning for fear of having 
 to try to get back to my home base to save v. finishing just one more mission. But like Crack (at 
 least I assume this is the case I am not a crack head) I find myself regretting my decisions of 
 the night before. 
  
  Storyline is excellent, but I do skip more than not now, gameplay wel it's GTA I guess should say 
 what was I expecting? All the buzz sometimes just kills a perfectly good game alone. 
  
  But there is something aging about this franchise. The innovation has worn off much like Tony Hawk's 
 Pro-Skater after you've backside double flipped to nosegrind four hundred feet in the air to a 
 christ air manual one too many times.
  
  So while I am not dissapointed with GTA 4, at least the time I have spent with it certainly indicates 
 I must like the game. I am longing for something new. Innovation is difficult I get it so I am 
 happy to have gotten it. But sorry critics this game is not a 10.0 by any means, if you gave it 
 a 10.0 you are influenced by an external force much like Nico Beloc and his cadre of shady friends.... 
 
  
  Multi added some interesting options. I am exploring this now but at the demise of actually finishing 
 the game.... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLBLAKERS10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  First of all this is a must play. One of the best games Ive ever played. Its an instant classic.
 
  
  When you step off the boat and enter Liberty City you will see how live the city is, and how real 
 it seems, how the cars handle differnt, how the physics have changed.. 
  
  Gameplay is where the game has changed for the better or worse depending on your prefences. Personally 
 I liked it... The game has more of a real feeling.. Killing a bunch of cops is harder then it was 
 in the last gen GTA games.. Do to cops carrying shotguns, and using cover.. The aiming system still 
 has problems but is much improved over older versions.. Cars handle more real like.. You cant drive 
 100MPH and make a 90* turn..
  
  Graphically when in the city the game is one of the most beautiful games I have seen.. Charter 
 models are much improved and so are the faces.. People have 5 fingers now not clumps or look alike 
 mittins..
  
  The game isnt as long as San Andreas or as big.. I beat it in 25 hours at 65% completion.. Im currently 
 working on the side stories and what not..
  
  The flaws really is just there is no custimasion which really sucks.. I Hope for DLC will add some 
 neat things... 
  
  While I still think San Andreas is better this is still an amazing game and one of the best I have 
 ever played.. The only reason I put GTA San An over it is because of the world, and more custimazion..
 
  
  The point is this is one of the best games I have played and I think every body should at least 
 pick up a copy of this game..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DYSTOPIAN_BITE
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I was never a fan of any of the Grand Theft Auto games. The poor aiming controls and steep (for 
 my taste) difficulty curve always persuaded me to stop playing them after about a 30 percent playthrough. 
 I always summed these games up as mostly hype, but enjoyed the idea of "sandbox" gameplay. 
  
  Oh my, how I've been swayed. After completing the main story line in this edition, I am pleased 
 to submit that I have been reformed!
  
  Never mind that this is a great GTA game. It is, in my mind, one of the best games I've played 
 in recent memory. It is a complete package, a fantastic work of art that the developers should 
 be incredibly proud of. The story, while thematically juvenile in some aspects, is nonetheless 
 gripping. I cared about some characters while I loathed others. I gained a small sense of pride 
 in upgrading safehouses from a tenement building to a paradisal loft. 
  
  This pride was no doubt brought forth in how well the graphics convey a sense of realism. The lighting 
 effects are subtle and effective, and details like trash blowing around or being able to count 
 tread on a tire make for quite the feast for the eyes. The soundtrack and effects that accompany 
 the beautiful graphics is spot on for the setting. While nothing profound, all of the music is 
 tolerable and the advertisements and DJ chatter on each station are hilarious. Better than those 
 things is the voice acting. A game of this scope would lose half it's value with poor voice acting, 
 but GTA 4 is flawless in that aspect. 
  
  The control and camera gave me no problems. With a newly implemented cover mechanism, it was almost 
 too easy to blast my way through each mission. The difficulty could have been a bit higher for 
 my liking (I just can't seem to find a happy medium with the challenge factor throughout this series) .
 
  
  The multiplayer option was obviously well thought out-not an afterthought like so many other recent 
 titles. The maps can be huge, almost daunting, but the online gameplay is murderous fun especially 
 with a group of your buddies. 
  
  In summary, Grand Theft Auto IV was worth every penny, and I'll be first in line to buy the sequel. 
 Believe the hype.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loserkid962
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  First off i am glad that i have finally found the time to review this great game. Awhile ago when 
 i found out who this main character of the video game was going to be i was skeptical as to if 
 it would fit. It fits perfectly, without a doubt in my mind Niko Bellic is by far the greatest 
 grand theft auto character to date. His what little personality and very angry and brutal fighting 
 style just fits the video game so well.
  
  Secondly, The graphics are amazing, they're really beautiful to look at, if you take a helicopter 
 and fly above manhattan it's a great and astounding view. You might see maybe slight errors from 
 time to time but that's not going to cause much.
  
  Lastly, the gameplay and the story. The gameplay is pretty much the same as the last grand theft 
 autos except this time you can hide behind walls gears of war style. It's a great feature considering 
 in the last games i thought it was hard to stay a live. Now for the story, the story is one of 
 the best if not the best story ive ever played in a video game, it really seems like the creators 
 did not rush creating the game at all
  
  I give this game a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the most superb and immersive games out there now. everything was perfect down to 
 the last detail. to start off, the story linewas perfect. everything was so real and exciting and 
 fun. the game play was excellent. everything played out vety smoothly. my only complaint is the 
 you can't free aim when & wherever you want when people are around! and the driving is very challenging 
 at first. very realistic!!! I have yet to play online or multi-player, but it's the perfect game 
 I've played this year and is one that's surely not to be missed for anyone. oh! and the affects! 
 the whole "shattering glass" during combat makes everything so real and exciting! the best thin 
 is that you can decide the fate of certain people. so, the choices you make in the game accumulate 
 and what I've heard can lead into TWO possible endings!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is alot better then this because at least you can see further then 50 ft without it 
 turning to complete blurr.. the multiplayer is a joke its laggy as hell.. I love gamespot but after 
 giving this game a 10?? LMFAO your kidding me right. If this game gets a 10 then you mine as well 
 give cod4 a 10 as well.. its way better then this. perhaps gamespot forgot to put a decimal inbetween 
 the 1 and the 0 when they rated it. This game is seriously grand theft auto 3 with cooler cars 
 and ragdolls.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeadExploder
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I only became hyped for Grand Theft Auto IV a short while before its release, and I was very excited 
 when I got it. The first thing you will notice when you begin playing is the game's striking resemblance 
 to New York City. It truely is impressive. The second thing you will notice is the improved shooting 
 mechanics. MUCH improved over the previous GTA games. 
  
  The third thing you will notice (later on in the game, but you'll love it) is your ability to change 
 the course of the story and the missions you take. There are various things throughout the game 
 you have an option over, either choosing to kill someone, not choosing to kill someone, or choosing 
 to kill one of two people, or somehow (I'm not even sure, but I heard) avoiding killing both.
 
  
  Besides from the impressive graphics and new gameplay improvements, the game offers a very deep 
 story line. If you pay close enough attention, there are messages in the story, and themes that 
 pop up in todays society, and if you look around, you'll notice Rockstar's different attempts to 
 mock today's America. 
  
  If you want to escape from the deep, engulfing, addicting single-player, there are actually quite 
 a few multiplayer modes you can try out, which occur over Xbox Live (no split screen, sorry internet-less 
 players) . They range from Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Bomb da Base (some co-op themed mode) , and 
 my favorites, Cops & Crooks, Race, but most of all, Freemode (a blast with your friends) .
  
  GTA IV is truely a remarkable game, with a deep, addicting single-player and a multi-player 
 that will keep you playing way after you beat the single-player. 
  
  However, one complaint I have is that in order to truely appreciate the game in all its glory, 
 is that you really need to play on a big HD TV. I play on a small LCD monitor, and the true experience 
 derives from when you play on the big TVs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is amazing but of course you knew that already. You knew that before game even launched. 
 It's very easy to get caught up in the hype machine with game franchises this big but one must 
 remember that this is the series' forth iteration since the franchise went 3D back in PS2's early 
 days. As such, expectations should be very high. 
  
  This game really doesn't do anything wrong but if you had to fault it somewhere it would have to 
 be in the originality department. After so many games the ideas just start to run dry so don't 
 expect a revolutionary experience here with GTA IV. The high points of this game is the incredibly 
 imersive environments, presentation values and game design.
  
  Graphics are a large step above San Andreas with much more realistic textures, lighting and effects. 
 Liberty City has never looked better and it's the accumulation of the details such as graffiti, 
 garbage cans, papers, signage and so on that you see on literally every street that brings the 
 city to life. There is even weather effects so realistic you can see the rain drops splashing when 
 they hit the road and Nikko's (you) clothes getting drenched. It also says a lot considering I 
 actually felt a bit guilty a few times after murdering innocent people in the game due to this 
 realism.
  
  Everything animates so well too as you will see the rag doll physics kick in when you plow through 
 a side-walk full of pedestrians (or more likely crack addicts) . The vehicles smash up really well 
 similar to what you would see in a Burnout game which makes causing mayhem in your favorite ride 
 even more sweet. The vehicles are however very floaty and slide around corners as if they're on 
 ice. Another fairly noticeable problem is the in-car camera views which don't pan left and ride 
 fast enough when you turn making it hard to see what's coming ahead.
  
  The missions are going to be very familiar to anyone who's played the GTA series a lot but they're 
 still fun. Actually gunning people down is quite a bit more enjoyable this time around due to enhancements 
 to the aiming system. Nikko can auto-lock onto enemies and just shoot or you can tweak the aim 
 just a bit after locking to go for head shots or target other portions of the body. You can also 
 take cover, shoot from cover, roll, pick up and throw objects etc.
  
  Another new addition is the ability to surf the internet, pick up chicks from online dating sites 
 and carry on relationships. The relationships can happen with guys or girls. Why would you want 
 to hang out with a guy you say? Well actually taking your buddies out to the strip bar, cabaret, 
 bowling or playing darts will allow you to earn their trust which will open up more missions and 
 weapons. 
  
  Let me just tell you, when you first gaze across the river during the night to see the impressive 
 skyline of Liberty (New York) City, you will be stunned. There are just so many insane moments 
 in this game and you can even go online for even more multi-gangster fun. When you add up the whole 
 package GTAIV turns out to be the best in the series and as a result, one of the best games of 
 all time. It's not perfect but very few games approach this level of greatness. I sure hope that 
 this is the final chapter in the GTAIV series at least for a while because it is the perfect way 
 to go out with a bang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  this is a fun game, and you'll replay it over and over again
  
  gameplay:
  lots and lots of variety. hundreds of npcs walking thru the streets. different types of cars and 
 bikes and trucks and choppers for your riding pleasure. missions are great and varied. never the 
 same thing two times in a row. you can do missions at your own pace (tho there are some that require 
 you to do them right away) . characters are hilarious and very realistic. you can always go on a 
 killing spree too in thecity if you want :) but expect some heavy crackdown
  
  story:
  much better than most games. you start off as a poor immigrant, working for criminals and friends 
 to make some cash. but your real reason in coming to liberty city is to find that "special someone." 
 you'll meet characters along the way who become your allies, or your worst enemies
  
  graphics:
  i have xbox360 version, and its really nice. but the BIGGEST complain i have is that 
 there are way too many pop-ins. i'll be driving a car going at 120 mph, running from the cops, 
 and then suddenly my cars stops, and i fly out of the windshield. i look back and see that i hit 
 an invincible tree that materialized out of thin air. so..... i'd recommed ps3 version if you have 
 it. i heard they have less pop-ups. but teh game in general looks excellent, and some cutscenes 
 are gorgeous.
  
  sound:
  best sound in any game. voice acting is just amazing, nothing like those english-dubbed japanese 
 games. tons of music to listen to while your listening to radio. funny dialogues keep you laughing
 
  
  this is a good game to get, but the real issue that'll bug you forever is the pop-ins that can 
 actually mess up your gameplay at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  When the Grand Theft Auto series went 3-D, almost every fan from the 2D era of GTA almost had a 
 heart attack. The fantastic open worlds which oozed fantastic looking sights for you to look at 
 in-game, great sounds and some great missions and activities for you to chew on propelled GTA into 
 the lime-light. Almost every Grand Theft Auto in the past 7 years has something slightly different 
 which made them games that we could never put down and never look at again. Grand Theft Auto 4 
 is no exception to this. 
  
  You're introduced to your character, Nico Bellic at the very start of the game. Nico, an Eastern 
 European immigrant is looking to start a new life in Liberty City after being in a war, where he 
 did some pretty stupid things. You are then introduced to Nico's cousin, Roman Bellic who is the 
 owner and operator of a small-time taxi service in the city. You soon find out that Roman has been 
 getting into trouble when loan sharks come-a-knocking to collect money Roman owes them. 
  
  The game starts off pretty easily, being that the first few missions are basically a tutorial to 
 introduce you to some of the new elements in GTA 4. One new impressive feature is the ability to 
 use cover during fire-fights. Pressing the Right Bumper (RB) while next to a wall, a box or anything 
 that you could possible hide behind will make you take cover behind the said object. This helps 
 you in bigger fire-fights later in the game when you are out-numbered by many enemies.
  
  Another great new feature in the inclusion of a Cell Phone that you get early on in the game. Characters 
 can call and/or text you with information on new missions etc. You can also call your contacts 
 to see if they would like to take part in some activities around the city. A camera is also included 
 in your cell phone which will come in handy in the later missions. There are many other electronic 
 features in the game as well, I will run a couple of them down in the coming paragraphs.
  
  The Radio - The diversity on the in-car radio in GTA 4 is unbelievable. With over 19 stations playing 
 all sorts of things from rap to R&B, there is even some Eastern European music in there as well. 
 The talk shows must be one of the funniest parts of the game with a diverse selection of talk-show 
 dj's roaming the airways. The all popular Laslow even makes his voice heard over the radio.
  
  Internet - Yes, believe it or not, You can even go onto the internet in GTA 4. Stop by one 
 of the few Tw@t internet caf where you can go and check your e-mails and browse the world-wide-web. 
 The websites them self are well detailed and some of them are quite crude. Your e-mail's rage from 
 spam, mission info and even e-mails from mother. 
  
  In the single-player mode, a nice 50 to 100 worth of gameplay awaits you. This could rise and fall 
 depending on how much you want to spend doing side missions and just mucking around the city like 
 causing hell all over the place. Although I say this, there is so much to do in the city that you 
 could find yourself playing well over 100 hours after starting the game. 
  
  Unfortunately, you are not aloud to explore all three islands of Liberty City as soon as you start. 
 You also spend quite a few hours doing okay but not great missions with a very limited supply of 
 weapons are your disposal. This isn't helped by the fact that the first island you're stuck on 
 is full of less than impressive cars with rubbish handling and paint jobs. The car quality will 
 increase when you un-lock the other two islands. This drops the score of the game down marginally 
 (and I mean, marginally) . 
  
  Even after aking these small faults into account, Grand Theft Auto 4 is still a fantastic game 
 that is a must-have for any fan of the GTA series. Liberty City combines great life-like citizens, 
 fantastic cars (for the second half of the game at least) and great effects to combine one big 
 metropolis for you to play in. The main characters are great with missions being a great mix of 
 tactical and shoot-'em-up gameplay. This game is easily the best in the Grand Theft Auto serious, 
 by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The more serious and "realistic" tone of the story and the world as a whole is gonna put you off 
 if the whole over-the-top aspect of the previous games is what drew you in. Instead Rockstar has 
 put in a compelling story about Niko Bellic, an illegal eastern European immigrant with a troubled 
 past... etc, etc. it doesn't sound like much when written down, but it's presented in such a way 
 that it draws you in, from the great writing to the superb voice acting, it's just something that 
 you should experience for yourself.
  the more ridiculous weapons and vehicles you had in San Andreas are gone, including the flamethrower 
 and jetpack, along with such series staples like the tank and airplane, and if you can't live without 
 those then this game isn't for you. as far as gameplay goes, the cars have heavier controls, the 
 bikes motorcycles aren't even worth using, trees are still invincible, and it's simpler to get 
 away from the cops, most of the time anyway. and some of the control issues have been fixed, like 
 drive-by's and free aim, and introduces more problems, like the new cover system which is in need 
 of some tweaking. if this doesn't sound as fun as the past games, in those ways it isn't, but it's 
 fun in different ways. not to mention that there's a lot to do in this game, not as much San Andreas, 
 but that's mainly from cutting out bs like the low riding mini-games.
  I haven't mentioned the multiplayer because I'm saving the worst for last. there are a variety 
 of game modes and tweaks that you can make to online matches that there's a lot to do, but usually 
 once in the game the minor issues from the singleplayer really get fleshed out, the jerky player 
 movements and buggy cover controls become horribly frustrating. and unless you have an amazing 
 internet connection expect to be run over by invisible cars and for half of your shots to miss, 
 no matter how good your aim is. there are plenty more complaints, but you can still have fun if 
 you play with friends.
  If your main enjoyment from GTA is causing mass chaos and carnage, then you'll definitely be let 
 down with IV's more down to earth style. but if a compelling story, the ability to mess around 
 in Liberty City with friends, and the closest thing to a living game world yet to be made, then 
 you should most definitely check out GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aMMo16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Seriously, seriously overated; gamespot you disapoint me.
  This game does not deserve a ten because it is not perfect, i tryed to way up the strengths and 
 weaknesses off this game to cut Rockstar a bit of slack for their new hyped-up sequel, but being 
 completely fair i found many more weakness off this game than strengths; leaving me with the feeling 
 of guilt by giving a GTA game a 7.5
  
  Strengths:
  Excellent use of the new physics system
  Great and much improved graphics
  Car damage is cool
 
  Deep storyline and character creating
  F***ing MINDBLOWING multiplayer! (I would of actually rated this game lower if it wasn't for the 
 brillaint online multiplayer which is the only thing that is keeping me from trading this game 
 in)
  Much much better AI
  Improved shooting.
  
  Okay now get ready for the disapointment:
  ITS NOT GRAND THEFT AUTO!
  No customization what 
 so ever (Oh... their are three clothes shops that offer very limited choice)
  No vehicle customization.
  To be honest, the only customization other than the clothes shops 
 is your multiplayer model, which again is very limited.
  No garages?!
  Can't buy safehouses.
  Can't buy cars (Their are websites in the internet cafe that have cars 
 for sale and a number to phone on the new GTA mobile, but when this number is rung it is incorrect, 
 therefore completely pointless)
  No tanks or planes.
  Can't do any of the stuff that made the other GTA games so good.
  There is hardly anything to 
 spend all that hard earned cash on, apart from guns, hookers, clothes and $1 burgers, oh and taxi 
 rides.
  You can't car surf anymore.
  
  If you take all this into account you can't help but feel sorry for the millions of people that 
 craved a sensational sequel that maxes out san andreas, because the fact is... this game would 
 of been alot better if they had just re-done san andreas with the better graphics, great multiplayer, 
 better physics and improved shooting.
  
  Rockstar succeeded in perfecting the weaknesses of the previous GTA games but also succeeded in 
 taking out all the strengths that made GTA such a good game to play.
  
  Sorry Rockstar, but i think Saints Row 2 is going to be my buyers choice this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The game does not deserve a 10 at all more like what i have given it which is an 8.5 overall as 
 the realistic approach to the game has taken out most of the fun i would prefer vice city or san 
 andreas to this game which says a lot.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Graphics are great considering the size of the city in this gta and the amount of pedestrians and 
 vehicles on the go although if you go mega fast in a helicopter or fast car the city begins to 
 load slowly and is pixelated and all weird and fuzzy lol.
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  gameplay ain't that special at all to be honest, because the cover system is kinda useless since 
 i manually take cover as its easier and if a cop who is shooting you runs at the corner your taking 
 cover at you can't shoot him cause of the cover system. Also if the cop ran past you by the time 
 your out of cover to shoot him your either dead or you have lost almost all your health so its 
 easier to not use it at all. As for the weapons and vehicles i get the sense that all the fun has 
 been drained out of the game as they took out the tank, golf caddy and also almost all the fun 
 weapons like the chainsaw, katana, minigun and the flamethrower etc. Basically they made the game 
 so realistic that there is no point in playing it as games are not supposed to be this realistic 
 otherwise there is really no point at all , because most people play games to escape reality anyway.
 
  The physics engine for this game is messed up like if you crash a bike when going really slow 
 you will go flying to the moon seriously its messed up. Rockstar have also taken out the really 
 fun cheats like pedestrians go crazy or pedestrians with guns etc. As for the online gameplay its 
 nothing special except for free mode which is unbelieveably awesome and just about the only kick 
 ass thing about this game. In ranked matches there is no point unless you want to get COOL NEW 
 CLOTHES WOOOOOO YEAH lol.
  Story 7/10
  
  The story is not as glamourous as the one of vice city for example and i don't really think anyone 
 gave a **** about niko anyway.
  Some characters are cool though like little jacob and brucie but all the rest IMO can just die 
 i don't actually give a damn about them lol.
  Most of the missions are very repetitive all you do is chase an enemy kill them then escape and 
 thats about it for almost all the missions.
  There are not really any fun missions except from the bank robbery one called "three leaf clover" 
 which is the best mission in the game, the rest are all boring and repetitive as there are no good 
 psycho missions like stealing tanks or green goo or jetpacks etc, theyve sucked all the fun out 
 of the game to make it realistic. Constantly having to go out with virtual friends is just completely 
 stupid and also the dates OMG BORING!!! wat where rockstar thinking when they added this total 
 useless crap into the game.
  Personally i found the ending rather depressing and F***ed up but meh what can you do.
  
  
 
  GTA 4 is worth renting or borrowing at the most if you buy it its just a waste of money really, 
 definitly does not stand up to the legendary gameplay that is grand theft auto its not worthy of 
 being in such an awesome game series.
  What were they thinking when they gave this game a 10 IMO if they give a game a 10 then you won't 
 need to buy any other game because of the sheer awesomeness of the 10 out of 10 game, gamespot 
 just go slap yourself now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ1145
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  GTAIV is a great game, and you can easily be sucked in through its compelling storyline, and somewhat... 
 different multiplayer. However, even flying through the air in a car off a ramp and landing on 
 fat people can get old after a while.
  
  The game's difficulty is pretty close to perfect. You can be well challenged by the AI in certain 
 points, and the highest wanted rating is quite literally on the edge of impossible to get rid of. 
 If you feel the game is to easy, there's tons of multiplayer options to play through. 
  
  My biggest, and only large complaint about the multiplayer is that there's no options for AI cops 
 to hunt you down on the free roam lobby. That would have sold it, and I'd still be playing GTA 
 instead of Halo. However, that option does not exist, so I still play Halo.
  
  The campaign is fun, and hard to get off-track from. However, when you do get off track, you STAY 
 off track. There's so much to do you could play for a good hundred hours and never even touch the 
 storyline. It's an amazing game, but just short of perfect, and just short of the ten I wish I 
 could give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Finaly ive done it!
  
  Overall im dissapointed. Dont like the new realistic nature, the friends pissed me off & 90% of 
 missions are the same - drive somewhere, kill, escape. That has summed up almost every mission 
 in the game. It also doesnt have as many memorable missions as in the past instalments. Such as 
 chasing the ambulance & running over the guy in full plaster in GTA 3. The past 3 games had many 
 missions that I will remember for years. The only one that I can remember from this & ive only 
 just completed it is the bank robbery. 
  
  However this doesnt stop it from being an outstanding game. The city is brilliantly realised, the 
 detail in this game world is unbelievable. The physics are the best part of it IMO, they create 
 some hilarious situations. The cars have a great weight to them, although I miss the more arcadey 
 handling of old. The shooting & cover system make gunfights much more enjoyable than every other 
 GTA game & can hold their own against most shooters. The characters & scripting is also some of 
 the best ever to grace a videogame. I actualy had feelings about most of the people I met. Some 
 I hate but some I really liked. Most games I just dont really care about any of them. This is made 
 even more apparent when you have a choice of who to kill. & any game that can make me care about 
 its characters like this did deserves a lot of praise. 
  
  A great game then, but falls short of being classic for me due to repitition, the new realistic 
 nature & not quite matching the content or quality of its prequals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  Ok so i reviewed MGS4, thought it was awefull too much of a film.
  
  GTA 4 on the other hand (i know why so many 3 letter acromins with 4 on the end) is a action adventure, 
 this is the sort of standard that the ilm games should be.
  
  Anyway nico beleck (eastern european) comes to NYC having been promised the high life, as always 
 isn't true and needs to get to the top by stealing a million cars, killing a million people and 
 using lots of guns.
  
  The gameplay is perfect, the graphics are great and the story drawns you in sat down at 4 and didn't 
 realise the time unitill about 9, only taking a few toilet breaks.
  
  The start is slowbut once you get going it is awesome. If and when this game comes out on PC i 
 will get it just to play it again on the new system. The acchivements on 360 are amazing the lack 
 of planes is a disapointment.
  
  Anyway if you like GTA this is a game you need to get if not then this is a game you need to get, 
 my vote for game of the year ( unless GTA4 on PC comes soon and is much better or GTA 5 comes out 
 and is anything like this) .
  
  Running people over and hearing the police is cool (although now much easier to avoid) the car handeling 
 is more realistic. Get this game, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abecolonsbeard
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  but, the controls still suck. The graphics are still poor. The story is sub-par, at best. The whole 
 game is just one long cuss word, I mean, I have no probem with cussing but my God, can't you go 
 5 seconds without saying the f-word? I just can't believe that this game got a 10, that's just 
 pathetic. The person that reviewed the game must have been a fan-boy of the series and just had 
 to overhype it because if it's the same guy that rated Ninja Gaiden II, he can go ahead and keep 
 playing this crappy game. I mean, give me a break, the entire time through the game I just kept 
 telling myself that it would get better, but it didn't I just got more and more bored. I couldn't 
 imagine trying to go through it over and over again trying to find all of the achievements. What 
 would make the game better is a more realistic approach to life, driving, and maybe a sense of 
 what graphics should look like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an insanly awesome game. To start off the game puts you in the shoes of Nicho 
 Belic, an immigrant from Europe whos has come to Liberty City to see his cousin, Roman. Roman tells 
 Nicho that he is rich and has a nice house, unfortunatly he lied. The story is fun, is fun to play 
 as Nicho Belic and do missions for Roman and Nichos new friends that he meets along the way. The 
 city, Liberty City is this massive city based off of New York, the city includes some famous landmarks 
 like the BrookLand Bridge, and the Statue of Liberty. There is so much to do in LC such as roaming 
 around, and driving cars. Also another awesome feature is the MultiPlayer. The multiplayer is on 
 Xbox Live, there are about 14 to 16 game modes to play. Such as a mode called Cops and Crooks to 
 were the cops try to kill all the crooks, and the crooks try to get away and try to kill all the 
 cops. The graphics and physics in the game are very realistic, they look cool. Such as like the 
 rag doll effects of when nicho gets hit by a speeding car and just hits face first on to the concrete 
 or into the side of a building. The sounds in GTA 4 are cool and lifelike, like the sirens of the 
 cop cars or the ambulances. It all just sounds so real. It really does give you that feeling of 
 actually bieng in New York City. As for the controls, they are pretty easy to use and to get used 
 to. Some new things have been changed to the controls. Like when your driving a car instead of 
 using the square button for the gas this time you use the left and right triggers.
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 Grand Theft Auto IV is a great new addition to the hit series. Everythings been 
 improved this time around. GTA IV is a good game for the long time fan of the series, or someone 
 who just wants to have fun doing anything they want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Like every other console GTA, this game is very good. I shouldn't need to explain what the game 
 is about, as everyone has heard of GTA one way or another, but this title stays true to its open-world 
 roots. I'll break down the game for you readers:
  
  Presentation: Wonderful. The production values are probably one of the top 5 highest if video game 
 history, if not the highest ever. The controls take a bit of getting used to if you are a loyal 
 GTA fan, but after that they're perfect. The game doesen't have much of a UI, but what's there 
 is done right. Story is very good, with lovable characters, a protagonist you care for, and decisions 
 that will impact the entire game. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Breathtaking. Very, very good graphics with so many details it's a wonder it's packed 
 on every CD. From the preppy girl walking down the beach chatting with her friend on her cell phone, 
 to the homeless guy screaming about how life is a conspiracy, the details are just amazing. Thankfully, 
 no more 1-fingered hands from grand theft auto 3 and vice city,10/10
  
  Sound: Amazing. The sound effects are very lifelike, and the voice acting is top-notch. The music 
 on the radio is, arguably, not the best in the series, but the best comedy radio shows in the entire 
 series make up for it. But as far as games in general go, sound track is great. 9.9/10
  
  Gameplay: With a new cover system, 3 ways to fire, and more realistic movement, all the target 
 issues in the previous games are totally fixed. Riding up to the middle of town in your super GT 
 and unleashing whatever kind of virtual-hell you deem fit is still a blast. Socializing, however, 
 is extremely annoying. You may just want to go do the next mission or hang around and shoot crap. 
 Too bad, because you'll be called by 10 people every hour that make you go do something with them. 
 You can always refuse, but do that enough, and no more missions/ new story paths for you. 10/10
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: Once you beat the 25-35 hour story, there is unlimited play here. You can just 
 do the little side missions, drive your car and just listen to Lazlo's new talk show, or hop in 
 a helicopter, get on top of the statue of happiness, and shoot something with your sniper. Multiplayer 
 is great, though not perfect. 10/10
  
  If you're a fan, grab this game asap. If you've never played GTA, this is the way to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaB0ss
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the history of the GTA series, one main crutch that holds true is the game's strong 
 story telling. With its interesting characters and fantastic twists and plot lines, GTA's stories 
 are nothing short of epic. However, due to buggy game play and some relatively dodgy controls, 
 it kept the game from reaching perfection. 
  
  This iteration of GTA, GTA 4, finally answers that problem and sets the bar for open ended games, 
 and on many respects, completely obliterates it. No longer are the controls semi-responsive and 
 the buggy animations existent.
  
  What remains is a complex and engaging story that captivates every aspect of criminal culture. 
 Rock star has also given its fan's a surplus of Easter eggs to find, referencing past games in 
 the series
  
  What we have now, are smooth graphics, unique game play mechanics, and a slew of new add-ins that 
 will tantalize the homicidal hearts of players for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the ninth or tenth installment in the Grand Theft Auto series. Personally 
 I believe it's a fairly run down game, after San Andreas there's not much they can do to improve 
 on it.
  
  The spectacular graphics, and the same gameplay we've come to love made this game what it is. But 
 graphics don't make the game, gameplay does and every GTA game since GTA3 has had the same gameplay 
 but with minor tweeks. Vice City adding buyable properties, flying, and style points. San Andreas 
 added a massive area to wreak havoc in. And GTAIV added amazing graphics and multiplayer but subtracted 
 the massive landscape we all loved from San Andreas.
  
  I'm not saying the game's bad, but it's a bit stale. They could have done a lot more with this 
 game, hopefully they'll work on this if they make a GTA5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrogenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game to date, no game can match up to it. Everything about it is 
 great, the car handling is more realistic, multilayer is the best creation to mankind, you can 
 simply spend hundreds of hours playing multiply, such as me. The game has an infinity of things 
 to do, you simply can't get bored. If life sucks, take up the life of Niko, go out to dinner or 
 bowling with your girl and then bang her to end the night. The possibilities are endless.
  
  The city is beautiful and anyone who says anything different is legally blind or stupid. It 
 feels alive and it's immersive, people talk and walk, and read the paper, smoke a cigarette, or 
 carry their groceries home. The people no longer just walk down the street like zombies waiting 
 for you to make a move. The detail brought into the game is outstanding, the years of waiting is 
 well worth it, and nothing feels rushed.
  
  For the first time in the series you no longer go to a bridge to another island and think, "How 
 do I get over there?" You probably won't even leave the area you started the game in until the 
 missions take you to the other islands. Anyone who has ever played the series knows that this mean 
 GTA IV is truly a ground-breaking game.
  
  The story really gets you connected, with over 30 hours of game play, you defiantly don't have 
 to worry about a short game. Who would think you start as a nobody walking off a boat from a far 
 away country to the man of the city making the big bucks. The story is just enough to buy the game. 
 There's never a dull moment in GTA IV, and some of the twists will really surprise you.
  
  And now for the disappointing part... everything in GTA IV is excellent... what is there, however, 
 there are some missing things that just doesn't make the game whole. In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 I remember you being able to go to the airport and take a luggage vehicle and connect it with luggage 
 carts and have a long train of luggage carts. This may be completely pointless, but it was fun 
 and something interesting to do when your bored, see how long you can get it. I also remember that 
 you could get into a semi and connect it with a trailer. How I long to connect a semi to a trailer 
 and go down the road speeding at 100 miles an hour ramming into cars and people and then using 
 the trailer to do the same. These things really don't take away from the game play, but it does 
 make me go "Well, THAT SUCKS!" Regardless of how pointless or stupid it is, it just makes me wonder 
 why it wasn't included, little things like that and then using it for mass destruction was always 
 fun.
  
  Also, there a several other things that bother me, like when you get a mass of police after you 
 and you take cover, and these suckers have the balls to full out rush you when you have bigger 
 gun than they do, or a rocket launcher for that matter. Where the tactics go?
  
  And there is another massive problem, that's more than a little simple thing. It's actually quiet 
 depressing, and a major let down. I always thought, before the game released you could do anything 
 you could in Singleplayer is Multiplayer. This is just simply not so. I was looking forward to 
 owning some buddies in online bowling or pool. Or taking a lovely taxi ride with them, maybe going 
 to the strip club and looking at virtual boobs, all in good fun of course. Unfortunately, it's 
 too good to be true.
  
  Overall, this is nothing that would make this a bad game, just something that is a big bummer. 
 The game is great, everything is great that's in the game, there's no huge flaw that would make 
 me no recommend this game to anyone. Really, anyone who is anyone must have this game, there is 
 no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  GTAIV is a game that had so much potential but decided to be ordinary instead of extraordinary. 
 This game was both a frustration and a blessing at the same time. Because i know nobody will believe 
 me, im not going to waste my time and write out a long review. Instead im just going to bullet 
 point the pros and cons of this game.
  
  Pros: 
  
  - Good graphics
  - The physics engine
  - Improved shooting system
  - Some genuinely fun and innovative missions
 
  - interesting take on the old GTA story
  
  Cons:
  
  - Lackluster driving
  - Game tries to take itself seriously and then goes and does the opposite
  - Disjointed/ Predictable 
 story telling 
  - Horrible buddy system (no i dont want to go play darts)
  - Broken online game play
  - No property buying
  - Limited clothing/ Customization options 
 
  - Animations are pretty bad (Niko has cement shoes, nobody walks like that when they turn)
  
 
  Shades of Gray:
  
  - RPG elements are gone
  - Characters arent nearly as memorable as VC or SA
  
  Anyway good game but it just seems like 
 everyone is blinded by the fact that this is rockstar and they just ignore the fact this game isnt 
 perfect. But while it has its flaws its still a fun game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoggSniper
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has to be one of the best games I have ever played. Rockstar has always surprised me with 
 their GTA franchise.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, a man around his 30s who travels to Liberty City to escape the Old Country 
 and live with his Cousin, Roman. Niko takes a boat for 9 months to head to Liberty City. Once he 
 arrives, he realizes that Roman lied to him in his emails that he was rich, had woman, cars, and 
 other luxuries. Roman lives in a broken down apartment, his "cars" is an old looking chick repellent 
 Taxi Cab, and he owes debt to a lot of bad people. It is later in the game that Niko reveals that 
 he came to Liberty City not only to live the life of luxury and because of Roman, but because he 
 is on a revenge mission. When he was in the village back in the old country, one of the friends 
 back stabbed the whole group. 12 died, leaving only Niko, Florian, and Darko. Niko wants to find 
 Florian first, and after getting in trouble with Dimitri and getting tied down to hundreds of murder 
 cases, he does jobs for people. He also does it for money.
  
  The game is just plain awesome. There isn't as much stuff to do as there was in San Andreas, but 
 in my own personal opinion, it makes the game better. The cover system, the graphics, the new auto 
 lock system (although still a bit bugged) , the driving, and the new Euphoria Engine make GTA one 
 of the best games of 2008. This is easily a competitor for game of the year. I just hope it can 
 beat Metal Gear Solid 4.
  
  10/10- Get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deftones2366
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Likeable main character with well thought out objectives that make you understand why he does 
 what he does.
  - Fun (if easy) missions keep you involved and busy.
  - Cell phone system works well, other than annoying you during missions on occasion.
  - Major 
 achievements made within the game as to how much stuff is actually going on.
  - Many side missions giving you something to do other than the story if you feel bogged down.
 
  - Interactions with friends feel close to real life.
  - Real-like internet with many fun and hilarious sites.
  - Real-like television, with a few shows 
 that will make you laugh.
  - INCREDIBLY fun multi-player!
  
  Cons:
  - Driving can be an annoying experience until you get used to it.
  - Camera cannot be placed 
 in a stationary position, resetting to places that don't help you.
  - Keeping your weapons when you die/ the ability to run when your initially busted makes money 
 worthless.
  - Some missions have much higher difficulty levels, making them much harder and therefore annoying.
 
  
  Like many of you out there, I got this game right when it came out, and even had it reserved. For 
 the first 10 or so hours of gameplay I was having fun seeing all of the many things you can do 
 in Liberty City (hookers, gunfights with police, all the usual fare from Rock*) . I kept telling 
 all the people I knew who waited to get it how much fun it was and how much they'll love it. Well, 
 now that I've finished the story and I mainly play multi-player or run around killing people, I've 
 found Liberty City to be a much more shallow place.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this is one of my all-time favorite games to play. I've had many all-nighters 
 playing Free Mode with my buddies, and I absolutely loved the story. But I beat it 2 weeks ago, 
 and before today I hadn't played a meaningful minute on the game since then (it's 6/24, my last 
 save before today was 6/15) . This isn't a major spoiler, but you get to choose between 2 endings, 
 and if they would've made the game auto save afterward it would have a lot of replay value. Instead 
 I just beat the main portions of the game and then loaded my save to beat each ending. I know it's 
 cheap, but you will too rather than play through for 50 hours again.
  
  I loved my first play through. If you're looking for a great action game that gives you a sometimes 
 too hard but mainly easy challenge and has a great story with well done characters, you've come 
 to the right game. GTA has all that in spades, and does well to engross you in what has/is/will 
 happen to Niko Bellic. He's likeable for strange reasons, but still. The new cell phone works well, 
 and helps you to work through some missions and to hang out with your friends. I have read a lot 
 of reviews that were put off by the phone, and that is a fair assesment. But much like in real 
 life, if you neglect your friends they become cold to you, and they really just want to not be 
 bored, so they wanna hang. Is that too much to ask?
  
  Graphically the game looks good, not wonderful, but not everything is MGS4, so there you go. There 
 are framerate drops, and occasionally in multi-player things go kinda haywire or don't work right 
 (blow up the hot dog stand on Happiness Island in free mode, you'll see what I mean) , but overall 
 it's a great game to look at. You'll either love the little effects (Rain/Sun diffferences, shadows 
 look great, blood splatter, the difference in damage to your car from wrecking it vs explosions) , 
 or you'll hate the big ones (frame rate drops leave out major parts, mainly after loading or when 
 speeding with cops on you, VERY occasional freezing) . But one thing you must say is the sound is 
 wonderful. There are many voices for the peds, and they each have about 6 different lines, so you 
 get a lot of variety. The radio stations and television are great and have a lot of good music 
 and fun commentary, and the TV is a great thing to do while waiting for a few missions. 
  
  One thing Rock* changed from previous games that makes this game easier is that you keep your ammo 
 if you're killed. If you get busted, the police take a large portion of your funds AND your guns 
 and weapons. If you die, it's mainly expensive. This makes you run from police more often as getting 
 killed by them is much easier to swallow than losing ALL those guns, and after about 10 missions, 
 you'll have all the pistol ammo you'll ever need if you fought cops even once. So I guess I would 
 say and over-abundance of weaponry makes life easy. The only other main drain on this game is the 
 driving, which blows. Once you're used to it, like after about the 5th mission that makes you do 
 it or a race or two, you do ok. But be prepared to wreck and be ready to fail missions. You will 
 run into things, you will spin out a LOT, and you will accidentally hit cop cars. YOU WILL. It's 
 not an option. 
  
  Now that I spilled my guts, it boils down to this: if you like to have fun with previous games 
 in the series by running around killing folks and acting a fool, come back for more, it's well 
 worth it. If you have the ability to play online with friends, that's even better. If you expect 
 the revolutionary game of the century with everything you could ever want in a game, well, you 
 better hope you get that from Vice City 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I was angry when I bought this because Gamestop gave me a broken copy. Then I had to wait a little 
 bit longer to get it. When I got it I was so happy then i beat it, and never touched it again. 
 One thing I am going to say is that GTA San Andreas is ten times better then this. I'm not saying 
 this game is bad though. This game is far from bad. It's a great game. The combat is great, the 
 story is great, but the extra content... not so much. 
  You play as an Eastern European, Niko Bellic who is visiting his cousin. His cousin is said to 
 be living the life, with hot cars, hot women, and a hot house. It turns out he was lying, and he 
 works in a cab company. Niko helps him out a bit, and then kills his boss. He finds out his boss 
 is connected with the mob, and he goes and works with almost each family as a hitman. 
  The combat is a fast paced over the shoulder view. It has the lock on system that you can take 
 off or leave on, and it actually works well. If you leave it off then you should start buying that 
 coffin you always wanted to be in. Only in some parts the lock system does not need to be used, 
 like a small corridor. The driving is terrible in the beginning, but then turns out to be one of 
 the most fun games to drive around in. Running over people never been so much fun because of the 
 new physics engine. The game tends to fail in character customization. In GTA: SA, customization 
 is really deep. In GTA 4 you can't make Niko strong, you can't find many clothes for him and they 
 are bad clothes too, you can't make him fat, and you can't increase his gun skill. You can at least 
 have a girlfriend. The only things to do outside of the game is go to strip clubs, play pool, get 
 drunk (I recommend to do this the most,) play darts, and play bowling. That's all the things to 
 do besides the main game. The other cool addition to the game is cabs. GTA: SA did not have cabs, 
 making it a chore to go to each city because it was so damn large. You might as well call San Andreas 
 a freaken country. There choices in this game to let you gain access to different ending in the 
 mission, but thats not that great till the explosive finally. 
  The graphics are not that perfect. I would give it a 9 but not a 10. This is not Assassins Creed 
 graphics. The multilayer is not that great so do not listen to the hype for the multilayer. At 
 the end GTA 4 is a must buy because it makes you cool, and it's just a great game. Get GTA: San 
 Andreas because that's ten times better. You will enjoy it even if your a pacifist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowDragoon05
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Well for me, I loved it. Others disagree on this because they say it doesnt quite feel the same 
 as the others, this is because of the new engine being used. This is the first one since GTA3 that 
 uses a new engine. To me, it works very nicely.
  
  ----Graphics ------
  Gorgeous graphics, compared to all the others... Considering that the people in the game.. ACTUALLY 
 HAVE MOVING AND FUNCTIONING HANDS *gasp*. Yep its pissed me off for a while but all the little 
 details like that, impress me, especially when its not only the main characters that have that. 
 But all NPCs walking the streets look astonishing. Its simply great. 10/10.
  
  ------Sound -----
  Music, voice acting, and gun sounds.. They all sound fantastic. The guns definetly 
 needed new sounds and Rockstar pulled through on that. 9/10
  
  -----Gameplay ----
  One word... PHYSICS. The new engine, physics. Which is actually pretty cool, and put in. Try doing 
 this, either blow yourself up, or my personal favorite, is to get into a helicopter and "aim" for 
 a building to ghost ride into, and see how my body falls and crashes on top/into said buildings 
 and flails to the street.... OK maybe I am just a little sadistic.. Still its funny to watch.
 
  Walking about in the game, using your phone, goin online... Its all great. The gun play mechanic 
 where you can duck for cover, is a big help in gunfights. Driving, you may find hard to get used 
 to cause of how its more realistic (supposedly) . 9/10
  
  -----Multiplayer -----
  AWESOME. Its what was needed and the big emphasis on the game actually. It has everything you want 
 for it and more. Rockstar, I salute you, on how you designed it. Could be better on how you select 
 games though, to have a better menu.. Still its great no the less. It has Coop missions as well 
 in the online, free roam, death match.. Theres alot to be said. There are many customization options 
 as well. For 360 (not sure about ps3) you can go up ranks, which unlock new clothes for your character. 
 So somewhat rewarding. And for those that are server makers... TURN OFF AUTOAIM. 
  9/10
  
  All in all, great game to pick up. But again, may not be for you, alot of people have said 
 that it doesnt feel the same. So go with caution on it. A definite if you play online though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK132
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 has expanded what a game has traditionally been i could not beleve how good this game is 
 the story is supencfull and thrilling and the multiplayer is the best i'v seen sence Halo3. In 
 liberty city you can do almost anything you can think of from bowling to getting drunk whivh i 
 think is the funnest experence you will get unless your 21:-) but what is also cool is that you 
 can get new clothes and really hot cars. like the comet which i think you can only get by using 
 the cheat codes. o yea one thing that pisses me off is that when you use certin cheats they block 
 certin achevments so if you want to cheat make a screw around file so you can get that gamerscore 
 up. in online i love it how you can now play as Liberty Citys Finest on Cops and Crooks. The day 
 of this games realese i was in school so after school i went strait down to walmart and they only 
 had 5 copys left and i was lucky enough to get a copy. 'So the next time you go to the store buy 
 GTA4' like my ryme. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom-4112
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Before I start this review I must tell you, I was never a big fan of the GTA franchise. So I started 
 this game expecting nothing good, and came off completely surprised at this masterpiece of storytelling 
 and gameplay.
  
  The game starts off with one of the best musical themes I have ever heard, and then the story and 
 character progression just gets better from there. The story is a sweeping and compelling narrative 
 that makes you think what it would be like to be a contract killer. The choices you make really 
 make you think, and whether or not you kill someone will help or hinder you later on. The characters 
 
  are nicely progressing and are good friends or despised villains. 
  
  The missions, like most people say, ARE repetitive, but thats not necessarily a bad thing when 
 they are so much fun to start with. Some of them are very diverse and imaginative. Even wen they 
 aren't diverse or imaginative, they are some of the best and most fun I have ever seen in anything, 
 ever. Sometimes I find myself surprised that I'm Playing a game and not a movie.
  
  The combat, to say the bare minimum is amazing and if not the best, some of the best 3rd person 
 fighting I've ever seen. The game world itself is fun, I just wish there was a little more country 
 side. 
  
  On the whole, GTA 4 has so many things that are good about it, I could sit here and make a ten 
 page review and still not say everything I like about it In short, this is probably the greatest 
 game I have ever seen, with so little flaws that I don't even want to waste my time saying them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  GTA4 had me at thee start, I was hooked and thought it was the best game in history. The online 
 alone made me pee in delight, don't get me wrong the online is really amazing but GTA is a single 
 player experience, and as much fun as I have with the online I think it really fails in it's single 
 player portion.
  
  Liberty City is big and beautiful, of that there is no doubt. It is an amazingly sculpted fictional 
 rendition of New York City, with everyone stating how much it nails the feel of the big apple. 
 Well I sure hope not, I have pictured NYC as a lot of things, but boring, empty, and without soul 
 are not the things i normaly associate with the city it self. However that is exactly what Liberty 
 City is, outside of the specific characters they create and specific story missions nothing else 
 is interesting.
  
  The next thing that I find to be a horrible decision is the Cell Phone, maybe they never played 
 Dead Rising but it reminded me exactly of Otis calling all the damned time annoying the ever loving 
 hell out of me. But at least Otis had a point, he wanted you to save peoples lives from flesh eating 
 undead, I think in such a dire situation a little annoying urgency can be accepted. However being 
 pestered to go bowling, or throw darts, or whatever else is just plain annoying. Bowling and Darts... 
 Seriously here, what the hell is fun about that. What fun is there in cultivating these fake friendships, 
 it is one of the most experience destroying and purely annoying things I have ever come across 
 in a game.
  
  Now if I got calls from friends that were fun like, "Hey Niko, I'm robbing a bank with somefriends, 
 we need a wheelman, you in?" or "I got caught by the cops, I need you to get me out of prison" 
 that'd be great. A dozen or so fun missions that never come up within 6 of a different one and 
 if you decide not too, no harm no foul. Instead, pestered to bowl, or go oggle fake fake boobs.
 
  
  While I'm ranting, where'd the fun go? Where'd the hectic taxi missions go, the ones for Roman 
 were easy and over way too quick, putting out fires, chasing vigilantes without having to go into 
 a system inside of the car and click, and then click again and choose where to go, it's just a 
 hassle, annoying.
  
  Now I realize they were going for something different here, I know some people touch themselves 
 to it at night, but there is no sense of progression, there is no real fun elements to be had, 
 the game is the same damned thing in the beginning straight on through, sure it changes some but 
 it's not drastic.
  
  I'm sure many will disagree, but it's is my thoughts on the game, and I stand by them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is the game after call of duty 4 that i was addicted after buying it. I played it every 
 single day until i acheived the 100% completion. I managed to unlock every single achievement in 
 the game!!! This game is so freakin awesome!!! Now, i am going to tell the advantages and disadvantages 
 for this game!
  
  Advantage:
  
  1) Liberty city is really big and there are a lot of places to explore and enjoy! There are strip 
 clubs, comedy clubs and shopping centres!
  
  2) Most of the progress of the game is thru the handphone that you have. In that handphone, you 
 can assess the phone book to call people, You also have a organiser to plan ur days, the multiplayer 
 option is also in the phone and there are many more features in the phone.
  
  3) Niko, the main character, is a military trained guy and in the game, he can swim, climb ladders 
 and walls and drive vehicles and fly aircrafts.
  
  4) The graphics are really good and it is nice to play on HD. there are no framerate issues on 
 single-player except multiplayer. The animations are good and the sounds are excellent. There are 
 plenty of cool music to accompany you throught the game!!!
  
  5) There are a lot of main missions and side missions and stuff to do. The mission design are really 
 interesting.
  
  6) During shooting, there is a lock-on system that enables you to easily kill the enemies quickly.
 
  
  7) We can use the boats and heli-copters in the game!
  
  And there are plenty more to say but i won't. It will be long...
  
  Disadvantages:
  
  1) 
 There are no tanks or aero-planes to use in the game!!!
  
  2) There might be some bugs issues in some parts of the game.
  
  3) Niko should run or jog 
 instead of walking when moving him by default.
  
  4) There are no options of parachuting or keeping yourself healthy like san andreas had.
  
 
  5) It is not good to use cheat-codes as some of them disable achievements!!!
  
  
  Overall, i give this game a 10. o because it is one of the best games i played for xbox 360 and 
 i think it should be a strong contender for ''the game of the year 2008!'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkster91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  sounds like Amozarte is basically crap at the game even though it's pretty a pretty easy game in 
 my opinion.
  
  however. there are a few things i agree with.
  
  10) character movement:
  we shouldn't have to hold on to the A button to run, and a shoulder 
 button should have been used to control running/sprinting so that you could still have a thumb 
 free to move the camera, a bit like saints row control scheme, which is especially needed when 
 you're turning round corners
  
  so atm, every time i turn the corner, i have to walk, to see what's round the corner.
  
  and 
 we should be able to change every button control like we can in the game The Orange Box - which 
 shows it's not impossible to do so in a game.
  
  9) car control:
  is fine once you get used to it. i think it's the best out of the GTA games. granted you can't 
 really powerslide but you don't really need to since most american roads are straight and when 
 you do need to turn it's almost always a tight corner.
  
  if you don't like driving very much, then you can call a taxi and you'll be there in a few seconds 
 as you can skip the driving. i hope you know you can do this, coz i'd laugh if you spent the whole 
 time driving reallly long distances, and didn't realize you could take a shortcut by taking a taxi.
 
  
  8) camera:
  yes i agree with this. the camera should really be higher, but as i said, you get used to the controls 
 and you can manually change the height of the camera which i always do now, doesn't take a lot 
 of effort as you get used to doing it and you need to keep your thumb on the Right Stick anyway 
 to keep looking round corners.
  
  7) relationships:
  i think this is an interesting feature. it's not like you have to go through with relationships 
 and spend time with people if you don't want to. if you're after special abilities, you have a 
 choice of doing the quicker or more interesting activities such as going out eating or heli rides. 
 if you're really quick, you can get a date or meet-up over and done with in less than 2 minutes 
 by getting a taxi.
  
  6) music/soundtrack
  vice city's radio stations were the best imo. GTA4's radio stations are crapper than San Andreas' 
 radio music. at least san andreas had a few good rock radio stations.
  
  5) (balancing/luck) multiplayer:
  i haven't really given this a proper chance yet, but it seems 
 quite rubbish anyway from what i've tried. it's difficult and you have to wait to get a game started. 
 even then, your host might have stupid, boring settings which you don't like and the city is sometimes 
 too big. cops and crooks seems fun, but not when you're dead and have to wait for the end of the 
 round which could be several minutes.
  
  4) new wanted system:
  i think this is fine. it's better than the stupidly simple driving into a pay n spray even though 
 you got a dozen pair of police eyes watching you go in to the garage and losing your wanted level 
 all of a sudden, as it was in san andreas and in previous games
  
  i get away from cops quite easily on 3 star wanted levels which is the most you get on most of 
 the story missions.
  
  the technique is to drive round a corner so that you get a some distance between you and the cop 
 cars. then choose one direction to drive towards and preferably a long stretch of road. then speed 
 as fast as you can away from the "circle area" and once you're out of that area, just avoid any 
 cop cars which is quite easy as you can park in an alleyway where the cop cars can't see you, which 
 is kind of realistic.
  
  getting away from one star level is a bit too easy, but i suppose it removes the frustration from 
 getting a wanted level at all by accident, such as when a cop car hits you and you suddenly get 
 chased, and having to go through the whole process of losing the wanted level again.. this is why 
 i think 1 star is so easy.
  
  the way you described it was as if it's really difficult but it's not. you just sound like you're 
 crap at the game, which you failed to mention in your review - that you're not very good at the 
 game.
  
  3) auto-aim/ lock:
  shooting whilst you're in the car isn't that difficult. it's as difficult as it should be, coz 
 in real life you wouldn't really be able to shoot accurately whilst driving at the same time.
 
  
  again a simple technique to this is to wait til your enemy is driving on a straight line directly 
 in front of you and just blast at them until their vehicle goes on fire or they're dead.
  
  again this is another complaint due to the fact that you're not good at the game, not really a 
 technical fault. if the game was any easier, there wouldn't be any point of playing the game at 
 all coz it's already a breeze.
  
  2) checkpoints:
  i agree with this. the last mission pissed me off as i failed it so many times and had to repeat 
 the same tasks over and over until i finally completed the mission, when i jumped out of my seat 
 and cheered.
  
  1) expectations
  people's expectations of games are so bloody high these days. if you think back a decade ago, this 
 kind of game never existed. if you've got such high expectations of a game, i wonder what the heck 
 satisfies you? maybe you should get involved in the making of the next game you want to play. perhaps 
 then you can satisfy your own needs.
  
  delaying a game for a few months hardly makes a difference considering everyone still gets the 
 game on the same release date, you're going to play it eventually anyway, just later and you can 
 play on other games whilst you're waiting.
  
  i'd only get pissed off with a release date if it was like super smash bros brawl where one area 
 of the world gets it months before the other.
  
  my conclusion:
  apart from the crappy on-foot controls, mainly having to hold on to a button to run, i think the 
 game is fine. the missions aren't as varied as san andreas, but the story and cutscenes make up 
 for it. and the bonus is that you get superb graphics. the shadows flicker, but who cares about 
 such a small thing. i congratulate the programers of the game's graphics. it must have been very 
 difficult to get something so visually rich and stunning.
  
  i'm quite surprised by the number of people who agree with the review that i referred to. perhaps 
 there are lots of people who are also crap at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepigeon1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4's depiction of criminal life far surpasses that of other crime games by exposing emotional 
 conflict and guilt. The game is similarly styled to GTA: San Andreas, but is garnished with the 
 biting guilt of unforgivable crimes committed by the main character, Niko Bellic, which was absent 
 in past games. Similar to other heavy-hitting console games, such as Metal Gear Solid, Rockstar 
 has injected political and social criticism into their masterpiece sandbox crawler. Aside from 
 the plot and moral tone of the game, the fundamentals, graphics, gameplay and soundtrack, are some 
 of the best I've seen, heard, and played in my lifetime. The RAGE engine is mindblowing in its 
 euphoric, ragdoll physics, the radio stations, tv stations etc in the game are easily more entertaining 
 than real live broadcasting, and the gameplay has advanced strongly in targeting, weapon use, and 
 character physics. This game is nothing short of gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McFlu
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is better in every way. The graphics are absolutely amazin, especially for the size of 
 the game. Now im pretty sure its not as bigas san andreas, but san andreas didnt need too be that 
 big to begin with, thats why its graphics sucked. But this one is large while still lookin next 
 gen good. The last couple of grand theft auto games all got excellent reviews, so when i heard 
 about this one i was worried. I thought that their luck would run out, but they nailed it, and 
 even better this time. Theres nothin about this game i would change. Ive beaten the game already, 
 but thats definitely not gonna stop me from playin some more. theres still plenty i need to do 
 before i get to that 100% mark, and i plan on doin everythin until im there. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. Hands down this is by far my new favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-trades
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  allright.. to start off i am a non-biased gamer.. i love games of all kind and love the gta franchise... now 
 here is my review of the latest installment.. enjoy:
  
  When i first heard the game was going to come out i was estatic to say the least.. i am a huge fan 
 of the gta franchise and play GTA: SA for an endless amount of hours... and i was expecting this 
 to be an even better experience than that with more things to do, more missions, and alot more... but 
 i have to say i am pretty dissapointed... now dont get me wrong.. GTA:4 has alot going for it... but 
 doesnt hit the mark where its predacesors did... the characters you meet are true gta characters.. niko: 
 god i love him, the anti-hero... just trying to make it... roman: the loveable cousin that you want 
 to hate but cant... mal: sassy latina.. and the list goes on and on.. all of these characters are well 
 done.. models are fantastic, voice-over is superb... and the graphics are awsome... liberty city is 
 alive as ever... enough mini-games to quench your thirst and enough achievements to get to satisfy 
 you... that bieng said... alot of the missions feel like filler/repetitive missions, "go find this 
 guy and kill him".. or "im trying to better this city so kill this group of drug dealers".. its just 
 kinda annoying seeing a great story and great gameplay go to waste on repetitive missions... and 
 dont even get me started on the horrible multiplayer... just run up here.. shoot as many people as 
 you can before you get hit by a car... anyway... gta 4 is worth the money because all in all its 
 a solid game.. not game of the year material imo.. but a good game all in all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowScampi
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  we live in a time where magazines who give a "bad" re/preview on a game which is advertised on 
 their website get sued and even honest reviewers get banned because of some deals... we could watch 
 this process also HERE... but i dont wanna get precise otherwise i could get banned ;-) ...
  
  but lets get to GTA IV...
  
  is this genre able to deliver an experience that is comparable 
 to what you can have with a zelda or an MGS? im no fanboy, but i bet there wont be any racing game 
 that scores a 10 on multiple websites for example... of course i can see what work has been put 
 into this game i have seen all of those details... doesnt anybody care about the repetitive gameplay? the 
 missions that always follow the same structure... niko may be sympathic and its easy to identify 
 with him... but even for him it must be annoying to hear kill him and her etc. i wouldnt even complain 
 that this part doesnt add anything new to the franchise... i even prefer old school games... but 
 this game doesnt deserve to be the most sold, popular and highest rated game to date... i was never 
 a fan of people who say "oh this game is so overrated" and "thats all because of you who hype the 
 game before even the first trailer was released" but this game is part of the biggest conspiracy 
 in video game history...
  
  "ninja gaiden 2? lets give it 8.0 tecmo hasnt paid us enough and many users will agree because theyre 
 too stupid to finish the game..."
  
  PS: Nintendo died on the day where the idea of nintendogs came to life, and as much as i loved this 
 company, i hope that their gravestone will be a wii fit board
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  2008 april 29.
  grand theft aouto IV releesed. people was exited. but some people thougt it would be a disapointment. 
 they where wrong. it's one of the best rockstar games ever and one of the best 360 games ever.
 
  
  what can i say one gye here in sweden waited for 3weeks out side webhallen in sweden to get the 
 game.
  he sayd that it was worth the 3weeks to get the expiriens to playthe game of one of the first in 
 sweden.
  
  i can't find some thing thats wrong ofline grapics and cars and niko and evry thing are so f****g 
 good.
  online are less good but it works it isn't one of the best but it works to play online. don't know 
 what the game could change to make it better. awsome dude awsome.
  
  rockstar have made it again.
  
  bravo bravo
  im giving it 5B (same as5+)
  
  and know 
 to make som charters longer so i can puplish this i just wrote this you reading now haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football_legend
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2001, the world experienced a new type of game. It's a game that couldn't be categorized 
 (as there was nothing similar) at the time. It was a game that was a blend of everything that was 
 out now, with one new addition. freedom to do whatever you want, how you want, when you want, that 
 came to be known as Grand Theft Auto III, or GTA 3 for short. GTA III created the "sandbox" genre, 
 such a genre in which the key gameplay is "freedom". GTA games allowed you to play as an antihero 
 in fictional city based on real life, with unprecedented freedom, humor on mocking the American 
 culture of that specific era, radio station boasting terrific soundtracks, humorous DJs, memorable 
 downright weird companions, lots of weapons.; and of course to hi-jack vehicles to get where you 
 want as fast as possible. GTA III spawned 2 main sequels, Vice City and San Andreas. Both improved 
 on what made GTA III tick and expanded in both depth and quality, although the core gameplay and 
 engine remained the same, it was not a "true sequel".
  
  However, it was not until April 29th of 2008, we got a true sequel to the GTA III, appropriately 
 titled Grand Theft Auto IV. The game may not look like another revolution of the series like GTA 
 III, but rather an evolution. But.. as soon as you put your foot down on Liberty City (no relation 
 to the Liberty City of the first game) , you'll know"things have changed".
  
  There are just so many stuff you can talk about in GTA IV, you can't list them all, and simply 
 you can't. I'll try my best to be as detailed as possible. Asbelieve me, the world of Liberty 
 City is unlike anything you've ever seen in a videogame.
  
  You put on the boots of Niko Bellic, Eastern European former military personnel who wants to escape 
 his horrific past, and what better way to start a new life than America? After all his cousin Roman 
 sent countless letters and emails of how he made it big. Niko upon the request of his cousin arrived 
 in Liberty City, only to find out that his cousin was in serious debt, the sports car he promised 
 was a mere taxi cab and girls he was living around were just posters. Welcome to Liberty City.. where 
 dreams are shattered
  
  The previous games in the entry didn't feature any original captivating storyline, heck. The storyline 
 of GTA was always been the weak link of the otherwise, a strong franchise; and because of this, 
 many people didn't even finish the story missions, also add the fact that how awful the shooting 
 mechanics were and how you were punished when you died.
  
  Thankfully. all those problems are fixed and improved so much that, now it's literally became the 
 part of the franchise's story.
  
  The game borrows some of the best elements of third person shooters in the market, specifically 
 Gears of War. The game employs cover system and over the shoulder view while shooting, not unlike 
 Gears of War. The game has also a new semi-auto aim function. Holding down the L2/Left Trigger 
 button goes to auto-aim mode, and slowly moving the right analog stick you can target specific 
 parts of the body, like the legs or going for the head. Holding the L2/Left Trigger half-way engages 
 the in manual shooting, good for targeting explosive barrels and tires. Previous GTAs had been 
 criticized for the lack of shooting from car, well that is fixed in this installment as well. While 
 the game is still all about grand theft auto, stealing vehicles this time around is riskier than 
 ever before, as police are almost everywhere and now you need to kick out drivers who are "unwilling" 
 to lend you their vehicle and sometimes requiring you to break the glass of cars which are parked 
 and hot wiring it to start, during which anything can happen. That's why it's sometimes best to 
 go by the taxi, new to the franchise. You can whistle for the taxi using the L1/Left Bumper and 
 go anywhere designated in your GPS by you. While you are in the Taxi, you can tell the driver to 
 switch the tunes and look out of the window and enjoy the living breathing world of Liberty City, 
 you can tell him to put the pedal to the medal or you can pay him double the money for quick transport 
 (teleport) , it comes especially handy when you want to retry your missions.
  GTA IV is a much more realistic than the previous GTAs, while it still has some arcade flavor to 
 it, but it's definitely darker than before. The cars physics are much more realistic with real 
 weight to them, the way Niko walks and places one of his feet on a higher level is very realistic, 
 the animation never seams to break, mostly due to the fact that, other than the cut scenes, nothing 
 is pre-canned animation. The game uses a new type of simulated animation technology called Euphoria, 
 which is unexplainable until you see it with your own eyes, because of this; no two animations 
 or "accidents" are the same.
  
  Now integral part of game play is your cell phone, it's the central hub for communication. Now 
 not only you can receive phone calls as before, but you can call your contacts as well, you can 
 for example, ask your gf on a date, call your cousin for a good game of bowling or get drunk (which 
 is really entertaining and fun, especially to drive) or you can call an underground arms dealer 
 for a car loaded with weapons. Its best, though not necessary to keep good relationship with your 
 friends or gfs, as they often come up with their own perks. Oh yeah, just so you are wondering, 
 it does not include any hot coffee scenes.
  
  The story is far more human this time, unlike previous GTAs, its not but coming to the town and 
 taking over, it's all about survival. And the way Niko behaves and talks, he will instantly be 
 a very likeable character surrounded by a full cast of interesting characters, like his cousin 
 Roman.
  As the game takes place in modern times, so with it comes things which we use everyday, like the 
 internet. Yes, GTA IV has its very own interweb, with surprising debt to it, from blogs, emails 
 to online dating service. There are also usable TVs in the game with good amount of programming, 
 some of them are really funny and amazing, you'd wish they aired it real-life. Like the previous 
 GTAs, the radio stations are back with new DJs. The soundtrack in the radios covers almost all 
 the modern genres, so there is bound to be something you'll like, although the quality of selection 
 is still not on par with Vice City, it had to be said, than again, its mostly to blame the modern 
 era for its diverse genre. There is also a load of cool min-games, which are almost as good as 
 games on their right, like bowling, darts, pool. There is even live comedy shows you can attend 
 or watch in the TV.
  
  The graphics is vastly improved with much detailed textures, new realistic lighting that produces 
 great shadows and changes realistically as the day progresses and night falls. When you fly high, 
 the city is undistinguishable from New York City. The character models and animation are as detailed 
 as ever. From artistic point of view, the developers at Rockstar North did an amazing job to capture 
 the look and feel of New York City.
  
  The sound is on par with graphics. Backed up by solid soundtrack, the game is also superb in the 
 other areas as well. Just stand your character for a minute, close your eyes, and just with the 
 sound, you can picture what is going around you, provided you have a 5.1 sound system of course.
 
  The game has also immense replayablity, so when you game finishes. You can go for the 100% completion, 
 acquiring you to do things like killing all 200 pigeons/ "flying rats", making all the unique jumps, 
 etc. You can also play the story again, as it never gets old and try to take different paths in 
 the game to see what is the outcome (there is a degree of decision making in the game, like who 
 to kill or not, though not as deep as Mass Effect) . Or a very popular practice is to just mindlessly 
 cause chaos with your RPG.
  
  Or you can hop onto the multiplayer. There are loads of modes to choose from and most of them are 
 pretty unique and fun. While the game has some multiplayer issues when launched on the PS3 version, 
 the latest patch as of writing for PS3 (1.02) fixes most of them, and I personally didn't experience 
 any problems until then. You can also check various stats at Rockstar online stat tracking website, 
 called Rockstar social club, here you can also preview the track marked in the game and buy digital 
 download from Amazon.
  
  Both the PS3 and 360 versions are amazing, this can hardly be said as a lazy port for PS3 (Xbox 
 360 was the lead platform for the game) . Ironically, in some cases the PS3 version tops because 
 of its Initial 8 min installation prior to starting he game for the first time. Because of this, 
 less data have to be streamed from the optical disc, and so when you are driving at high-speed, 
 the pop-up, yea its still there, not a big issue on the PS3 version compared to the 360 version, 
 as on some of the 360s with older Disc Drives, the read speed cannot always keep up and a result, 
 you'll sometimes find a car or a wall suddenly pop in before you can react. While most new 360 
 models (my friend) , don't have much of a difference.
  
  Well there you have it, it's the longest review I've ever done, by a long shot, but this game deserves 
 it. I still left a lot of details about the game, this game is epic huge. You will soon realize 
 that, all the small things which happen in the world of GTA IV merge and form a much bigger picture 
 which really sucks you in the game. There is simply no immersive game than GTA IVperhaps GTA 
 V? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotdork70minus1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I think I was just caught up in all the hype because at first I was loving this game, but after 
 a while I just felt like a taxi driver.
  
  The story in here is great and makes you feel like you are part of a movie but besides that it's, 
 drive, kill, drive, kill, drive, have sex in car, drive kill... etc. Everything in the game is beautiful 
 and rich with life but in the end it's rinse and repeat. The cell phone is also one of the most 
 annoying parts of any game, it's like a wife or that crazy ex girlfriend you can never get rid 
 of.
  
  GTAIV is awsome when you want to show off to your friends and mowe down a bunch of pedestrians 
 but it's not really any more then that. I understand that others like this type of game but to 
 me, it's not intense enough to keep me or my AD-huh ? interested. 
  
  
  I don't even want to waste any more time talking about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwish728
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  its an great game but it can get boring when u keep  
 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DhavokBoss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  To start off the game submerges you in movie like scenes so that you can get dragged deep into 
 the story . You sometimes begin to feel like you are really a part of it. The game takes advantage 
 of the setting and just makes describing it awesome an understatement. The voice acting is great 
 not only because of the acting but also the script material itself. The sound is amazing because 
 it correlates well with your surrounding radius. The game has an extremely well detailed environment. 
 This in combination with the characters of the city itself make the game feel almost alive.
  Another thing great about Grand Theft Auto IV is the game play. They did a great job with the third 
 person aspect of the combat. You have an option in the pause screen for free aim or auto aim. This 
 option can leave those unhappy with the targeting of the previous GTA more satisfied. The downside 
 is there is a limited amount of weapons in the game. But this won't bother you too much when you 
 first get your hands on an rpg. The last downside to the game is the visible pop up of cars, traffic, 
 pedestrians, and things on the sides of roads. I can truly say that this game is a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is good its not bad 1 bit see in the gta franchise all the other games made me wanna 
 through up after the 5 mission or so because of the repetitive gameplay. you will be satisfied 
 and the missions are good and pretty easy because you dont have a time limit. Also there will be 
 many many side stuff to do you know sandbox things and alos a lot of intresting vehicals to race 
 and even though you cant fly a plane you still can fly a hlicopter and mess with planes and stuff 
 so all and all if you dont have this game already you should buy it i give it a 5 of 5 and a 10 
 oh and also trust m get it because before i got it i thought it was so lame and stuff but its not 
 its acually good
  
  
  text for post text for post text for post text for post
  text for post text for post text for post text for post
  text for post text for post text for 
 post text for post
  text for post text for post text for post text for post
  text for post text for post text for post text for post
  text for post text for post text for 
 post text for post
  text for post text for post text for post text for post 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the greatest free roaming crime action adventure game. No wonder it takes lots of credits. 
 The only reason for those credits is the details of the game.
  
  Be Niko Belic, an Old Country (if you think he is a Russian, check the Liberty City Police Department 
 website, you'll find that the place of birth of Niko is unknown) immigrant, fly away from his dark 
 past of war on his country to the famous, full of chanses, Liberty City. Soon he'll realize that 
 living an American Dream full of money and girls is just a crap. He must fight in a crime world 
 full of mafia, gang, scum, and police to make ends meet.
  
  The story is truly deep and exciting. You'll have to watch the whole cut scene and videos and also 
 listening to the conversations during the game that telling you the story. 
  
  The graphics are awesome! The whole parts of Liberty City are looking very great and detail! Salute 
 to Rockstar North to their insanity of bring the imitation of New York to the game. Lightning, 
 shadow, detailed particles like dust, smoke, fog, fire, weather effects, and water surface, everything 
 looks beautiful. I admire the complexity of the transporting facility of Liberty City and the numbers 
 of cars and bikes scattered around the city. Niko's movement and interaction with the highly destructive 
 environment are great too. 
  
  The gameplay goes pretty, we can do our missions anyway we want. In several missions, we can choose 
 to kill our target or let him/her go away, we can also choose two kill between 2 targets. There's 
 always consequences for every decisions we make. That make the game more interesting.
  
  Too bad the perfection of the game must be compare with the shooting mechanics. The half press 
 LT-free aim and full press LT-auto aim mechanism is driving me crazy! It's hard to change your 
 target when in auto aim, and in free aim, the movement of Niko's reticule is pretty slow. The cover-and-shoot 
 mode works well but when Niko crouch, it is hard to maneuver. Thank God Niko can do blind fire. 
 Last, the most idiotic behaviour Niko have is he can't store a non-ammo gun! It's disturbing to 
 buy guns every time you blow out all it's ammo!
  
  Other things that support this game to be an outstanding game are small details. details like relationships 
 with girlfriend/s and friends, clothing, cellphone, amusing center (pools, dart, bowling, cabaret 
 show, comedy club) and internet add something special to the game.
  
  So, GTA IV is a must have game for every 17+ guys who have XBOX 360 0r PS3, you won't get bored 
 with it. For my last words, i hope Rockstar can fix the shooting mecanics, the ability to storing 
 guns and add several things like make your own character feature and split screen multiplayer on 
 GTA V 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aven13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Extremely immersive story, with likeable (and hateable) characters abound
  -New cell phone system works well
  -Story is very, very long, the missions are universally fun, 
 and the total package will keep you satisfied for a very long time
  -A ton of FUN side missions
  -Multiplayer, especially the co-op missions, is everything we were 
 promised and more
  -Graphics (especially the pop-up issues) are improved upon vastly
  -Even though the story is of a violent nature, the graphic content almost always feels necessary
 
  
  Cons:
  -Default darkness setting is WAY too dark
  -Most story missions are very easy, to the point of being near-impossible to fail, with a few that 
 are very hard, to the point of the game feeling cheap; the same applies to the side missions
  -Multiplayer is flooded with pre-pubescent ten year-olds, that are sure to annoy you
  
  
 
  If you have ever played, seen, or heard about a video game, you probably know about Grand Theft 
 Auto. The latest one does not disappoint, and makes a fine addition to anyone's collection. If 
 you can get past some minor quirks, you're in for a treat.
  Graphically, the game is a large improvement over the previous games in the series. That, however, 
 isn't saying much. There are still plenty of rough edges here and there, and pop-up is still noticeable. 
 But, most important to me, the graphics are a major improvement from III, Vice City, and San Andreas, 
 especially from afar.
  Gameplay is good fun, especially the story missions. Even though they can be too easy or way too 
 hard, they are all universally fun. Honestly, I do not know why I liked them so much, but I give 
 the story missions two huge Yays! The side missions are also very fun. However, they, like the 
 story missions, are either very easy or extremely hard, especially finding Stevie's cars. Unless 
 you want to waste hour after hour searching for all of the stunt jumps, hidden packages, and cars, 
 you'll probably end up using a guide.
  Multiplayer is surprisingly fun. Not only do the co-op missions work very well, but the TrueSkill 
 system, which uses money as a means of leveling up, works like a charm.
  The shooting works well in the game, thanks to a new cover system. Now, unlike previous games, 
 you'll be blasing gangsters with ease. However, if an enemy gets behind you, it's still game over 
 for you. Ouchies.
  Honestly, my favorite part of this game was the story. Not only does it feel serious, but it knows 
 that it doesn't always have to take itself with that sort of intense, gripping drama that most 
 see it with. You'll really feel for all of the characters, and at the points where you need to 
 choose your path in the game, you'll almost always need to think for awhile. Niko, Roman, Little 
 Jacob (my favorite XD) , Brucie, and all are all well crafted, and you'll savor eery cutscene.
 
  However, not all is sunny in Liberty City. No pun intended, but the default darkness level is 
 way too low for use with most TVs. Also, the staggering extremes in difficulty level are enough 
 to make this game too easy throughout, with occasional near-impossible checkpoints dotted about. 
 This isn't to say that the game is not fun; rather, most of the missions are just too easy for 
 the non-casual gamer. Finally, as in any Live game, there are plenty of pre-teens that manage to 
 get ahold of the game online. If you are like me, these kids piss you off. Just a note, but a big, 
 very un-Yay! note.
  So, to say goodbye, GTA IV is a great game. If you like shooters with a story, you'll love this 
 game. Actually, just about anyone could love this game. (I don't consider Jack Thompson to be a 
 person; I think that he is more of a mistake by Mother Nature.) There are a few small gameplay 
 elements that could have used tweaking, and the game is too easy for my taste most of the time, 
 but it was a fun experience throughout, and will definitely remind you of why you're a gamer. See 
 Ya!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Hype can sometimes be a tough thing. In the world of video games, there is no other franchise that 
 is more hyped than the Grand Theft Auto games. To be fair, however, Rockstar usually delivers when 
 it releases a GTA game. I haven't been as big a fan of the other GTA games as many other people 
 have, but I still find them fun and definately worth playing. The hype surrounding this game was 
 beyond crazy. And then after many, many major publications/websites gave the game perfect scores..... well, 
 yea my expectations were through the roof. Unfortunately, the game didn't live up to that '10' 
 score that many reviewers gave it. But like the other games in the series, it's still fun and definately 
 worth playing.
  
  If you have played any of the past three Grand Theft Auto games, then you will know what you are 
 in for when it comes to gameplay. The storyline is actually pretty good this time around, well 
 at least for the first part of the game. After several hours into the story, you are basically 
 running around doing errands and being a 'hitman' of sorts for all kinds of underworld crime bosses. 
 The Irish, Blacks, Hispanics, Italians, and even your fellow Russians have people for you to go 
 assassinate or other tasks that are very similar to what you have been doing in the last three 
 GTA games.
  
  That's not to say the game is not fun, because it is. It has that same addictive nature as the 
 last few games. The problem I have with it is that it gets VERY repetitive & apparently Rockstar 
 really couldn't come up with much else to do all these years. Sure it's fun to go play darts, shoot 
 pool, bowl, go out on a date, etc. You can even watch TV for as long as you want while sitting 
 in your apt./safehouse. It's those little touches are what makes GTA 4 get a score above an '8', 
 in my book.
  
  As I was saying, however, there isn't much to do in the way of missions except for running around 
 killing everyone you are told to kill by whomever is paying you to do so. Some of the missions 
 are quite aggravating due to the horrible 'aiming while driving', shooting sequences. But other 
 than that, it's mostly just meeting with your 'boss', then driving to destination on mini-map, 
 and killing the little red dot. Then you get paid. That's pretty much the bulk of the game. Now 
 the beginning and the end are actually pretty cool and give the story it's meat.
  
  The game is very fun, but this series needed more of an overhaul. This just feels like Rockstar 
 perfecting everything about the last three games (including the new aiming controls, which are 
 WAY better) and adding in some new little things, like I mentioned before. Sure it's fun to get 
 a call from one of your 'friends' (another new feature) , pick him up and head out to a strip club 
 to get a lap dance....... but it gets old after a couple times and really doesn't add THAT much 
 to the game.
  
  If you did like the last three GTA games, you will probably like this one. And you will might even 
 like it more than the last ones, but it's not a revolutionary game or anything close.
  
  One thing that really bugged me about the last couple GTA game were the visuals. It was clearly 
 an aging graphic engine, and thankfully Rockstar really did a good job with the visuals in GTA 
 4. Some of the characters do look and animate a bit goofy and there are a lot of things in the 
 enviroment that look 'last-gen', but the game looks great as a whole. The city is absolutely huge 
 and looks outstanding at certain times of the night. You will get nice touches like thunderstorms 
 and rain, which both look great.
  
  I should mention that I did run into some pop-up and draw-in at times and it happened right next 
 to my character a couple times. That shouldn't be happening on a system like the Xbox 360 & this 
 far into the system's lifecycle, but it wasn't anything that ruined the game for me.
  
  This is going to be shocking to type, but I am actually somewhat disappointed by the audio in this 
 game. The voice acting is all very good and actually hilarious in some cases. It really saves the 
 audio score for me. I was very disappointed in the selection of music here, though. I remember 
 driving around in GTA 3, listening to the soundtrack to the movie 'Scarface'. Or doing a drive-by 
 shooting in Vice City while laughing with some Phil Collins on the radio. I didn't really have 
 any of those moments here in this game. I did find it hilarious when the song that the serial killer 
 from 'Silence Of The Lambs' listens to in that creepy scene (if you know what I am talking about, 
 yea it's creepy as hell) popped on the radio in GTA 4. The song is also in a hilarious scene in 
 'Clerks 2' invoving Jay & Silent Bob, for you movie-buffs out there.
  
  What I would like from the next game in this series is something completely different. I don't 
 want to spend another 30-40 hrs. driving around a huge city being a errand boy for every gang in 
 the city. Each game in this series has to live up to a crazy amount of hype, and it's not like 
 this game is not fun or worth owning. I am very glad I purchased this and it will probably keep 
 me busy for quite some time. But I can only play this for a couple hours and then I get bored. 
 It's because the gameplay is repetitive and the story takes a backseat to that repetitive gameplay 
 after the first part of the game. That's a shame because I really liked the story towards the start 
 of the game.
  
  If you are looking for a really kick-@ss version of the last three games in the series and fancier 
 visuals, then this is your game. If you didn't really like the other GTA games, then I wouldn't 
 bother with this one either. Either way, I would give it a rent and find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItalyCanadian9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Don't worry, GTA's famed over-the-top action and tongue-in-cheek humor are intact, but there is 
 a new level of sophistication in the characters and the game world that raises the story above 
 the norm. As Niko becomes mired in the death throes of American organized crime, he begins to become 
 more self-aware. Niko's struggles with his ruthless nature never inhibit the gameplay, but instead 
 enhance the emotional gravity of a brilliant storyline. The more absurd the action becomes, the 
 greater we feel the very real pathos of Niko Bellic.
  
  Much of the credit goes to the artists at Rockstar North who created as believable a city as possible. 
 Liberty City is inspired by New York, but not beholden to it. While there are many parallels, Liberty 
 exists in its own universe and rightfully so. Many open-world games have cities that feel as if 
 they existed only from the moment you first turned on your console, but Liberty City looks lived 
 in. It's an old city and each block has its own vibe and its own history. Drive around Liberty 
 City and you'll be able to identify each individual block. Though Liberty is filled with brownstones 
 and a myriad of similar brick buildings, you can tell one from the other, just as you can in New 
 York. Go to an affluent neighborhood and the street is likely to be newly paved, the pedestrians 
 better dressed, the cops more plentiful. But head to Dukes or Bohan and you'll find streets nearly 
 stripped of asphalt, homeless people wandering about aimlessly and criminals preying on the weak. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  From the GTA's I've played, San Andreas has been my favourite so far. Than GTA 3, and than Vice 
 City. This is one GTA game I will never play again.
  
  Most painful things about this game is the poor controls of the cars, and the graphics look like 
 ass, and the game itself runs so choppy I was getting headaches.
  
  This is the first GTA I have played on a console, all the others I've played on PC, and likely 
 I should have waited for this one to hit PC, so I could have at least ran it at a playable framerate 
 and turn off the garbage blurry effects in the settings.
  
  Aiming controls were no problem for me, I liked how they worked usually... and I wasn't expecting 
 anything else from them. I was hoping they would just do away with the armour and health system. 
 Its a pain and a waste of time to always have to get new armour to do each mission. I rather have 
 regenerating health and not have to do that crap.
  
  I'm not buying the next GTA game if its going to be like this, the best things about San Andreas, 
 the ability to run and shoot weapons, the abilities you gain as you play and so on... this game 
 should have had this. And the whole city was big but too much the same. There was no variety.
 
  
  And all the cutscenes or story or whatever, they were terrible. The main character was awful and 
 I wanted him to die the whole time I was playing.
  
  This game is bad, its overrated, and I don't see how this game got perfect reviews everywhere, 
 I'm a bit wiser now from the lies I have read. People play a buggy game like this and still find 
 this fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Top Ten Reasons Why GTA IV is not a Ten
  
  I feel that I must start with a disclaimer: I like GTA IV. It's a great game and easily the best 
 in the series so far. I have fun playing it and by no means do I think it's a *bad* game. But I 
 can't say it's a game that deserves a perfect score, at least not by Gamespot's definition.
  
  I don't expect anyone to agree with all of the points below, I only hope that you can agree 
 that GTA IV has flaws. Most are not serious, but all are more than trivial if one is to consider 
 the end product a "Masterpiece" and reward it a perfect score.
  
  And so, without further ado...
  
  10) Character Movement/Combat
  -The "new" combat system 
 was touted and trumpeted as revolutionary. But other games have already discovered the concept 
 of lock-on targeting and those same other games have done it better. While the new combat mechanic 
 is certainly a step up, it feels like it's still just not quite perfected. Even basic movement 
 in this title is still not quite right. In every single GTA since III, character movement has been 
 a bit wonky. It's difficult to describe, but while running straight forward may be easy, it feels 
 as though you cannot turn on a dime. There is a sort of "walk in a wide circle" that takes place. 
 If you've played any GTA games you probably know what I'm getting at. Yes, you get used to it, 
 but shouldn't it have been corrected by now? How many iterations of GTA have there been? How many 
 opportunities to get it right??
  
  9) Car Control
  -Compared to previous GTA's the cars are downright sloppy. Nevermind the fact that I hate the new 
 default control scheme, or that switching to the old control scheme leaves the gas pedal and answering 
 your phone mapped to the same button. In previous GTAs I could power slide, J-hook and just plain 
 drive the snot out of each car. Obviously a "Corvette" handled a lot better than a Garbage Truck, 
 but each vehicle had its own personality and finesse. This time around the gas pedal is way too 
 sensitive, cars float all over the road, and getting through town at any speed is just a chore.
 
  
  8 ) Camera
  -When driving, why does the camera insist upon dropping to the pavement almost immediately after 
 releasing the analog stick? Heaven forbid you should want to see what's ahead of you as you tear 
 through town! I understand the need to keep a camera perspective- after-all, it would be worse 
 if the camera didn't reset it's perspective at all. However, compared to previous entries in the 
 series, the camera is a step backward.
  
  7) Maintaining Relationships
  -I'd really appreciate it if game designers would respect the fact that real life has enough boring 
 and repetitive errands. I'd love it if they would kindly refrain from forcing me to spend what 
 little gaming time I have grinding out chores to keep all of my NPC friends happy. If I wanted 
 to spend a significant portion of my gaming experience maintaining relationships with my cyber-buddies 
 I would play the Sims.
  
  6) Music/Soundtrack
  -GTA is well-known for its soundtracks. Previous entries in the series have really done a great 
 job of capturing the essence of the game musically. Let's face it, this soundtrack sucks. I can 
 only stand one station out of how many, and even that one is only tolerable about half the time. 
 I understand that music is a huge matter of taste and I don't expect to enjoy 100% of the tunes, 
 I'm simply stating that the previous entries did a far better job of music selection.
  
  5) Balancing/Luck
  -There is a tendency for random chance to dictate the outcome of many tasks. 
 This is directed at multiplayer but does still apply to the single player experience. As an example, 
 during Mafia Work an objective may spawn right next to team A while team B is halfway across the 
 map therefore making it pretty much impossible for team B to have a snowball's chance at completing 
 the objective first.
  
  4) "New" Wanted System
  -First of all, the so-called "new" wanted system isn't really new or innovative. The concept has 
 been used on previous games, even in the previous generation of consoles. What makes the system 
 frustrating is the ridiculous density of police. I'd like to know what Liberty City's law enforcement 
 payroll looks like with a cop at every corner and a cop car every other block. After many missions 
 I found myself spending five to ten minutes driving around in order to clear my wanted level until 
 I finally just started letting myself get busted- at least I can get on with the game that way.
 
  
  3) Auto Aim/Lock
  -While on foot I have the option of locking onto a target or using free aim, but while driving 
 free aim is the only option. Does that strike anyone else as odd? Aiming while driving is a true 
 test of multitasking ability and seems to warrant more need for an auto-aim feature than running 
 around on foot. The lock-on itself is flawed in several ways as well. Often times, once you've 
 locked to a target, the game refuses to switch targets despite your best efforts. Also, while I 
 originally thought the Crackdown-esque ability to aim at discrete parts of your target (i. e. headshots 
 vs legs) would be an improvement, the precision required to make a headshot on a moving target 
 leads to a lot of misses, which in turn incents me to choose quantity over quality- abandoning 
 precision aim altogether in favour of unloading a hail of gunfire on the target's centre of mass.
 
  
  2) Checkpoints, or Lack Thereof
  -Most missions are activated in one area, but require you to travel to another destination before 
 things really heat up. Why then, am I required to drive the same three minutes of map over and 
 over every time I take an unlucky bullet to the noggin just before I complete the mission? Checkpoints 
 are not a new concept. Why doesn't GTA IV incorporate them?
  
  Drumroll, please...
  
  1) Expectations
  -The deepest cut of all is that the original release date was pushed, accompanied 
 by an explanation from the developer that the game just needed a bit more polish. If this is what 
 half a year of extra polish looks like, I cringe at the thought of what the game would have looked 
 like if it had released on time.
  
  ---
  
  So let me summarise by reiterating that I enjoy GTA IV. It's not a bad game at all. It's exactly 
 what one comes to expect from a sequel- the same core formula that made you love the game in the 
 first place, with a few new additions to keep things fresh. My argument is simply that achieving 
 a perfect score requires more. It requires well-thought and totally fleshed out concepts. It requires 
 a degree of polish that makes it hard to find fault. It requires innovation that redefines the 
 very essence of gaming- it must be mindblowing. And as much fun as GTA IV may be, it is not mindblowing 
 and therefore is not a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putty121
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Up until now Vice City was always the pinnacle of the Grand Theft Auto series for me. It kept a 
 perfect sense of style, improved upon everything that made GTA III great and added everything you 
 could possibly want (at the time) in a crime game based in Miami. GTA IV has easily taken the throne 
 in my eyes. This is a true sequel to GTA III and should be a complete wake up call as to what this 
 generation of hardware can produce. The graphics are absolutely fantastic. The vehicles control 
 perfectly, not to mention completely individually from each other. The damage is unbelievably accurate 
 and the variety is spot on. Character models are ridiculously detailed and the animations (facial 
 and otherwise) are the best I've seen in a game. Ohh, and by the way, Euphoria is easily one of 
 my favorite game engine tools. It's unreal to see as you gently bump pedestrians and they accurately 
 place their hands on the hood of your car and weave their body out of the way. Or when you push/ 
 murder somebody at the top of a stairwell for instance. Nothing ever happens the same way twice... 
 but everytime you see an animation it feels completely lifelike. For once it feels like there are 
 little virtual people walking around with real little virtual lives (talking on their cell phones, 
 unpacking groceries, talking with friends, window shopping, etc...) . I don't even know how to approach 
 the gameplay department. Uhhh well remember the combat in the other GTA games? Yeah it sucked. 
 Now it doesn't. In fact, gun fights end up being a hell of a lot more fun than they are in most 
 focused 8 hour shooters (I'm thinking of Three Leaf Clover and Snow Storm right now) , but not only 
 are the scripted missions fantastic, varied and creative, but you can start one of these epic firefights 
 anywhere at anytime, triggering a full on Heat like experience as you take full advantage of the 
 new and near flawless cover system. Police officers will take a bullet to the shoulder and stumble 
 backwards accidentally firing their weapon as they attempt to catch their balance (or not) . A shot 
 to the stomach will send a man reeling to the ground in agony, often puking up blood that realistically 
 stains the environment, and then desperately crawling away to save himself. A shot to the leg will 
 make a man stumble and even lean against a wall to stay upright and continue the fight. Finally 
 a headshot will do exactly what it will do in real life. The characters head will snap back as 
 blood covers the area behind them. The Euphoria engine causes the character to lose 'muscle' control 
 and collapse realistically as if there were real bones and organs inside manipulating the fall.
 
  The audio is amazing as well. Gunfire is menacing and satisfying and the radio stations are top 
 notch. They may not be as distinctive as those of Vice City, but it is still pretty damn awesome. 
 Voice acting... Wow. Niko is the man. Every character is performed perfectly with the exception 
 of maybe Kate and... Pedestrian 403. The story is engrossing and has higher production values and 
 characterization than pretty much any form of media I have encountered. Some people will complain 
 about a few of the things that were taken out from San Andreas, but it was all done for a reason. 
 Atmosphere. Who would believe, or more importantly care, about Niko flying around in a jetpack, 
 shooting some hoops, flying a 747 (?!?!?) , or carrying a... big black **** as a melee weapon. This 
 game is a work of art and a realistic commentary on modern society and culture. Rockstar made the 
 right decision in cutting off the fat. All you are left with is a nice juicy filet of a game. I'm 
 a little tired and I'm getting off track a little so I'll throw a few more little details in randomly. 
 The several choices you are given throughout the storyline vary in consequence from a simple phone 
 call, to a game changing tragedy. Everything is up to you and every decision, no matter how miniscule 
 they may seem, all add to Niko's character in a substantial way. Kill the man you've been sent 
 to wrongfully assassinate by a despicable bear of a man who is paying you, or spare him and inform 
 your employer of your 'success'? All up to you. What may seem like a minor twitch of a gameplay 
 decision may fill out to be a pretty damn important plot point. Who knows. The executions are awesome 
 too. See, I really am off track. But still, there is one, I wont say who dies, but you get the 
 opprutunity to put a bullet in your targets thigh, he stumbles and you plant one more in his sternum. 
 He coughs up a bloody mist and falls over the balcony. Or a point blank shot to the eyeball or 
 throat. It never ends.
  Okay that's enough.
  Buy this game and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is by far one of the most ambitious and highly praised games of any generation 
 of consoles, and as you may have noticed it scored a 10 out of 10 with most reviewers, which is 
 odd because to say the game is good is easy. To say it's perfect is blind.
  
  Graphically GTA 4 is an amazing master piece. The environments live and breath with light reflecting 
 off of rain soaked streets and so on. On top of the this characters easily emit their emotions 
 via amazingly expressive gestures and facial expressions. The city very much presents itself as 
 a real city, but this is not the second coming. People on the streets still act like video game 
 characters and are actually fairly low quality character models. Though the city is more detailed 
 it feels very small. The lack of forests, weird back-roads and red neck towns really lower the 
 scale and feeling one gets from past GTA games. 
  
  Game play wise the game starts out on a some what good foot. They have implemented a few moves 
 so that you can take cover and fire around corners and though they are useful, it just feels awkward. 
 Your often fighting with Niko to take cover, and end up stumbling into the open and getting gunned 
 down. The problem is, they tried to make GTA too real. Controlling Niko is like playing that marble 
 game where you tilt the board to get the marble to roll into the hole. It's like they delayed the 
 controls so that he can't stop, turn or do anything on a dime and this causes a lot of frustration 
 around 50% through the game. The main problem is that though there is a lot of content to be seen 
 like prostitutes, the internet, radio, and T. V. it all seems more like filler and not really that 
 interesting. The missions are almost all the same. Go kill some people and then chase the last 
 one down in the car. Eventually you just don't give a crap. On top of that they have implemented 
 a friend/dating sim concept, in which people you meet can be called to either go bowling or play 
 pool. At first this will really make you think this game is amazing, until you realize you have 
 to do this over and over and over and over, with no real reward other then them not getting pissed 
 off when you don't contact them every day. There is also no way around this. There is a feature 
 in which you can turn off your phone to suspend the story mission, but people will still expect 
 you to take them places, and there are not that many places to take them. So you end up playing 
 a rather crappy bowling mini game for 50 % of your play time. What happened is the developers had 
 a good idea, but not the time to flesh it out and then forced us to deal with it through the entire 
 game. This is very odd for a game known for it's no strings sand box game play. This feels more 
 like playing a game a gun point. So to some it up, the controls are okay ,but too often are the 
 cause for a sudden death, many of the new game play features are shallow yet are forced upon you, 
 and the missions are mind numbingly boring and repetitive.
  
  If you can suffer through the GTA: SIMS game play the game has the best and most realistic characters 
 I have ever scene in a video game period. This does not make the game fun, but you have to respect 
 Niko and the rest of the cast. It is truly an amazing experience. 
  
  The online is also the best of the best and will probably be fairly popular. The multiplayer feels 
 much more like the GTA we love and gives you and your friends a world to destroy and just lets 
 you go. This should have been implemented in the story mode also, in some sort of co-op, but as 
 is the game is worth the money for the online alone. 
  
  In the end GTA ventures into a new direction that, though it feels like a truly Next Gen experience, 
 is just not always that fun. Saints Row was not intelligent and the characters where stupid, but 
 the game was fun. In an attempt to rise above the pandering of Saints Row, GTA lost what makes 
 GTA fun, and that's freedom. I do suggest all gamers at least check this game out because it is 
 amazing to see such a big world, but don't be surprised when you find yourself just wanting to 
 be stupid with out a virtual girl friend getting pissed that you haven't called her. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the first GTA game i've actually gotten some enjoyment out of. San Andreas was boring, 
 but GTA 4 is fun... for the most part.
  
  1) The story and characters are fantastic. I did not expect that the game that so many simplify 
 to "violence" could actually be that engaging. Niko is probably one of the best game characters 
 ever. In recent times there has been no character quite like it. He feels real, human and despite 
 everything kind, which is odd since for a lot of the game you, as him, kill stacks of people. The 
 world in general feels alive,
  
  2) The music and radio - Music is fantastic, i don't like it all but the selection is great and 
 the radio stations are hilarious. There is plenty of social commentary and being not American myself 
 i can agree that a lot of what is discussed is definitely the extreme that we consider Americans 
 to be heading towards.
  
  3) The bad things - so far it all sounds great (and i've not spent a lot of time on it because 
 GTA 4 arguably can not be explained, it has to be experienced) , but there are big issues:
  - the aiming system ... doesn't work the way the game tells you. Occasionally your gun just will 
 not lock on to anything. Other times it will lock on to someone inside a room, inside a building 
 and ... that just isn't helping anything.
  
  - cars ... they are ... a pain to drive. Mind you there is some fun to be had in that, but at times 
 it is more frustrating than anything else. Thankfully you can take the train or taxi ... someone 
 claimed the bus, but i have yet to see that for myself.
  
  - repeating missions - i gather it is the first time that you can replay missions easily without 
 reverting to a save game, however for the most part missions are hard. It doesn't help that to 
 get there you generally drive a car (see above) and you die because of bad aiming (see above) , 
 which means you get to go through the pain all over again. Some missions are inherently simple, 
 and others are just a pain. I don't mind so much that there is a challenge there, but the occasional 
 death just seems to be invoked by a cheating AI... or by a conspiracy of the game's (at times) 
 shoddy controls. 
  
  That said you can always find something else to do before you have to face the mission that's driving 
 you to despair. 
  
  GTA 4 is great. It isn't the style of game i generally like, but there is a lot there and there 
 is an amazing amount of things to do, which makes this great value for money.
  
  I bought the companion game guide and it certainly makes you appreciate how much there is to do.
 
  
  Conclusion: i really want to like this game, and there is a lot here, but it isn't as perfect as 
 the score of 10 makes out. Controls are shoddy, and i would even say they are downright broken. 
 I would expect this to be something that will be fixed with a patch, but it hasn't happened yet. 
 But there is always hope.
  
  The controls are the only thing that makes this game frustrating. If they were corrected a lot 
 of frustration would just fade away. As it stands at the moment though, there is a lot of frustration 
 to be had. Also a lot of fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volc-123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  i will start with graphics , the graphics in this game is very good , and it has an awesome framerate 
 , blood is more controled then in previous GTA's , if you kill someone you won't end in a blood 
 bath , colors are smooth and reflection of water and glass is very good .... then , in gameplay 
 , the driving is very nice , the handling is very realistic , and the campaign is very nice , you 
 can do whatever you want , buy weapons , kill people , and steal cars , well stealing cars is improved 
 , at least the player breaks the glass , the way you turn on a stolen car is nice , the fighting 
 has improved , hand fights are long , but if you have a wepon you end the fight quickly ..... the 
 missions are good , and they are really exciting , the gunfights are awesome , the sound of the 
 bullets is realistic . If the game wasn't that awesome , gamespot wouldn't have given it 10/10 
 , and this game really deserves it .... And , this game is another achievement for RockStar !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabberfoot
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is without a doubt one of the best games released in a long time. It keeps the same GTA 
 series formula, which can be summarized in one word, freedom. It's true that there aren't as many 
 things to do in IV than in San Andreas, but it's nice to not be bogged down by so many features. 
 IV polishes the main aspects of the game with more realistic driving controls and refined shooting, 
 and a good story, something that can't be said of any other game in the series. The main critisizms 
 of IV are repetitive gameplay and subpar graphics. Every game has an element of repetetive gameplay... 
 All you do in halo is shoot, all you do in madden is play football, do they have repetetive gameplay? 
 Yes, but its fun. On the graphic note, you do have to understand the immense amount of things onscreen 
 at one time, and that said, it still looks a lot better than most other games on either system 
 (PS3 or Xbox360) . The multiplayer in IV isn't as polished or refined as MP in call of duty 4, but 
 is still fun and allows you to blow up a fictional new york city with some friends (and you can 
 talk to them if you are on xbox live, because people actually have headsets!) . Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  first of all, allmost anything you do gets you a wanted level, its as if cops follow you around 
 all day, the radio stations were horrible, and some of the missions were so long and deifficult 
 (which wasnt a problem) but there were no checkpoints. no side missions like the rc car missions, 
 ambulances, vigilante, fireman etc. The phone was a good idea but kind of annoying. The game deciding 
 decisions that affect the strory lines was a great idea, the graffics were great and the map was 
 bnig enough and paccked with enough things that didnt make the game boring. the fighting controls 
 were great and the driving was fun, unlike past games where you hit the e-brake and make a turn 
 at 70 mph. the hookers actually work instead of sitting in the passengers seat while the car rocks. 
 this was the best storyline so far in the series and this game is worth buying. i bought the game 
 the day it came out in stores and i just beat the storyline yesterday, very lengthy. you wont regret 
 getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitzycent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I 100 percent loved this game but, and this is a big "but." What happened to the stuff we've come 
 to expect from Rockstar?
  
  Ok so they are trying new things and the effects, graphics, varied storylines, and multiplayer 
 are freaking awesome. I love the way you get to choose the path Niko takes and how it affects the 
 story. The new shooting and fighting styles were wicked awesome and I loved the Hi-Def graphics. 
 Plus the new wanted levels escape was really cool. 
  
  So I can see where some things would get added and deleted. But what happened to the cab missions 
 and the firetruck missions and ambulance missions? Where's all the different radio stations, You 
 know the "good" ones? the clothing changes took way to long to get the outfit you wanted.
  
  Not only that but where were the celebs lending their voices? Opie and Anthony guys are pretty 
 cool but I still want Ray Liotta, Luis Guzman, and Michael Rappaport. Heck just give me Frank Vincent!
 
  
  Still giving this game a 9.5 tho. It was freaking awesome!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  So I have finished the SP of my first GTA game. I didn't think I would like GTA with the glorification 
 of all that is criminal, but then maybe all the changes that made some of the hardcore GTA fans 
 feel let down allowed me to like it (aka I didnt see that much glorification of being a criminal) . 
 Who knows, but I did like this game, quite a lot in fact.
  
  Graphics: Not the greatest so far on this gen but nice enough. Everything was believable enough. 
 The city was alive and (without close inspection) seemed quite diverse as if all the people were 
 different and doing different things. 
  
  Sound Voice: Very well done. Some of the characters were some of the more entertaining characters 
 I have encountered in games. Brucie was a riot, Jacob (thought couldn't understand a blinking thing 
 he said) was awesome, Packie seemed like a cool guy and Roman was certainly likeable enough, as 
 well as some others.
  
  Sound Music: YMMV as it is all up to you what you put on the radio. I really liked some of the 
 music choices and the talk radio was funny as all get out sometimes. Sometimes things got stupid 
 or annoying. Much of the time I ended up turning off the radio, but thats just me as I like to 
 hear whats going on around me.
  
  Sound Environmentals: Well done, I never missed the radio when I had it off. Never got the sense 
 that there was just silence that needed to be filled. 
  
  Story: I really liked the story. I felt there were a number of choices in the game that seemed 
 to have an impact on the outcome and it wasn't always obvious which was the "right"\"wrong" choice 
 like it is in many games. I admit I may have actually "agonized" over a few of them putting off 
 the decision as long as possible and then telling myself I would replay if I didn't like the outcome 
 but then ultimately accepting the decision without replaying it. In a way the ending is not fully 
 unexpected but I thought the particular choice I made would end a bit different then it did and 
 early in the game there was a slight twist I wasn't expecting. All in all I liked the story much 
 better then I expected, considering the GTA games reputation of just playing a scumbag criminal. 
 
  
  Controls\Camera\Gameplay: This was sometimes the weakest part of the game. Most of the time it 
 wasn't enough to distract but occasionally it did make me wonder how the game scored 10's on a 
 number of pro reviews. 
  
  Contrary to what a lot of people though I actually really LIKED the driving in this game. I thought 
 it was well done. Cars seemed to have weight and perform appropriately. Different cars (as they 
 would) handled differently then others and in rain and when damaged. However, playing with the 
 hood view I had absolutely no trouble at all controlling the various cars once I took a little 
 time to get used to the feel of each one. I did settle on some favorites which I drove different 
 ways. Small speedy cars sliding between cars or big tank like cars just smashing through. I really 
 enjoyed this aspect of the game.
  
  That being said I thought the camera was HORRIBLE. I could never drive in 3rd person view due to 
 the wonky camera making it impossible to see where I was going. But I had the 1st person view with 
 the B button to check the cinematic view if I ever thought I was on fire or something so that was 
 cool. The camera was a bigger issue for me when on foot and trying to run someplace. This did not 
 always work very wellrunning, climbing, going in doors. 
  
  I liked that there was cover, I did not like being stuck in cover and not being able to move out 
 quick if someone was flanking me. The auto-aim (if you leave it on) didn't have any kind of "priority" 
 either and would often target civilians before the fellow shooting at you and that's crp. Obviously 
 you would want to target ENEMIES before non-combatants but the game isn't intelligent enough to 
 work that out. Still though, turn auto-aim off and keep people from flanking you and all works 
 well enough.
  
  I did not think the game got repetitive. Sure you did the same types of missions (what game do 
 you not) but unlike assassins creed you didn't get the same script for every mission so it seemed 
 more then diverse enough. I actually liked the assassination missions and the hunting for car missions 
 and the races. Not so much with the shooting pigeons and collecting hidden packages, so I just 
 didn't to that. I did get a little annoyed with how much I had to pamper my friends but I found 
 the mini games quite enjoyable so it wasn't too bad and as I said in the sound section, the characters 
 were entertaining.
  
  I had a lot of fun with this game. It wasn't the best game I have played this gen but it was one 
 of the better ones. I never thought I would like GTA at all, let alone like it as much as I liked 
 this game . I thought it was a superior effort for which Rockstar deserves a thumbs up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Finally GTA 4 is on our hands. Like many of you players, im spending 10 hours per day and my life 
 is being wasted while i forget my job, my study and my girlfriend. But, nothing in this universe 
 last forever, and my entertainment on GTA has finally gone for a while. I remember the last time 
 i was so junkie on a game like that, playing a certain blue ocarina 10 hrs a day back in '98.
 
  
  I know what you're thinking ''whatever you man'' - So lets go
  
  PROS: Innovative simulation of social thing never-before-seen on that kind of game. Networking 
 simulation - News paper, internet, cell phone, even TV shows - makes you feel that the game is 
 alive and breathing. Perfectly designed map is fun to drive anywhere. Intense action never before 
 seen on GTA a la G. O. W. style. Very good graphics -powered by RAGE engine- and phenomenal sounds. 
 Interesting realism on players and NPC's animation, who goes by EUPHORIA by the way. No mission 
 on this game is boring. Well selected musics from various artists on the radio's. Sophisticated 
 line history, leaving the player some crucial decisions to make trough the game-
  -
  Do yourself a favor and get a HDTV to boost your experience, or you will be sorry on 720p like 
 me.
  -
  CONS: The game is far from perfect. EXP: All NPCs cars have a very reallistic behavior while driving 
 on the streets, but when it comes to drive on the highways and bridges.... they become a bunch 
 of retards lacucarachas. R* dudes comes from a long way on game making, such progamming like that 
 are good for only one thing... the SHAME! Sometimes you dont play the game, the game plays for 
 you, thanks to the mission briefing who explain too much for you. The taxi driver have the same 
 programming than the GPS, when you take one, he goes by the best line... if there is a truck or 
 a bus in the way, even a LAKE, RIVER, STONES, PEOPLE he goes there anyway. The game is too much comic 
 some times. Still hard to target on enemys, at least you can choose new options to fix this: Complex 
 target on-off Target sensibility and so on. Why you win money on this game anyway? You cant spend 
 it on cars or travels or wharever. Just useless little stores here and there trought Liberty.
 
  -
  -
  I have a good feeling about GTA's future. This is a fresh start for the franchise, and all the 
 problems and bugs inside the game here can have a little discount from the underworld community 
 of gamers. No one never tried to do what R* did here and we have to respect that. GTA supremacy 
 will be there, on the future, without enemies, taking over and over on every release as always. 
 No sand-box game have the power to confront GTA supremacy. You name it, GTA crushes it
  --
  --
  God help Saint's Row 2 crew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaTurtle13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the hottest game to come out in 08. With it's action pack story line to its Euphora Engine, 
 you will be amazed how this game works. You start off come out of a boat and your cousin Roman 
 pick you up. The only thing you don't know is that Roman lied to you and that he is not all that 
 rich. Now you have to work for him and pay his own debt to the loan sharks. You will have to kill 
 or save people, it's your choice. There are choices in this game which it makes it very unique 
 because you can choice to kill someone or you can choice to kill that person. So, choose wisely. 
 This game is like no other. Saint Row will never beat the GTA series. So when your done reading 
 this, go out there and buy this game. You won't be disappointed. It's the best sandbox game out 
 to date! GTA IV will never be beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer622
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is an absolute must buy! The single player is the best in the series so far and it will 
 keep you busy for weeks. The multiplayer is also amazing and a unique experience if you want to 
 take a break from Call of Duty. I could spend hours just roam ing around the city with my friends 
 in free mode. The party system is also great instead of puting you into a boring lobby you get 
 to roam around Liberty City causing havoc until you find a game to play. The multiplayer modes 
 are like any other game with the added types of "cops n crooks" and other objective based game 
 modes. You could even buy the game just for the driving the cars and vehicles are sweet and they 
 handle better than in most racing sims. Although I beat the single player a long time ago I still 
 go back to just screw around. GTA IV has something for everyone and is a close second to COD4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterplayer275
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games ive played .i like te new wayto take your friends out and your 
 date . i thought the story line was awsome .its ilike how you can chose the peoles faith like to 
 kill them or to save them .the new cars are awsome and i like all the missons . i love the new 
 creter niko bellic. he has a better look than anyother grand theft auto . the graphics look almost 
 real and it looks a like a new libety city not like in the psp when rockstar came out with libety 
 city stories it looked like the same as gta 3 .the only bad thing about this game is that you play 
 the game for 2 hours and you you get bored but other than that i think this game is the best gta 
 game . my favrote misson in the whole game were up intil where i am is the one with packe were 
 u have to rob the bank because youve never had a chance to do that before it was awsome. i love 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danman_23
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  It is the GREATEST video game ever to be made in the history of video games. you should kill yourself 
 for not having this game. If you do have the game then You will play it for the rest of your life 
 cause this game is like a drug, once you play it you will not beable to stop playing Grand Theft 
 Auto IV, Welcome to Liberty City, A crazy city and large where crimials, hicks, hookers, losers, 
 and lesbians live like a king and a queen The game is so awesome that it should be banned for playing 
 it. There is no promblem in the game, though we had to wait since October, the game is Hard to 
 play, Easy to die, just make sure to have your cheat codes ready on your cell phone. Definity the 
 game of the year, Heck it is like I said before the greatest ever to be made in the history of 
 video games. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlberube
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, Liberty City is the star of the show without a doubt. Rockstar has done an incredible 
 job (albeit some minor graphical glitches) to a create what has to be the prettiest, most convincing, 
 living and breathing city in the history of gaming. 
  
  I think that without this best supporting actor, all of the missions, multiplayer action and just 
 the simple act of exploring would fall short and be nothing more than a tired old formula that 
 we've seen time and time again.
  
  Here are a few elements that stand out to me;
  
  - Water: In my opinion some of the best water effect of any game. The behaviour of the water from 
 the light shimmers to the wakes of boat traffic affecting your own craft is incredible.
  
  - The atmospheric effect: From the dawn till dusk colors of the sky, moving shadows, to the street 
 and building lighting... wow. The rain while not that great renders the streets slick and makes 
 driving a handful.
  
  - The neighborhoods: The buildings, the parks, the street names, the endless props, the people 
 and traffic flow.. all contribute to make this title one of the most immersive experience I've ever 
 experienced.
  
  - The vehicles: The vehicle physics are a huge leap over previous generations of this series and 
 most other driving games. Not to mention the fun in flying a helicopter or piloting a boat.
  
  - The Sounds: from the chirping birds to the cooing flying rats to the humorous dialogues by 
 the citizens of Liberty City.
  
  Hope this will entice the purists to take a look at this amazing work.
  
  Kudos Rockstar!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage5891
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to a game that is as huge as GTA4, it is really hard to condense the experience 
 down to the level of a review. I could literally go on for pages and pages about all of the little 
 things you can do and all of the new features and still not have even talked about the technical 
 aspects of the game! So you will have to excuse me in advance if I skip over a few things or leave 
 out a small detail here and there because this is truly one of the biggest and most engrossing 
 games ever made.
  
  Graphics: When you first start playing this game, you may not realize just what a graphical treat 
 you are in for. The moment where it will probably hit you is when you take a moment to really look 
 around and let yourself actually notice all the details in the game. From the way the lighting 
 changes when the sun rises and goes down, to the little details, like the expressions on pedestrians 
 faces when you walk by. Even taking a helicopter ride around the city is a breathtaking experience, 
 whether you fly past the Statue of Happiness or look out over the city as day turns to dusk, you 
 are bound to experience moments where you will wonder why real life cannot look as great as this 
 game. The only real graphical hiccups in this game are the flat and sometimes glitchy shadows and 
 the occasional pop-up problem, although it must be said that the graphical pop-up is less of a 
 problem in this game than in some previous entries in the series, these two issues still leave 
 a slight tarnish on what would otherwise be one of the best looking games of all time, therefore 
 I bestow upon this game a rating of 9/10 for the graphical elements.
  
  Gameplay: As I have said before, this game is huge. Whether you only want to drive around the city 
 looking for trouble or play through the immersive and detailed storyline, this game has something 
 for everyone. One of the coolest new features in this game that sets it apart from previous entries 
 in the series is the inclusion of a cell phone that you can use to call your friends and ask if 
 they want to hang out (or go on a date in some cases) , or if they know about a race going on in 
 the city, or even if they have a job for you. Although the inclusion of the cell phone does not 
 completely change the game, it is a nice addition that really brings the GTA franchise into a new 
 age that feels much like the world we live in. Beyond the cell phone, other interesting new touches 
 make the game feel much more realistic, like ramming into an object at high-speeds sending you 
 flying through your windshield (buckle up!) , or the way you often have to break the window to get 
 into a parked car. These new changes don't necessarily change the way the game is played, but they 
 make the game feel much more realistic and immersive than previous entries in the series. Another 
 interesting touch is that you will often be sent on missions to kill people, but ultimately have 
 the choice of sparing them, or even siding with them and killing the person who sent you on the 
 mission in the first place! Although most your actions do not radically change the way the story 
 progresses, it still brings some interesting moral issues into the game that were not present in 
 GTA games of the past. As I mentioned earlier, you can hang out with your friends if you call them 
 and they are free, which lets you do some fun mini-games, like bowling, pool, or darts. If you 
 aren't in the mood to play a mini-game, you can always go out to eat, see a show, go to a strip 
 club, or get drunk. Getting drunk in this game actually makes it very hard to walk, as you keep 
 stumbling all over the place, but driving is even more difficult as the camera sways from side 
 to side making it impossible to go in a straight line! Also, if you drive while drunk and a cop 
 sees you, they will try to bust you. Escaping from the police while drunk is not easy! Beyond all 
 of the aformentioned changes, two that I particularly liked were the ability to take cover while 
 in a firefight and targeting enemy's body parts. Taking cover becomes vital in the more intense 
 fights as you are much easier to kill than in previous games. The ability to target specific body 
 parts on an enemy is not all that big of a deal, although slightly pushing the right analog stick 
 forward lets you pull off headshots which can help drop an enemy faster than just shooting their 
 torso. While we are talking about fighting, the hand-to-hand fighting in this game is vastly more 
 complicated than in previous GTA games. Now, instead of just punching an enemy, you have two different 
 punches, a kick, and the ability to guard or dodge an incoming attack. If you have good timing, 
 you can even counter an enemy's attack! Although this all sounds cool, there really is no reason 
 to pick a fist-fight with a person when you can shoot them in the head, so you probably won't get 
 very much use out of the expanded hand-to-hand fighting system. Even with all of the changes and 
 additions I have mentioned, this still is a GTA game at heart and just cruising around, causing 
 trouble, and seeing what kind of crazy **** you can do is still one of the most fun experiences 
 in any video game ever made. Although cruising around is just as much fun as it has always been 
 in a GTA game, once you have finished the main storyline missions, you will realize that the total 
 area you can explore is actually quite small (by GTA standards anyways) . Besides the small map 
 size, the only other problem I have with the gameplay is that the driving camera in the game is 
 too low to the ground and a bit too close, which can make it very hard to drive without hitting 
 something, especially when going up a hill. Although the camera problem while you are driving is 
 easily fixed by manually adjusting the camera with the right analog stick, it is a pain to constantly 
 have to do this and drive (and sometimes even shoot) at the same time. Even withthe irritating 
 driving camera and the small map, I must admit that this is one of the most fun games I have ever 
 played. With that said, I humbly submit my score of 9/10 for the gameplay elements and expect most 
 people that have enjoyed GTA games before to agree with me.
  
  Sound: If there is any one element that makes this the most immersive game I have ever played, 
 it would have to be the sound. No matter where you are or what you are doing, the general ambiance 
 is perfect. Whether you are walking through a park, hearing the birds chirp in the trees and some 
 person sitting on a bench talking on the phone, or driving down a busy street with the radio blasting 
 and hearing cars around you honk their horns and the drivers swear at you, or even shooting rival 
 gangsters with a shotgun and hearing them whimper and cry as they crawl across the floor, this 
 game sounds amazing. The radio in particular deserves a special mention for having some of the 
 best and most varied tracks in any game I have ever played. Even the talk shows on the radio are 
 genuinely funny and really help to lighten the mood after a stressful mission. For having such 
 varied and high-quality music, and for having the most immersive ambient sounds I have ever heard, 
 I proudly bestow this game with a 10/10 for the audial elements, fully aware that some of you will 
 criticize me for giving the sound in this game a perfect score, but also able to do so with a content 
 conscience, knowing that I have given this game a well deserved score for doing such an excellent 
 job of really sucking me in and letting me escape the real world, if only briefly.
  
  Multiplayer: If there is one area where this game falters, it is the multiplayer area. Although 
 it is fun starting up a party mode and inviting your friends to join and just run around causing 
 havoc, it gets old pretty fast and there is no other way to actually create a multiplayer game. 
 Yes, I know this sounds insane, and it truly is, but when you select a multiplayer mode, you are 
 simply dropped in to a lobby and someone is randomly selected to choose the options for the multiplayer 
 session. Although there are quite a few modes in the game to choose from, they can easily be divided 
 into three categories: free-for-all, racing, team-based, and cooperative. The free-for-all modes 
 are definitely the least fun of all the modes, basically putting you down in a preselected area 
 and letting you have at your opponents. Of course, even if there is another objective, the free-for-all 
 modes always devolve into pure chaos, with bullets, rockets, cars, and people constantly flying 
 in all directions. The races can be fun, but even with the selection of cars narrowed down, there 
 always seems to be a favored one in every category, so in a given race, 15 out of 16 people are 
 racing in the same car and the one poor schmuck that decided to go with a different option ends 
 up in last place. When you get tired of racing the same few cars, you can try the team-based modes, 
 but these are barely less chaotic than the free-for-all modes, especially if you have more than 
 2 teams at a time. Last, but not least, are the cooperative modes. There are 3 different missions 
 that you can run with up to 3 other people, but after you have done each of the missions a couple 
 of times, there really is no reason to go back because they always play out the same. One of the 
 reasons the multiplayer modes may be so chaotic and unenjoyable may be because of the players themselves. 
 The majority of people that seem to be playing this game online are some of the most annoying that 
 I have ever had the misfortune of playing against since my days of playing the Halo games online 
 (no offence to Halo players, but there sure were a lot of whiney brats playing those games online) . 
 Even if you have some perfectly good multiplayer modes with clear-cut goals, there is no guarantee 
 that you won't end up playing with a group of 5th graders that constantly squeal into the microphone 
 and run around in circles shooting randomly. This problem is particularly irritating when the aforementioned 
 players are on your team and you are trying to actually win the match, not just run about randomly 
 and shoot everything in sight (any Battlefield player can relate to this kind of frustration) . 
 If it weren't for the player base, I think the multiplayer modes could have been much more interesting 
 and fun, but as it is, I cannot give the multiplayer aspects of this game more than a 7/10. The 
 fact that you cannot start a game, invite your friends, and set up the options yourself (unless 
 you are lucky or playing in the very limited party mode) really puts a damper on what could have 
 been a nice multiplayer mode. Perhaps the developer will release a patch to fix this problem soon, 
 but I don't think anything can be done about the unfortunate lack of maturity in the majority of 
 people playing this game online.
  
  Miscellaneous: I feel the need to warn potential players of this game about the abundant racial 
 stereotyping, nudity, and violence. Particularly the racial stereotyping is offensive, at least 
 to me. Unless you happen to be of a very uncommon ethnicity, chances are there is a character in 
 this game that will very negatively reflect your race. Russians, Italians, Jamaicans, African Americans, 
 and Irish are some of the ethnicities shown in the most negative light in this game. Although not 
 everyone will find the the stereotypes in this game offensive, I still felt the need to point it 
 out. The nudity and violence is not more extreme than what has been shown before in a GTA game, 
 only it looks better now, so parents will most definitely want to keep kids under 18 away from 
 this game.
  
  Final Verdict: This game is absolutely fantastic. I really feel that no more needs to be said. 
 Unless you are playing this game only for the multiplayer elements, you are almost guaranteed to 
 find something you like about this game, whether its just for cruising around and finding cool 
 secrets (try going inside the Statue of Happiness) , or getting engrossed in the engaging and mature 
 plot, you are bound to find something that you love doing. For all that this game does right, it 
 is a shame that the multiplayer component is so disappointing, but even with this shortfall, I 
 feel I cannot give this game anything less than a 9/10 for being one of the better games I have 
 played in recent memory.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Gameplay: 9/10 Sound: 10/10 Multiplayer: 7/10 Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I thought that after I beat GTA IV, that I'd let all the dust settle in my brain and on the internet, 
 then I'd set off and do a review of the game. Well then I ran into life and that postponed the 
 idea. However, now the dust is totally settled and I'm ready to finish what I started, to put a 
 review to the phenomenon that is GTA IV.
  
  
  Let me start off by saying that this game is a work of genius in almost every single aspect of 
 a game however that genius isn't without error or technical limitation. It's these two sides that 
 people are at war over. One side believes that since the game is a technical marvel, that every 
 shortcoming can be easily overlooked. Other have the Uncanny Valley effect in which, the game is 
 so close to being flawless, that any flaw found is sticks out like a dead pixel. I find myself 
 pretty much on the latter half of this paragraph.
  
  
  The graphic department is a miraculous achievement in almost every sense of the word. Every detail 
 is meticulously crafted so that not a single thing looks like it's out of place. It's rare to see 
 a living, breathing environment so big in a videogame keep such a focus and intent throughout every 
 inch. To see this city populated by people, cars, dirt and such realistic physics almost puts one 
 at awe, however such beauty has a cost. Occasionally there is pop up, dropped textures, slowdown 
 and the game has a very poor memory. By simply looking down the street, taking four steps in the 
 opposite direction and then looking back, you'll be surprised on how fast the game will erase what 
 was there and replace it with things that weren't there seconds ago.
  
  
  Sound-wise the dialogue and voice acting is infallible. Sure, not everyone is likable, not even 
 some of Niko's friends, but all of them have a voice and personality that leaps from the screen. 
 I'd have to say the flaw with the sound department comes from the music itself. With such a mish 
 mosh of different genres, sounds and eras, I found the radio stations in GTA IV to pretty much 
 mimic the stations of any large city in present day America if only you could never found a station 
 you like. It wasn't that the music was horrid but it was as if the game didn't want to commit to 
 any one timeframe so that it avoided the hits of most of the eras and just stuck with random songs. 
 In a world where there are literally dozens upon dozens of music stations, it has become apparent 
 that the Grand Theft Auto franchise can't hope to compete with real life, and even mimicry falls 
 plainly short.
  
  
  Gameplay, even with its additions and subtractions, still tends to stay on easily familiar territory. 
 Gunplay has an added cover mechanic that is acceptable, there is all those illegal missions to 
 perform, a ton of little side activities and even dating made its way back and gone is the rpg 
 like statistics and the sim-like need of finding nourishment. These are things I'm glad that were 
 added or subtracted.
  
  
  On the other hand there's this annoying thing that mixes friends and dating that I can only compare 
 to if my male friends acted like my girlfriend. Calls at inopportune time, whining about how I 
 don't have time for them and things like that made me wish I could shoot most of my in game friends 
 in the head. Also gone are a lot of activities that make GTA actually fun. Go figure.
  
  
  I must quickly mention the physics once again because they make such an impact on gameplay. 
 Everything reacts infinitely more realistic now even down to driving which may seem like a huge 
 pain at first. I have mixed feelings about that aspect. I don't know whether to love the game for 
 making driving so realistic of hate it for removing the over the top chases that the other GTA's 
 had. It's pretty much an even trade for me.
  
  
  I think the part that was done better than all the rest was the story. No other GTA has such a 
 cohesive and dramatic story as this one. The villains are truly vile and despicable while Niko's 
 friends, being almost as corrupt as the people you're out to kill, are much more likable or just 
 plain annoying. For once, most of the characters, if not memorable, are integral to the progress 
 of the story; no filler people here. 
  
  
  Rarely do I attempt a game's Multiplayer but for GTA IV I made an exception. While I haven't tried 
 every single game mode available, seeing how as I mostly stick to team matches, each one of the 
 modes I've had a chance to successfully play have been a great time. I say successfully because 
 the match making portion of GTA isn't too good and there have been times where matches start only 
 to be full of glitches or lag. One glitch I've seen a couple of times now is that a match will 
 start but everyone will be invisible to one another, making shooting and killing each other nigh 
 impossible. 
  
  
  Giving Rockstar's ability to improve on a foundation and seeing GTA IV as such a thing prohibits 
 me from giving this game a 10 rating. Everything in the game has a downside that effects the game 
 in too negative of a manner for me to overlook. However I know Rockstar will make it up to me in 
 a GTA or two so I'm not sweating it. GTA IV is chock full of glaring improvements but the things 
 that are missing stand out to me just as brightly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is a fantastic achievement in many ways, how realistic and convincing Liberty City is and 
 how convincing and realistic the characters are that inhabit it.
  
  The story in GTAIV is one of the most memorable and moving I've ever played in gaming. This is 
 thanks to some superbly written dialogue and voice acting. Niko Bellic is one of the most tragic 
 and yet profound protagonists yet in gaming, since he is working for the mobs and the mafia, yet 
 in his heart he only wishes to leave it all behind and start a new life of peace. The story is 
 great, and the characters are great, and I will admit that my heart broke near the end of the game 
 due to certain events in the plot.
  
  Gameplay is pretty basic, you just drive to a meet up spot, talk with some guy, and then go kill 
 some guys, maybe do a little car chase, then talk to the guy and get paid. That's it for pretty 
 much the entire game, and the mission structure doesn't have a lot of variety, though a few choice 
 missions are particularly intense and thrilling (i'm thinking the bank robbery mission) .
  
  There are a lot of minigames that can be played around Liberty City including bowling, darts, street 
 racing, and pool, and these are pretty fun.
  
  There is also a huge amount of entertainment that can be digested throughout the city including 
 radio, television, and live stage performances. This is where a lot of the humor in the game comes 
 from and its all extremely funny and simply give the game an unparalleled atmosphere to other games, 
 which feel stale in comparison.
  
  All in all the game, how long it takes to finish the game simply depends on how long you wish to 
 soak in the massive amount of content in the game, so you can play 30, 50, 100 hours, it doesn't 
 matter.
  
  The graphics in GTAIV are not particularly impressive if you examine specific areas of the game. 
 Indoor environments are generally pretty bland, and everything feels like they got one or two corners 
 cut. But take it all in, the massive world, the massive amount of stuff to do, and you realize 
 that to make a game this big and this realistic and this convincing is quite an achievement.
  
  Where GTAIV falters hugely, is in its bevy of technical issues. No XBOX 360 game has crashed 
 on me more than this one, and oftentimes I find myself playing for a few hours and having the game 
 crash, and losing all that progress. It is annoying and extremely disappointing for this game that 
 could've been a masterpiece had there been less of these issues.
  
  Overall, GTAIV achieves greatness mostly in how it manages to create the most realistic game world 
 ever, and also the most realistic game characters ever. Unfortunately, this greatness is bogged 
 down by unforgivable technical issues that simply ruin the otherwise flawless experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  + Superb Graphics
  + Good Scripts
  + Character Models and development
  + Awesome Momments
  + No more restarting missions
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Cover System at times
 
  - Will it end?
  
  The Ugly:
  -- No RPG element included?
  -- Loss of some vehicles and customization
  
  Rockstar decides to create a game that pretty 
 much improves the basics of Grand Theft Auto gameplay, storyline, and character developement. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV pretty much sums up that whole role of creating an amazing experience by reducing 
 the fun to only to real life rather than big stories with little people involved in it. The primary 
 focus was to observed the main protaganist's problems, and let him or her decide on what Niko's, 
 the main character, fate by going through some decisions that would affect the storyline. Rockstar 
 had also improved on the combat by adding a few things some modern games had contributed, but the 
 most thing Grand Theft Auto IV sticks out is it's online play.
  
  Niko Bellic is a complicated man with many problems he ran away from. The story starts out as Niko 
 just arrived in America. His cousin, Roman, has sent him many great stories on the land of oppuritunity, 
 and he must had pulled Niko into the fantasy he must live in. Many sequences layers the story, 
 and the player must make some decisions to see what Niko can do to get to the end. Characters that 
 the player works for are pretty fun to hear, and cinematics look amazing from start to end. From 
 the 'roid freak Bruicie to the drug influenced Little Jacob that you can't understand from his 
 Jamican accent. The main problem about the story is the longevity of it, and if you want to play 
 it again, because it never end. The missions start to get fun till the middle, but after awhile 
 it feels just saturated.
  
  Gunplay and vehicle driving the the two categories of what Grand Theft Auto reserves in. Sure, 
 you got the socilazing with your buddies and girlfriends, but pretty much you can just drive and 
 shoot. It's fun, and is perfected by its great improvement from its predecessors. Driving remains 
 the same, but the combat is significantly improved by its new Gears of War style. You can pop your 
 head out rather than stand and duck like San Andreas and Vice City. The only complaint about the 
 cover system is it feels slow and sometimes you have a clanky time with trying to find where to 
 cover. On the driving side, you got the cars to the boats. You can only drive helicopters in this 
 version since Rockstar doesn't want any reactments of 9/11 with real planes. Car and boat physics 
 feel real, as when you get into a vehicle, you can see your car moves by you just getting into 
 the driver seat. Waves affect your driving while possessing a boat, but it feels new to the series. 
 The cops are easy to dodge, thank you! You now have radii to dodge the cops, so as long as you 
 don't get sighted on one, they will get your position. These two are pretty much improved and almost 
 perfected if the cover system was a bit more comprehensive.
  
  Usually the artwork of Grand Theft Auto is usally looking not modern like Grand Theft Auto Vice 
 City and San Andreas. The tables are turn to that now with the some modifications to the new engine 
 for Grand Theft Auto IV. Cars look better than before, leaving awesome damage to the vehicles. 
 Bullet holes and blood splatter on your car is one experience that never gets old when running 
 over pedistrians. Character models look great, and the pedistrians actually look like they are 
 an equal with Niko. Car explosions is one thing that must be talked about. Their great and superb 
 with it actually looking like a car explosion. It's all looks good, and I can't complain to any 
 of that.
  
  Gun banging, car booming, and people screaming is what the beautiful melody it produces. The sounds 
 on the guns all sound pretty superb, with all have personality with its own taste. The rocket launcher 
 looks and feels great, and the physics on the rockets are just out of world. Car explosions sound 
 great under huge conflicts with the popos and gansters. The voice acting is very superb, and has 
 a good cause toward the storyline. Radiostations are very good in tune and the radio talk shows 
 are just hilarious to follow. They are randomized, the music, so don't keep a schedule on what 
 comes on everyday, its always different. 
  
  In the end, Grand Theft Auto is a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. I perfer this game to be a 
 great example of what game developers can imply. I must say this is the best Grand Theft Auto yet, 
 and will not disapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  And they live in Liberty City. Am I the only one that's noticed that Nico sounds just like Ren 
 Hoek? And that would make his cousin Stimpy. That accent. You eediot! 
  
  The story line is fantastic, I really like it. The voice acting (other than the aforementioned 
 Ren and Stimpy thing) is even better. The graphics are great, the innovations are great (cell phone, 
 etc.) , and it's a gorgeous game to play. There's no ridiculous aliens or jet packs, thank god. 
 
  
  These facts are all pretty much givens, so I'd like to say what isn't so hot. The driving sucks! 
 I don't even bother to race because it's just so annoying. It's not hard, it's just not done well. 
 Also, for such a huge city, it's amazing how many buildings you can't enter. They could have set 
 the story in Mayberry and it would have been just as good with just as many places to go. I mean 
 really, what were they thinking, "Let's make a huge city and then not let anyone really explore 
 it. That'll be fun!"
  
  Anyway, this game is fun, but I wish there was more under the hood. You can't customize Nico in 
 any way. The whole game you're going to look like, well, some Eurotrash guy that just fell off 
 the boat. 
  
  I really enjoyed it for a while, but then I started to get bored. I wanted him to shout "Grove 
 Street!" and pop a cap in some fool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadurwalla
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Technically GTA 4 is miles ahead of its predecessors, but when it comes to fun and gameplay freedom 
 San Andreas wins out. The latest incarnation of GTA introduces great explosions, ragdoll physics, 
 realistic driving, great crashes and sophisticated gunplay but it lacks some of the crazy stunts 
 that San Andreas offered. First off there are no planes, no bicycles, C4 detonator as well as no 
 skydiving, no car surfing, desert/forest offroading, mountain climbing. In short your stuck in 
 Liberty City and if you don't like it then too bad. San Andreas offered us three seperate cities, 
 complete vertical freedom and both rural and desert areas to do with as we saw fit. I was expecting 
 to reach inner earth orbit in this gta and instead was offered this one city. In addition to this 
 the game does feature some pretty bad pop up which becomes really bad when you drive your car fast. 
 Overall though this game is impressive and Liberty City at night is quite awesome. I like the strip 
 club idea and the fact that you can choose what kind of $eX you want from your hookers. The gunplay 
 is cool (a little more zoom on the sniper rifle would've been great) and the ragdollesque physics 
 are a great addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Losarii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The truth is this game is fun, amazing, shocking, and a work of art. 
  
  There are times in the game when i see a character on the street doing something so realistic that 
 i become shocked. There are times when I just stare at the scenes and the tall buildings and become 
 amazed. 
  
  There are also times when i feel tired of receiving so many phone calls from characters in the 
 game telling me to take them out for some dinner or a night at the strip club. You have to keep 
 so many characters liking you and at the same time work on some missions... it can get a little 
 overwhelming sometimes. Of course, you don't HAVE to take your girlfriend out on a date if you 
 don't want to... but hey if you paid 60 bucks for the game you might as well see everything the 
 game has to offer.
  
  If you buy this game, you may find yourself playing nonstop for a couple of days... but it you'll 
 get over it very very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revil2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV. After a long wait, Rockstar finally brings us Grand Theft Auto IV. By now, 
 you all know what to expect from the gameplay and the story; a Slavic illegal immigrant comes to 
 America looking for a new beginning in a strange yet familiar place, and that special someone. 
 
  
  From the first moment the player meets the central figure in the game you think you know him. You 
 play, no, experience the world through the eyes of an emotionally diverse character, Niko Bellic, 
 driven by vengeance, prone to fits of rage, deadly with an assortment of weapons and unarmed combat, 
 but he's also immensely loyal and caring to his friends especially his gambling addicted cousin 
 Roman. 
  
  GTA IV starts and (depending on how you play the game) ends where it begins. We've all seen the 
 trailers involving destructive rocket launching shootouts, high-speed chases with cops, crooks 
 and helicopters, bank robberies, ladies of the night, but that's not what the games all about. 
 Most of those things are just there for the player's amusement. The true heart of the game is about 
 Niko's relationships with his friends, family, and the decisions he and others must make in order 
 to survive the harden streets of Liberty City. 
  
  At first Niko Bellic doesn't seem to care about anything other than his cousin Roman and revenge, 
 but as he meets more people and hangs out with them he starts to have a fondness for some, like 
 the player will, and a immense loathing for others. 
  
  Interacting with friends by taking them bowling, playing pool, darts, drinking, flying in helicopters 
 is extremely entertaining at first until his friends stop having interesting things to say luckily 
 for the player they rarely stop talking. The only thing that ever bothered me was how much Niko's 
 friends wanted to hang out because while it was never really annoying it was a bit tedious having 
 to pick them up and go play an activity that you'd mastered and didn't feel like doing anymore, 
 well at least for a few hours anyway.
  
  Upon arriving into this world, everything seems familiar. At first, Niko handles like previous 
 GTA misfits, a little awkward. But, you soon adapt to his movements and twitchy reflexes. You start 
 driving immediately and it can be a difficult learning curve for most, eventually you become adept 
 at 180-degree turns, hitting the e-brake to make it around tight corners or weaving through traffic. 
 
  
  Gunfights are more impressive now with the ability to duck behind cover and blind fire at the enemy. 
 However, at times the player might hit the duck button and catch the wrong side of cover allowing 
 the enemy a clear shot of Niko. It happens at least once every time it gets hairy in the heat of 
 battle. And it does feel like you are battling for your life. The cover system can be a little 
 frustrating, but really, the most annoying thing for me was the auto-aim system, which was tweaked 
 from previous games allowing a mix of free-aim and auto-aim luckily the player is given the option 
 to freely aim only. 
  
  Free-aiming can be much more gratifying when you hear the pleas of your enemies after you've put 
 two in their belly and are standing in front them aiming a magnum at their head just itching to 
 squeeze the trigger one more time. It makes you feel like saying, "You've gotta ask yourself a 
 question. Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya punk?" Of course that would only be after having to defend 
 myself. Ahem 
  
  Progressing through GTA IV's story, I was reminded of films like Goodfellas, The Borne Trilogy 
 (with their car chases) , Leon: The Professional, by the way, whose title character looks a bit 
 like NB. I kept thinking of Niko as Leon with much of the same sense of humor and ability to "Clean 
 the streets" of LC, trying not to attract attention, dodging crooked and not-so-crooked cops, while 
 working/"cleaning" for some of the most loathsome, yet realistic characters to have ever graced 
 consoles. 
  
  Moving right along, the dialogue and acting in GTA IV (which is better than 99% of the straight-to-DVD 
 trash out there) is so engaging that the player forgets it's a game, which happens often enough 
 that you put down the controller just so you don't accidentally skip a cut scene, and it really 
 makes the player regret having to kill any of Liberty City's residents. Between "missions" (I hate 
 that word it should be called story driven awesomeness) I found myself just walking around town 
 eavesdropping on everyone's conversations, finding out what someone is wearing at the moment. 
 
  
  While GTA IV is a handsome looking game with its enormously detailed digital mock up and parody 
 of New York City, with its impressive city districts right down to the trash ridden back alleyways 
 and eccentric citizens the graphics are totally sufficient. The thing is the graphics just aren't 
 cutting edge and not MGS4 spectacular, but that isn't to say GTA IV is a slouch in the graphical 
 department. Niko looks and moves fluidly whether being chased on foot by cops, covering behind 
 dumpsters from gunfire, tossing grenades that erupt and destroy nearby objects beautifully, head 
 butting a thug in hand-to-hand combat, or chasing criminals down in a stolen police car that comes 
 across even better and more cinematic with a push of the "B" button. 
  
  Even though GTA IV isn't as detailed as let's say BioShock it does provide some eye candy. The 
 eye candy happens because of the emotional feeling you get when you see Rockstar's physics engine, 
 aptly named Euphoria, doing its thing. Everything acts entirely realistic. Cars crunch and smash 
 appropriately when Niko slams or is slammed into anything. Bullet-hit reactions are incredibly 
 convincing especially when you fire at someone's leg, they grab for it and fall down in all variety 
 of ways. The games like bowling, pool, darts, and Qubed could all be separate games on XBLA. It 
 all feels natural. 
  
  GTA IV will take the player on a ferocious ride through Liberty City, following Niko on his journey 
 of revenge and regret, of death and destruction, of love and loss. It is a comfort that when the 
 credits finish rolling and we see Niko, a man changed, holding his cell phone to one ear allowing 
 the player to know that it isn't over just yet and that come October the episodic adventure will 
 continue. It seems like a long way away, but luckily all of the unique GTA IV style of gameplay 
 caries over to multiplayer as well to keep us busy until then. 
  
  
  Revil, signing off... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Liberty City in this new GTA is a completely new layout than the previous Liberty City's we were 
 first use to. It's almost like a whole new makeover. The city feels more alive. It's cool to see 
 the skyline of the city at night. However the city is not as big as San Andreas. The character's 
 in the game are entertaining to watch or play. I would say much has improved in this game. The 
 graphics in the game is very good. It is also very detailed. The audio/music in the game is cool. 
 The frame-rate in the game remains the same. Which is not any better or not any worse. That's probably 
 the only down side of the game. Since this game is really good, I can hope that future GTA games 
 will be even better! Overall I give this game a 9.5 out of 10! I would reccommend this game to 
 anyone that loves violent video games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdue
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game probably one of the best I've ever played imo but there are those little things 
 that make it great and all at once not. For one, friends in the game get annoying no really, in 
 the middle of a rampage down a sidewalk in my favorite car a friend calls to go bowling..... Great 
 life is hard enough without worrying about your virtual friends lol many times you'll want to say 
 no but later it could come to get you as you try to befriend them just for there help (ranging from 
 on the phone first aid to phone bombs) . It is a great game and everything is balanced to some extent 
 but after beating the game its hard to go back personally... I have a friend who has beaten the 
 heck out of it but still manages to play it every now and then but I can't do that at all.... All 
 I'm saying for me was fun ride definately worth it but for me it got boring afterwards and multiplayer 
 suddenly wasn't so fun anymore and about multiplayer it is excellent but with the release of the 
 new content i'll probably be coming back GTAIV many many times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmulvaney
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  PET PEEVE: 
  While there are so many great things to do over the course of this "Balkan Madman's" (Nico Bellic) 
 hunt for revenge, so much charm was lost in it's translation. For example, what happened to the 
 plethora of customizable options we had with CJ of San Andreas? I don't know about you but I am 
 one of those people who will buy a game simply because of it's character creation and one of my 
 favorite styles to go with is leather pants, combat boots, no shirt and lots of bling and tats. 
 What? No tats what so ever for GTA IV? How come? Shouldn't I have the option of controlling an 
 overweight ladies man (Roman) , Rastafarian drug runner (Jacob) or a jacked up, conceited, car collector (Brucie) ? 
 "Its been done before"? Isn't that MY point? Moving on... ;)
  
  GAME PLAY:
  Well if you were expecting some monumental change in the way GTA is going to be played, you are 
 sadly mistaken. It was the same stuff over all over again. They did however add a 'shimmy' ability 
 while hanging on a ledge and guess how many times that was useful or even necessary... once. One 
 time through out the game I 'shimmied' (during the part of a mission that serves as a tutorial 
 on how to... SHIMMY!) . The reason why is that helicopters are so damn accessible. If you wait until 
 you get to Algonquin then the sky becomes the limit (literally) . Tons of really cool vehicles and 
 paint jobs from the Pay and Spray but once again, not your choice. Not only do you not get to customize 
 your wheels, but it is a random affect AND no matter what you go to the pay and spray for, it will 
 cost you about 3 game hours, even for a horse of a different color! Last but not least in this 
 department, the chances of you just happening upon a cache of much needed ammo are slim to none, 
 making the game add more responsibility to Nico's already hectic life that will actually hinder 
 the player's progress.
  
  WHAT'S NEW:
  Quick question? How many types of GTA based missions can you think of? lets see there are; assassinations/ 
 hits, package collection/ delivery, car chase/ race and thats pretty much it. I thought that adding 
 friendships would increase the game play value, but I was wrong. Not only did it add another dynamic 
 as to how the story unfolds, but if you chose to ignore them for a while (like me) and let the 
 likeness factor drop to about 25% (like me) then you not only have to kiss their butt, you have 
 to wipe it for them too in order to get it to move up! Let me tell you this became so monotonous 
 that after all of the thumbs down, negative calls and text messages, I could only stomach 1/2 hour 
 of this game at a time! I kid you not! By the way if there is something 'New' about this game that 
 you think i should address feel free to IM me. Seriously.
  
  OVERALL:
  When I started this game I was immediately disappointed and was thinking of going back to play 
 San Andreas. For some reason I gave it a chance, got caught up in the story and finished it. It 
 is very addictive and my level of addiction was classified as "Downward Spiral" in the stats screen. 
 So yes I played it all the way through and even got the 100% complete "Key to the City" achievement... 
 Why? I still don't know the answer to that myself. Even the ending (which will leave the lasting 
 impression in the player's mind) was far from GTA standards. I would have killed to see Nico take 
 the place over, ya know like the rest of the games, but no he exacts his revenge and it ends (with 
 something as simple as a single bullet) . They do prelude to a sequel or something more to the story 
 than you are told but if you are a fan of the series, then rent it first and judge for yourself. 
 Otherwise I would rather play San Andreas all over again or wait for Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is something different from every other one of its predecessors. For starters the graphics 
 of cars and the city is awesome, for the first time it really looks alive with some big and stressing 
 traffic jams. Police are still corrupt but running away from them is much harder, there are no 
 more stars no pick up and lose the cops, now you'll have to run farther away from their radius 
 of search and hope no one else shows up.
  The game now tells a solid story: you play Nikko Belic, a Russian fellow who's just arriving in 
 Liberty City to live the American Dream with his cousin. Problem is his cousin seems to get satisfied 
 with way too little: his car is in an awful shape, his apartment looks terrible and his job isn't 
 the best one around (specially with a boss like his own) . But Nikko also has his own reasons to 
 come to America, two old "friends" whom he believe betrayed him back in motherland and got lots 
 of his friends killed... Nikko seems to have been a spetznas and then turned into a life of crime 
 with the falling of the Soviet Union. He wanted to fix it all, but as you can expect, this won't 
 do. A series of misfortunes will put the Russian Mob on his back, and then by his side, and back 
 on his back, as you get to help many other people, from Italian mafiosos to street dealers and 
 even some mysterious characters. This is the first time that the main character has a strong personality 
 which really makes you like him, also, this turn you do get to make a few choices that may turn 
 the events of the game in a few different directions: though the game has more or less only one 
 type of final mission, it does have two different endings.
  You'll be carrying a cell-phone with which you can get in contact with everyone in the game, and 
 you can use internet cafes which allow you to access dating websites, among other ludricous stuff.
 
  This game has expanded the dating system to a "friends" system, most guys you finish some missions 
 will become friends and you'll be able to go out with them to play pool, bowling, eating and even 
 drinking, in which case you get drunk and will have to call a cab, or take the risk of trying to 
 drive the car with the police chasing you. You can also go to shows, which are really a nice implement 
 on your options, certain friends also unlock special abilities among other things.
  The radio is back with it's original quality: you have Liberty Classic Rock, with Iggy Pop as a 
 DJ, two reggae radios (one of them plays solely Bob Marley) , 3 interview radios (one of them shows 
 up later in the game reintroducing the classic Lazlo, who makes comments about his radio in Vice 
 City all the time) , 2 rap music radio, and so on, there's music for everyone this time around. 
 Some times you'll even listen to a a journal called Weazel News, where you'll probably hear about 
 a very important mission you just did. There's also television to watch, with more Weazel News, 
 and a few random programs, such as a cartoon parody of Halo called Republican Space Rangers.
  There're a few new islands, including the Island of Happiness with the Statue of Happiness.
  
 Gameplay however is really weird, most cars are incredibly hard to drive, which takes away some 
 of the glory.
  I hope I covered most of the game in this review, but really GTA IV is so big that it can hardly 
 be explained, you gotta play at least 2 hours straight to know what I'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  GTA IV was definitely woth the wait. the story line is amazing. the single player campaign is very 
 interesting and will have you sink your teeth into it for multiple hours a day. GTA IV's liberty 
 city defintely looks different from part 3's. the game has wonderful graphics sounds and features. 
 the game is shorter than its predecessors. the new online multiplayer is nothing to jump and scream 
 about. the multiplayer is worth the time because you find yourself always trying to find a match 
 and when you do find one people always end up quitting. it was cool that they adde it but its not 
 interesting enough to keep you playing it. the mini games like bowling pool and qubed are boring. 
 the friend feature is new in GTA 4, its basic all you do is bring up the phone and call them and 
 ask them if they either want to go bowling play pool eat or go to a strip club and look at fake 
 **** this game was really developed well lets just hope take two never gets bought off by EA because 
 they wont know what to do with the GTA frachise. (No Offense EA) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimera2004
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Do you remember the 1st time one of your friends passed you the controller and said "Hey check 
 out this new game Grand Theft Auto 3, its awesome!"? Grand Theft Auto IV gives you that same sensation 
 as if you were playing the series for the 1st time all over again. This is one of those games that 
 doesn't come around very often. It will make you want to call your job and tell them you've had 
 a family emergency, or skip school just to play for a few more hours. It's just that damn good. 
 
  This time around you are Niko Bellic, a man from an unnamed European country who has come to America 
 to live a new life. He has come because his cousin, Roman is already here and Roman tells Niko 
 about how glorious America is. Once Niko arrives he sees that it's not all he hoped for and that's 
 where the game takes off. The story's well-told and the writing and voice acting are terrific. 
 I don't want to put any spoilers in here so just check the story out for yourself. It's better 
 than most movies you'll see. The main game will take anywhere from 25 to 40 hours to finish. I 
 got a bit addicted to it since buying it on launch day and that hasn't happened to me in a long 
 time with a game. There are a variety of great missions throughout the game, very few dull ones 
 if any. 
  GTA IV takes place in a fictional New York City named Liberty City. Rockstar has already been to 
 Liberty City before in GTA 3 but now the city is totally revamped and looks more like its real 
 life counterpart. The developers have truly captured the feeling of a real life city. There are 
 many pedestrians and places to go. You can hear others talking on their phones, see a few religious 
 fanatics preaching on the street and even see people playing saxophone near the train station and 
 other locations. One of the reasons it feels so much more real than previous entries in the series 
 is the new engine, Euphoria. The new engine makes animation much more fluid and realistic. The 
 character AI has been upgraded. They won't just sit still and let you shoot at them, instead, they 
 will take cover and blind fire at you to fight back, which is a nice touch.
  In GTA IV, Niko's cell phone plays a huge role. This is where you'll get most of your jobs. You 
 can use the phone and call 911 so you can get health from an ambulance, call the cops on some people 
 who are trying to kill you, and call the fire department to steal their truck. You can go bowling, 
 play darts, play some pool, go visit the local gentlemen's club, and go get drunk with your friends 
 in the game. They did a great job with being drunk, if you walk too fast you will fall over and 
 hurt yourself and your driving skills are greatly altered. Sure you can call a taxi, but it's just 
 too fun to have the cops chase after you while you're swerving all over the place hammered. 
  The soundtrack is overhauled in this version. It may not be my favorite of the soundtracks, my 
 vote still goes to Vice City, but they have more licensed music than ever before. They feature 
 such artists as Bob Marley, Thin Lizzy, Black Sabbath, The Who, Kanye West, Busta Rhymes, ZZ Top 
 and the list goes on an on. The radio stations are still funny as ever and the public radio channel 
 is hilarious. They even went into small details such as being able to surf the internet, even though 
 you can't literally surf the entire web just a large handful of sites they created, which are jam 
 packed with humor throughout. You can go to your safe house, where you'll change attire and can 
 save your game, and are able to watch a variety of different channels such as watching Katt Williams 
 do his stand-up and other various shows they made for the game. 
  While the game play, and story are top-notch, it has its flaws. The aiming system is much more 
 improved than the others but still has its quirks. Sometimes you'll aim at the wrong person while 
 in the heat of a battle and that can cost you. It also becomes a problem when you're trying to 
 point a gun at someone's car and you accidentally aim at a police officer, then you realize someone 
 is about to get hurt. You can't swim underwater in this version like you could in San Andreas, 
 so if you are trying to swim away while the LCPD are after you, you're dead. At certain times in 
 the game, the AI won't want to hop in the car with you while on a mission and that can get quite 
 tedious. The game still has some sexual content, drug use and plenty of violence that you're used 
 to hearing about in GTA. While those things don't bother me personally it does to some up tight 
 conservatives and parents. The game is being called a "murder simulator" and some say its teaching 
 our children to kill. It doesn't make me want to repeat anything I see in the game in real life. 
 I believe the game catches too much flack. Sure you can pick up a hooker, take her to the alley, 
 pay her for her services, kill her, and get your money back, but some people make it out to be 
 the worst thing in the world. A game is different from real life. The game isn't meant for the 
 easily offended or children. That's why the ESRB gave it the "M" for mature rating.
  While still bringing all the media attention of past GTA titles, this is the first time in that 
 they have incorporated online play. You access the multiplayer via the cell phone and can have 
 up to 16 players in one match. You can go to party mode and invite all your friends in and from 
 there go into any of the match types. The multiplayer is divided in two, player matches and ranked 
 matches. In ranked matches you can earn various achievements on the 360 version and build up your 
 rank as you play. There are 15 different types of modes:
  Deathmatch- It's you against up to 15 others and whoever collects the most cash at the end wins 
 the match. You receive 100 dollars for each kill and there are various ways to set up a match. 
 You can turn police on or off, change the weather, how much traffic and pedestrians you want, flip 
 auto aim off, which is best to see who has better skills, choose which part of the map you want 
 to play on, and pick what kind of weapons to start out with. I don't recommend playing in the entire 
 city because it takes so long to find each other. I would go with Bohan, a smaller part of land 
 in the city.
  Team Deathmatch- It where up to 8 different teams can battle it out, it's similar to deathmatch 
 except for the fact that you can team with your friends in this mode, which is usually a good time, 
 whichever team has the most money wins.
  Team Mafiya Work- You and your friends have tasks to complete before the other team can get them 
 finished. Kenny Petrovic, who is a mob boss, calls your cell phone and tells you what he needs 
 you to do. These tasks will range from killing bikers to picking up someone before the other team 
 can. You get money for completing the objectives and whoever has the most cash wins. This is one 
 of my personal favorites. It can get really intense and its just plain fun.
  Mafiya Work- Same thing as team except you're on your own this time. Not as fun as doing it with 
 a team.
  Team Car Jack City- You and your friends compete to get the cars that are on your map and bring 
 them to a certain area. The better shape your vehicle is in, the more money you will make from 
 them. Some vehicles will be worth more than other based on the car model and if they have drugs 
 in them. This is a fun and frantic mode and this one is quickly becoming a favorite for me.
  Car Jack City- Same as above but you don't have any accomplices. I recommend going with Team instead 
 of by yourself.
  Turf War- You and your buds try and hold down a territory as well as going out and capturing more. 
 You get money for holding down the areas for a certain amount of time and get more money for taking 
 other areas. Whoever has the most money by the end of the time limit wins or who reaches a set 
 amount of money is the winner.
  Cops N' Crooks- One team is the police and the others are the mafia. If you're the mafia, you want 
 to try and protect the boss, which will be a random person from your team, and get him to safety 
 at all cost. If you're the cops, you want to kill the boss before he flees the city. It's a fun 
 mode most of the time but occasionally you'll run into people who don't know how to play or know 
 cheap tactics which take away from this modes value.
  Race- Pretty much self-explanatory. You will race against others to reach checkpoints and ultimately 
 to the finish line. You can turn car damage on or off for this mode.
  GTA Race- The same kind of idea except in the mode you can get out of your car and pull a rocket 
 launcher out and blow the competition away. 
  Deal Breaker- This is a co-op mode where you have to complete your objective and try to stay alive. 
 In the co-op modes, you get four lives so you have to be a little careful. In this mode you must 
 go to a construction site and kill the enemies before they escape. You can change the AI settings 
 to easy, medium, and hard.
  Bomb Da Base II- This mode is similar to Deal Breaker except for this one you have to get to a 
 ship, kill all the enemies on board, and then destroy the ship with the explosives.
  Hangman's N. O. O. S. E- The objective is to get Kenny Patrovic to the safe point in the map while 
 you have a five star wanted level. You start out at the airport with all of the police swarming 
 you. The N. O. O. S. E are like the SWAT teams you'd see in real life. Like the other co-op modes, 
 you have four lives and are timed. You can receive an achievement for beating all the times that 
 the Rockstar developers had.
  Free Mode- One of the most fun modes. This is just you and up to 15 others doing whatever you want 
 throughout the city. Weapons will be places all over the city so you can just go to the park and 
 pick up an assault rifle or an RPG. I think the best thing to do on there is see how far you can 
 get your wanted level before you die.
  With all that being said, the multiplayer is a great addition to the GTA series. It might not be 
 the best multiplayer of all time just the best on Xbox Live. With the multiplayer and the single 
 player combined all into one package, 60 dollars can't be spent any better than this. This game 
 really is a true masterpiece. Sure it may have some flaws but what game doesn't? GTA IV should 
 make other game developers open their eyes and realize what a great game truly is. With all the 
 replay ability, this game won't be leaving your Xbox 360 or Playstation 3 anytime soon. This game 
 was worth all the hype and attention. This is the best game on any of the next-gen systems. I am 
 giving this game the perfect 10 out of 10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This gta4 is bigger and better than any other gta game out. The single player is long including 
 the side missions you can it makes it even longer. You can buy cloths for your charater so you can 
 make him look diffrent. There a lot of diffrent cars, boats, and helicopers to ride. There is a lot 
 of thing to do you can play darts. bowling, and more in this game. You can co on dates with your girl 
 friend in this game. The also have an in game internet. If you drive in a police car you look up 
 crimes and do police mission which are very fun. The only thing is that its the same thing as san 
 andreas but with better graphics. When you look at the game game graphics you can tell they spent 
 a lot of time working on the game. All the cars look real. There are some many NPC's that you can 
 play the game for a whole day and not see one of them twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Well This is the best GTA game i ever played. But it ain't too bad or too good the mission is good 
 and fixed More weapons and money is useful in the game.
  The Thing I don't like about this game is The Online (Multiplayer) isn't to fun you know? some people 
 like it but too me well.... there's isn't too munch custimation in the Online (Multiplayer) of course 
 and that's all i guess so well see ya and buy this game if you want to buy this game. welljust 
 don't say it's a bad game if you have it it's the best GTA game made out there you know? well now 
 it's time to play some GTA 4! but not the online though i hate it! well i don't know that munch 
 people who like the online but it's played a'lot that's amazing cause it's the first GTA game to 
 have online and it's played a'lot ! ok now 14 words to go okey? well i hope you enjoy this game 
 and don't over hike this game that might be bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdpowen97
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This Game GTA IV is simply amazing. Don't listen to what others say on how bad it is. It is amazing. 
 You are playing as a immigrant named Nico Bellic who wants to start a new life in Liberty City 
 but ends up getting into trouble with others and has to kill. In this there is of course car jacking, 
 shooting, flying airplanes but there is also secrets that can be found or stuff going back to the 
 other games. That stuff is for you to find. This game also has amazing rare cars that are cool 
 to keep. This game is amazing and is pretty immersive if you ask me. The cop missions in this game 
 are way better then and andrease. In the game you can also hang out with in game friends and get 
 girlfriends that can acully help you in the game. The game is just simply amazing. I hope i have 
 inspired you to get this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto.... the legend. The most contraversial game to be published. So GTA IV starts of 
 with your character, Niko Bellic, aboard a ship heading to the USA, or more specifically, "Liberty 
 City" (New York City) . When the ship arrives Niko greets his cousin, Roman. Roman is the half the 
 reason Niko decided to come over to America. The other half is for "The American Dream". Niko thinks 
 that things are going very smooth for his cousin, but it turns out he's wrong. On they way he finds 
 out that Roman has tons of debts to pay to some of the most dangerous people on Liberty City. While 
 Niko and Roman are falling into debt, you fight different "Gangs" in different parts of the city. 
 You will also fall in love along they way. Roman owns a small taxi company and a garage. Well I 
 dont want to tell you any more because I dont want to hit spoiler territory. So overall rating, 
 10!
  
  -ShawnEffect_58 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Originally hosted at http://spacemeat. com. au - Please see for more of my work!
  
  Returning to the streets of Liberty City gives a certain vibe. The dank, musty air; the abuse of 
 random pedestrians. Yes, these are my streets. Though while all the corruption remains, the wavering 
 permittance for violent crime sprees, and the multi-cultural supremacy of crime and thug syndicates, 
 something is new. The city has matured, expanded - not only thanks to an entirely new game engine 
 for the Grand Theft Auto series, but a sophisticated new direction for story, narrative, characters 
 and setting.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV wastes no time in introducing our latest procrastinator fresh off the import 
 boat, Niko Bellic - a Serbian war veteran coming to America to live with his cousin Roman and find 
 "that special someone". After establishing our first group of anti-heroes, a vendetta and a quick 
 drive, it wasn't long till I was left to my own devices and begun to explore the new city.
  
  Having memorised theses streets from my GTA 3 days, it was a whole new experience re-visiting 
 the new Liberty City, presented bigger and better than ever thanks to Rockstar's own RAGE engine. 
 So much to the formula has been overhauled and revised to create a far more technical experience, 
 ultimately refining a much more controllable and substantial GTA package. After all, that's what 
 Grand Theft Auto games have always been, packages in their own right. The level of content spanning 
 across multiple gameplay styles have always proved the GTA series as dominators in the gaming market 
 around the world.
  
  These technical advances and updated engine elements are of course the first thing you'll notice 
 when stepping on to the new streets of Liberty City. Character statistics such as strength, weight 
 and sex appeal that were introduced in San Andreas are gone, and thankfully so. Driving now requires 
 some skillful handling, with much more realistic vehicle controls ultimately creating a more difficult 
 experience at first, but this occurs with most gameplay elements in GTA IV. Gun play draws a similar 
 effect, the controls this time allowing so much more control over aim and character movement.
 
  
  Locking on to a character allows the right analogue stick to be used for positioning your cross 
 hair exactly as desired within the target. So now you can shoot specific legs, head, arms or torso. 
 For some reason the weapon fire button changes to melee when in close range, which is disappointing 
 when you have a shotgun at point blank rage ready to fire, resulting in Niko flailing the butt 
 around and missing. Keeping in mind though, with increased control this means that you'll always 
 need to concentrate on pulling off more lethal shots but once you get used to the advanced controlling 
 features, it allows far more efficient gunplay when mastered.
  
  A lot of early game is like this for GTA IV. If you're used to the old games you'll find some drastic 
 changes to the engine here may throw you off a little at first as yes, cars are now far touchier 
 to control and require some professional maneuvering. Then there's drastic additions like the ability 
 to be launched out of your front windscreen on a hard enough head-on collision that will really 
 throw you off. Again, get some practice down and ultimately you'll find an extremely sophisticated 
 driving experience online or off, be it city street traffic dodging or high speed street racing. 
 Realistic driving at first proves cumbersome, but ultimately allows so much more driving finesse 
 once you get it down. Especially now that you can fire a single handed weapon from any direction 
 of the car, even out the back windscreen while looking behind you. Of course there's no lock on 
 whilst drive-by shooting, it's a true skill to be perfected - especially online.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV absolutely nails the technical side of things when it comes to gameplay. Driving 
 through thriving urban landscapes is brilliant, gunfights are fast and furious with so much more 
 control than before allowing multi-target killing sprees to no end. This only applies when one 
 ignores the included cover system, as while cover fire is an ambitious and worthy plight, the mechanics 
 are just terrible with no control over what to specifically crouch or lean behind usually resulting 
 in a dyslexic death. Seemingly inspired by Gears Of War, the cover system in Grand Theft Auto IV 
 is useful when effective but incredibly rarely so, often only proving useful when enemies (just 
 like every other game) crouch, exposing that one leg you can fire at over and over until they die.
 
  
  So while cover sucks, it's easy enough to just not use it and still pop off enemies at alarming 
 increased rates over past GTA games. Be assured one-hit head shots are still possible and are of 
 course the most desired target in gun fights, despite a lack of any significant model reaction 
 from these shots death reactions are quite realistic now with the incorporated Euphoria physics 
 engine. Live rendered physics do wonders for GTA, allowing not only model interactions to look 
 and act realistically but opening new windows for the simpler game touches. For example, simply 
 rolling over a pedestrian with enough pressure from a vehicle will prove fatal, over the old days 
 of receiving a "pedestrian falling over" animation of which they'd get up and walk away from.
 
  
  The new engine doesn't just expand on gameplay mechanics, Liberty City is now bigger and more packed 
 with content than ever before. Liberty City has a huge graphical overhaul since it's last realisation, 
 and while everything certainly has those next-gen looks about them there's a certain brown to everything. 
 Especially noticeable when moving from indoors to outside, it's like a sudden smog fog to the face. 
 Liberty City is clearly a gritty town, right down to your lungs.
  
  The city has a lot of attention to detail from humorous store names to the billboards. There's 
 even times such as on a convoy mission, I noticed the passenger up front consuming something, to 
 then toss the wrapper carelessly onto the road. It's not much, but enough of these little events 
 add so much to the experience of re-creating a living, breathing city. Then again there's also 
 those times you'll commit heinous crimes and wonder why you're not getting your Serbian ass beat 
 by the police or all the people around you who are watching an old lady being brutally stabbed. 
 You can even car-jack taxi's passenger status, kicking out a passenger to then tell the taxi driver 
 where to take you.
  
  There's a plethora of alternate stores and locations to get lost in around Liberty City. As you 
 progress through the story the more people you'll meet, making friends and enemies - going on dates 
 to bars and strip clubs, or even take a lady bowling so you can pretend to be interested in whatever 
 she has to say in the obvious hopes of just getting some action.
  
  GTA IV has a very stylised approach to it's narrative and pacing. While the game is still full 
 of drugs and violence, many ulterior motives and themes are continually approached especially around 
 cleaning up the streets, with characters like Manny set out to help the 'hood and get drugs off 
 the streets. There's a lot of strong views and examples of the decay of urban society, the quality 
 of life, the hunt for the American dream and the power of money. The story also explores the gratification 
 of revenge and the justice in vengeance while exemplifying the negative effects of drug use. There's 
 a lot in there, and a lot of characters to portray it all. Ultimately the story leaves a lot to 
 reflect on especially as the players decisions come into effect quite often.
  
  As the story develops, many sinister characters and motives arise in Niko's quest to find his special 
 someone padding the story out nicely through some exciting and some repetitive missions. The continually 
 exuberant and manneristic denizens of Liberty City are always entertaining throughout, whether 
 it be in an objective oriented mission or a simple game of pool with your Rastafarian friend. The 
 entire adventure is literally packed with dialogue, even failing a mission always results in an 
 alternate session of dialogue on your next attempt assuring GTA IV a constantly rewarding experience.
 
  
  The amount of alternative content to that of the main story even confuses at times as all sorts 
 of phone calls and work requests will pop up. Early on Niko is provided a cell phone that can be 
 used at any point in the game to call up a friend, date, or even organise cash reward missions 
 just for that extra money or something to do.
  
  The main missions are a mixture mostly of stuff we've seen before. The frequent escort missions 
 and "drive here, drive there" requests are still abundant and ultimately can get a bit repetitive 
 and frustrating, but with so much always going on in the thriving metropolis it is of little concern. 
 Repetitive missions are often broken up by events of grandeur, such as my favourite bank heist 
 mission which is most certainly big and eventful. There's a big difficulty curve too, with no way 
 to know what will involve driving someone to one location, or what will involve a 20 cop car pile-up. 
 You can be assured though that if one mission were to become a chore, there is at most times at 
 least one other thing to do, perhaps leading off onto a whole new branch of storyline.
  
  While a lot of these missions are quite repetitive when compared to past GTA games, like most other 
 mechanics these have also been improved. Most notably the inclusion of multiple story paths dependent 
 on player decision. Some very significant decisions are forced for the player to make, opening 
 even more paths of re-playability and enforcing a continually evolving plot.
  
  Even if you find yourself stuck repeating missions, the changing dialogue will always entertain 
 and of course radio stations are again plentiful and numerous. Eighteen stations to be exact, of 
 course seeing the return of the lovable Lazlow and his own talk show station, again the real life 
 Lazlow worked on most of the radio station content outside of his specific station in both writing 
 and recording. Aside from the talk shows, there's a variety of genre-based stations to siphon through 
 hundreds of songs.
  
  Often news reports will emerge of activities recently undergone by Niko. The news and updates are 
 often quite amusing, making a mockery of modern popular news culture with references to the gaming 
 industry and the violence in gaming issue. One big gripe I have with these news reports is that 
 they are great, but like a lot of unique dialogue in GTA IV it is too easily interrupted or missed 
 to never be heard again. Talking on the phone can be interrupted by so much as a bump of a car, 
 and if you're on a mission and a news report comes on, your associate won't shut up for a second 
 and you can't hear a word of it.
  
  Police interactions are now easily assessed, when in trouble with the police Niko will develop 
 a star rating as usual, rising up to 5 stars as his crime spree expands but police habits have 
 changed. Now the radar will specify the FOV (Field Of View) for each patrol unit allowing you to 
 easily slip out of their view, or speed off into the distance. Once out each FOV for a period of 
 time, the star rating will simply vanish leaving Niko to start up another crime spree. This effectively 
 removes a large portion of the challenge of police chases as they are now all too easy to escape. 
 What this adds though, are multiple and continual isolated police chases and being able to slip 
 in and out of 4 star chases creates some enthralling action sequences.
  
  When not trafficking another shipment of drugs, or destroying someone else's, there's absolute 
 eons of content throughout GTA IV to enjoy before, during and after completing the main game. Go 
 online at the Tw@ internet cafe to check your (fake) e-mail, read some spam, check out Your Mexican 
 Doctor or browse the car markets; or you could just take someone to the multiple locations throughout 
 the city such as strip clubs, pool halls, bowling alleys and more.
  
  The best-spent time of all is by far multiplayer. Rockstar have included a huge 15 different online 
 game modes, from the standard death match to objective based missions both co-operative and competitive. 
 There's all sorts of online rankings and leaderboards, supported by the now-thriving Rockstar Social 
 Club matching up players and tracking statistics all over the world. Allowing up to 16 players 
 and the entire city to roam free, it sure is a hoot carjacking and pillaging the city with your 
 friends around the world through so many game modes.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is nothing short of a milestone achievement for Rockstar and gaming in general. 
 It's the definitive GTA package with more content than you'll know what to do with. An expansive 
 and involving storyline, Liberty City alone is a bustling community online and off that Rockstar 
 can be proud of. The driving mechanics are adaptive, as well as the evolved shooting style making 
 GTA accessible for all who are able to handle it's mature content. Absorbing single player content 
 alternating from story progress and a huge online multiplayer community makes GTA IV a mandatory 
 purchase for any PS3 or 360 owner and a solid contender for not only game of the year but the best 
 game ever.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV
  
  98%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Liberty City re-created faithfully and full of life.
  * Involving story with lots of characters 
 and personality.
  * Excellent multiplayer and side-content to entertain for hours.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Atrocious cover system.
  * Unique dialogue too easy to interrupt.
  * Not 
 exactly family friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayor_Zero
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Bueno creo que la mayoria nos dejamos llevar por lo genial que se veian algunas cosas como la enorme 
 ciudad (no tanto ya que lo pienso) o la forma en sales despedido cuando te atropeyan pero el juego 
 no es tan bueno como podria serlo.
  
  Recuerdo que en San Andreas que podias hacer muchos cosas como tunnear tu auto, crear una imagen 
 personalizada del personaje (en cuanto a ropa y complexion) , entre otras cosas. Pero en GTA IV 
 no puedes hacerlo, siento que dieron un paso atras, regresaron a la vieja formula: solo mejora 
 los graficos. Eslo mismo que hicieron para GTA III, solo cambiaron la imagen, el juego era el mismo 
 que GTA 2, las mismas misiones repetitivas que al principio te cautivan pero despues de un rato 
 te aburren.
  
  Sin embargo reconosco que es un buen juego aunque no se si vali la pena esperar tanto por el. 
 En resumen si te ha gustado la serie de GTA compralo pero si nunca te han gustado este juego no 
 cambiar esa forma de pensar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak34
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Along with amazing graphics, a compelling story and great new controls, this game is set to give 
 you hours upon hours of entertainment and achievements are an added bonus. I was beginning to get 
 bored with the Grand Theft Auto series, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was pretty good but one of 
 the most unrealistic games so far. The series seemed a little repetitive and each new game didn't 
 really bring anything new but this game has completely turned things around, with the cover system 
 and online multiplayer it has definitely raised the bar for games to come. One bad thing I can 
 say though is that on occasion the missions would stop working, it would be marked on the map and 
 I would be standing on the very spot where the mission marker should be but it just would not start. 
 Apart from some minor glitches this is still an extremely good game, a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolinovodno2500
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  people who gave this game a 10 rating never really thought of everything in the game has or the 
 things that are missing in the game...
  
  story 8/10
  very nice story you come to america from another country and slowly making money to being rich 
 and famous and trust me when you win, you'll have about 700,000 cash without actually buying anything 
 bc the only thing you can buy are guns... and um.... thats it... and in the end your friend betrays 
 u, lets see where else have we seen this, um howbout gta3, gtavc, gtavcs, gtasa.. wow rockstar 
 cant think of anything now cant they... only killing.... hey dont get me wrong i love violent games 
 like manhunt, bioshock, but it has to be smart.. gta4 is pointless, the story is completely linear 
 and very expected, but still very action packed to get 8/10 but thats all there is nothing really 
 smart like okami or bully or tes4 oblivion
  
  gameplay 7/10
  gameplay friggin rocks you can duck, shoot, and the aiming reticile is very nice alot like gears 
 of war.. guns are amazing, the explosions are beautifull.. and the cop system has been changed 
 alot to make it more realistic and i think is very good... the physics of the game are also incredible... 
 there are very funny websites in the ingame internet, funny tv shows, and you can own a cellphone 
 which you can get calls or messages from friends asking u to go out or mission related ones, you 
 can also buy ringtones and themes from the in game intrnt.. now what i dont like about the game 
 is that, what ever happened to car custamization, and why cant i change my hair, sure there are 
 clothe shops... although not that much though, should have put some in alderney though... mini 
 games used to be fun in gtasa, but in gta4 you know what you can do bowling!! darting!!! in a shooting 
 game... i mean wow... stupidity, and guess what you actually can call ur friends out and bring 
 them to eat.... is THAT fun??? i dnt think so...
  
  graphics 9/10
  the graphics are very very good maybe its bc its on 7th gen console.. anyway who cares everything 
 looks really good.. from cars to the back of houses to the streets of bohan to the weather, ai 
 are more realistic though they pick up cellphones, they wear umbrellas when its raining or seek 
 shelter... the also carry coffee cups
  
  sound 9/10
  the sound is also amazing from cutscenes to gun shootings to the radio and the muzak in shops like 
 it tw@ or the car's wheels grinding the street when the tyres have popped out, to people talking 
 and etc.
  
  overall 835/1000
  this game is a game that shouldnt be ignored but it shouldnt be praised too much too bc it is NOT 
 a masterpiece unlike tes4o, now that is a masterpiece... anywy i think that the only reason this 
 game got such a high enough rating was bc the advertising was very great it was supposed to be 
 released in oct but delayed then to feb and finally to april so you know people get overly excited. 
 but actually this is a game that isnt really all THAT IS IT SEEMS......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  prior to buying this game i had only played a few missions here and there from gta san andreas, 
 so i didn't really know what to expect
  
  but this game is awesome
  
  
  the third person shooting is done very well, the vehicular part of the game is great and the cutscenes 
 are also pretty good
  
  
  there's just a ton of stuff to do in the game, whether it's just going around keeping your friends 
 happy or doing missions or just causing chaos and fleeing the cops
  
  i really enjoy the interactions between npcs and you, because they arent very particular
  
 
  
  sometimes if you carjack someone they will try to carjack you back
  
  or maybe the passenger in the car will attack you
  
  one time i bumped a guys car and he roid 
 raged chased me across the city until i got out and killed him
  
  
  happening like that just increase the coolness of a game, and the fact that they dont just happen 
 at specific instances makes it all the more enjoyable.
  
  the physics engine behind the game is pretty fantastic, as all collisions play out as they should 
 - your vehicle will dent or break in a realistic manner, you will go flying out of the vehicle, 
 etc.
  
  i have to admit that i like driving up behind motorcyclists and hitting the bike just to see what 
 trajectory their body will take when they go flying
  
  and to top it off, the story is pretty interesting, at least from what i've seen
  
  there are 
 parts which have been semi frustrating in terms of their initial difficulty, but the overall difficulty 
 is well balanced
  
  
  really the only issue i have with the game is that if you accidentally bump a cop car, you are 
 immediately wanted by the po-lice
  
  not that it's difficult to get away from them, but just somewhat of an annoyance
  
  
  overall 
 fantastic game and i'm really glad i bought it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is the true sequel in the long line of games in the GTA franchise. Niko Bellic, 
 fresh off the Platypus, has come to Liberty City in order to find a new life for himself with his 
 cousin, Roman.
  
  The game is beautiful. Liberty City is incredibly detailed and very alive. During the day the streets 
 are busy as people do their thing and at night, the city lights up and the nightlife hits the streets. 
 The Euphoria physics engine makes everything a lot more entertaining as civilians grasp onto car 
 door handles and cling for their life as you burn rubber down the street. Explosions are very pretty 
 and the cars were shown a lot of attention when it comes to their destruction. Liberty City was 
 made from scratch to resemble New York and you'll notice a lot of familiar spots. The controls 
 are easy to get the hang of and the gameplay is simple enough that anyone can understand what they 
 need to do. GTAIV uses a new, over the shoulder aiming system which can be used by simply putting 
 a little pressure on the Left Trigger. Rockstar also introduces a cover system into GTAIV which 
 is used by simply tapping the Right bumper. In order to run, the player must hold down A to jog, 
 or tap A to sprint. Driving is more realistic, which means no sharp turns at 200 MPH without slamming 
 into a wall or an innocent pedestrian.
  
  The A. I. isn't bad and the police are more ruthless this time around. Civilians will call the police 
 if they witness a crime and enemies will utilize cover and will stop at nothing to take you down. 
 They'll aim for your tires (which no longer instantly deflate but deflate over time) or try to use 
 pit maneuvers or simply pull out in front of your car to stop you. Stealing cars is no longer a 
 walk in the park, as Niko will now smash out windows and hot-wire the car in order to successfully 
 get it going and both of those things attract a lot of attention.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 features an interesting cast of characters that you can really develop a connection 
 to and it occasionally throws tough decisions your way that effect the story line down the road. 
 The story keeps you hooked as it reveals more of Niko's shady past and you find yourself working 
 for some of Liberty City's strangest or most powerful people. The soundtrack is nothing special 
 but occasionally delivers a sort of cinematic experience, unless you're listening to the chat stations 
 then it's just funny.
  
  As previously mentioned, Liberty City offers a lot of things to do like things such as Bowling, 
 darts, and pool. Maybe if you're up to it you can tackle some criminals by using the police computers 
 or just cruise around the city, do crazy stunts and shoot pidgeons. If none of that tickles your 
 fancy, you can always hop online with 16 of your friends and wreak havoc in the streets.
  
  In conclusion, this game is simply fantastic. It offers a lot for the players to do which means 
 there is more replay value and it looks beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Grand Theft Auto 4 I was a bit disappointed. While I enjoyed the game 
 I could not see why the game was getting all these 10 out of 10's when I felt like it was more 
 a 9 or a 9.5. I felt that the game was moving too slow and that the characters didn't have anything 
 to offer except for constantly whining about their lives. Then about a quarter through the game 
 things started to get interesting. You see this is not your typical GTA game. Although in all previous 
 GTA games there has been a good story and character development this game brings something more 
 to the table. This game makes you care about the characters and the plot. Not to mention the addition 
 of the ability to make choices at certain points in the game add realism to the game. From both 
 angles you have characters that are your close friends telling you what they think is right and 
 that you should listen to them. Not only does the main character (Niko Bellic) feel conflicted 
 about the choices but you as the player do to. There was actually one point in the game where I 
 felt like I was making the right choice but then aftermath of that choice haunted me in a way that 
 a game has never before. Never before has a game made me feel remorse for my actions or for the 
 characters. Whether you are robbing a bank in the style of Michael Mann's film Heat or double crossing 
 gangsters, GTA IV is a truly magnificent game. Now lets start taking about the actual game.
  
  GTA IV's main character is Niko Bellic. He is an Eastern European immigrant who has come to 
 America to start a new life. He has his troublesome cousin Roman to help him out, but as it turns 
 out Niko doesn't need too much help it's actually Roman that needs the help, and Niko is willing 
 to do it for the right price. As the story progresses you actually feel sympathy for the characters 
 and the things that they are going through. At first the game doesn't really feel like the GTA 
 games that you have played in the past, and that is ultimately because this is better than all 
 the GTA games that have you have played in the past. As a friend of mine described it GTA IV is 
 a more 'humanistic' game than the previous games in the series.
  
  GTA IV takes place in Liberty City, but Rockstar did not take the easy way out and give you a city 
 that you already know inside and out. This is a totally different Liberty City experience if you 
 will. The city in this game has absolutely nothing to do with the Liberty City from GTA 3 and GTA: 
 Liberty City Stories. Liberty City is divided up into two islands and then there is a third island 
 called Alderney. The two Liberty City Islands are the equivalent of New York City and Alderney 
 is like Jersey. Every part of the city is new and exciting and fun to explore. The game can be 
 quite a tease at times though seeing as how there is a pier with a rollercoaster and a miniature 
 golf course that you cannot enjoy. The Statue of Happiness is always fun to visit or to just fly 
 by in a helicopter. 
  
  Without a doubt GTA IV is the most realistic game in the series. The city is alive and booming 
 at all times. There is never an empty street or sidewalk and each part of town has its own sense, 
 style, and feel that make you feel like you are Niko Bellic and that you are roaming the streets 
 of Liberty City. This time around the LCPD are smart and actually act like cops. Unlike in the 
 previous GTA games where the only way that you could get out of the cops path is by going to a 
 Pay N Spray or being lucky enough to get away. This time around as your wanted stars go up on your 
 radar you can see the police search radius, and the longer you spend out of the radius the more 
 that your wanted stars go down. Plus the cops actually act like real cops. If the last place the 
 cops see you, you were in a car, if you can get out of the car and on feet without the cops seeing 
 you, they will still be looking for you in a car. This can also happen if you are in one car and 
 you jack another car without being caught. You can be in that new car and as long as you are being 
 careful you can get away quite quickly because they will not be looking for you in the new car.
 
  
  GTA has always been known for having amazing voice overs and a soundtrack. This game is no different. 
 I will admit that at first when I saw that there were no big name celebrities playing the main 
 characters like in the previous game I was kind of skeptical. I couldn't believe that there were 
 no big names like Samuel L Jackson or Ray Liotta doing voice overs for main characters, I just 
 couldn't believe it. Then once I started playing I realized that these voice actors are just as 
 good if not better and that I could not think of a better person to do the voices than the people 
 that did. The radio stations are just as good as before and there are lots more this time. The 
 rock station was once again my favorite but they were all quite good. There is literally something 
 for everyone. Its too bad though that after you get sick of the stations that you cannot have custom 
 radio stations like you could on the regular Xbox.
  
  The graphics in GTA IV are quite good considering that the GTA games have never had the greatest 
 graphics. Now I'm not going to lie the game is quite buggy at times, but in a game that looks this 
 good and is this big it really doesn't seem that bad. You really don't get the whole feel of the 
 city is to get into a helicopter at night and fly around the city and see the sky lit up. The character 
 models look very good as well. The game controls better than ever seeing as how the target system 
 actually works this time around. I still had the occasional problem with it not aiming at the correct 
 target, but it is still a lot more accurate than it was previously.
  
  That being said GTA IV is a must own. If I had one complaint about the game is that it was way 
 too easy. It only took me 23 hours to beat and the final mission only took two tries. And the time 
 that I beat it I did it without armor. Not to mention that like every GTA game there is loads of 
 stuff to do when you are done with it so the game doesn't end when the story does. Plus you will 
 definitely want to see what happens when you make a take a different path than what you did the 
 first time. GTA IV is hands down the most emotional game that I have ever played and game that 
 should not be missed.
  
  Story: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Control: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Replability: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This Game GTA IV is simply amazing. Don't listen to what others say on how bad it is. It is amazing. 
 You are playing as a immigrant named Nico Bellic who wants to start a new life in Liberty City 
 but ends up getting into trouble with others and has to kill. In this there is of course car jacking, 
 shooting, flying airplanes but there is also secrets that can be found or stuff going back to the 
 other games. That stuff is for you to find. This game also has amazing rare cars that are cool 
 to keep. This game is amazing and is pretty immersive if you ask me. The cop missions in this game 
 are way better then and andrease. In the game you can also hang out with in game friends and get 
 girlfriends that can acully help you in the game. The game is just simply amazing. I hope i have 
 inspired you to get this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohcrapitsnico
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is certainly more realistic and the graphics are awesome, etc but really thats all it it. 
 When I played this game I didn't get that "wow this kicks ass" feeling that I get when playing 
 NG2 or San Andreas. I found myself blazing through the missions, rushing and not enjoying it completely 
 in short.
  
  The graphics were excellent but in the end they were too bland; I found myself wishing there was 
 more diversity in the city as everything started to look like and never stood out. I wanted everything 
 from the shettiest slum to the biggest of mansions. SA and VC did that but man this one just bleah. 
 I got tired of looking at it. 
  
  The replayability and diverse play that was in SA and VC is gone. I wanted to own properties and 
 businesses and get a huge mansion. Car customization, ambulance missions, etc are all gone. So 
 basically when all the missions are done there is nothing to do, nothing to motivate me to take 
 the time to play it. The multiplayer is no good with the immature 2 year olds and Halo 3 is the 
 better option for that.
  
  Ultimately the feeling isn't there. They added new stuff took out the good stuff and realism trumped 
 replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best GTA for storyline, the missions are great and the characters are fantastic, 
 i was acctually wondering what was going to happen next with this game, theres a few massives twists 
 and it genereally is just a fantastic game. The one thing that lets this game down is the lack 
 of fun things, sures theres the assasin missions, and the most wanted missions, but there isn't 
 tractors and push bikes, or planes (although they wouldn't really suit the map and they might be 
 in dlc) or police bikes (very dissapointing) so this game would most defenitely have a 10, but 
 i've finished the story, and i'm not sure if i'll really play it much anymore!
  
  Multiplayer is also a good addition, with some really fun mode and good character customisation, 
 but there is no Local Multiplayer, which would be fantastic, as the SA Multiplayer was really fun, 
 and not everyone has Live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acepilot07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start with this one? Well lets start from the very beginning with the GTA 1 which featured 
 3 cities that would become the main setting for the GTA 3 era games. And as time went on two expansions 
 GTA London 1969 and a lesser know expansion GTA London 1961 were released. Then a full blown sequel 
 in 1999 GTA 2. And then in 2001 GTA 3 was realsed to the world which used a full living breathing 
 city. Liberty City a knock off of New York City. Then came GTA Vice City based off Miami and GTA 
 San Andreas which wasn't a city but rather a state based off California and Nevda with the cities 
 Los Santos (Los Angles) , San Ferrior (San Fansico) , Las Venturas (Las Vegas) which each having 
 surrounding suburbs. Okay with that little quick GTA history done with. Lets move on to the present. 
 GTA 4 takes place in a redesign Liberty City which now looks much more like New York City than 
 the previous installments. The main character name is Niko Bellic an immgraint fresh from Eastern 
 Europe although the country which he is from is not mentioned at all. But it mention by Niko that 
 he served in the war there which might be the Bosina war. Niko is brought to the United States 
 by his cousin Roman who told him that he made a fortune in America but as it turns out that it 
 was a lie to cover up his failures. As the story gose on Niko and Roman are draged into Liberty 
 City's crime underworld. Which leaves Niko no choice but to fight, steal, and kill so he can not 
 only survie but also make enough money to get by in life. As in game play GTA 4 takes a more realistic 
 turn as in driving, walking, and combat. Now you can't run up stairs as you could in San Andreas. 
 But rather Niko will actually walk up each step and down each step. When in a hurry he will skip 
 every other step. Driving in the game is much more diffacult compare to the last installments. 
 The cars and bike just don't want to turn when the brakes are on. The most dangerous vehical in 
 the game (to me) is the motorcyles one mistake and you could find your self flying through the 
 air with a big chunk of your health missing. The A. I in GTA 4 is very impressive the people of 
 Liberty City will do things you would see people in real life do. Like answer cell phones, read 
 newspapers, eat food, and ect. The people also react to what Niko is doing such as shoving them 
 out of his way they act very agressive to that but most are just verbal threats. They will act 
 frighten when they hear guns shots. So people in Liberty City would act just like real people given 
 the actions they witness. The online play for GTA 4 is amazing there is the basic deathmatch and 
 teamdeath match but also there are races in the game a game mood called Cops n' Crooks when you 
 play on either side. Muiltplayer types from the PSP game are there to. Such as stealing cars, protecting 
 a VIP and ect. If you played the PSP GTAs you know what I'm talking about. So you'll have plenty 
 of online choices. Overall GTA 4 is one the best games of the year and should not be missed. It 
 is with out a doubt a contender for game of the year. With a serious story with plenty of funny 
 in game comentary thats stands true to the traditional GTA style and a awesome muiltiplayer along 
 with it. GTA 4 will be remembered as one of the best games for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. SORRY I'M REPEATING BUT IT IS! 
 The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. SORRY I'M REPEATING BUT IT IS! The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. SORRY I'M 
 REPEATING BUT IT IS! The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best 
 GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The 
 best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. The best GTA ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGeorgeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game (although being described by Hilary Clinton as 'inappropriate')
  is the absolute best thing I have ever played in my entire gaming LIFE. I AM ADDICTED, and you 
 will be too. The graphics are nice (especially the rain falling on the road, the detail is just 
 stunning) and the sounds are hilarious. Every time you turn a corner you hear an F-Bomb, but we 
 aren't moms, so who cares anyway? The missions (and there are a LOT of missions) are always fun 
 and sometimes challenging. Now, I hear from a lot of people "Oh blah blah once you beat the game, 
 and you free roam for a while, it gets boring blah blah". While that may be true for imaginationless 
 mounds of flesh and rarely pumping fun blood funsuckers, this game will occupy you for a while... 
 yes A WHILE. There are tons of side missions (all fun to say the very least) and even races to 
 satisfy those with a need for speed. In free roam, the possibilities are endless. Instead of jacking 
 a car then running from the cops over and over (yes I know people who consider this 'free roaming') 
 why dont you try something like... jumping ramps on multiplayer, while the othr players try to 
 hit your car with a rocket launcher. Very fun indeed. This game is the unicorn. 11/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jezza06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV. Where to start. OK normally I don't write a review like this but this is to 
 hard.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  ===============
  [combat]
  
  GTA IV's combat has been greatly improved from the clunky shooting of it's predecessors. Armed 
 with a refined targeting system, a cover system similar to that of Gears of War and Uncharted and 
 hand to hand combat that seems to be inspired by Assassin's Creed, GTA IV has combat down to a 
 tee.
  
  The targeting system is simple. You pull the left trigger all the way for a lock-on and with little 
 nudges of the right thumb-stick you can aim for specific body parts, and if you let go of the trigger 
 just slightly, you go into free-aim to be even more specific with shots. While in cover (activated 
 by hitting the right shoulder-button) you can also blind-fire which is handy when low on health.
 
  
  Cover is an extremely handy mechanic and sure beats the crouching behind something from the previous 
 games (all though that is still possible) . It's very cool that you can take cover behind anything 
 in your environment and even cooler that most of this cover is dynamic and destructible. If you 
 encounter a foe hiding behind a pallet of cardboard boxes for example, those cardboard boxes can 
 be shot off individually to reach your enemy. When in a heavy firefight, you find yourself looking 
 around your environment looking for the best cover points that can not only provide sufficient 
 protection but that also provides clear shots at the AI (who also use cover) .
  
  The hand to hand
  [UNFINISHED] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakov
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto... what can I say. Ever since I heard this game was coming out I wanted it so bad. 
 After I got it I was impressed with the graphics, voice acting, violence, driving, violence, and 
 the interactive features of the game. and the violence. 
  
  First... Liberty City. Haven't heard that name in a while. When I was told that the game was going 
 to take place in Liberty City the first thing i thought about was an enhanced version of GTA3's 
 Liberty City. When i saw Liberty City I was like "This is different." Liberty City looks just like 
 NYC and i do love it. It does almost feel like it is a real city. I also love the conversations 
 people have with each other in the streets. Sometimes they are funny and sometimes they are stupid, 
 and sometimes they are both.
  
  Second... Driving. The driving is alright. Every car that you drive does feel different from the 
 crusty hoopty to the speed demon Banshee. I also like how they have some of the older cars from 
 the previous games. The High beam and low beam headlight thing is cool but unnecessary. The vehicle 
 handling can be hard at first but it gets easier (i thought it was) .
  
  Third... Music. Is great
  
  Fourth... Story. In every GTA game I play I never get what the whole 
 point of the game is. in San Andreas i didn't know what he was trying to accomplish... i just knew 
 i had to do a lot of missions. Same with this game i just do the missions.
  
  Now everything is good but it is some of the problems of the game that keep me from giving a 10. 
 First off, The game has some things that flicker such as shadows. Next the game tends to run slower 
 when you are driving fast. Next, no car customization : [ Next Sometimes When I try to save cars 
 they tend to disappear... whats up with that??
  
  In my opinion I don't think any game can receive 10s because there is always going to be some bugs 
 in it, or it is going to be missing something that was in last game or it might have a crappy new 
 feature. So I say Grand Theft Auto IV is near perfect but not perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazacf1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  I think that this the best ever Grand Theft Auto game. The weapons are great. The cars are not 
 that easy to drive but they still great fun to drive. The graphics are perfect. Lots of great radio 
 channels. The entertainment is all great, I really like the bowling. When you get in a car chase 
 with the cops they are quite easy to escape, but when you get a really high wanted level it gets 
 a lot harder. If you liked San Andreas Vice City and all the others you like this even more than 
 them. The controls are really easy to get the hang of. The fully destructable environment is great, 
 if you get caught by the cops you can blow up there cars so you might be able to get out. All in 
 all this one of the best games for the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. I would recommend to all. A 
 + + + + + + + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southparkmike44
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a great way to bring back this great series of pretty much do whatever you want gameplay. 
 There is only one rule there is no rules. The way the game is played is pretty much the same, except 
 the targeting which in turn is very nice. The story line is very good and makes you feel as if 
 you were really Niko and it just makes the game even better. The graphics are very nice and probally 
 the best out for the Xbox 360 right now. Although the game is very good and gameplay is at its 
 finest I can't really call this a perfect game. I mean no game is really perfect and for the people 
 who rated this at gamespot I think only half the time it is because they are sponsoring and they 
 should really start rating the way it should be. But overall GTA 4 is a great game and you should 
 definitely check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyvian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly great, I have played some of the previous games in the series and honestly I 
 was never gripped, I just thought the games were far to silly, unrealistic etc, the way the cars 
 drove, the combat etc it just didn't feel right, with this game that's changed, it just honestly 
 feels like you are actually in a city, like you can smell it, this is obviously helped by graphics 
 but there is just such detail there.
  
  The story is also well thought out, the script is good, the characters are good, the cars feel 
 different and weighted, the combat is far improved and it's just a great game.
  
  The only area which just seems a tad bad to me is maybe the amount of people you can just mow down 
 whilst driving the car that are acceptable collateral damage, you look at your stats and the amount 
 of people ive killed would put me down as a mass murderer, and although earlier I said the cars 
 were great, on the flip side when cornering unless you are on the highest overhead view you cant 
 see what's around corners until you get there, even if in car view you cant see left or right and 
 you realise you have run over someone when your car bumps over them, woops. But im not saying this 
 makes it less fun:)
  
  This game also made me dream, imagine this game, where every single building you could interact 
 with, enter them, take the people interactions to a new level i. e.: randoms, buy property, set 
 up your own website in the cafes, this game honestly is almost there, and on some even further 
 developed console down the track GTA 6 or 7 could probably achieve this. Well here's to wishing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much if you mention the name Grand Theft Auto to any person their going to know what it 
 is and GTA 4 is no different. Im new to the serious and wow...... my minds basically been blown. 
 Everyones had an experience were your showing your shiny new game to your friends and you point 
 outHey look theres an arcade machine over there." and your friends first response is '" can 
 you use it" and of course as you approach the machine you cannot. GTA changes that. You CAN watch 
 the tv in your apartment you CAN listen to the radio and you CAN call 911 with your cell phone. 
 The amount of features is mind blowing and with the promise of downloadables it promises so much 
 more to come. Now onto the actual gameplay, it really doesnt lack much there although the cover 
 system can be a bit difficult at times. The story is amazing, its basically something youd expect 
 from a hollywood movie complete with a diverse cast of characters , good voice acting, and plenty 
 of twists and turns. Its kinda hard not to have a good time while playing this game. When your 
 not killing people [ and youll be doing that quite a bit] you can go bowling with your friends, 
 go drinking, or even just roam the city. When a game offers this much to do along with none of 
 the features being done "half-way" it deserves a 10 , which is exactly what i'm giving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  GTA-IV has set the record for most sales in it's launch week and the most money ever made by a 
 video game. it also has 10.0's across the board including gamespot and IGN whcih havent rated a 
 10 on games in over a decade. now i will give you my take on how real this hype is.
  
  pro's:
  this compared to past GTA games this one has made a big step on animations and graphics, 
 even physics. the realism is way more realistic then before. the cellphone works well in this game 
 and the wanted system has made a big step. it's great to have a search area to escape instead of 
 just driving till the cops are gone. getting wanted is more realistic also since you need to be 
 seen, even peds will call the cops. with multiplayer we have our free roam feature which is great 
 for just hangin with friends and doing ranom things
  
  con's
  graphics are below the standards of modern games which gamespots older rating system wouldnt give 
 this game a 10 on that condition. now the controls are a little off. in single player you need 
 to hit sprint to just jog and that is a bad thing when your thumb is needed for the RS to manage 
 manual aim. it slows down the pace alot and it's anoying. you are sprinting and then a phone call 
 comes while you are pressing A and you automatically pick it up and get stopped from running. the 
 manual aim is flawed, it has no aim assist which isnt the worst but the sensitivity is bad. i could 
 play other games and follow a target with ease. the hit detection is bad also. in other games the 
 bullets hit, this game the shots have a range limit. last alot of old features from past games 
 are gone
  
  that sums it up. a very good game but the controls are off and the shooting mechanics are terrible 
 in this game. the visuals are below the standards of most games and alot of old things are missing. 
 with these in mind i cant give this a 10 but it is close
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: furius51
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most realistic game ive ever played. No other game will make you feel like your 
 in another world like GTA IV does. You can do so many things that you can't in other games, such 
 as customize your cell phone, go on beautiful and scenic taxi rides, and call for some guns in 
 a trunk of a car. All of these details really help you immerse yourself in Liberty City. 
  
  Speaking of Liberty City, the city is gorgeous. The buildings are tall and very nice. At night, 
 especially. When your drive and see the city lit up like Vegas, you feel like your really there. 
 Also, the cutscenes look pretty nice. Grand Theft Auto was never a visual stunner by any means, 
 but this doesn't hold true to this installment. With no loading times between island, and with 
 all the detail in the city, cars, and enviroments, this realy is a technical masterpiece.
  
  The shooting has been overhauled too. Now there is a new cover cover system that is very helpful. 
 If might not be as proficent as Gears of War or Rainbow Six, but it definatley is a welcome addition. 
 Once you get the hang of it, you will be dispatching cops and gangsters with ease.
  
  This story is the seris best. Niko is a very likeable guy. He is just an immagrant who wants money, 
 and will do just about anything to get it. You will rob banks, go on helicopter and boat chases, 
 and be given hit contracts that need to be done. This game has plenty of variety when it comes 
 to missions. 
  
  Overall, GTA IV brings you into the game like no other. If you ever even considered playing this 
 game, or any GTA in the past, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozenkrautz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect, just perfect. Its the joy of doing anything in New York. And how beautiful 
 is New York. There have been a couple of games that have tried this concept, but have not succeeded 
 at the magnitude of this sandbox giant. There is just so much to do in LC. You go on a kill spree 
 with the choice of a handgun, two shotguns, two uzzis, an M4 machine gun, a sniper rifle, RPG rocket 
 launcher, molotov cocktail, and grenades. Or you can jump off buildings either on foot or with 
 the help of a motorcycle or a car and still live! This game may be what revolutionizes gaming as 
 we know it. So if you are a 360/PS3 owner, as soon as you put your hands on some sixty bucks, race 
 to your nearest gamestop and acquire this true masterpiece. If you are not satisfied with the story, 
 there is an amazing multiplayer mode. Never doubt on this game. You will be playing it for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the basics:
  
  GTA 4 is a third-person sandbox game, meaning you get to roam around and do what you want besides 
 the main mission. When I first heard about the game's details last year, I was skeptical. 
  
  I mean, where would they find the time and space to include the ability to call other characters 
 with a phone? Where would they find that time and space to make it possible for the player to pick 
 up a girlfriend? Travel throughout Liberty City in the same amount of time it takes to travel throughout 
 it in real life? Go to a strip club with a friend? Play GTA multiplayer???! Fortunately, all of 
 those things do appear in the final game -- although I did hope for it to be more "sandbox-ish."
 
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, a bad@$$ Russian dood who comes to America to sort of "forget" his past 
 and start a new life. Along the way, his cousin, Roman, gets you into a lot of trouble. And pretty 
 soon, you'll be involved with gangsters and other dangerous groups living around Liberty City. 
 You'll be able to do "jobs" for other characters willing to "hire" you. What I mean is.... you'll 
 become a hitman without really even realizing it. After that, things start to get really interesting.
 
  
  As you make money from these jobs, you'll be able to buy weapons from illegal weapon vendors throughout 
 the city and clothes from stores. The city is literally alive. Every citizen you meet will be pissed 
 off though, be warned. They're very willing to interact with you, especially during the time in 
 the beginning when you still don't have your pistol (if you know what I mean) . There are hot dog 
 carts everywhere, diners, and places fit for fine dining. 
  
  The characters are what you'll expect from the previous games. They are all funny, and they're 
 even more funny when they tell you about their ridiculous problems.
  
  The actual missions are very unique. Several missions involve sniping from tall buildings to cover 
 your teammates, raiding clubs and apartments to take money owed to the person who hired you, and 
 winning a street race. What happens in each mission depends on the story. You'll notice that it's 
 the story that makes the missions interesting. You'll be chasing a lot of cars in the game, but 
 it's different killing a person who cheated on your boss than killing a person who simply owes 
 your hirer some money. Hell, you don't even have to do things the same way anyway. You can chase 
 them down, and then stalk 'em for the kill, or you could blow their car up in front of fifty people 
 and set other cars on fire. Either way you get your $$$.  =D
  
  So now that we know that the story influences what you do, I'd like to say that the choices you 
 make will affect you later in the game. Take that as a warning...
  
  Anyway, I'm also impressed by how Liberty City looks. Everything is shiny, detailed, and polished. 
 Chinatown looks beautiful at night as well. But, the characters models look kinda bland for the 
 next gen. They move realistically, but their faces would look better moving if they were just a 
 bit more detailed.
  
  Speaking of physics, I'd like to talk about driving. This is my first GTA game, so I was afraid 
 it would be hard to get used to the driving controls. It'll take a while to get adjusted to the 
 driving controls and the driving itself -- though that itsn't necessarily a bad thing. In other GTA 
 games that I've tried, driving was easy, not to mention crazy. You could drive into any other car 
 without worrying about injuries. But in GTA 4, if you go fast and hit another car, you'll come 
 crashing through the window and flying into the horizon -- all while flipping and turning and looking 
 great doing it. So really, it all comes down to being real.
  
  The level of difficulty? Well, you can't set how difficult things are, but most missions are pretty 
 challenging. You'll find yourself redoing missions pretty often, but hey -- it's worth seeing the 
 dramatic results of Niko's actions. The cops aren't very hard to avoid either. They'll notice you 
 if you fire your weapon, hurt someone, or if you do anything harmful to them or their cars... that 
 is, if they're even there.  =D Once they notice you, there'll be a colored area on your GPS indicating 
 the area they'll be sweeping. Just get out of the area and you'll lose your stars in little time. 
 'Course, if you're getting out and you run across more police cars, the area will be expanded. 
 This system is good because it eliminated boredom and frustration from police car chases. 
  
  And last but not least -- shooting mechanics. There is a simple cover system and an auto-aim 
 feature. You don't have to auto-aim on targets, but it's better if you do. You can't expect to 
 have your Halo 3 reflexes when playing a more slow paced (3rd person) game, so I'd say the shooting 
 mechanics in GTA 4 can't get any more perfect.
  
  So, have fun calling your friends and taking them out to the cabaret club while I go playing pool 
 with my Russian cousin. This is a great game, the closest next-gen game to being perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianaPwns39
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I almost feel bad whenever I get into a conversation about GTA 4 with people. As everyone talks 
 about it with amazed reactions, I just shrug and don't find it that impressive. What makes me feel 
 bad, is that I usually get attacked with insults for not finding the game incredible.
  I swear, people don't know what the word "opinion" means anymore. 
  In all honesty, I've never 
 been that big of a fan when it comes to GTA. I enjoy the series, yes, but I just have to be in 
 a certain mood to play it. I'm pretty sure its just because of the crime setting, which has never 
 really been my favorite genre of anything to begin with (movies, book, and games) .
  But I don't rate GTA 4 because of my partially bias opinion on the entertainment world surrounding 
 crime. For example, I think "The Godfather" is an amazing film, but I just have to be in that mood 
 to actually sit down and watch.
  I review GTA 4 on what it has to offer, and how I feel about it.
  Honestly, I think its quite 
 mediocre. 
  The storyline is very "meh" to me. I didn't play it too long, but saw various areas and several 
 cut scenes and was never impressed and, probably worse, never lost. I played the beginning, than 
 watched my friend playing near the end, and nothing came as a surprise to me. A good story isn't 
 needed to make a good game, but to me its always a definite plus.
  As for the game play, I was extremely disappointed with it. A game called "Grand Theft Auto" should 
 really have better driving controls. Where it felt fluid and quick in previous installments, it 
 felt like I was driving through molasses in this game. Turning was easier when my tires blew out, 
 and that's probably not a good thing. The combat system was improved, but it was overly complicated 
 to take over and get used to the awkward feeling system. Everything felt very tight, slow, and 
 overly difficult to accomplish, but the AI was bad to the point I still survived while tripping 
 over my own feet. I think the biggest disappointment to me was the anti climatic cop chases. I 
 didn't like simply driving out of a circle and losing the pursuers... and I usually did it on foot 
 by taking alleys. 
  On the plus side, GTA 4 has some impressive voice acting. Never did I feel like I was constantly 
 in a tunnel like the previous installments. It also is very pretty looking, which it should be 
 since its on a next generation console and all. Its almost just as fun shooting people as it is 
 admiring the scenery. Another bonus is that GTA offers tons of stuff to do, various minigames, 
 and interesting reactions to real life situations. 
  The multiplayer is fun, but there's certainly better ones out there. The lock on capability really 
 makes combat pointless... whoever fires first wins, and it really feels like there's no actual 
 combat, just whoever sees who first. 
  Anyway, I'm sure GTA4 will appeal everyone who was looking forward to it and fans of previous games. 
 But for those who were never really the thrilled by it, you'll probably have the same reactions 
 I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  GTA4 - aka - GTA3 WITH BETTER GRAPHICS, but weaker story.
  
  Sure enough, same as GTA3, i now have loads of money, but NOTHING to spend it on! 
  There is 
 nothing to do outside of the main missions. You just wander the streets aimlessly, because the 
 truth is if you have ever played the other GTA's theres nothing new here.
  
  Sure the physics and graphics and small little details are wonderful. But this reiteration Rockstar 
 have stripped it down, and not really added anything new to the experience.
  
  This game no way deserves a 10......
  
  I cant help but feel that by this stage in GTA's lifespan, 
 you should be thrown into a city, and left to climb to the top anyway you see fit. Whether thats 
 recruiting gang members, robbing shops / banks, taking down rivals. It would have been more fun 
 to build your 'own' criminal Empire from scratch.... Surely thats the way they should have gone 
 to create the 'new' GTA experience
  
  More over Rockstar, having left out so much content from GTA: SA, they have made it more like a 
 suped up version of GTA3... Infact that is exactly what it feels like, that your reliving GTA3 
 with better graphics etc.... Wheres all the new features and content??
  
  
  The multi-player is BRILLIANT! Which begs the question? WHY NOT FULL CO-OP?!!! If Saints Row 2 
 is fully CO-OP why not GTA?
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  I give this game a 6.. 
  
  If this were the first game, and there had never been any previous Grand Theft Auto's before, then 
 id give it a 9, as it would be an all new experience. 
  
  As it stands - we've all stalked these same streets, killed innocents and rumbled with the Law, 
 many many times before. GTA's formula is getting old, and the fact that Rockstar chose to strip 
 it down further since we were last in San Andreas seems a bold design choice at first; but one 
 that leaves the player with a decidedly downsized piece of gameplay pie.
  What we are left with is a beautiful engine, everything is where it should be and feels right. 
 The combat is much improved, the driving takes a while to get used to but once mastered is great, 
 this game plays very well. 
  
  But..
  
  When the smoke clears and the lights of liberty city start to dim, your left walking the streets 
 thinking theres not really alot to do here. I wonder what the weathers like in San Andreas..?
 
  
  
  
  Should have been so much more. 
  
  I noticed that some disagree with this review, but if we stop and think, whats is actually new 
 to the GTA franchise in this game? Not alot. Even if this game plays better than all the other 
 Gta's, it still adds nothing new.
  
  A 6 is above average, and not a bad mark. This game just aint revolutionary. period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedbilal1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was a game which had a lot of potential. It was hyped more than any other game 
 in the gaming industry and all of us had our fingers crossed for another new sequel in this open 
 world crime type game. The question is... did the game live up to its hype or potential? Did Nico 
 Bellic really squared off against CJ and Tommy Vercetti and emerged out as the victor? Is GTA IV 
 the best game in the franchise? The answere is yes. And u better believe it cuz if u dont, u are 
 gonna miss something really really big.
  
  I am damn sure that right know, Saint rows developers would be biting their heads and chewing their 
 nails cuz i m quite sure they wont be able to make a game better than this one even if they have 
 to wait for 10 years. This is because Gta IV is an excellent game with an excellent story line.. 
 It is fueled with the technology of the next genration consoles and the dynamic cutscenes occasionally 
 triggered in the excellent gameplay further add to this amazing experience. 
  
  As the game begins, we find ourselves as Nico Bellic, a guy who has come to New York city to live 
 the american dream. He is met by his cousin Roman who assists him in his new life. Things are not 
 as Nico had imagined as he is faced with millions of problems while adjusting in his new life. 
 He is hired by different criminal societies littered in the vast cities and is forced to do their 
 dirty work to live the american dream. 
  
  So much for the story. The game works pretty much like its predeccssors. The basics are quite the 
 same. You can steal cars and go to different areas of the cities. Apart from doing missions, u 
 can also involve yourself in certain side missions like working as a police officer or a fire fighter. 
 However this time, you cannot work as a medic. Nico can change clothes from different shops and 
 a wider variety of clothes are avaliable including different body accessories like bands, sneakers 
 etc...
  
  There are also different restaurents in the city which not only provide with fast food like burgers 
 but also with sodas, drinks, hot dogs etc.... You can go out with your friends either for eating, 
 to a snooker club, a bowling place or just to hang out watching plays in a drama theatre or cinema. 
 All of this is highly entertaining. You will occasionly get phone calls from your friends who will 
 not only give you missions but also ask out to different places.
  
  Your mobile phone plays an important role here. Not only your friends can call you but you can 
 also call them. You can chat with them or ask them tiny services. For example, you can ask Roman 
 for a car service whenever you like. You wil often recieve text messages from your friends regarding 
 missions which is a neat feature.
  
  Apart from restaurants, the city also has internet hotspots which impressed me a lot. You can log 
 on to the internet and contact your friends via emails. Not only that but you can browse different 
 websites which becomes quite handy in the later parts of the game. I do not wish to spoilthe game 
 for you and so the websites and what do they offer remains a secret which you would pretty much 
 enjoy when you play the game later.
  
  I was a little dissappointed when I saw that statistics like muscle and fat were excluded from 
 GTA IV. It was a neat feature in GTA SAN ANDREAS but was excleded in gta 4 for some unknown reason. 
 Features like car washing and pay n spray (much of the same thing really0 make a return in GTA 
 IV.
  
  The main story of the game is round about of 30_35 hours. The side missions provide double the 
 amount of gameplay so it is quite a lengthy game though shorter than its prequels. The difficulty 
 is just right. In between the missions, u are occasionally required to shoot and the shooting concept 
 has been changed a lot.
  
  First, if you want to buy weopens, big huge shops having the words ammo have been demolished and 
 instead, underground weopen shops have been introduced adding to realism. The weopen shooting has 
 now shift to an easier one where auto aims is used yet you can target different parts of your enemies. 
 This, hence, adds a lot of variety.
  
  The story is deep and you will enjoy every moment of it. There are some missions which are quite 
 frustratingand which take several tries but it all comes out well and good in the end. 
  
  The graphics of this game, as I have mentioned before, are excellent. Try to go near the sea and 
 shoot with an SMG and u will be amazed at how the water reacts. There are minor glitices in this 
 game but the highly enetertaining gameplay makes up for these minor graphical errors.
  
  I just have one grudge against the developers. That is the presise reason of why i didnt give this 
 game a 10 out of 10. Handling of a car has been made difficult and sometimes, the braking system 
 makes u feel as if u are playing Forza motorsport 2. In the beggining, i occasionly got my car 
 crashed in the corners and had to fail certain missions which was quite frustrating.
  
  No game is perfect. There is always always always..... room for improvement. That is why I have 
 not and will never give any game a 10 out of 10. Well, that was for the review.
  
  Oh yeah, i fogot to mention about the multiplayer. I have to admit that I have not played the multiplayer 
 myself cuz I never had an Xbox live account though I have heard high praises from my friends about 
 it. Perhaps I would have given this game a higher score had i played the multiplayer.
  
  Alright. So that was for the review and that was my honest opinion about this game. See ya!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinochild
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I am a PC guy. I haven't owned a console since the days of N64 and even then, it was my younger 
 stepbrother's. But hearing so much about this game and its revolutionary story telling, I felt 
 I couldn't wait for the PC version. I had to pick up an XBOX 360 and experience it for myself. 
 Unfortunately for me, I haven't found it to be so revolutionary. Fortunately for you, I'm going 
 to explain to you why it isn't and how it could have been in the hopes that future generations 
 will benefit and get to experience the fun of paying for lap dances and killing cops in a game 
 story that actually works.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is my first GTA game. I've heard about how open GTA is  how much there is for your character 
 to do  and I have to say, I am unimpressed. Would it kill them to add a few more buildings for 
 me to enter or things to buy? Where is the interactive world? All these buildings are dead. I can't 
 even decorate my own pad. Even copies of clothing stores would have been nice. The only thing there 
 is to spend my money on is clothes, food, and weapons. I can't even go legit and buy a car from 
 a dealer. Instead, I've got to steal one from the Turismo dealer every 8 hours. You'd think they'd 
 just donate one to me after seeing my face so many times. It would be nice if maybe changing my 
 clothes would do something beyond impress my girlfriends  like maybe, reducing my wanted level 
 (if the wanted level ever stuck around long enough to really matter) . The lack of depth to the 
 game is disappointing. 
  
  Anyway, other people who have played the other GTAs have a better idea of what's wrong and what's 
 right with this game in the features department. Let's take a good long look at story.
  
  Tale of Revenge
  
  After we finally find out what Niko's true goal is  not that he's come 
 to Liberty City to make a new life for himself, but that he's here looking for the guy that betrayed 
 him way back when - we need to see Niko actually pursuing that goal. The very few times this goal 
 is even mentioned in the cinematics, Niko claims he's just 'making money' until he can find the 
 guy. We don't even find out Florian's name until what must be half way through the game or more. 
 And then he's not even the right guy. Florian's name should be one of the first things we hear 
 out of Niko's mouth and we should be hearing it often otherwise, we're not really driven to do 
 anything. My initial experience in the game  before I knew I was supposed to continually go see 
 Roman or that I was actually searching for Florian - was 'wtf do I do now?'
  
  That said, we don't even need this backstory. The entire backstory is there as a build up to a 
 climax  the climax being our decision whether or not to kill Darko, the guy that betrayed us (if 
 it's there to give our character motivation it's wasted because it's seriously under utilized) . 
 When we see how pathetic Darko is, it's a tough decision to kill him. I assume most will let him 
 go. At least, I assume that's what the writers wanted. I think most of us would let him go because 
 he's never done anything to us, the player, and so we have no emotional reason - we have no motivation 
 - to want to kill him. 
  
  The character we want to kill is Dmitri. Here's an example of something done right. We work with 
 this guy. He screws us over, attacks our friends. The writers did a great job here stirring up 
 an emotional response in the player with regards to Dmitri. There's nothing I would like more than 
 to go find him and kill him. Rather than this artificial backstory TELLING us what we want to do, 
 here's an example of the writers making us feel it. 
  
  The current story structure fails to give us any kind of closure. Firstly, taking revenge on Pegorino 
 is next to meaningless since we don't really have much history with him. If this is the ending 
 we get, that represents the third time we go after someone to avenge a wrong since by this point 
 we've already had the opportunity to kill Darko and we've already killed Dmitri. The writers obviously 
 want this story to be a tragedy given Niko's closing remarks in both endings, but the pain of it 
 all is that after establishing the fact that we get to make key decisions in the game on whether 
 or not to kill certain people, we don't get this opportunity at what is arguably the most important 
 story beat of the game  the last one. (Actually, the most important story beat was whether or 
 not we killed Darko as I've already said and will talk more about later) . Of course, we all want 
 to exact revenge at this point because we have no reason, no motivation not to, which is why I'm 
 arguing that the writers (or the producers or the GTA 4 team in general) failed in delivering a 
 good story, let alone a revolutionary one.
  
  Here's the problem. The arc of Niko's character is that he's come to Liberty City looking for revenge 
 and then grows beyond the need for it, letting the guy from his past live, followed immediately 
 by a mission that negates that character growth  exacting revenge on Dmitri (and then possibly 
 again with Pegorino) . It's dramatically incorrect. Any closure we as a player got to feel by letting 
 Darko live is lost when Dmitri shows up again and we go and kill him (or Pegorino) . If the writers 
 felt the absolute need to include this backstory at all, at the very least it should have been 
 the last mission (and ideally, contained some sort of reward) . Alternately if we chose to kill 
 Darko, then I guess the story as it stands does kind of work as a tragedy, but it would still be 
 stronger if Darko was the last beat, and I'm willing to bet even more players would chose to let 
 Darko live at this point.
  
  Ideally the backstory with Darko is removed entirely and we get to experience Dmitri's betrayal 
 ourselves  backstory not required. Dmitri killing Roman and/or Kate would be moved to the midpoint 
 of the game and then by the time we finally track him down, Dmitri's become the pathetic wretch 
 that Darko was. THEN we have a REAL decision to make. After all Dmitri did to us, it would be a 
 real emotional conflict whether or not to kill him when we see how pathetic he'd become. 
  
  The key to creating that conflict would be making us know and feel how pathetic he was, likely 
 through a series of missions where we see and learn about the tragedies that have befallen Dmitri 
 since he betrayed us. We may have also already had the opportunity to take revenge on Pegorino 
 for something and perhaps taking revenge caused us some sort of pain (one of Pegorino's goons came 
 to avenge his boss or something  a lesson in what an-eye-for-an-eye philosophy amounts to) . There 
 would also likely be some aspect of our own lost 'soul' we've given something up in order to pursue 
 this revenge (give up a relationship with Kate to avenge Roman or vice versa, similar to what they 
 do with your decision to kill Dmitri or go for the money) . We would get that relationship back 
 by not exacting revenge (happy ending) or lose it forever if we take revenge (tragedy) . Structuring 
 the story that way wouldn't be revolutionary either, it would just be good, satisfying story telling 
  something we've yet to see in a game in my opinion.
  
  Friends and Girlfriends
  
  I think this aspect of the game is a really cool idea  developing relationships with the npcs 
 makes you actually care what happens to them. The trouble is, other than perhaps with Roman and 
 Jacob, the relationships are not developed beyond a most rudimentary level. Where are the missions 
 with your friends? Once someone becomes your friend it means your meaningful interaction with them 
 is over. All that's left is pool and darts. Why doesn't Dwayne actually take over the strip club 
 and start becoming a major player that needs my help from time to time? Why doesn't Kate call me 
 to help her out with her drunk brother? Why doesn't Carmen call me to take care of some creepy 
 stalker? Also, if I'm supposed to value my relationship with Kate above that of Kiki or Carmen, 
 why wouldn't they give me a special ability with Kate??
  
  Rather than taking the time to write side missions that involve stopping on the side of the road 
 to talk to a stranger, and then do some meaningless task with them (why exactly am I taking this 
 drunk divorce home??) , the writers and designers could have devoted more energy into enriching 
 the depth of experience with the characters I was invested in.
  
  Clich Characterization
  
  So part of GTA's thing is that they want to use stereotypical character 
 archetypes. Fine. My problem is that the archetypes they've used are simply poor copies of things 
 they must have seen in something like Goodfellas i. e. they're not clichd enough. If you're going 
 in this direction, go all the way. Why not make Packie drunk-call me at 4am and need me to pick 
 him up out of a gutter somewhere? If I go out drinking with him, he should start a fist fight with 
 me and if I knock him out, he becomes a better friend. Why not have him make the two of us do a 
 heist while drunk? These are characterizations that would make Irish people angry, but if this 
 is what you're going for, then go for it. 
  
  I would also argue against Rockstar's 'it's a stereotype' defense in this area, since the treatment 
 of Niko and many of the characters in this story are done with care and depth that makes the shallow 
 characters stand out as the exceptions rather than the rules. The odd clichd characteristic thus 
 comes off as laziness and poor writing rather than as purposeful characterization.
  
  Dialogue and Voice Acting
  
  Much of the early dialogue and voice acting is very well executed. 
 I found once I got to the mobster parts of the game, the cinematics got less interesting. I'm not 
 sure if it's because it was a different writer, there was less time spent on it, or I was just 
 getting bored with it all. Overall though I'd give the dialogue a B+ or even an A-. 
  
  All except for any of the dialogue for any female in the game. There is a jarring tone shift between 
 the realistic male characters and their speech and anything that comes out of the mouth of one 
 of your potential girlfriends or strippers that undermines any sense of immersion created by the 
 earnest lines and voice acting from Roman, Packie, Playboy X etc. Even the 'stereotyping' defense 
 doesn't work here. The lines are delivered with a 'you seriously want me to say this?' attitude 
 which is well deserved. It's like the actress and voice over director were secretly rolling their 
 eyes at each other. If the designers didn't want us to take getting a lap dance or having sex with 
 our date seriously, why did they include it at all? If it's for humor, then my suggestion is that 
 next time they don't forget to make it funny. 
  
  Open World and Nonlinear Story
  
  I'm starting to get the impression that next to no one in the game industry understands what the 
 word nonlinear means. I'm not sure if Rockstar claims their story is nonlinear, but I've seen enough 
 reviewers talk about it with this and other games that I think a lesson is in order. 
  
  Nonlinear story means jumping from story beat to story beat without the context of what has come 
 before and no effect on what comes after. Linear = A B C D E. Nonlinear = C B E D A. Clearly, it 
 would be extremely difficult to follow such a randomized narrative. Films like Run Lola Run or 
 Memento are sometimes classified as nonlinear, but they aren't truly so. Run Lola Run's structure 
 is something like A B C B D B E. Memento's could be written E D C B A. These films retain enough 
 narrative structure that we can follow the story - beginning middle and end. But, while films like 
 Memento and Pulp Fiction are presented in an unconventional way, the stories they tell are still 
 linear because they follow a character's journey. Story by definition must be linear  beginning 
 middle and end  however it is delivered or it doesn't work as a story. 
  
  Most games that claim nonlinearity are A -B C D- E where the B C D and to some extent E can be 
 done in any order or even left out entirely. Again, it's easy enough to figure out the story, even 
 if rather than E you have En (where n = some number of different possible endings  in any case, 
 they're all endings) . The challenge is writing the B C D and E beats such that they take into account 
 what beats the player has hit including beats they may not have completed yet. In that sense many 
 games are similar to some degree to the structure of Run Lola Run where there may be many possible 
 threads each leading to a different ending. So, they are multi-threaded rather than nonlinear. 
 
  
  In GTA 4, you start with the A beat. To some degree the B C and D beats are there for you to experience 
 whenever you want, but the kicker is that you MUST experience them all, or at least there are some 
 serious bottlenecks. If you don't want to get on a motorbike and chase down some biker that's dating 
 some guy's daughter, too bad. You have to  and you have to successfully - if you want to move 
 the story forward. If two brothers approach you and each asks you to kill the other and you decide 
 to kill both, too bad. You didn't experience the beat as it was supposed to be done. Try again. 
 And although you're occasionally given the option to kill or not to kill (and this is where people 
 jump up and down and incorrectly say 'See? It's nonlinear!') it's not always the case. In a game 
 that's supposed to be one of the ultimate titles in open world gaming, your freedom is seriously 
 limited. 
  
  So, what game developers actually mean when they say that their story is nonlinear is that the 
 player can do 'other stuff' between experiencing beat A and beat E: potentially, the player could 
 follow one of multiple threads to come to either the same ending or a unique one. Yes, they can 
 do any of the beats in any order, and that to some degree is nonlinear, but they must experience 
 each beat as a linear story with its own beginning middle and end or it's not a story. The trouble 
 I see with most games that tackle multiple threads is that the threads rarely affect each other. 
 Each thread has its own path that doesn't really affect anything else in the story i. e. you're 
 still going to end up at E no matter what you do. 
  
  Take a look at the decisions you get to make in GTA 4. You get the choice of killing Playboy X 
 or killing Dwayne. This choice gives only the illusion of multi-threaded story because there are 
 no story consequences to the action. Yes, you get a 'special ability' with Dwayne and can play 
 pool with him, but it has no tangible effect on anything else in the game. And killing Dwayne doesn't 
 mean Playboy X opens up new avenues to you to find Florian and/or Darko. 
  
  No matter what you do in the game, so long as you actually do the missions, you find the guy you're 
 looking for. Whether you kill Dmitri or take the money, you still end up on a final mission of 
 revenge  it's just a different character you're out to kill (E1 versus E2) . Character wise, it's 
 the same beat  Niko taking revenge on someone - just at the end of a different thread. 
  
  And that's actually a good thing because the trouble with multiple endings (or branching storylines) 
 is that every ending needs a beginning and there is usually only one perfect ending to a beginning. 
 Some might argue there are two  a happy ending (drama) and an unhappy one (tragedy) , but in a 
 drama a character will at some point realize they're 'wrong' and start changing their behaviour 
 before the end (e. g. Groundhog Day) , whereas in a tragedy, the character continues down a road 
 to oblivion (e. g. Hamlet) . Imagine what kind of story Groundhog Day would be if Bill Murray's character 
 never decides to take up piano or change flat tires. Stories like those you might find James Bond 
 in don't feature a character change, but he gets the bad guy in the end. Regardless of how many 
 different ways he does that, it's the same character beat  he accomplishes his goal. And regardless 
 of how many possible endings you include, you're limited in constructing endings that make sense 
 because you can only have one beginning.
  
  So, what GTA 4 has done right is they've crafted a strong setup to a story and managed to maintain 
 the same dramatic story beats across different threads. The problem is that they end their story 
 on the wrong beat. If they had only paid a little more attention to Niko's arc, made him more overt 
 in his attempts to accomplish his goal of finding those who betrayed him, and ended the story with 
 his final decision to kill or not to kill a character both he and the player have grown to hate, 
 I'd say this would be one of the most well crafted stories I've seen in a game. Unfortunately it 
 falls short because of these basic story telling flaws. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Mataeus
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is, essentially, a boring game to play after the novelty of the first ten hours or so has 
 worn off. By then, you've seen everything the game has to offer - And I mean everything. You've 
 trapped a coppers hand in a car door and dragged him off, you've headshot someone and seen them 
 fall to the floor, you've hot wired a car, used an internet dating service, gotten pissed off with 
 your friends calling you every ten damn minutes to go 'Bowleeein, Couseeen' and you've done the 
 umpteenth 'Drive to destination, target runs off, you chase and kill him' copycat mission. I think 
 that's the main problem with the game - it's not actually much fun to progress with, going through 
 it I find on the whole very tedious. I love the actual city, I look at places like Middle Park 
 and little hidy-holes in Alderny and I to be there in the game, enjoying it. Visiting the ponds 
 and little parks, the hidden spots. It makes me want to be there, exploring it. But it's as if 
 I am being held back from enjoying the aspect that I wish to enjoy: I want to do the above, but 
 it's just not interesting to do so. The only thing I can keep my eye open for is a **** pigeon, 
 and they are a **** idea anyway compared to more solid, traditional hidden packages. I thought 
 the tags in San Andreas were worse than the packages, but the pigeons are way off the mark.
  
  So, as I say, when I'm sat looking at the game in all it's hi-def glory, sun slowly setting 
 reflecting off the bonnet of my Stallion, I to go places in the game, see all the detail like peoples 
 houses and back gardens and drives, but there's no point because there's nothing to do when you 
 get there. Nothing. I think one of the best features the series has seen, aside from playing the 
 gangs off each other in GTA 2 which was the most awesome thing ever, was the ability to rob peoples 
 houses in San Andreas! Although it was false in a way, the way it was designed made you feel as 
 though every building in the game was open to you - and now here we are, back to buildings being 
 the sandbox equivalent of crates in FPS games - they're only there to stop you from taking a direct 
 route to your goal and making the world a bit more interesting to look at. The houses and offices 
 in GTA IV may as well be walls of lead.
  
  So, to summarise: The design of the city makes you want to explore it, especially the neighbourhoods 
 in Alderny (great detail like the abandoned buggies in the park) but there's no ambition in me 
 to bother doing so, as I know there's nothing cool, secret or hidden to uncover. Just objects to 
 look at, and not even unique ones at that.
  
  Rockstar need to prioritise: When a company spend more time and effort into writing a Next-Gen 
 sim into a sandbox-criminal game that could do with some really cool content (like properties and 
 assets, a sense of progression on a personal level) then there's something wrong. It's as if they 
 spent a year making the best city possible, then sat down and thought "Hey, let's make the characters 
 be able to go out drinking together! Hey, let's be able to pick up women on line! Hey, let's be 
 able to go 'Bowling, cousin!'" and didn't have any time left in which to write missions that are 
 fun to play (remember riding up an elevator in a motorbike to leap over rooftops with the ultimate 
 aim of projecting a pair of 50 foot boobs onto a building in VC?) and content that actually makes 
 you want to keep on playing.
  
  Rockstar: We don't want to babysit friends, go **** bowling with our idiot cousin or look after 
 clingy lawyer girlfriends! We want to be able to have !
  
  And if you held back on the content for deliberate drip-feeding by downloadable content just to 
 eventually give us THE SAME STUFF WE HAD BEFORE ONLY NOW IN HI-DEF, then more the shame on you.
 
  
  x Mataeus x
  (friend requests from intelligent people only please... No 'N00bs' or 'Pwn'ers or any of that none-English 
 pre-school bull****) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I just can't say enough about Grand Theft Auto IV. It's stunning, fantastic and a classic. I have 
 played San Andreas, Vice City and GTA 3 but this installment I have played through the end. You 
 play as Niko, a Russian bad ass, who comes to live with his cousin Roman in Liberty City. Of course 
 Liberty City is basically New York City just with a different name (if you didn't know that... wow) . 
 Just like the others, you go and shoot your way to get money. Niko is all about the cash though. 
 He needs it badly. I don't want to give out too much information on the game because that is just 
 spoiling. Grand Theft Auto IV also has over a dozen different types of ranked matches on the 360 
 and PS3. You basically can't get too much of this game. It is simply that good. It will take you 
 a minimum of thirty hours to complete. That stops the campaign then you can roam the city, looking 
 for some girls, play pool, darts or go to a strip club OR shoot the cops for the fun of it. The 
 Grand Theft Auto series has always impressed their fans especially to me as a new fan to the series, 
 I look playing and finishing the other installments before GTA V comes out in the next four years. 
 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SickNastySick
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that i love the GTA series. My expectations were set high for the new installment, 
 a little to high as it seems. Yes the game has good graphics and handles well. But this is what 
 i expected.
  
  NEXT GEN CONSOLE = Great graphics
  
  ROCKSTAR = Solid controls and good story line
  
  So i set out with certain expectations in 
 mind and found out how short the game came to meeting my expectations. GTA Liberty City is a perfect 
 title for this game because its basicly like its predecessor. All you do in this game is run missions 
 to increase someone elses criminal influence. For now lets just do some comparison with only the 
 last installment of the series and the newest one since this is the game that got my hopes up. 
 In GTA San Andreas you got to actually build your criminal empire and run missions to increase 
 your influence in the criminal community. This is totally absent in GTA4, the closest you come 
 to having a criminal empire, is your cousins taxi bussiness. All you are left with is missions 
 that do nothing but move the storyline along and leave you with a fat bank account. Which brings 
 me to my next point. What am i suppose to spend my money on exactly? I came to the end of the game 
 and found that i had all this booty and nothing to spend it on. Also they did away with ability 
 to increase your skill with different weapons and increasing your lung and running capacity, this 
 added alot to the series in helping people feel like they are building something unique. In San 
 Andreas you got to customize your rides, i remember there was never enough garage space to hold 
 all the cars that i customized. This was a great addition to the game so why did they do away with 
 it. San Andreas also had a plethora of ways that you can make your character uniqe tattoos, clothes, 
 hair style, facial hair, accessories, jewlery, even your weight. The whole time i played i was 
 expecting any of these great things to be unlocked after the next mission. I was sadly mistaken 
 when i came to the end and found that none of this was available. San Andreas even had different 
 areas that felt truly different then each other (city, country towns, hill billy huts, las vegas) 
 in GTA4 all i got was a remake of liberty city, dont get me wrong the city looks gorgeous but once 
 again it fell short of expectations. Another huge problem with this game is that you dont have 
 your own little stooges that follow you around and help you annihalate the competition or murder 
 police officers, WHY!!! This WAS the greatest addition that was brought into the GTA world. This 
 detracts from drive bys and i guess since you dont build an empire you dont really need soldiers 
 because there is nothing to protect or attack. Enough comparions lets move on to the simple ups 
 and downs of the game itself. 
  
  The missions that are suppose give you some options and leave you with the feeling that you truly 
 had a choice in the matter is a joke. All they do is give you one of two options to choose from 
 which boils down to what character you want to kill and which one you want to save. At the end 
 of the mission it doesent really matter who you save or kill because both of the characters parts 
 in the plot are finished and you wont here from them again unless you want to take them on a date 
 or give them a phonecall. The driving controls were a little loose also, i found myself taking 
 a taxi cab everywhere just because i didnt want to drive myself and power slide into everything 
 i see. The camera does a medicore job in the game for one reason is that in close quarters there 
 is some problems with wanting to see in the area that you need to, but this dosent happen very 
 often. Also the camera angles while driving the car is a little tricky, you have to move the camera 
 around a turn to see what you are turning into, after a little practice this is not a big problem.
 
  
  The taxi cab is a nice addition to the game as well as the cell phone and being able to surf the 
 net. There is alot of taxis in the city and they can take you anywhere that you need to go and 
 take a friend with you if you want. The cell phone is an awsome addition. The restart mission option 
 that you get from the cell phone is also a nice addition. After spending a couple of minuetes surfing 
 the net i found that it wasnt used for much more then checking my meaningless email and gettting 
 good laughs out of different ads on the web. There was alot of potential in this but it wasnt really 
 fleshed out. Something i would of liked to do was commit a some cyber crimes. Another good thing 
 this game offers is the special abilites you gain from your friends after they like you enough. 
 The online game is medicore there could of been more done like adding a lobby where you can team 
 up with random people for a bit of random fun. This was a great game but its not as epic as i thought 
 it could of been. Better luck next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Where to start with GTA IV??? Well first of all, Game of the Year? Gears of War 2 could beat it. 
 Not really up to date with the PS3 scene...
  The amount of detail Rockstar have put into the game. GTA III, Vice City and San Andreas should 
 feel a little jealous of IV. It almost as if Rockstar decided this was it's favourite baby and 
 was going to care for it the most. From the cracks in the pavement to the chatter on the street. 
 When people sayGo on, Liberty City is waited for you", it isn't waiting for you, it's already 
 going about it's own business. The newest addition to GTA is the mobile. Rockstar have placed a 
 lot of emphasis on the phone and how it works it the game. It works perfectly. You can ring up 
 a friend ask them for a drink, have a proper conversation that is never the same them take them 
 back home. You can tell your cousin Roman what is happening in Niko' s life right now. it just 
 all comes together. When you consider that you can go anywhere, the graphics are stunning. Fly 
 over Liberty City at night and you'll find your self stunned with awe. Rockstar have done so well 
 in making you feel for a person that is a few pixels on a screen. It's almost as if your living 
 the American Dream with Niko. Sharing every high and low. You'll come to think of Niko's friends 
 as your friends. Maybe having your favourites, as each has a completely different personality. 
 You're sitting, watching your screen watching this story unfold, wondering who could desert you 
 next, or who could save your ass. Rockstar have kept with their tried and trusted formula, invoving 
 a rags to riches tale. It happened to Tommy Vercetti. It happened to CJ Johnson. Now it will happen 
 to NIko Bellic. It also keeps the same mission structure. Most of the time, you'll walk in somewhere, 
 some guy high on drugs will scream at you that someone is pi**ng him off and he wants you take 
 him out. It works fine and somehow never gets boring. If you don't feel like doing missions, Liberty 
 City is brimmming with things to do. You can ring up a friend and take them darts, a game of pool, 
 Helicopter Tour, bowling and many other things. The driving has been greatly improved with cars 
 having a more satisfactory weight, Niko is more aware of his surroundings than his predessors. 
 He can now take cover behind practically anything in the city. It is relatively problem-free but 
 will have u swearing at your TV from time to time. The thing that seperates it from the earlier 
 GTA's is the use of Xbox LIVE. The multiplayer is crazy. You can just have 16 players running around 
 Liberty City. Or have scenarios and like Cops 'n' Crooks and more. It is just game that you will 
 play for a long time. A game that is brimming with life ( till you start getting bored) and things 
 to do. A game that has surpassed all expectations. A true gem of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfur33
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  I played one of the GTA's on PS2 back in the day and I must say, I didn't like it at all. I didn't 
 like the gameplay, the content, or the story. I was hesitant to buy this one because I knew it 
 would be a bad game. But I picked it up and I must say, it is a lot of fun. It is nice to have 
 it on the 360 because the graphics are pretty good. It's not a graphical masterpiece, but with 
 the vast environment it shouldn't be expected. The best part about the game is the gameplay. It 
 is easy to move, drive, shoot, take cover, fly, etc. The combat is really fun, the cars are fun 
 to drive, the helicopter is a blast to fly, and blowing stuff up has never been better. I won't 
 pretend to tell you this game is perfect. It really isn't. The game can't refresh as fast as you 
 can move. Sometimes you get stuck on objects. Sometimes the AI is stupid. But it is very, very 
 fun! The freedom is great, the story is pretty good, the characters are interesting and Niko is 
 great. It is worth playing just to see the depth and the detail that was put into making this game. 
 I'd have to give it a 10 because of the overall package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irockandroll
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  One of the best 360 games to date. This fast paced crime game has almost everything you can pack 
 into a game of its kind. Open world single player and online multiplayer with a number of different 
 modes and single player missions make you keep playing and playing and playing. With a number of 
 side missions, friendship bonuses, backstabbing phsycopaths, murderous crime bosses and almost 
 anything else you could imagine. Liberty City truly does have something for everyone.
  
  
  "What I loved about it was the fact that its so long. Whenever you think you're going to beat 
 it, even more missions come out."- My brother Grant
  
  "BUY THIS GAME!!"- My friend Sammy
  
  "Freaking sweet! I seriously didn't think that this game 
 would live up to all of its hype, but it blew me away. I think it was better than people said it 
 would be."- My best friend Mikey
  
  "Grand Theft Auto 4 man... its SOOO sweet."- My friend Sindey
  
  "One of my favorite games 
 for the 360."-Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoloyal
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  i'm sure im not the only one who is sick of Gamespot kissing the a** of the developers of new games. 
 Yes, i know everyones a critic and my opinion is just another one in the pile but i felt i had 
 to say this in my review to try to prove that Gamespot has lost its way.
  The game is good ill give them that but it's not a 10.0 not even close, 10.0 means the game is 
 flawless has nothing wrong with it and fulfills each review criteria perfectly (cough windwaker 
 cough) GTA IV is not this type of game. you spend your time running around being low life criminals 
 B***H for the whole game... do this... do that. when you finally beat the game you are still Nico 
 Belic- Stowaway you don't rise to anything.. at all. In saints row when you finished the game you 
 had 3 mansions and a pimp suit, whats better than that! GTA IV's on line menu system is useless 
 so it already can't be a 10.0 and it keeps freezing its good but it only deserves an 8.0 at best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  After reading so many positive reviews you have to wonder why this game is praised as a "10". By 
 all means this game is terrific but to recieve a perfect score is a little too much. GTA4 recycles 
 a lot of the elements that make the series a hit but they also take out a few things. Little things 
 like less spaced out city (i. e. opposite SA) , no parachutes, minimized character customization, 
 and a few others reallty bring down the game. Considering that this game is supposed to live up 
 to the hype of the series it did a good job. In no way do i think this is the best in the series 
 . The content might be sugar coated with the new HD graphics but id still prefer some older game 
 material. GTA 4 falls short to SA in the end. What could have been a perfect game has a some stumbles 
 that turns it into a game that leves you with mixed reactions. Great game... but not a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _guenter_26
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I thought GTA4 was going to be like all of the others except with better graphics, well I was wrong. 
 The story is very good, you actually want to watch all of the cut sceens and listen to the phone 
 calls. The single player is the same for the most part in that you just kills people, but the story 
 enhances it to were it is enjoyable. The cell phone and GPS really help out the gameplay and the 
 cover system is good. I like haow they have cars that are more realistic in that they can be practically 
 be crushed and they resemble cars in real life. The music is alright but they do have some funny 
 stations and watching tv is awsome, my favorite show is Republican Space Rangers. the graphics 
 are good and not just good for a GTA game but good as in comparable to Rainbow Six Vegas, the water 
 is amazing and better than Halo3s water, lightin is as good as Halo3s if not a little better. People 
 look very good and the cars do too, the details are alright but the emincely tall buildings are 
 nice. Multiplayer is fun, but chaotic. My favorite mode is cdops and crooks and team deathmatch 
 is fun. Overall GTA4 delivers, it has a good story, singleplayer, graphics are good , and multiplayer 
 is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christianctc24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok this was a good game that every GTA fan should play. There were some minor things not put in 
 that would most defenatly been a perfect game. First one thing they left out where you buying houses 
 and apartments. I mean really at the end of the game you have 500k and dont know what to do with 
 it. Second thing was they left out the most common air vehicle of the series the dodo. The city 
 is big enough for them to put in the dodo. The final thing was they lack some of the equipment 
 like: parachute, night goggles, and heat goggles. So this was an excellent game, but it just lacked 
 some things.
  
  hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhh hhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunivianx
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  there is nothing special about it all it has is problems. this is my first gta and it is also my 
 last im selling it soon and i never want to be bothered with such a **** game again. the story 
 is nothing special u can choose who dies in the end and the characters are so lame and stale they 
 have no fun in there attitudes and this is why i have spent only six hours playing this wretched 
 game. i mean everyone hyped this game like halo and as a result it turned out terrible in every 
 catagory. People think this series is so special and it really isn't come on it is every other 
 open world game in existence. I think the sales shouldn't of been so great. Only complete garbage 
 games like this sell amazing and break many records. Now i have to look for another game for 360 
 probably gears 2 will be mad good but i learned from this don't listen to the hype surronding a 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  GTA IV was created to be the best and thats what it has accomplished. You will not find another 
 game out there in the works that will captivate you and move you like GTA IV. This game will keep 
 you entertained with its story and its massive multiplayer modes. The online community will be 
 alive for what seems to be forever since it is such a blast to play with others. The story is a 
 story you most likely will never forget especially since the game makes you forget your even playing 
 a game but watching a blockbuster movie. The game has absolutley no flaws to mention just a fine 
 piece of video development and worth every damn penny. RUSH OUT now and buy it and if you already 
 have it dont trade it in after the story is done there is much much more story coming down the 
 road via xbox 360 exclusive downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  8.3-because I'm less lazy than Gamespot reviewers that can't distinguish between an 8.3 and an 
 8.7
  
  Before I go off I want to say that GTA IV is a decent game. However that is where my rant begins, 
 because all of these game sites keep giving it a 10. This game should be somewhere between 8 and 
 8.7 as Saints Row was. This is no better than Saints Row and I would even argue that it may not 
 be as good as Saints Row. It just seems like to me this is a game that is receiving high scores 
 thanks to the ridiculously high amount of hype that it received. Perhaps I am wrong when I say 
 that a 10 game should be something that is so well done that there is nothing that you can point 
 out as a development flaw.
  
  This game has a large amount of developer flaws. For starters the animations are clunky and are 
 not good animations. They are decent enough to keep most "madden gamers" from noticing that they 
 are crappy, but not good enough for the game to be considered a 10. The easiest example of poor 
 animation and programming together is when you are at the first safe house, simply walk to the 
 railing at the top of the stairs until Nico puts his foot up in a Captain Morgan stance and just 
 stand there. When I did this on accident he started turning without me touching anything, until 
 he was turned far enough for his foot to go down into an idle stance. After seeing this wonderful 
 piece of game design, I decided to look around and see if I could break anything else in the room. 
 Walking to the left I found a cardboard box on the floor, which had the end folded up. Something 
 that would normally immerse the player in the game but when I walked over to the box I found that 
 I could walk on top of the box. When I walked on the flat part of the box nothing happened as it 
 should be, but when I walked towards the part of the box that was folded up Niko took a step up 
 and I was floating on top of a box that decided to not fold down when a 180 pound man was on top 
 of it. These are only the first two things that I noticed.
  
  The decision to simply tilt the axis that Niko is running on when he is turning and not doing another 
 animation was a poor decision. Also the running animation is not a very good animation. This is 
 something that you do a lot in GTA it should be a great animation.
  
  Again with the locking the islands off? Another thing that Saints Row did right that GTA ignored. 
 Opening the entire world from the fifth mission or so. Also don't drive fast cars, because the 
 textures and geometry won't load in time.
  
  I think that the larger problem here is that Rockstar North made a design decision to make GTA 
 IV more realistic than ever and span too many different areas. In my opinion this was a large error, 
 because it took the fun out of it for me. For example the driving is much more realistic than it 
 has been in any of the other games. If I want a driving sim, I'll buy a game that is a driving 
 sim. The first date to go bowling, I believe Saints Row 2 has already clowned them for that decision. 
  
  
  This is the most disappointed I have been with a game (considering the glowing reviews it's 
 been getting) since Over G Fighters and FIFA: Road to the World Cup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy10009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  As far as the "Next gen" graphics go, rockstar finally pushed it to the limit and made a snazzy 
 gta. graphics are smooth and clean, the story is pimpin', BUT unfortunatly i need to get the worst 
 things off my chest. for one, the weapon selection. it sucks. the clothing? it sucks. they give 
 you a choice to wear glasses or a hat.... but they only sell two types of each? at only one store?? 
 anyway, the only other thing arises the question "What the hell were you thinking, rockstar?" was 
 the stunt they pulled with the clothing stores. on the first island, theres one shop. and its simply 
 crap. on the second island. theres three shops. two of which are the EXACTLY same store, even run 
 by the same man with the same products and black bouncer guy, and they are only a few blocks away. 
 the other one is for preps/ grandfathers (dont really know how they managed to mix the two) . correct 
 me if im wrong, but i dont think i would ever see a Russian immigrant wearing trucker glasses, 
 a sweatwer vest and tennis shoes. finally, the third island is completly bare of any type of retail 
 store whatsoever...... thats just pitiful. but anyway, gta is run from one of the best physics engines 
 i've ever seen. including what is possible to do to your car, in terms of damage. The ragdoll is 
 both realistic and hilarious because they somehow masterd a body that still has characteristics 
 of an actual person. i mean, intead of flying at mach speeds, flailing around in rediculous circles 
 after getting nailed by a car, you would instead do a simpl flip and land on your side, listening 
 to poor niko groaning in pain. now the multiplayer is intresting. it was a good try.... it has many 
 strongpoints and weakpoints. its AWESOME to be able to have you and your friends freeroam the city, 
 but the in-ability to enter certian houses or purchase certian services, like food ect. again, 
 the weapon selection is **** and i think that cheats on freeroam should have been allowed. what 
 could be that harm? every game lags, but unfortunatly it turns out that gta is totally prone to 
 it online. to hear yoru friends screaming in excitement and laughing histarically from the stunt 
 he just pulled only makes you want to see what hes done, so when you catch a glimps of the man, 
 hes just sort of skipping across the ground/ air, appearing and dissaearing here and there and 
 then lands like an anvil. of course, the person who pulled the stunt has seen it perfectly. one 
 more thing i need to complain about, is the lack of chopper selection. it took me a whle to accept 
 the fact that we would no longer see planes in gta 4, but after i noticed theres only THREE types 
 of choppers? tw o of which are the same one, with a diffrent paint job? i nearly had a stroke. 
 but over all, yes, play this game. if you havent, then do. and if you have, then keep playing. 
 unfortunatly i use my reviews to complain about the bad. and i did again. just a word to the wise, 
 dont get excited to beat the game. NOTHING happens afterwards. ..... thanks for reading :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't see the hype. I'm not seeing it. I don't see why both Gamespot AND IGN have rated this 
 game a 10. I'm not even thinking an 8 would be a good score for this game. I just don't get it. 
 I don't see why people love running around a giant city hitting hookers with baseball bats, shooting 
 innocent pedestrians on the street, and raiding peoples cars. How is this garbage fun? This was 
 the fist game I have played in the Grand Theft Auto series. I had to check it out based on its 
 reviews it seemed like it was a damned good game, but there is no point. There, of course like 
 all bad games, is still some substance. It's occasionally fun to see a police car explode at the 
 firing of a gun, but I still don't see why so many people love this. I'm not hating it or trying 
 to create turmoil to anyone, I'm just disliking GTA4. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  In GTA IV you play as a 30 year old war hardened European male named Niko Bellic. At the begining 
 Nikos cousin sends all these stories about how life is good in America but then he figures out 
 nothing has changed. You then are forced to do dirty work for some higher people. You get alot 
 of different jonbs that requre harder work each time. It's basically be killed or kill in that 
 city.
  
  Alright don't get me wrong about the review deck I thought this game was awesome but once it got 
 to the part where you made it to the last island the buildup died. The begining was cool but then 
 once it made it there the missions became the same. Kill someone, avoid the cops, return something 
 that has been stolen or something you stole. There was hardly anything else besides going on dates 
 with girlfriends or taking a friend out to go drinking or something, or just shooting cops. It 
 all just seemed reptitie to me but I still thought it was a fantastic game that had featured many 
 different types of characters, a nice story plot, and many suspenseful moments that made you decide 
 their own fates. 
  
  Besides most of the reptitve moments in the story the games controls, graphics, and features were 
 fantatsic. The controls were very thought out for most situations like drving and flying helicopters, 
 graphics were astounding as the cars texture or even human textures we so different I was amazed. 
 to make a long review short this game was abosoutly fun and additcing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I like this game and would recommend it to any GTA fan, as there are many positive aspects to be 
 appreciated. I won't go over them as they are praised to no end, just go read all the tens given 
 at numerous sites. 
  
  Many things detract from an overall amazing experience after digging for more depth. Here's why 
 I'm scoring this a bit lower than I thought I would. As large and impressive as the city is at 
 first glance in GTAIV, it is relatively empty and there's pretty much nothing to do besides missions 
 that basically fall into four or five different types. It's a city with no soul and missions that 
 are just there to be filler to artificially make the game longer than it should be. There's many 
 forgettable and unnecessary characters, boring repetitive missions, so much money and nothing to 
 do with it, etc. I'll grant it's a technical marvel and gives off an enormous first impression..... the 
 attention to detail is simply amazing to behold.
  
  However, after a while it becomes apparent that it is shallow, tedious and a disapointment when 
 looked at for a deeper gaming experience. It needs more to do and more consequences for decisions 
 made. I hated being everyone's errand boy. I hated having to do fifteen missions to evolve the 
 plot a small bit. I wanted to run the city after a while..... to have my own pad to decorate and 
 store many cars and weapons. To live the American dream; what I thought the main focus of the game 
 would be in the end. Most of the time the rationale for doing missions was for money, yet early 
 on in the game you earn an enourmous amount from one particular mission and end up having nothing 
 to spend it on. The economy is completely unbalanced, and hence takes the motivation and drive 
 out of wanting to complete further missions. Things like that made no sense and made playing it 
 further on a bore, especially because most of the missions are just filler. I want to be having 
 fun, not feel like I'm playing a chore.
  
  This game is an eight or eight and a half, but in no way a nine or ten. I can't blame the reviewers 
 though for rating it as such as they would have been eaten alive and boycotted up the @$$ if they 
 had given it anything less. 
  
  So that's my take on it. A very good start and the new ground that has been laid by it's technical 
 feats has a large amount of potential for expansion in the future. Perhaps that's why it's so empty, 
 they needed to focus on the new engine. 
  
  It's fun for a while. 'Till the next one arrives.... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CY4N1D3_625
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the game that you play to let your creative juices flowing. Aside from the great storyline, 
 GTA4 is the most physics-enhanced free-roam games out there. Driving is much more realistic, with 
 body damage significantly impairing your driving ability (aside from getting trashed at the bar 
 and then making the audacious attempt of driving your date home before ultimately trying your luck 
 in the bedroom) and the new cover system makes shootouts feel much more real than in previous games, 
 although the system doesn't stack up against games like Gears of War or the Rainbow Six series. 
 
  Some things, however, are left to be desired that would have made GTA4 an even more enjoyable game. 
 Things such as destructible cover and/or buildings could have added a new dimension to the series. 
 All in all, GTA4 is an excellent game that is worth your money and is recommended to every gamer 
 out there. 
  
  CY4N1D3_625 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wombat_wacker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of potential with the backround of previous GTAs. In each instalment there 
 has been new features. There has been a steady increase in new features such as airplanes, weapons, 
 cars and abilities.
  
  Things removed from GTAVI
  Tanks, Police motorbikes, dual wielding, 2 types of machine gun, minigun, remote grenades, All 
 planes, rocket firing helicopters, All vigilante missions with rewards for completion, all hidden 
 packages, purchaseable properties, customisable cars, the wide variety of clothes, finding and 
 choosing a girlfriend, parachutes, grafiiti, gangs and gang warfare, bicycles, all melee weapons 
 except knife fists and bat, different fighting styles, gyms, haircuts, tatoos, hovercraft, Parachutes, 
 heat seaking rocket launcher, car bombs (I think) , what the hell rockstar why destroy so much good 
 stuff, 
  
  so what isleft? a long winding story with very similar missions
  
  Things added
  Personal mobile phone with radio
  multiplayer (good initially put very quickly 
 becomes repetitive)
  Sat nav
  cars get busted up with real detail ie bullet holes
  cool explosions
  physics on pedestrians
  pool, darts, watching tv (yay i cant do those at home)
 
  getting drunk (funny when you first try it)
  cover system
  changing weapons while driving throwing grenades out of windows
  
  Far more removed than added. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 IS ONE OF THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST MODERN ACTION ADVENTURE GAME EVER AND IN THIS NEW GTA 
 GAME YOU PLAY AS NIKO BELLEC A RUSION DUDE HES COOL AND THERS ALOT OF NEW 
  CARS GUNS AND FETURES LIKE THE CELL PHONE ATM'S COMPUTERS
  AND YOU CAN WATCH TV SHOWS THAT MAKE 
 FUN OF OTHER GAMES
  AND THE NEW SAVE FETURE ITS COOL YOU GO TO SLEAP 
  AND YOU CAN PARK YOUR CARS OUT SIDE KNOW AT FRONT OF YOUR HOUSE AND YOU CANE TAKE COVER WHEN YOU 
 ARE IN A WAR WITH COPS OR GANGS AND LOSEING THE COPS IS EASYER KNOW YOU JEST GO OUT OF THE CERCLE 
 OF LIGHTS ON YOUR MAP AND WAIT FOR 5 SECENDS AND THEY WILL GO AND YOU CANE STEEL BIG TRANSPORT 
 TRUCKS BY CLIMPING ON TOP OF IT AND KICKING FLYING THROUGH THE WINDOW AND POP THE GUY IN SIDE AND 
 YOU CAN HIGH JACK CARS THAT ARE ON THE SIDE YOU SMASH OUT THE WINDOW AND HOTWIRE IT ITS AWSOME 
 GAME I AM GOING TO MISS PLAYING WITH CJ/CARAL JONSON HE WAS COOL BUT THIS GAME BEATS ALL GTA GAMES 
 EVER BIG THANKS TO ROCKSTAR GAMES 
  AND GAMESPOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingfisher_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4, like all other GTA games, offers an almost unique free roaming experience. The series returns 
 and this time with fantastic graphics, and all new features (even if they are just the tiniest 
 of tweaks or additions) .
  The game has a captivating storyline and a likeable character aswell, but even though both are 
 excellent they are not the only good features.
  GTA is notorious for its excellent free roaming and this game is just the same. Now you can go 
 to so many more places and just the city itself feels like it has so much more depth. I could go 
 on endless listing all the good features of this game, but that would (eventually) become tedious.
 
  The only major downgrades that come to mind are the fact that there is no desert in this one, 
 no airplanes and a smaller arsenal (the beloved chainsaw for special occasions is gone) . Alot these 
 are quite signficant, that do no matter that much on the whole as there are so many extra positive 
 points that previous installments lacked. The game has a drastically revamped combat system with 
 involves over the shoulder shooting and now you can duct for cover. This adds more depth to the 
 gameplay and feel of the game where previous titles did not make it.
  GTA 4 is a must have for whatever console and if you have a wii, well then get an Xbox 360 or PS3, 
 because people are going to be talking and playing this game for quite some time and its not something 
 you want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringmemybow
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I was so excited like so many millions to get my hands on a copy of this game. it was something 
 i had been literally looking forward to for years, and i waited in line on the night of release 
 along with everyone else and played it solid for the next 48 hours.
  
  The graphics are amazing and the initial story line is fantastic, not only that but on the first 
 few days maybe even a week, i was phoning friends and bragging about what a great game it was and 
 how happy i was to own it.
  
  I am now its worst enemy. Like many people i know this game has got on my nerves beyond the point 
 of return. i hate the game. It is repetitive, it doesn't live up to the hype and i must go over 
 the top and give it the lowest score possible because i hardly hate any game as much now. I have 
 got to the second island and have no desire to continue. it is a chore and not one i want to involve 
 my self with. 
  
  The multilayer is fantastic and it deserves all its credit for that aspect, and that aspect alone. 
 I have never been more disappointed by a game generally though, than i am with GTA IV. If you want 
 a great online action game, this is it, if you want a solid single player game, stay AWAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  ~Intro~
  When a game this massive is released I'm usually as gitty as a school girl before the launch as 
 I presume most advent gamers are. Unfortunately, after spending hours upon hours running over pedestrians, 
 shooting criminals in the face and generally causing mayhem in the beautiful metropolis that is 
 Liberty City I can't help but be torn on my final feelings toward GTV IV. On one hand you have 
 a game that feels alive and kicking; city streets are filled with police officers; women and men 
 walk around with coffee and cell phones in hand. Citizens of LC convey purpose as they walk to 
 their local grocery store or work. Police officers will govern other citizens as oppose to just 
 focusing on you!! Yet, in the same notion, GTA IV feels as though it has taken a step back in some 
 areas. Though the story and city have obviously been expanded the gameplay seems shallow compared 
 to San Andreas. I understand Rockstar's explanation for Niko; he is a different character from 
 CJ, he can't be running around with a cowboy hat and heart shaped boxer shorts. He has a different 
 personality in a different city and time. That I can accept, what I can't accept is the RPG like 
 mechanics that were implement so beautifully in San Andreas being completely removed. Gameplay 
 wise, San Andreas was hurdles ahead of GTA 3 and Vice City; yet Rockstar decide to jump backwards 
 by making Niko's basic gameplay mechanics feel identical to Tommy and no name from 3. Aside from 
 that my other biggest gripe has to deal with money more on this in the gameplay department. I just 
 can't stand it when developers take two steps forward in one iteration but then decide randomly 
 that they need to take another three steps back for the sake of making it more appealing or whatever 
 lame excuse they give. 
  
  
  ~Features~
  Honestly the features in GTA IV are probably the biggest improvement overall. No only does this 
 game have its stellar single player campaign but also for the first time ever online play. Besides 
 those two major features 
  you have all the different little mini games within the single player game itself. For example, 
 you like racing well guess what there's a plethora of racing missions; like playing cops and robbers 
 well you can 
  hop into a paddy wagon and take down some bad guys. The online component has all these features 
 just that instead of playing around with the AI you can get in a game and play cops n' robbers 
 with annoying 13 year olds.
  
  
  ~Online~
  The online component as I touched upon earlier is basically the single player mentality with friends 
 instead of AI characters. The player naturally has a variety of gameplay types to play: racing, 
 cops n' robbers, deathmatch, and team deathmatch etcetera. The experience is relatively smooth 
 with only some minor lag. Unfortunately, most of the game types aren't necessarily that fun. Basically, 
 in any deathmatch type game each player starts out with a handgun and has to find the more powerful 
 weapons spread out ala Unreal Tournament style. Just like UR most people just camp the powerful 
 weapons which leads to a few individuals 
  having Assault rifles and RPGs and the rest having Uzi's. Though very fun and smooth: to enter 
 the multiplayer you just access your single player phone and pop right in. Online definitely adds 
 more value to the already action pack game; the benefit I see is for most GTA fans is when they 
 get burnt out trying to finish GTA IV they no have something else to enjoy. The problem is that 
 this online component isn't that important. It's like buying a cake and getting an added layer 
 of whip cream added on. A delicious welcome but it isn't going to make or break the overall taste 
 of the cake. The same mentality can be applied to GTA's online component: fun but isn't going to 
 really change your opinon of GTA.
  
  
  ~Story~
  The story in GTA IV is also very unique and a first for the boys at Rockstar. Instead of playing 
 a native to the great nation of America you instead step in the shoes of an immigrant from Eastern 
 Europe as he embarks on the American dream; which consist of murder, drug trafficking and prostitution. 
 Niko and his cousin Roman are again like the previous games very likable but still have that seperation 
 between reality and fantasy. Most people wont really relate to well with Niko because they've never 
 had the experience of living in a crappy country and viewing America as a safe haven. Again, like 
 previous iterations you will want to see what happens with these characters though you surely wont 
 want to immulate them in anyway. The supporting cast of characters that interact with Niko though 
 very stereotypical are quite interesting. Since it's set in modern time you of course have the 
 new powerhouse of mafiosos the Russians. I personally love the perspective Niko is given; he isn't 
 doing this for family or reputation, or trying to pay back a debt or escaping fresh out of prison. 
 No Niko is in America for answers and revenge. He doesn't have any problems admitting that he is 
 a crazied psychopath instead he acknowledges it by saying: "It's what I'm good at doing!!" Niko's 
 personality never stretches beyond what you would imagine even when things go astray. The story 
 definitely won't disappoint GTA fans, but again most people outside of this cult we called GTA 
 fans will probably just see the narrative as a massive stereotype that rewards violence.
  
  
  ~Gameplay~
  Ok, this is were the tossing and turning begins with GTA. Let me get one thing 
 straight right off the bat; currently on the 360 this is the best Action Adventure game. This previous 
 statement is based on gameplay alone. That being said this isn't necessarily the best GTA game 
 in the series. Unfortunately, the inevitable comparison between San Andreas and IV would probably 
 drive most gamers insane. I'll keep it short and sweet: GTA San Andreas still offers the best gameplay 
 in the GTA series. That's right, when it comes to fundamental gameplay mechanics San Andreas offers 
 it all. Let's look at the cold hard facts: 
  
  San Andreas - RPG-esque learning mechanics for swimming, driving, fighting and running speed, the 
 ability to modify CJ's body, the ability to use your in game money to buy up different businesses, 
 having to protect your given territories from gangs. 
  
  GTA IV - hand to hand combat is limited, Vice City style, no RPG-Esque elements to speak of, money 
 is useless. There is no buildings or businesses to buy; the only thing you can buy is clothing, 
 food and weapons and a new cover system and aiming system. 
  
  Ok so basically they had established an amazing set of gameplay mechanics and instead of continuing 
 their usual trend of pushing GTA games to the limit they went backwards? I know what all you bleeding 
 heart GTA fans are thinking... Everything else makes up for the subtraction of said 
  gameplay mechanics from San Andreas. To that I say why? Why remove mechanics that evolved your 
 game into one of the best selling games ever and opt to go backwards. 
  
  Enough of this Elitist GTA fanboy ranting lets take a more informative approach to GTA IV gameplay. 
 The biggest change to the already stellar gameplay (from Vice city) is an added cover system. This 
 system though 
  not perfect by any means provides dynamic cover during combat. Of course there's generic pillars 
 and crates to stand behind but the real funs comes when you drive a car straight into a war zone; 
 pop out and instantly take cover behind soon to be scrap metal car. Again, this makes GTA's gameplay 
 feel more realistic; whether or not that's a good thing will strictly depend on the player and 
 how they view GTA. For those of you like me that couldn't help but laugh at the gratuitous cartoony 
 violent from previous versions will likely laugh here as well, you'll just feel a bit bad for doing 
 it. Beside the new cover system lies a slightly improved aiming system; Niko has the ability to 
 have a Resident Evil 4 style over the shoulder aiming system which is by far my favorite. The mechanic 
 works just as you would think; the auto aim mechanic is back as well this time being a bit more 
 forgiving. Driving has also been improved in a way; again it's made more realistic and less static. 
 The result is a fun but somewhat frustrating experience. Every car this time around is based on 
 an amazing physics engine. Which means that turning on a dime is out of the question. Once again 
 I'm torn because though the improvement is more towards realism and less towards simple fun I find 
 it less of an improvement and more of this shift towards a realistic GTA which in my mind isn't 
 necessary what I expected. The frustration comes in having to learn how each car handles on the 
 fly which proves annoying during missions. Beside my unnatural expectations for GTA the gameplay 
 is still phenomenal none the less; though a bit shallow for my taste. 
  
  ~Graphics~
  Graphically, GTA IV is obviously more realistic with the power of the 360 but what's interesting 
 is it manages to stay within that GTA vibe. Looking at the game you will know instantly that you're 
 playing GTA. The models are pretty detailed but the start of the show has to be the environment. 
 Cars, buildings and even trash cans look extremely detailed. Rockstar really found a great balance 
 between beauty and raw power. I was afraid that Rockstar would push GTA into this realistic frame 
 while losing its identity in the process; thankfully nothing was lost in the transitioning between 
 generations.
  
  ~Sound~
  The soundtrack in GTA IV again doesn't disappoint having a variety of music that will literally 
 appeal to any ethnicity. Rockstar even went as far as including Reggie and Latino music. The sounds 
 effects are again top 
  notch with GTA IV. Slamming a pedestrian on the hood of a car never sounded so good. Guns also 
 sound remarkably realistic; and of course spoken dialogue sounds authentic.
  
  ~Conclusion~
  This game is extremely hard to review in my opinion because you have two major 
 outlets pushing most scores. Hype and personal opinion; this game like no other is really just 
 based on personal taste toward Sandbox games in general; GTA IV though fundamentally sound isn't 
 going to change anyone's mind as to whether they enjoy this open-ended madness. Everything is there 
 to explore and try but most individuals wont even bother 
  to experience half of what is being offered here. But I guess that's the beauty of Sandbox games; 
 this notion of having ultimate freedom and what it leads to. For most it leads to just driving 
 around for a couple of hours, shooting people in the face and moving on. To those that really dig 
 deep into GTA will certainly enjoy this iteration, many will naturally assume this is the best 
 version since it's the latest but I think this iteration presents more question then a definitive 
 "Best in the series" award. I think it's safe to say that San Andreas was the best GTA of last 
 gen. Selling GTA IV as the best GTA game is a tougher argument to sell in my O-pinion. In the end, 
 this game will provide endless amounts of fun; but more importantly it offers 
  whatever you want and don't want within a game; the choice is yours young apprentice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seany13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  i think it is the best game on xbox 360. there is so many things to do like street racing and pool, 
 darts and bowling. the graphics are superb. you get to phone your contacts for help. i couldnt 
 wait to play on it and when i did i just went to the bar to play darts after i did the first mission. 
 there is loads of friends to meet like little jacob and roman. find and shoot all 200 pigeons for 
 a special surprise. getting a chase of the local police is greet fun to do especially when they 
 get the hellicopterson you. you can get drunk with you mates and try to drive home wobbly and blurry. 
 you can get a girlfriend and take her out on a date by ringing her on your mobile phone. later 
 on you get a new mobile phone thet has alot more things on. this is an excellent game andanyone 
 who enjoyed a diffrent grand theft auto will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxG_ConcepT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  GTA's storyline is great as always and the online play is a lot of fun. Graphics were a huge improvement 
 from the other games in the GTA series. But the lack of "green" prevented me from giving the game 
 a 10 out of 10. Most of us remember the Badlands and the Desert (not really green but still open) 
 from GTA: San Andreas, which were open areas to drive around, flying planes, skydive out of planes 
 (which the game no longer has) , and drive bikes off of cliffs. GTA games are not games that a person 
 just beats then puts back on his/her shelf to collect dust, but a game that even if its been 6-12 
 months after last playing it you still enjoy the game as much as if it just came out. This game 
 will be talked about just like GTA: San Andreas. But overall I think Rockstar did a great job once 
 again and this game is good and is definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeaceTucan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  The Only flaw in GTAIV is that its controls take some time to master because they aren't like the 
 other GTAs. Especially the car mechanics, the graphics are awesome, but me and my friend Nick piss 
 ourselves laughing when we try to drive around the city without flying out of the windshield. Overall 
 an awesome game, it just leaves out that homey feeling you get when you play the other GTAs. 
 
  I haven't spent much time with the storyline, but i've heard it has amazing writing. To be honest, 
 the most fun you can have while playing this game is just driving around, smash into sh*t, and 
 kill people. USE CHEATS!!! If you want to have a f*cking blast, then you'll use cheats. When i 
 found out there were cheats, i got a helicopter, flew to the highest building in Liberty City, 
 landed, spawned a car, and drove it off the edge. Just to see it explode was the best feeling in 
 the world.
  Other than that, there is nothing wrong with this game. There are some glitches still about, but 
 who gives a sh*t Buy it, and you'll love it, you just have to work for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uidin
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Finally, the fourth edition of Grand Theft Auto. But it is the seventh game in the series (if you 
 count GTA: London) , so why call it GTA4? I am sure some people wonder, so let me explain. This 
 also has a lot to do with my review, so don't worry.
  
  In the first GTA game, you had three stages, or cities. They where called Liberty City, Vice City 
 and San Andreas. GTA2 was a bit of an outsider really, but it introduced the concept of gangs, 
 and a bit more story. Well. Not much, but still.
  Then you have GTA3, which happens in Liberty City. Guess where the next games happen. You are right! 
 Vice City and San Andreas! Every game took all the great things from the last game, and added heaps. 
 San Andreas has you playing in an entire state, complete with three major cities, mountains, deserts 
 etc. You can customize your player, and you can do pretty much everything. Or so it seemed.
  
  So now we have a game called GTA4. And it happens in Liberty City again. See a pattern? Now, 
 I do not know if this is what they intend, but I believe the next game will not be GTA5, as Vice 
 City was not GTA4. So this is not a continuing of the GTA3 line of games. This is a reboot of the 
 series, thus making this into something like what GTA3 would have been if it was made now. Which 
 means it is more like GTA3 with added stuff than GTA: San Andreas with added stuff.
  
  So, in this game you play a foreigner for the first time. An illegal immigrant from Balkan named 
 Niko Bellic. He is in Liberty City because of his cousin Roman, who says he has all the money in 
 the world, mansions, women.. you name it. He is also there to find a man. One who did something 
 to him which scarred him ten years ago.
  
  And this is where one of the best games ever start off.
  
  Now, let's first see how it compares 
 to the last game very quick. A lot of those things you could do in San Andreas is now gone. You 
 could argue and say that is a bad thing. But I must say, they couldn't have done a better decision. 
 Gone are all the "fun" things you could do, which seemed rather... non-realistic. Paramedic missions, 
 Firefighter missions etc is gone. Police missions have been changed to be more realistic. Tons 
 of small things have been changed as well, and things are gone. The only flying vehicle now are 
 helicopters, which makes sense as you are in one city. Who takes a plane from one end of the city 
 to the other? No regular bikes anymore. Not many choices in clothes, but you can buy some new threads.
 
  
  So this game has been aimed more at being realistic. You can see that in more or less every aspect 
 of the game. Gone are the almost cartoony colors and graphics. The night is actually dark in this 
 game. I cannot remember crashing as much at nighttime in any other GTA game. Cars look better, 
 pedestrians look infinitely better and the city... wow. You can no longer enter a "convenience 
 store" of weapons, but have to visit underground gun shops.
  
  Graphically the game is stunning. Standing on a rooftop during a sunrise is a must. Weather-effects 
 are great, the water is great and of course the buildings are all great. Though some of the textures 
 used for windows and glass doors for shops are kinda poorly done, you really do not notice it that 
 much. 
  
  Because of the graphics, or so I guess, you do get some annoying pop-up now and then. That is, 
 hitting things which aren't there, but look! There that fence appeared! This doesn't happen often, 
 and mostly when driving at ungodly speeds down a road.
  
  The weapons are all great. But there aren't than many weapons in the game really. You have two 
 variants of most weapons, but only in the normal categories. Pistol, SMG, Rifle, Shotgun and Sniper. 
 You also have grenades and molotovs, and of course the RPG. In the hand to hand section you have 
 a bat and a knife. Not nearly as many weapons as in San Andreas, but the only thing I really missed 
 was the katana. Hand to hand unarmed combat has been improved though. With combos, blocks and counters.
 
  
  So, what makes this game more realistic? The story for one. The fact that you have a cellphone, 
 which you can use to call friends, enemies and even the cops. And of course, the wonderful Endorphin 
 technology.
  
  The story is truly great. What has been a hallmark GTA story has been an over the top, funny and 
 surprising ride. This game has more of a dark story. Not going to spoil anything, but let's say 
 it shows the life of crime a lot better than the previous games. And, I think, this is one of my 
 favourite stories. I can say this without spoiling to much:
  I usually hit bikers from behind when driving in-game. It is fun, but it also makes me feel a bit 
 sad for them (yes, it actually does) .
  After I beat the story (one of the endings that is, as there are two different ones) , I was driving 
 down the road. I saw a biker, but I didn't hit him. Didn't want to. The ending made me feel... 
 empty. That everything was just ruined. 
  Might not seem like a good thing, but the ending actually made me feel something. I am having a 
 blast with the game still, of course, but that is how it was for me with the ending fresh in mind.
 
  
  The cellphone feature is truly awesome. You have to try it to understand I think. But being able 
 to call a buddy to go out for a drink is priceless. Which leads me on to the Endorphin tech.
  
  For those who do not know it, that is a new technology giving characters more life. Instead 
 of only having pre-made animations, they now act according to what happens around them. So when 
 a car bumps into someone, they won't just fall over as before. Now they will fall on their ass, 
 grab the hood of the car as they fall forward or even manage to keep their balance as they almost 
 fall. People will grab ledges if they are pushed off cliffs! You seriously have to see this yourself. 
 With this tech, going for a drink with one of your buddies turns into one of the coolest new features 
 in the game. 'cause now you seriously are drunk. The screen blurs and moves around, and you have 
 to keep the balance. The first time I was out drinking with Packie, we both went face first into 
 a pile of garbage. 
  
  I am not going to say much about the multiplayer, as I have not played it that much. Mostly because 
 of a glitch which makes it hard for me to log on. And that is the only big flaw I have found in 
 this game.
  But what I have played has been immense fun.
  
  If you want a game where you use at least 30-40 hours beating the story, where you can roam around 
 a gigantic city, wreaking havoc, where you can push people down stairs... you should get this game. 
 I spend half an hour yesterday pushing people into the ocean. Over and over again. And I had a 
 blast, seeing those people trip on the small ledge near the water, then falling backwards, frantically 
 trying to hold on before falling in. Climbing up the ladder, then fall back down as I am standing 
 at the top pushing them in. Seriously, this game rocks.
  And having one of the best stories in video-gaming history just make this a must buy.
  
  About 
 the story being the best ever. I have seen people arguing that there is no story. If you removed 
 everything but the beginning and the end, you wouldn't miss anything. I disagree. Niko does change, 
 subtly. While some say almost every mission in the middle of the game is pointless, I totally disagree. 
 I don't want to ruin the story, but if you have played it, and wonder what I mean, send me a note. 
 I would happily explain.
  
  I do not think I have missed something overly important, so I will stop here.
  This is a great 
 game. While it has a few flaws, they are minor. And yes, a lot of stuff from San Andreas is gone, 
 but all the new features outweighs that. Besides, the next GTA game will most likely build on this 
 one, like Vice City did to GTA3. And I must say, I cannot wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTiMaTe_GaMeR4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Once the dust cleared and the chaos of launch day over, we end up with Grand Theft Auto IV, the 
 latest installment of the Grand Theft Auto Series.
  
  I have been a fan of the Series for quite a while, while i have played almost every single game 
 in the series, i own everything from GTA III and up, (including Liberty City Stories and Vice City 
 Stories) . In all my GTA experience, i have never come across a better GTA game. Grand Theft Auto 
 IV is on my top 3 games released this year, and will probaly hold that title throughout the release 
 of all of all the awesome games 2008 promises. 
  
  Lets go over the features of GTA IV:
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Grand Theft Auto IV are MIND BLOWING, the best in the series to date, 
 and a HUGE jump over SA (of course, rockstars 100 million dollar budget didnt have much to do with 
 it *wink*) In graphics, i would give this game a 10 out of 10, we have seen just as impressive 
 graphics in games before, but rockstar manages it on such a huge and impressive scale. This brings 
 me into my next topic.....
  
  Content: the content in this game is amazing! i could go on for pages upon pages of this review 
 going on about it. I mean, when you spend an hour watching TV in a video game, not related to the 
 TV at all, thats pretty damn impressive. putting this together with the In-Game internet which 
 offers so damn much you could surf it for hours! there is even a site which redirects you to LCPD 
 and makes you wanted as a paedophile. put this together with the new cars, missions and features, 
 such as taxi's and you get 10/10 for content. I have friends who have been to New York, and they 
 recognise huge amounts of liberty city, they are totaly BLOWN AWAY.
  
  Story: it is a great and believeable storyline (not to complain, but VCS was kinda weak - "but 
 i cant be a ganglord" "yes you can! i believe in you!" "okay, i will do it!", though the actual 
 VC was pretty good) i wont spoil anything about the epic storyline of GTA IV, but its awesome. 
 10/10
  
  I COULD go on for hours about GTA Iv, I COULD give it a 10/10, but i wont. despite all the systems 
 in it being AWESOME, i dont believe in any game recieving a 10, even though this game deserves 
 a 9.9/10,
  
  When a perfect game comes out, we wont have to play any other games, until then, GTA IV is the 
 next best damn thing, with only a couple of bugs to deal with (very minor ones, such as the fact 
 that you spend hours getting an infernus, then its all over the street - The GTA glitch) . THere 
 is only one thing i can say about such a good game
  
  "Instant Classic"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantweasel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  All of the previous GTA games have prominently featured stealing cars, incessant killing, and, 
 more recently, dating women and having "relations". GTA IV has all of this, and more. It's definitely 
 the best GTA game I've played, but it does have its flaws to keep it from a perfect 10, so I'll 
 start with those.
  
  One of the major flaws, albeit somewhat minor, is that the game is a bit too much like real life, 
 in terms of your relationships and such. You can hang out with friends and date women, but once 
 you do, you have to maintain those relationships by doing activities with them. Many characters 
 have special abilities, and in order to keep those abilities available to you, you have to maintain 
 those relationships. These relationships also interfere with missions on occasion: you will be 
 driving to a location and a friend will call you asking to go bowling/eating/drinking, and you 
 have to decline and lose some of their friendship as a result of that. It's definitely minor, but 
 I think it could have been implemented differently.
  
  The second and last flaw that I can think of is the implementation of the cover system. It's a 
 Gears of War-type of system, but it can sometimes be annoying because Niko will get behind the 
 wrong cover when there are multiple objects to hide behind, and Niko will get hurt badly as a result. 
 There were a few times when I would try to get behind cover, but it was the wrong cover, and I 
 would die as a result. Other than that, the cover system works very well.
  
  Now that the bad things are out of the way: GTA IV is an amazing game. The city itself is extremely 
 immersive, especially when flying around in a helicopter. Flying high above Liberty City is a treat 
 that every gamer should experience, because it's so intricate, and it looks so much like New York. 
 The minigames that you can do with friends are very fun as well, like bowling, darts, pool, and 
 drinking. Going drinking is pretty funny, especially with a girlfriend, because she will get just 
 as hammered as you are and will stumble around, saying things that don't make sense. The cars are 
 amazing to drive, especially the ones that handle turns very well, such as the Turismo and Coquette. 
 The story is kind of confusing, but only because the very nature of the game causes you to forget 
 what's going on as you do other missions or hang out with friends. 
  
  When all is said and done, GTA IV is a game that was well worth waiting for, and is definitely 
 worth the $59.99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mataa1386
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'm just growing older but the Grand Theft Auto franchise seems to be stuck in this purgatory 
 of monotony. Day of release; I go to my local store and buy it, having watched Gamespot's review 
 of it beforehand. Perfect 10, sure not to disappoint... . 
  
  Maybe Rockstar is just getting tired of it's own child, but right from the opening scene you get 
 hit with a lethargic pace. There's no "oomph" anymore, no sense of urgency, no sense of "you better 
 do this pronto or s**t is going to hit the fan". Instead you're patted on back and are given the 
 feeling that a boyscout is helping across the street while you hobble along, cane in hand.
  
  Let's get into specifics.
  
  Graphics: Ok no one is going to argue here that comparatively, 
 the graphics on this game given the size, scope, and amount of detail is absolutely incredible. 
 Have we seen better? Yes. But have we seen better, bigger and richer? No. Kudos to Rockstar for 
 this portion of the game.
  
  Gameplay: While the driving mechanics of the game have been tuned to a "not-so-arcade-y" feel, 
 much is left to be desired out of gunplay, side missions, and what completely ruined the game for 
 me today: AI. The fighting in this game is abysmal. Firing weapons requires little more than finding 
 the nearest wall and firing blindly out from the side until every enemy has hit the floor. And 
 unlike GTA: SA where (at the time) hand to hand combat seemed sluggish and sloppy, it seems to have 
 gone completely at the bottom of the priority list on this game. Outside of gunslinging anykind 
 of targeting nearly made me throw my controller at the TV. Ladders may take precious seconds more 
 to climb just because your character will walk around it at first as if he doesn't even see it 
 right in front of him. Pull someone out of their car and watch as they get two punches in on you 
 first while you desperately try to button mash your way to your first punch. This aspect of the 
 game put me on hiatus for a few weeks before finally picking it back up again. A big middle finger 
 goes to Rockstar for all those wonderful gaming moments. Lastly, AI. Now I've played GTA since 
 the second one was ported to the Dreamcast. And in it's lifespan from game 3, Vice City and San 
 Andreas the AI has always been a bit flimsy. But the dial seems to be cranked up on this one. I 
 just wish I could play three minutes into any Grand Theft Auto game without an inept driver pulling 
 in front of my for no reason at all other than to piss me off. Or to start a mission and not wait 
 a full minute for a member of my gang bangers to find the damned door to the car. Little things 
 too that you catch sometimes that bug you, like driving down a street and passing by a car and 
 then it suddenly disappearing (or one just appearing) , or an invisible wall that you run into, only 
 to find a few seconds later that the game couldn't load it in time.
  
  I'm just nitpicking here but you get the general idea. Overall this game just feels like it was 
 put out to please the parent company. Go back and play Vice City and you can imagine people putting 
 that game together sinisterly plotting what they're going to throw in next and possibly having 
 fun creating it. But when I play this game I feel like I'm playing the spawn of a development team 
 that just doesn't give a rats ass anymore coupled with a fat, balding, corporate goblin with a 
 cigar sticking out of the side of his mouth. A good game that could have been better, but definitely 
 overrated in every sense of the word.
  
  Also a side note on the very slim chance that anybody from Rockstar may read this: PLEASE FOR THE 
 LOVE OF GOD FIX WHATEVER IT IS THAT MAKES WHATEVER CAR I'M DRIVING APPEAR EVERYWHERE I LOOK. I 
 want some variety here. I don't want to steal a patriot after looking for an hour just to find 
 five of them parked one after the other immediately after.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  When you first start it's feels like one of the best games you've ever played although it doesn't 
 meet the hype GTA IV got too hyped which I don't think any game could meet. Note: You have to look 
 at GTA IV as a predecessor of GTA III not GTA: San Andreas. You'll started out by learning the 
 basics how to drive, breaking into cars, bit a new system to start/hotwire cars a little faster 
 (you don't have to use) , a new fighting system which consists of two punches, a kick, a counter 
 which can lead to knock out combos, a way to pulling off a (possible one hit KO) sucker punch, 
 ability to throw random items from the street like a bricks or a coffee cup, ways to replenishing 
 your health from going to a burger shot, food stands or just calling an Ambulance. Your also able 
 to call Cops to your location and Firefighters to possibly put out a fire. You'll also notice little 
 things like Cops chasing, arresting people, searching in car trunks. You can get little bonuses 
 from things you may not realize or notice like entering a Cop car will give you some combat shotgun 
 ammo or entering an Ambulance will give you a health boost. Most of the game play is basically 
 the same from GTA though they've changed the driving system which makes it more realistic so you 
 can't make a turn on a dime at high speed, to evade cops you now have a radius which you have to 
 escape (instead of just hiding) , you won't have the Army after you anymore just the Cops then the 
 FIB (FIB) and NOOSE (SWAT) . Added to the game is the Internet where some missions will take place, 
 you can find women to date, maps to find unique jumps, TV Shows comical shows, Friendships which 
 can lead to Benefits like a health boost, cab pickup, chopper pickup, random characters you can 
 meet which will give you more missions, mini games/activities like pool, bowling, darts, drinking, 
 comedy club and strip club. Looking at SA you won't have stats to fill up, you won't have to eat, 
 work out or go to schools (flight, driving, fighting) , you can't get tattoos, haircuts but you 
 can still buy cloths although you'll have a small selection to choose from. A big disappointment's 
 is a lackluster selection of weapons 18 compared to around 38 in SA. The story Missions are great, 
 exciting most of the time you'll go through missions where you'll have to change cloths to complete 
 them like wearing a scrubs outfit or a biker jacket and you'll even have choices to either kill 
 someone or let them live which if you do you might even see them later on as a random character. 
 The only bad things about the missions are some are too short, some will seem the same IE: drive 
 somewhere kill that guy simple as that.
  
  The Good: New game play, Euphoria engine
  The Bad: Could have had a stronger story
  Ugly: Nothing to really do after you've finished the 
 main story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_dison
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Based on the title you probably thought I was getting moral on the game and that isn't at all what 
 I mean. 
  
  To me this game is a mixed bag. I have to admit that the graphics are amazing and I love the physics 
 and driving. But then theres the targeting system which I believe is terrible (it freaking targets 
 random pedestrians when your trying to shoot the enemy) . It works alright but when you try to get 
 into cover and Niko glides over to a box or pole it looks ridiculous. Not to mention that the system 
 completely fails at close range (I just stared at a guy while he gunned me down) . Plus the story 
 is lame as can be when it's all said and done, it starts out with such promise only to leave you 
 sitting there saying "is that it?."
  
  Basically what I'm trying to say is don't believe the hype that Rockstar paid for and rent this 
 game if you have a lot of free time and who know, you might like it if your insanely and simplistically 
 shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashinho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that the Game itself is a good game, graphically great and the 
 game-play is superb, a little annoying having to press A to run but that was just a momentary annoyance. 
 The new cover system, whilst not as fluid as games such as gears, but it still works well and gives 
 you the edge in them harder gun fights you would plain and simply get ripped to shreds in earlier 
 games, and the new aim system is great too. But does make headshot very easy but I'm not complaining.
 
  
  The multiplayer is brilliant and fun yet i still prefer Saint's rows multiplayer were it is more 
 gang orientated. Yet the 16 player free roam is awesome. Can kind of get annoying if you get killed 
 and spawn across the map from everyone with no means of transport back.
  
  Yet being a solid game it is not without its issues.
  1) Why are trees the strongest thing ever? 
 You can't break a little tree yet you can plow through lamp-posts. If they were going for realism, 
 they kind of slipped up here
  
  2) Losing the cops just isn't as fun, I preferred it on earlier games were you could lose them 
 at the pay and spray, but it was never not fun as you'd be driving along to be surprised by a road 
 block of SWAT team trucks, but you can lose the cops now by driving really fast and turning a lot. 
 Like the police wouldn't be expecting that to happen. And why the hell did they get rid of the 
 Army. It was always fun stealing a tank off them at 6 stars and continuing your hell bent rampage.
 
  
  3) Is it me or do game-play elements that seem to work well in a GTA game, do they get rid of in 
 the next one. Take for instance:
  In GTA: VC, you may or may not know this but there was a little thing called a good citizens bonus 
 where if you saw someone running off from the police, you hit them down, and you got i think it 
 was $250. I thought yeh that's pretty cool. 
  Then GTA: SA comes along and that's been taken out, but then a heap load of customisable things 
 are introduced such as new hair, LOTS of clothes, custom cars, the gym, different fighting styles. 
 And also Ammunations gun range to improve your weapon skill, so you could duel wield guns, which 
 was cool, walking round with 2 tec-9's reaping havoc. And they also had betting centres. Which 
 was fun even though it made you have infinite money.
  GTA 4 comes along and i was eagerly anticipating a better quality of customisation but no it was 
 all taken out and replaced with the brilliant idea of having TV. Seriously if you watch TV on a 
 TV you are rather sad, if you seriously wake up in the morning and go, I know what I'll do, ill 
 turn GTA on and watch TV for a bit. 
  
  4) WHYYY are there no short sleeve shirts, does Niko have super hairy arms or something??
  
 
  5) Again why no planes and parachutes, it was great when you grabbed a jump jet, flew over grove 
 street n parachuted in, it felt like James Bond it was brilliant, that would be awesome online, 
 just Army Of Two style parachuting in shooting people from the air. Just screaming down your mic 
 "Reinforcements have arrived".
  
  6) The lack of guns and stupid weapons like remote control grenades. They just made the whole game 
 cool.
  
  Yet these are just small cosmetic things, they are kind of annoying as they just made the game 
 all the more re-playable. GTA: SA for me was the best game with its stupid yet simply genius plot. 
 For me in GTA 4 there wasn't the sense of rise from the bottom to the top which is present in the 
 rest of them, don't get me wrong its a good game, but definitely not the best GTA out there.
  
  Personally I am looking more forward to Saints Row 2. It sounds like SA but for next gen.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurveer2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Well i loved this game! I have had a great time playing this. Everything in this game is great. 
 Only thing Rockstar left out was getting a haircut and working out!!! Come if they had kept that 
 they would have gotten better ratings. Well anyway, i like the driving it's more realistic. Damage 
 is fantastic!! Ragdoll is one of the best i have seen. Making your on decisions in the games always 
 keeps you wondering what will happen or what should i do know??? City is greatly remodeled. Theres 
 a bit problems is that frame rate isn't constant. But, the rest is great. Lot's of cars to choose 
 from that have different handling. For instance good cars would work great and work well and crappy 
 cars work bad and keeps on overpowering the engine. I loved this game i would recommend it to anyone 
 that likes violence and driving! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herkamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Another GTA game. It's better than freakin' San Andreas (I think any game is though.) Anyway, it 
 still has the same formula, with a few modifications. The story is fun, but the multiplayer is 
 SOOOOOOOO much better. Other than that though, the game seems to focus more on the sex, which is 
 pretty dumb. It seems like people by this game ONLY to get virtual sex that you don't see and kill 
 whoever it was that you banged. I wish they focused a little bit more on the gameplay than they 
 did on the sex. More bang for your buck (unless there are sex addicts out there.) I kinda wish 
 for the story that Niko was still in the military and hunting down the main bad guy. It would be 
 cooler that way. Again, Gamespot and a whole other bunch of game critics try to make another GTA 
 game the end all be all of games. It's a good game yeah, but personally I played MUCH better games. 
 Don't buy into all of it's hype. It's just another game that happens to be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sublime12345
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm not joking. I would definitely buy crackdown over this sorry excuse for a game. At least in 
 crackdown it wasn't a pain in the butt to restart missions over and you didn't get health from 
 the stupid hot dog vendors. I mean, this game aims for realism and all, with the graphics, physics, 
 and the driving. So one would think that, since this game is SO well made and SO real, that they 
 would come up with a better idea for getting health than frickin hot dog vendors. Wow, next time 
 I get pumped full of lead by an uzi, maybe I'll get my health back by eating a hot dog! I mean 
 seriously, at least have some kind of drug store or first aid kit at the safehouse, or anything 
 that has even a remote relation with bodily health.
  Besides the fact that some things in the game don't quite feel right in a realistic environment, 
 the missions and the gameplay can be tedious and boring at times. I no GTA is a non-linear game, 
 but the missions that you choose to play are extremely linear. I remember one mission where I followed 
 a drug dealer for like 5 minutes, going at about 5 mph, and it didn't help that some gangster-turned-hippy 
 would bark at me every time I got 20 feet away from the guy. In crackdown, it was way more nonlinear 
 and creative, and there was many ways to attack and defeat a person instead of just following what 
 the mission says.
  Now, I know that crackdown and gta have their differences, but they're both free-roaming, gang-related 
 games. Without gta 's superb graphics, backgrounds, and physics, it's just a below-average, lock-on 
 shooter (even though there's free aim that has no point since there's lock-om, which is easier 
 to use) . 6 of the 6.5 points that i gave this game come from the superb graphics, how structured 
 the city is, and also the voice acting. The extra point goes towards the gameplay. Basically, this 
 game would not rate much worse if it were a movie and didn't have gameplay at all! Lastly, I have 
 one question for rockstar. HOW MANY REVIEWERS DID YOU PAY OFF SO THAT YOUR GAME WOULD GET A PERFECT 
 SCORE!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_snake1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  i like the graphics i love the gameplay it might be better with airplanes but who realy cares. 
 you can get sucked into the storyline the cars are nice act like the real car. the police are annoying 
 like in real life but easly dealt with i have never played it online but if you wish to add my 
 Xbox 360 Live account go ahead its wafflecat12 and its also in my gamespot profile. but as i was 
 saying the game is nice even from the landmarks to weapons to just getting in a head in a sultan 
 RS with a willard. Heres a hint for any mission make sure your armed to the teeth. But the wanted 
 level system is alot more realistic and you can use the internet well a fake internet any website 
 on the game will just redirect you to http://www. rockstar. com/IV. it is recomended for any GTA 
 fan and you will have fun it got a good solid story the characters actually react to each other 
 like real people email me at wafflecat12@yahoo. com and i rate it a 10.0 wish i can give it a 12.0 
 because its a lot better than alot of games exept Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns Of The Patriots. i like 
 them both the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamiroquai_Guy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Empire Magazine - 5/5
  - "damn near perfect"
  
  The New York Times - "violent, intelligent, profane, endearing, obnoxious, sly, richly textured 
 and thoroughly compelling work of cultural satire disguised as fun."
  
  The Daily Star - "This could be a console defining title, one that in years to come people will 
 remember as the stand-out of the era."
  
  Gamespot. com - 10/10 Editor's Choice
  
  There's one thing similar with all these reviews. They're all wrong.
  I've played every GTA game 
 and GTA IV, taking into account technological advance, has got to be the worst Grand Theft Auto 
 game of them all for a number of reasons.
  
  Firstly, the game is easier than Paris Hilton. With San Andreas, it could take several turns to 
 complete a mission, with each new turn leaving you thinking of different tactics in order to complete 
 the mission the next time round. Yet, in GTA 4, i was left with often mediocre missions taking 
 3 turns AT MOST to complete. Even the missions with the $250,000 prize money e. g. "Four Leaf Clover" 
 took me one turn to complete.
  
  Secondly, i didn't get busted until after i had completed the game. The police AI is sloppily done 
 and leaves me thinking whether im an outlaw of Liberty City or the chief of police's rent boy.
 
  
  The cover system is also a problem. When you're left in a warehouse full of gangsters and hired 
 assassins you don't want to be let down by the AI which either makes you crouch in front of the 
 enemy , leaving you to get ripped to pieces, or behind the wrong box. 
  
  Character customisation is also absymal; and is it just me or is Niko's voice inherently annoying?
 
  
  The online gameplay is also nothing short of mediocrity given that it is virtually impossible to 
 mute players or to get a decent game on any of the game modes. Cops 'n' Crooks is actually the 
 best of what is served up, and even that is pretty awful to say the least.
  
  The ending is also a major dissapointment and anti climax. I had progressed through 65% of the 
 game, and suddenly i was at the end playing some terrible mission to kill Dmitri which was once 
 again too easy and left me shouting at the TV. Fuming.
  
  Of course, there are many additions to the series which are satisfying. The driving simulation 
 is far more realistic and drink driving is temporarily quite an amusing feature. But it's all too 
 little to make up for what is missing in this game.
  
  Which brings me onto my next point and most important criticism of GTA IV. With all the improvements 
 in the realism of the game, Rockstar and co. seem to have lost the "x factor" of the GTA series. 
 I know this is all a bit vague, but everytime i play the game i feel like something is missing 
 that wasn't from Vice City and San Andreas. This massive deficiency means that the other problems 
 with the game are exaggerated, leaving GTA thoroughly monotonous and the worst of the series in 
 terms of gameplay.
  
  My advice to everyone out there is not to believe the hype, but instead to use your own powers 
 of deduction to work out that this game is not all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPS3150
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I love the GTA Series but i still like San Andreas a little better. This game is a visual step 
 up, thats all. No extras! I was hoping that I could do everything from San Andreas and a little 
 more in this game, but I can see they put a whole lot into the story portion which is great, and 
 the visuals. I was hoping to be able to parachute from tall structures again, and a wide variety 
 of new vehicles, with a lot more buildings to go inside of. I know thats asking for a lot, but 
 I think the game really needed it to surpass the San Andreas game and for Saints Row 2. Now I here 
 that Saints Row is going to keep everything that they had in the previous game and add a whole 
 lot more to their already deep game of extras. Now we have to wait until next year maybe to get 
 the new DLC for GTA IV. I think its going to be a long rest of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeBeef
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was highly anticipated for quite awhile, and delivered on all it promised as far as I 
 am concerned. GTA 4 is long enough of a play to make it actually worth purchasing, and it has the 
 quality content to keep gamers coming back. It is the first in the series to contain 1) a worthwile 
 multiplayer, 2) memorable, lovable, relatable, engaging characters and 3) a covered time period 
 that the current generation can relate to. The story of Niko Bellic and his cousin's antics will 
 force yoi to experience every piece of the emotional spectrum by the time you've played through 
 it's entirety. All in all, this installment of Rockstar's lineup is worth the perfect 10 that it 
 has been getting from nearly every gaming media source... the gorgeous "dime-piece" that i think 
 gamers everywhere have been looking for for a long time, and are glad to have found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV, here we go again the fourth time around, but this time its good but its not 
 so good. They added multiplayer, and things like you can take your friends out to eat and take 
 them bowling, now that's cool don't get me wrong, but there's not that many places. They took out 
 the mini-games that made grand theft auto... grand theft auto. They took out like all the mini-games 
 there but they left the cop missions, this time you don't get paid for the cop missions all you 
 really get is what you pick up from the guys you kill, the only thing you really get from this 
 is achievements if you want them. The online is pretty fun, cops and robbers is pretty crappy, 
 but free mode is pretty cool. The game is also kind of laggy, which i see why because they use 
 the whole liberty city as the landscape. You can now watch tv, go on the internet, and go to comedy 
 clubs and things like that, play pool, eat, go drinking, play darts, bowl. Once you do all these 
 things, you really don't want to do them again they get really boring after awhile. The thing that 
 sucks is that they have like the fair and the park but u can't go to fair and play games, and you 
 can't take people to the park. they've added stuff like sightseeing and things like that... which 
 isn't what i want to pay sixty dollars for. The game is really fun, but thats all it is, the story 
 was terrible, it looks like a third grader decided he wanted to write a game and this happen to 
 be it. It's mostly hype whether you want to believe it or not, you beat the game in like a week 
 and have nothing left to do, its just a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoydeath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  story mode is an aggravating beat down against you, your friends always run into oncoming trafic, 
 the aiming lacks precision, achievements are very easy to get, and last, multiplayer is fun for 
 a few hours or even days but when your teammate keeps clicking the LB button and his charater keeps 
 saying hi would you shoot Him/Her.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  aaaa
  aaaaa
  aaa
  aaa
  aaa
  aa
  aa
  aaa
  aaa
  aaa
  aa
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  aa
  a
  aaa
  a
 
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  aaa
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  aaa
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
 
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aaa
  a
  a
  
  aa
  a
  aaaa
  a
  a
  aaa
  aa
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  aaa
  a
  aa
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  aaa
  a
  aa
  a
  aaa
 
  
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aaa
  a
  aa
  a
  aa
  a
  
  aa
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  aa
  a
  a
 
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  
  aa
  
  a
  a
  
  a
  a
  a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlr
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Ok so this game is not really worth a 1.0 but I needed to balance out all the high ratings the 
 game had. GTA 4 is a good game, the graphics are great, the game play is great, and the attention 
 to detail is incredible. There are so many little things you can do in the game, like surf the 
 internet, or go play darts at a bar, or date women etc. However after about 5 hours the game gets 
 very repetitive. You drive to some location and watch a cut scene for a mission, then you drive 
 somewhere else and shot some people, then you drive back or make a call to receive your payment. 
 Maybe the story gets better after a while but so far I am not a huge fan
  
  Also the mission where you are delivering drugs and it turns out its a cop bust. There is something 
 about killing cops even in a video game that I am not a huge fan of. 
  
  My review: 9.0 for attention to detail. 8.0 for how long the game stays fun 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  There are some misguided individuals who think that the release of GTA: San Andreas was a pinnacle 
 in video gaming, they believe that it was quite possibly the best game ever released they are 
 invariably 14 years old, pale, spotty and have no concept or memory of any game released prior 
 to those on the PS2.
  
  They are also wrong.
  
  San Andreas was a mess, they tried to add so many new features to the GTA mix that they really 
 screwed the game up, I don't want to go to the Gym, and if I do venture there I don't want to be 
 told 3 minutes later that I've done enough for the day nor do I want to "pimp my ride" and play 
 some half baked rhythm beat action game to make the car bounce around, I don't want to have to 
 keep visiting pizza parlours to keep my strength up, or have to practice swimming to be able to 
 start the next mission to progress the story, nor was I happy to find that when they ported the 
 PS2 version to the Xbox they did just that, ported it over, so Xbox owners were left with the hideously 
 deformed PS2 visuals.
  
  San Andreas became the first GTA game I could never be bothered to finish, and as a result I was 
 less than bothered about the release of GTA 4.
  
  Reading the early reviews it became clear that Rockstar themselves were less than happy about some 
 of the pointless features they'd burdened San Andreas with, and tightened up those that actually 
 had some merit.
  
  Once you've collected the easiest achievement ever, which amounts to turning the console on and 
 putting the disk in the tray, it becomes clear they've done a lot more than just improve the visuals 
 they've got the vehicle handling right as well, no more can you drift around corners as if you 
 were playing Ridge Racer, the you have to slow down to take to avoid crashing into the wall or 
 buildings on the other side of the road, different cars handle differently and this needs to be 
 kept in mind as you try and out run the cops something which itself has improved with no assistance 
 from wanted stars to remove or lower your rating, the cops instead concentrating their search on 
 a specific area which you need to escape from and then keep out of sight to lose, the more wanted 
 you are the bigger the area a good idea well implemented.
  
  Mission structure makes more sense than before, unlike previous games you won't be given the task 
 of disposing of a dead body or driving the getaway vehicle for a bank robbery straight away, you 
 have to work your way up stuff like that, prove your worth so to speak and gain their respect 
 and trust.
  
  Niko himself is a likeable kind of guy, you know he's got a chequered past, a history of dodgy 
 dealing, murder and betrayal because he himself will tell people what he's done before, and why 
 he's doing what he's doing now amongst the possibly overdone profanities is a sense of humour, 
 a charm that you can't help but like, he grows on you and you start to care about what happens 
 to him, when the inevitable happens and a mission goes to pot you'll do anything to help him get 
 away with his life, and in plenty of cases that isn't an easy thing to.
  
  As with the previous instalments it's far too easy to ignore than main storyline of the game and 
 just wander the map, learning the street layout, the location of the burger bars should you need 
 to top up your health after a close shave in a mission but in another wonderfully tightened area 
 of the game you can't juts walk into Ammunation and tool yourself up to the eye balls, you can't 
 just jump in a taxi and start earning as you learn the streets and you can't just walk up to any 
 car and help yourself it's all good.
  
  The game isn't perfect, there is some texture pop in, occasionally cars appear from nowhere as 
 you drive along (although not in any immediate proximity to you) and the physics on the pool mini 
 game are dreadful, whilst there are plenty of radio stations to keep you bust it would have been 
 better to reduce the number by a couple and increase the track count on each a little to give an 
 impression of more variety, some loop round much too quickly and the same songs come on far too 
 frequently. It can also be frustrating when you're trying to lose your wanted level and the streets 
 have suddenly become totally devoid of any available vehicles, you can find yourself running down 
 empty street after empty street looking for even something as small as a scooter to ease your escape.
 
  
  As a first attempt at a new-gen Grand Theft Auto they've done an immense job, whether the delays 
 were down to the 360 having no hard drive, or the more likely case of the PS3 just being a sod 
 to work with (and the lower resolution graphics on the PS3 seem to confirm that even with the help 
 of a team of Sony software engineers they couldn't get the game up to the level of the 360 version) 
 is largely irrelevant Grand Theft Auto is back on top form.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soxguy09
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Single Player: 
  Single player has just the right amount of missions to keep you on your toes. There are a lot of 
 cut scenes that will make your jaw drop like you didnt even see it comming. It is not too hard 
 so you have to put cheats on and also its not that easy so it bores you when you beat one or two 
 missions. The only thing that caught my attention is that the missions are based the same way. 
 Kill that person or kill this person. There is no other kind of missions out there except the things 
 you can do with your other single player friends.
  
  Multiplayer: Since this is the first GTA on the new gen. consols, online was a key componenet for 
 this game. I personally think that the producers spent many many hours prefecting the online gameplay. 
 The ranking system is great too. There arent many flaws that are major that will bring up a disscussion 
 so thats a big thumbs up.
  
  All in all the game is one of the best this year, and will be for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The story is good and the map is huge. It's basically the same concept as 
 the previous GTA games, but they've made it totally new. It doesn't appear to be a rehash of an 
 old idea, which is good.
  
  What lets the game down is the movement of the character both on foot and in a vehicle.
  
  
 On foot I find moving forward is fine, but try and turn into or jump onto anything specific (stairs 
 to a door [WHY DID YOU PUT THOSE 3 STAIRS UNDER THAT DOOR!!!] , or onto a dumpster) and it takes 
 a couple of tries. Also the aim and shooting feature is a bit clumsy and slow.
  
  While driving, I think they made the tyres too soft - from memory, in the other games (Vice City, 
 San Andreas) the driving was a lot better. It was easier to corner and it didn't always seem like 
 you're under steering on every turn.
  
  The biggest problem I'm having, and it's the main reason I haven't clocked the game yet, is the 
 glitches. I'm on XBL and have the most recent update for the game, but every so often, my game 
 will freeze and I have to restart the 360 (most recently in the TRESPASS level - yeah, right at 
 a crucial point too) . 
  
  On a few other occasions I've had a dirty disc error. The disc isn't dirty.
  
  I hope you read 
 this Rockstar. Fix your glitches!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  GTA: IV is absolutely awesome. Though, I am not one of those people who likes to blast everyone 
 in sight, or go just a blazin' down the street taking out every car, pedestrian, and fire hydrant. 
 I enjoy just being able to drive around the city, if I feel like driving safely, I will, if I feel 
 like being a little bit of a renegade, i'll go for it. This game just gives you so much freedom, 
 that's what does it for me!
  
  Audio ~ 7/10 :;
  
  The audio in the game is very good. I do have to say though, that the radio channels need to have 
 a little more variety. I have heard the same speeches on KTTW and PLR so many times, I could mute 
 it, say exactly what they say, and come back to the exact point where they left off. The music 
 is the same, I will listen to the Studio and hear the same song over and over and over again! Hopefully 
 for the next GTA, they'll get more music and a broader discussion topic on the talk radio stations. 
 Saint's Row definitely beat out GTA on this one. 
  
  The vehicle sounds are good. The only thing I didn't like is how when you are using the 'inside 
 the vehicle' camera, you can't hear the engine as well as you can hear it outside of the vehicle 
 farther away. Makes sense? No. Does it work? Sure.
  
  Graphics ~ 9/10 :;
  
  The graphics for GTA: IV are great. It's good to see that they have gone away from the cell shaded 
 look which was used in San Andreas, and moved to the almost real life look. The only problem is 
 at night, where you can not see ANYTHING for the life of you without a car and it's high beams 
 on. It's disappointing that it comes to always needing a car, and only doing missions during the 
 day, but that's what it has to be when they featured this style of graphical interface. Overall 
 it looks great, so much better than Saint's Row, in every way!
  
  Gameplay ~ 10/10 :;
  
  Wow, just wow. That is all that you can say about the gameplay. It's so open ended, you only 
 are hand held throughout the missions on what you need to do, and when you need to do them. That's 
 about it. I am so happy that I can do anything I want, (except go to the airport, that was disappointing!) 
 within reason. The police do respond alot, but you have to instigate them in order for them to 
 come by. So yes, if you carjack a police officer from his cruiser, they're going to come after 
 you. If you accidentally hit someone, and try to stop in the process, you will not be hounded by 
 the SWAT team, or the police at all. it's mostly gun calls which they respond to, and if you slam 
 into a police car, or get caught in the restricted zone at the airport.
  
  There isn't really anything bad about this game. It's just so fun! If you like a more lively and 
 changing radio layout, go Saint's Row, if you want everything else, go for this great game! I hope 
 you enjoy GTA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with an immigrants named Niko Bellic, who just arrives in Liberty City, USA to 
 meet his cousin, Roman. The game quickly introduces you to the lush graphics and surreal environment, 
 as everything is polished and feels "alive." Driving to the first checkpoint, you can't help realize 
 how real the city feels. Cops pull over other thugs and criminals and give chase, pedestrians dive 
 out of the way of your maniacal driving skills, and the other cars follow the road system and even 
 use blinkers.
  With such subtle attributions to the game, Rockstar manages to make a huge city come to life. It 
 truly is breath-taking.
  Along with the gorgeous atmosphere, the game has a great storyline that has Niko doing practically 
 everything in his power to find "what he is looking for." The game takes you through every crime 
 imaginable, and it feels just plain awesome to complete every task. Cops bombard you with bullets 
 as you complete each mission, but with the new "star" system, it's actually fun escaping them. 
 In previous installments you could only eliminate stars my finding "star" emblems that were placed 
 throughout the city. In GTA IV, there is a small, red circle that encircles your point on the radar. 
 In order to escape the cops, you must leave this circle without being detected. As the stars increase 
 in numbers, this circle becomes larger and larger, making it harder to escape the perimeter of 
 cops, but when you do, it is very rewarding and satisfying.
  While escaping these cops, you might decide to turn on the radio and listen to some music or talk-shows... 
 However, the stations are a bit of a let-down, as the music selection - though vast - is not that 
 great (maybe it's just not my type of music) . The talk-shows and commercials are quite clever though, 
 and many are just parodies on real-world commercials and newscasters. They gave me a chuckle every 
 now and then, which is always a plus.
  Though the music in the radio is not that great, every other sound in the game fits well with what 
 is taking place. Rockets sound like rockets, guns sound like guns, choppers sound like choppers, 
 etc. Everything can get quite hectic during a gun fight, but the sound effects remain clean and 
 smooth and easily distinguishable.
  All that said, the multiplayer side of the game is nothing to get excited about. First of all, 
 the menu that you use to get into multiplayer is not very user-friendly. You can select any game 
 you wish to play, but when you wish to play a different type of game, you must enter single-player 
 again, in order to change the multiplayer game... which is not necessary. The multiplayer also 
 feels less socially-inclined than other games (such as Halo or Call of Duty) , so I didn't find 
 myself playing with friends all that much. 
  When you are actually playing a multiplayer game, the games feel much to elongated, and take much 
 too much time to complete. Also, the environments are too large for any bloodbath skirmishes. Rockstar 
 should have almost made new maps for multiplayer rather than using the three islands.
  With all that being said, overall, the game is fantastic. It offers an excellent single-player 
 campaign with a lot of versatility to keep you interesting. The only thing wrong is the broken 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPER-MAN_2005
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Personally I think this was o. k. I mean San Andreas was better to me. One of the main things that 
 made the game good is not even a part of this. You can no longer upgrade cars. The shoot outs are 
 good, and the fighting is pretty good, but it really is just alright to me. Not to mention your 
 character dresses and looks like a bum with a beer belly. The selection of clothing is really horrible. 
 If you don't have Live, then after you beat the missions, its pretty whack. Mostly just hype, but 
 i thought it was o. k. Grand Theft IV looks great graphically, but seriously its not all its cracked 
 up to be. All the money you get cant even be used. All you can buy is clothes and weapons, so all 
 the money just sits there, so i really don't know what they were thinking there. Saints Row 2, 
 in my opinion is gonna better this game now, seeing as how you can your pad and vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meancharger
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  First time i tried Gta it felt wierd first. The graphics were a lot different than all other gtas, 
 the camera wasnt moving anymore as it should and so on. It didnt feel like a Gta game it was like 
 a "new" game. But after a while of playing it started to feel like a better game than first. The 
 story is about Nico Bellic who comes to america to live the "american dream". But everything doesnt 
 go as it is supposed to go. The story is fun to play trough but its quite short. Rockstar has taken 
 much away from the game. You cant go to barbershops,"tune" your car nice, have "gang" war on the 
 streets... The graphics are very good, the enviroment looks nice on all 3 islands. One of the coolest 
 things in Gta4 is the humans movement, you look like you really took a hit of a car when you get 
 hitted by a car and when you self drive on pedestrians they roll over the car by real moves, not 
 like in San Andreas that they lye flat on the car. If you like th egat series i recommend this 
 game, even if this would be your first Gta i recommend still. Nice game but not as nice that it 
 could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting for the next Grand Theft Auto installment, many of us grew quite anxious 
 to finally get ahold of it. In fact, I was one of the many enthusiastic gamers who waited outside 
 my local game shop to get it at the stroke of midnight.
  
  Less than half an hour over midnight, I was back home with the game already fired up. Now, you 
 might expect that if I were to go to such lengths to obtain it as early as possible, I'd be up 
 until the crack of dawn stealing virtual cars. Ironically, I didn't play the game for more than 
 15-20 minutes before hitting the sack. I know that it may surprise or disgust many people if I 
 speak these words, but the sad truth is that I wasn't blown away or immediately sucked in like 
 I thought I would be. There was nothing downright wrong with it, but my first impression was simply: 
 "just another video game".
  
  However, after an hour or so of progressing in the game the next day, my opinion of it started 
 shaping up a bit. While I still wasn't wowed, I really started to appreciate the addictive quality 
 of playing around in a well crafted virtual sandbox.
  
  After all, it is this sense of "sandbox" gameplay that has so many people hooked on it. In any 
 Grand Theft Auto game, it is very rare that you ever actually feel like you must do something, 
 or complete a certain sequence of events in order. This is no different. Obviously, certain missions 
 won't be able to you until you have completed others, but the overall sense of freedom reigns throughout 
 your entire life in Liberty City.
  
  Liberty City is where the events of GTA4 all unfold, but only an imbecile can't see how clearly 
 the city has been modeled after New York City. In fact, America's shining beacon of freedom, the 
 Statue of Liberty, is even there. Only, now it is now referred to as the "Statue of Happiness". 
 There's also an area that resembles Madison Square Garden beyond any questionable doubt, and the 
 entire city consists of several islands, much like New York City. And also like New York City, 
 there is a strong sense of a cultural melting pot, where people from different walks of life all 
 coexist.
  
  This is where you come in. You take the role of a Russian immigrant named Niko Bellic. Your cousin, 
 Roman, has been sending you emails filling your head with ideas of striking it rich, driving fast 
 cars, and sleeping with beautiful women with fake boobies. You've come over to the so-called land 
 of opportunity in the hope of finding the American dream, and living out the ideas Roman has clouded 
 your mind with. Unfortunately, words and reality are two completely different things, as you will 
 find out almost immediately.
  
  Roman has a gambling problem and frequently is in debt to some very nasty people. Because of this, 
 you get caught up in a chain reaction of events in which you meet lots of really bad dudes. A lot 
 of these guys end up introducing you to other people who have their own share of problems. While 
 many of these "evil-doers" provide you with nothing more than opportunities to make cash, others 
 can offer simulated friendship as well.
  
  As I was saying, while some of these people do some things that society might deem "bad", several 
 of them end up being really nice people, whom end up being your buddies. And, what a diverse cast 
 of characters Liberty City hosts as well!
  
  My favorite character has to be Brucie; an insecure beef cake who's obsessed with being "genetically 
 superior" (interestingly enough, through the use of steroids) . He provides a lot of the comic relief, 
 as many of the other characters have much more serious tones. Packie, for example, is an Irish 
 man who's life is, and always has been, quite a pain. Of course, Dwayne is a hardened ex-con who 
 seems to have just as bad luck as Packie. There's also Little Jacob, a Rastafarian weed pusher 
 who is constantly well baked out of his head. The character development throughout Grand Theft 
 Auto 4 is great, as you really get a sense of who the characters are, and what they think.
  
  Many of the people you will befriend come with perks as well. For example, get Little Jacob 
 to like you enough and he will then be available to sell weapons to you, with only a call on your 
 phone. Roman can provide you with a taxi service whenever you are in need. Packie can hook you 
 up with explosives, and Dwayne can be called when you are in need of backup for those sticky situations.
 
  
  In case it wasn't clear by now, you always have a cell phone handy, which is how most of your communication 
 is done. Not only can you answer the phone when someone is ringing you, but you have the opportunity 
 to call up any of your friends to arrange for, or cancel, appointments. Aside from fast food joints 
 and restaurants, there are a number of minigames spread throughout Liberty City, such as darts, 
 pool, and bowling. Once you are friends with someone you will need to take them out for activities 
 such as these in order to maintain good friendship. It's a nice idea, but I have to admit that 
 it really does begin to feel like a chore to maintain these friendships. Although, you could easily 
 argue the same could be said in real life.
  
  Friendship aside, you also will have the opportunity to go on dates with a couple lucky ladies. 
 While not necessary for the story line, the presence of these dating mechanics certainly does add 
 a bit more variety to the already wide range of things to do in Liberty City. At the end of each 
 date, you have the chance to "try your luck" or just say good night. That is, if you pushed the 
 right buttons, you will get a chance at virtually scoring with a virtual chick. You don't actually 
 see anything, should you make it, but when you do get some, the scene that follows is good for 
 a few laughs. If the laugh isn't good enough for you, you get an achievement out of the deal as 
 well!
  
  Obviously, the Grand Theft Auto series, as the name implies, isn't all about delegating time with 
 flings and friends. In fact, if you ask some people, they might tell you these social/sim aspects 
 have no place in such a game. Regardless; if you've played any other Grand Theft Auto game then 
 you should feel right at home here. You steal cars, kill people who get in your way, and carry 
 out missions for mobsters to fatten your wallet.
  
  The missions you go on are not only challenging and diverse, but can be extremely rewarding as 
 well. At one point in the game, you will rob a bank, which, if pulled off successfully, will fill 
 your pockets with roughly 50 times the cash you'd make from an average job! Some missions consist 
 of merely making hits on marked men, while others can have you cleaning out an entire building 
 of its inhabited gangsters. For the most part, the missions don't feel too repetitive, as not only 
 the overall objective changes, but your means of executing it as well. For example, some missions 
 are basic and done by foot, while others involve high speed car chases. Others will have you racing 
 through the oceans of Liberty City on a speed boat, while fewer involve piloting a helicopter. 
 The sheer number of missions available to you is also quite incredible. It seems you almost always 
 have more than one contact to choose from, so if you are planning on doing the optional ones aside 
 from the main story, then you can expect to spend more than fifty hours taking care of business! 
 That's a lot of gameplay for an action oriented game, although I would be lying to you if I said 
 that I never felt that the missions became a bit repetitive. It's true that after playing long 
 enough, one can easily begin to feel like they have been doing the same thing over and over. If 
 it were not for the integrated story and cut scenes you'd probably feel it much sooner, but the 
 presence of a strong story with solid character development does wonders at keeping you interested 
 and involved.
  
  Control in Grand Theft Auto 4 is very similar to earlier episodes. Pressing the Y button is used 
 to get into your car, or, in the event that the car is already occupied, to jack it from someone. 
 The X button is used to jump, and then B button is used to melee attack. You hold down the A button 
 to run, and you repeatedly tap the A button to run even faster. Now personally, I found this to 
 be rather pointless and unnecessary, considering the movement analog stick is only programmed to 
 move you at one speed, regardless of how much pressure you put on the stick. This doesn't make 
 much sense, considering the concept behind the analog stick is to increase the rate of input based 
 on the pressure you apply. I guess the idea was to "simulate" your leg movements or the swinging 
 of your arms by having you press the button over and over to go quicker  or possibly simply to 
 make you put a little effort into it. Nonetheless, I personally felt this to be quite unnecessary.
 
  
  And now we come to the point at which I hesitate the most to discuss  graphics. The reason I am 
 so hesitant is because I harbor such mixed feelings about the visuals in Liberty City, and because 
 I know that my opinion might not sit too well with many people. Yet, critiquing should always be 
 a truthful and honest approach at expressing one's opinion, so here I go...
  
  It pains me to say this, but I wasn't that impressed with the visuals in GTA4. Why? Well, let me 
 get the nasty stuff out of the way first, so I can move onto the visual pleasantries. For starters, 
 the draw distance isn't very good, and objects just a hundred or so feet away are filtered in a 
 very fuzzy way, presumably as to keep the game running smoothly. I just came from playing Crackdown 
 again, so when I saw how limited the line of sight was in GTA4, I was quite disappointed. All of 
 the shadows throughout Liberty City are also quite dithered and fuzzy looking as well. Though, 
 in all fairness, this seems to be a growing trend game developers are doing in order to compensate 
 for performance. There are also a few instances in which the character models for the "extras" 
 are quite blocky looking. I remember a certain instance in a cabaret club where I was quite shocked 
 to see how blocky one of the character models looked. Fortunately, all of the main characters, 
 and most of those you see from a distance throughout the city, are much smoother and less offensive 
 looking. Surprisingly, there were even quite a large number of textures which were very low resolution. 
 Many of the texture maps on store and building fronts were ugly, and random places throughout Liberty 
 City really starkly contrasted the otherwise finer toning. In a few areas, there is even texture 
 flickering. During dawn or dusk (I forget which, to be honest) the whole world looks much too pale. 
 I'm guessing they were trying to make it look realistic, but they went much too far as almost everything 
 on screen appears close to the same color at these times. But above all else, the absolute worst 
 looking aspect of GTA4 is the plant life. It's been a really long time since I can recall seeing 
 such horrid looking trees and bushes. I think I might have a plant life fetish or something, because 
 I'm always paying close attention to how trees and plants are constructed in games. Those in Liberty 
 City frightened me, and looked incredibly last-gen! To make matters worse, trees will frequently 
 obstruct your view, which causes complications during intense scenes. As trees interfere in the 
 path between the camera and you or your car, they do not fade out, or become transparent. Instead, 
 they simply cover the whole screen and make it impossible for you to see what's going on. I wouldn't 
 exactly say this is a rare occurrence either, as it had to have been a source of frustration for 
 me close to ten times. So, in other words, I couldn't say it's all eye-candy here, as some people 
 seem to portray it to be. By no means are the graphics poor; they simply left a lot to be desired 
 for my taste.
  
  Then again, there is an awful lot that was done right, and even several aspects that were quite 
 impressive. To start off, the frame rate is very stable, and drops only slightly ever-so rarely. 
 That says a lot too considering just how much detail there is in the Liberty City. The attention 
 to detail is amazing, and really shows how much time the developers put into making the special 
 effects life like. Since Liberty City consists of several islands, this means there is a lot of 
 water in the game. Much like paying close attention to plant life in games, I also pay close attention 
 to how well done the water is. I've got to say, the water in Grand Theft Auto 4 is probably some 
 of the most life like water I've seen in a video game. It actually has depth and waves which move 
 in a very convincing nature, and the texture used for the water itself is also amazingly realistic 
 looking. The rain effects are without a doubt the coolest I've seen in any game. Not only does 
 the rain fall and splash realistically, it really effects how easy it is to manage a vehicle  
 something many games neglect. And then there are all the little details and intricacies on land. 
 As you smash through fire hydrants, they will spray water up that is capable of pushing you up, 
 or even lifting your car, should you leave it on the spraying water. If you smash down a light 
 post, electricity will spark out, and if you plow someone over in your car, blood will splatter 
 on it. Even the cars themselves move very realistically. As opposed to the car seeming like a block 
 moving on wheels, the physics that control the way the car's body moves on top of the tires is 
 very well done. The little details that have been added to characters also raise the bar. The lip 
 synchronization is nearly perfect, and really portrays a sense of realism far surpassing the majority 
 of other games. And it's not just the way the lips move that may the characters so believable, 
 every gesture the faces and body language make only increases the realism factor.
  
  Now, I find it difficult to accurately measure just how good the audio is in a game such as Grand 
 Theft Auto, considering that much of what is to be reviewed is licensed music not specifically 
 made for the game itself. Like past games in the Grand Theft Auto universe, you can listen to a 
 large range of radio stations as you drive around. Maybe it's just me, but I thought the number 
 of radio stations you have to choose from in Grand Theft Auto 4 was much higher than any of the 
 earlier games. Obviously, this is a good thing. Yet, at the same time, I'm not one that would actually 
 willingly listen to almost all of the music available. I do enjoy Bob Marley from time to time, 
 which is good considering there is a radio station that only seems to play him (I guess those making 
 the music selections don't realize there is actually more reggae in the world) . Normally, my genre 
 of choice would be punk, but the crap they have in here only irritated me (just because you shout 
 "hard core" over and over, doesn't make it so) . As for the rest of the music, I'm sure it's all 
 fine and dandy to most people, but none of it is really my cup of tea. I was a little disappointed 
 by that, considering just how much music they try to cover, and still I couldn't find a radio station 
 that I could stick with for very long. But, like anything else in a review, this is my opinion, 
 and some might consider my tastes in music to be snobby, because of how picky I am with what I 
 listen to. Even if I had enjoyed every song that was used, I find quite unfair to praise a game 
 too much for simply for licensing popular music. That doesn't take too much thought; just money. 
 Of course, what has to be praised is the awesome voice-over work! The voice actors did a remarkable 
 job, and I'd probably say that Grand Theft Auto 4 has the best voice acting in any video game. 
 Niko's accent is not only believable, but not overly done so that one could get the impression 
 they are faking it. Every line is voiced full of emotion, and delivered with impeccable timing.
 
  
  The sound effects are good, but didn't really stand out to me, one way or the other. Although, 
 the addition of a spoken GPS feature is a great idea. That is, while you are driving your car can 
 tell you when to turn, based on where you specify you are trying to reach. Aside from that, the 
 sound effects weren't all that memorable, but at least they weren't irritating either.
  
  When you take away all the flashy and shallow appeal games contain, the most important feature 
 is of any game is its ability to keep you playing. Fortunately, Grand Theft Auto 4 nailed this 
 area aspect pretty well, if you ask me at least. I couldn't tell you just how long the story missions 
 alone will take because I got quite caught up in trying to do any mission that was available to 
 me, sometimes even forgetting which were the ones relevant to the main story. It took me roughly 
 50 hours to complete all of the missions the contacts had to offer, which is a lot more play time 
 than I was expecting. Liberty City itself is quite large, although if you're going to draw comparisons 
 to similar games, then you may be surprised to know it is not nearly as large of a world as many 
 other sandbox type games. I found it quite disappointing that 99% of the the structures and buildings 
 in the game are nothing but external boxes. Seldom, can you ever actually enter a building, which 
 really contrasted the otherwise free feeling of the game.
  
  In an age such as our own, the addition of multiplayer couldn't be more necessary. While I'm not 
 much of a multiplayer person myself, I did play around for several hours with others online. There 
 are numerous game modes, although few will really stand out from the rest. For the most part, the 
 game runs smoothly, but there were several games I ran into in which lag was so bad that it was 
 unplayable. Occasionally there would be bullet-lag, and situations in which people were killed 
 and you just didn't know it yet, or you'd be shooting in one direction where a player had already 
 moved, and your system just hadn't updated the character positions yet. It isn't a frequent problem, 
 but it does happen from time to time, and should definitely be mentioned. But, my biggest gripe 
 with the multiplayer support is that for some reason there is no way to tell who is speaking through 
 their microphone (unless the character is in your screen and you can see them - which is next to 
 never) . This was a huge source of annoyance for me, considering the incredible number of Xbox Live 
 users who sing in their microphones, or those that just act like they are still in pre-school. 
 Sure, there's a "mute" feature with both the game and Xbox Live, but that does you absolutely no 
 good when you can't even determine the name of the user you want to mute. Because of this, I found 
 myself plugging my microphone in just so I could turn the volume off completely so I didn't have 
 to hear anyone. Normally, I prefer to let everyone speak as I play online, but if I have no control 
 over silencing the nitwits on Live, then I have to resort to silencing everyone.
  
  As with my gripe regarding voices in multiplayer, there exist numerous other issues in the game 
 itself, which, not surprisingly, seem to have been ignored by even many of the most reputable critics.
 
  
  First and foremost, Rockstar promised a "living and breathing" world. I'm not seeing it. I remember 
 reading all about how they were finally going to give the citizens of Liberty City stuff to do 
 so they weren't all just walking around on the streets. Now, when I first heard about this, my 
 initial thought was something along the lines of in Oblivion, in which every NPC follows a schedule 
 of activities. Perhaps that was too unrealistic of an expectation for a game with as many NPCs 
 as Grand Theft Auto. Regardless, I expected more, and even if I hadn't expected more, I'm still 
 disappointed by the fact that it takes this many sequels to get it done, when it could have very 
 well been done the first time around if the attention to detail was great enough. Sure, you will 
 see people standing on the streets smoking and things like that, but it's always superficial actions 
 like smoking or talking to someone else. I never got the impression that these people on the streets 
 were up to anything other than standing around or walking around, which is not a living and breathing 
 city, as far as I am concerned.
  
  In terms of technical performance, I experienced brutal load times on various occasions, and once 
 it even took (and this is by no means an exaggeration) upwards of five minutes before completing 
 loading. Of course, not many people are actually going to sit through that, as even I thought the 
 game had frozen (again)  I simply went out of the room, got something to eat and eventually after 
 coming back it finished loading. There was actually one time where I waited for more than ten minutes 
 during a load and the game never came back, so I can only assume it crashed or hung while trying 
 to retrieve data it couldn't access for some reason.
  
  Loading aside, I have to admit there are a variety of other technical and design issues which need 
 to be mentioned. Throwing grenades from being cover is extremely problematic as 75% of the time 
 the grenade will hit your cover object and blow you up instead. Flying a helicopter is much more 
 difficult than it needed to be. Heck, I avoided using a helicopter anytime I didn't absolutely 
 need to for a mission, because controlling one is a painful chore. I know it doesn't have to be 
 like that either, because flying a helicopter in Just Cause was hundreds of times easier.
  
  The added hide-behind-cover feature in GTA4 is not only new to the series, but completely unnecessary. 
 Except for a few (rare) scripted instances where it is a must, using an object as cover is more 
 troublesome than helpful. Since it locks you in place, it makes immediately reacting and leaving 
 cover impossible, and it doesn't seem all that helpful anyhow since you can just hide behind the 
 object without pressing the cover button, and that way you won't be locked onto anything.
  
  Now, maybe it is just me here, but I felt that, contrary to what we were being told by Rockstar 
 prior to the release, evading the police is much easier. I remember reading all about how much 
 more clever the fuzz would be, and the all new and improved tactics they'd use to haul your ass 
 in. I gotta tell you  I don't see it. Not once did I ever notice the police do something drastically 
 different than they would have done in any of the previous Grand Theft Auto games. Heck, I actually 
 found it much easier to lose the coppers here, than any other Grand Theft Auto game. Each police 
 unit has a circular bubble on your map; if you are within the bubble, then you are still in their 
 range. To lose the cops, you just need to step out of the bubble and wait a few seconds. Then you 
 can turn around and go right back where you came from while all along the police are completely 
 oblivious. So I hate to say it, but I think it's a lot easier to lose the police now than it has 
 ever been. You can take that how you want it, but I for one take it as unchallengeable, and much 
 too unrealistic.
  
  There's no denying it, Grand Theft Auto 4 was a heck of a lot of fun for me. It's a solid game, 
 with a pretty good story and excellent character development. There are times that you may get 
 the feeling that you're playing a SIM game instead, and you may even begin to feel the overbearing 
 tedium of repetition, but most of the time it is a treat. Sure, there is a list of issues that 
 could have made the game even better, but many of them can be overlooked for how much is done right. 
 If you're an adult gamer, and you don't particularly mind delving into a morally bankrupt pseudo 
 world, then you need to check this one out. However, if you are going to ask me straight out what 
 I thought about the game, I'd have to respond "3 parts fun, 1 part hype".
  
  
  Overall Score: 8.3
  
  Gameplay: (9) Solid GTA gameplay you have grown to love, but it can feel 
 repetitive at times, and there are various annoyances and issues that can frustrate you. Some design 
 and technical issues.
  
  Graphics: (8) Mixed bag of nuts - some parts overachieve, while others underachieve. Great rain 
 and water effects, and the little details and touches are excellent. Some texture flicker and low 
 resolution textures on buildings. Anything not directly in front of you is really fuzzy and dithered.
 
  
  Sound: (8) Licensed music - would be nice if they wrote some original music once. Unmatched voice-overs, 
 average sound effects, and no way to tell who is talking on Xbox Live.
  
  Lasting Appeal: (8) Lengthy game if you're going to do everything. It can feel repetitive at times, 
 and when it is all said and done only multiplayer may keep you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I admit I have not been a loyal follower of the Grand Theft Auto Series, but this game is 
 GREAT. The game play is great, as is the multiple story lines, although I could spend hours punching 
 in cheats, and standing on a street corner with grenades and a rocket launcher blowing up anything 
 and everything that passes by just to see how long I can hold out before the cops take me down. 
 Great Fun. There is nothing better than pulling some sap out of his "Banshee", whipping his butt, 
 and taking off in his ride. The car hanlding leaves a little to be desired, and can make chasing 
 some guys down a bit of a problem, especially if you have to do a lot of turning, but all in all, 
 they really nailed this one. Even if your not following the story line and completing task, I could 
 spend hours just riding around boosting cars. Definately a must play. Parents, heed the Mature 
 warning, this one isnt for the kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: team-mazda3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  finally a game which worth buying with out feeling like you just waste your money . i even have 
 2 one for the xbox360 and the other one is for the ps3 
  and there is slightly differences between the two in the handling of the vehicles . in the xbox360 
 you can go sideways easily because it is hard to turn left or light . however in the ps3 is quite 
 the opposite . the grafics is the same even the light in the two are the same except if you didn't 
 turn on the full white some thing for the hdmi . but what i like in the xbox360 is the achievement 
 which gives you sometimes some thing to play for by doing stupid or bad things in the game . but 
 even if you finished the game there is alot of side missions not mentioning the online . finally 
 , i would give the game 9.7 or 9.8 put i can't do it because of the rating system .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  i was sooooo addicted to this game that i actually beat it in a week! that is like a world record 
 or something, but yeah just felt like announcing that.
  
  this game i had to give a 10/10, its just too good, they have made it so realistic now, and much 
 more accesible, the cover system and the lack of player health has improved the game so much, now 
 if you run and gun you wont stand a chance but if you take cover and take your time to spot who 
 can do the most damage to you, you will be scott free. the story has greatly improved and the missions 
 provide major variety and you pretty much have to do everyones missions so you get the chance to 
 do and try everything.
  
  the visuals are much improved from the previous games, the graphics arent the best but the character 
 models and lighting effects make up for this and make the experience so lifelike. even sitting 
 in the back of the cab watching the dark wet ground feels lifelike, with all the traffic and street 
 lights rebounding off it.
  
  the music is fantastic, my favourite is radio broker, but also the sound effects are amazing, with 
 every gunshot sounding loud and real.
  
  the value of this game is amazing, you will get at least 30 hours out of it but extremely more 
 likely 100 hours, just like every other gta game. the little querks of this game give it its fine 
 polish and thats why its the only game in a decade to recieve the 10/10 gamespot score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussiehalofan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I have to disagree with any reviewer giving this game a full perfect score like Gamespot 
 and IGN have done. Don't get me wrong though, the game is absolutely fantastic. It offers the player 
 hours upon hours of gaming goodness, but essentially, hasn't changed the formula much since GTA3 
 . Is that a good or bad thing? Well it's really up to you to decide, but a perfect score? You're 
 joking right?
  
  This is the first GTA game I have actually finished and I thank that to the very interesting story 
 of Niko Bellic. The game gradually gives you information about his past and why he is here in Liberty 
 city after you complete missions. Niko is a likable character and is often quite humorous! Basically 
 the character of Niko was the sole reason why I kept on playing, I really wanted to know what happened 
 to him, and this comes from a gamer not usually interested in the story elements of a game.
  
  GTA4 offers all of your usual GTA action along with a new cover system that really helps in 
 the middle of a gun fight. I was a little disappointed with the new driving mechanics too as they 
 offer a much more realistic experience. I liked the handling in the previous games. Hey it wasn't 
 realistic but it was a lot more fun than the current style. The graphics are very sexy too with 
 large draw distances and very impressive detail to the whole city. All in all you can't really 
 go wrong with this game. It will have you hooked for at least 20-30 hours just on the story side 
 of things and then if you want get that all mighty 100% completion, then get prepared to part with 
 50+ hours of your life! Get this game, you will not regret it!!
  
  Aussiehalofan
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JollyBobby123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I have always played the GTA series and always found them great. They are on of the few that even 
 after you finish you can continue to play and Rockstar didn't dissapoint with this new installment. 
 Just the graphics alone are amazing but when you add in the other great additions you end up with 
 a breathtaking game that is among the best. I have enjoyed the game immensely but noticed that 
 it could have some improvements. The first thing I noticed was that you were no longer able to 
 go underwater this didn't really annoy me that much, the main thing was that you could no longer 
 fly planes at all. I mean I alraedy knew there wouldn't be jets but at least some sea planes would 
 have been okay. Though even with these slight annoyances I still love the game its just awesome. 
 And to anyone who has the game get online it rocks!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkypirate
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the wonders of GTA IV are many. In single player, you play the role of Niko Bellic, a Russian 
 immigrant who has just defected from his original country to escape his past and seek a new life 
 in the land of opportunity. As one could guess, it eventually all goes to the dumps as a series 
 of people pull him into the gang life of violence and crime; the very one he tried to escape.
 
  
  To begin, I must comment on the single player. Fan-friggin'-tastic. The shooting system makes the 
 game almost a little too easy and the game is much shorter than expected, but the games makes up 
 for it with an excellent storyline and missions, with extra features out the butt. I mean, seriously, 
 in what other game can you call up a steroid junky named Brucie who is 'genetically superior', 
 get drunk off your ass, and drunk drive? None that I know of, amigo. Now for the multiplayer, ooooh 
 the multiplayer. Superior would be the best term for it, if not Godly. With a myriad of choices 
 match-wise, it makes you want to weep with joy. You can play free mode and roll to your penthouse 
 and chill, or play a ranked deathmatch to up your rank and get new clothing for your online avatar.
 
  
  As far as graphics are concerned, this is by far the **** gzngar. Best graphics I've seen in a 
 Xbox 360 yet. Pimpin' off the shelf, yanno?
  
  Sounds effects are very good, along with anything else. there are even very few glitches, which 
 is a first as far as I'm concerned.
  
  If you want my honest opinion, it would be this; BUY THE GAME. BUY IT AND CHERISH IT. Definitely 
 a buy, hands down. And when your on, enjoy the wonders of Liberty City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merciless911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The grand theft auto series is really one of a kind. This game will keep you busy for easily 30+ 
 hours, and thats only if you don't do any side-quests.
  
  Everything in this game is great but sometimes it can get a little borring if you play it nonstop 
 for a few hours. If your like me in this game you will probably find yourself in the middle of 
 a mission just start shooting at people and then all of a sudden you have like 5 cops on you. Then 
 you realise you only have a little health left and you end up getting killed and having to start 
 over with the whole mission. With most games you'd be like sh*t, but GTA4 is just so good you won't 
 even really care.
  
  Believe me you will find youself lost in this games immense and realistic world, time and time 
 again, you will not regret buying this game.
  
  Well all in all this is a must buy game, and a very, very funny one. You will experience a lot 
 of dry humour... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I have to start off by saying this game is not a 10. I'm not sure how Gamespot came to the conclusion 
 that it's perfect, because it is not. This game really didn't add alot to the series, and also 
 took alot away that was enjoyable. It's almost as if this is Vice City, but much better looking 
 and sounding with a new story and some new things here and there.
  
  The good: 
  
  -Excellent graphics with only minor problems. 
  -Fantastic story and characters. Your decisions 
 as you progress directly reflect later events.
  -Superb physics with shooting and driving.
  -A large, vibrant city to roam around in.
  -Nice GPS and Waypoint system.
  
  The bad:
  
 
  -Lack of character customization.
  -Not much to really do outside of the storyline. 
  -The new friends thing is a bit tedious.
  -Did I mention lack of character customization?
  
 -Spawning issues for vehicles haven't been fixed.
  -Guns need to feel more powerful, but that was always a problem after Vice City.
  -Lack of aircraft... no 
 big deal at first but you'll want them later on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishkhan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The following are my views regarding Rockstar's open world masterpiece:
  
  Story - Second to none. The tale of Niko Bellic is extremely compelling with player decisions that 
 have a profound effect on the game. You must play the game through twice to get the full experience. 
 I can think of no other game before or since that actually provoked an emotional response from 
 me. I actually regretted some of my actions and vowed to be different on my next play through.
 
  
  Graphics - This is a favorite target for the haters. All I have to say is, walk down the streets 
 of Algonquin and just look around. The size, scope, and detail of the city easily forgives character 
 textures or the odd pop-up. How on earth anyone could find fault with anything graphically in this 
 game when standing on the corner of GTA4's version of Times Square is beyond me.
  
  Sound/Voice Acting - The talent and attention to detail is very evident here. The literally hundreds 
 of different voices interacting around the city never ceases to amaze me. The character voice work 
 is excellent as well. To compare the voice work in GTA4 to any other video game would be an insult.
 
  
  Game play - Terrific. The shooting mechanic has been upgraded and it shows. many complain about 
 the driving. It is fine, they just need to get better at it. The replay value is off the charts. 
 You should be able to get 80+ hours of game play just out of the single player campaign alone. 
 When you add the multi-player facet to the mix you get a ton of entertainment for a mere $60. I 
 boggles the mind that someone will pay that same $60 for a clearly lesser game without complaint 
 but this masterpiece gets constant criticism. Frankly, GTA4 is a bargain at double the price!
 
  
  In conclusion, I fail to see how any gamer can not enjoy the humor, the action, and the engrossing 
 world of Liberty City. Any flaws in the game are more the fault of the 360, rather than the brilliant 
 offering of Rockstar games. When you stop and consider the breadth and depth of this game, I defy 
 anyone to point out a similar experience on any console, anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huddie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  There's no doubt about it, Rockstar have always had a winning formula. Stealing cars, shooting 
 people, street-racing and avoiding the police - what's not to like ? 
  
  Here, Rockstar have not just upped the visuals for HD gaming, but added a bit more depth and scale 
 to the city as well. Now, besides the usual stuff, you can play mini-games with friends (associates 
 in the game who you impress enough for them to give you their phone number) . Mini-games include 
 darts, pool and bowls. Also, you can take girlfriends out on dates and try to get lucky with them 
 afterwards. All of this and more serves to increase the depth of the game and help make it feel 
 worthwhile forking out your hard earned cash for a game franchise that's starting to look long 
 in the tooth. What really makes the game enjoyable, though, are the strong storyline and characters 
 in it. It feels like you're working for, with and against real people.
  
  All of this said, GTA IV still shares some negative characteristics of its predecessors. Controls 
 have been improved, with cover movements a la Gears of War making a welcome addition, but still 
 they could be better. Also, the game's frequently dark, shadowy environment might provide atmosphere, 
 but visibility is often a problem. In some missions you can find yourself drenched in pitch darkness 
 with no torch. Other bugs and oversights are evident too, like problems with your associates' AI. 
 Frequently, these problems are frustrating, but also straightforward and obvious enough that you 
 really wonder how they survived into the released version of the game. Sadly, this is why GTA IV 
 is merely a good, but not a great game.
  
  Still, plenty of fun to be had, though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thnksforthekaos
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is back in Liberty City, and this time the city changed from what you know 
 of III. I didn't play GTA I, II, or even get to finished III and didn't pay attention to the story 
 of Vice City. So I don't really know what's the story connection. But GTA IV, as on a new console, 
 has a new story and doesn't related to the previous series, well, for now.
  
  Anyway. the gameplay of the game is perfect. Rockstar thought of everything possible. From the 
 physic of a car, human, reaction, and even doors opening like real life (I said this because i 
 parked a car blocking my door way, and when I was getting out, I hit the door and it bounce back 
 like it is in real life) the explosions, the graphics, the realistic handling of a car, and the 
 intense RPG firing.
  
  The story is great and filled with GTA IV inside jokes, if you don't have enough of these funny 
 moments, you can even watch television and find some funny channels, or you can take a friend out 
 and see what happens. Anything is possible in GTA IV.
  
  However some of this game is a bit let down. A three stars is no different from a six stars. Back 
 in the previous series, we were scared of the tank popping out of a corner or following you in 
 six stars. but in GTA IV you cant find a single tank. This is a bit let down because Rockstar just 
 increase the number of cops and FIB (FBI in the real world, not a spelling error) to take you down. 
 and if you jack a helicopter and just go around the city high enough, they cant take you down at 
 all. and even for me, I just took a boat and went around the island with six stars, I still manage 
 to survive after that.
  
  There is some great things I want to point out to you guys. 
  In the previous versions you can lower your stars by looking for the floating stars in alleyways 
 and etc. Here in GTA IV we have a police perimeter. Basically you drive out of the radius of that 
 perimeter (shows on the map and shows where the cops are at) and as long as you stay out and hide 
 from the sight of the police, you are good to go. This is a clever way to play hide and seek with 
 the police instead of cheat your way off or get you RPG out with unlimited ammo cheat.
  
  Character customization like San Andreas does exist, but Rockstar told the GTA fans that hair and 
 body customization is no longer existed in GTA IV because they want the fans to focus more on the 
 main character Niko Bellic and his story. This is also one of the big let downs because it would 
 be great to see some customization to each individual's Niko Bellic, not just a boring Russian 
 wearing some suits with a pistol. 
  
  Some of the controls are great, like the new cover system and the new reticule looks great. However, 
 taking cover and some controls are buggy and can get you mad at times. the Auto aiming is great, 
 but it is hard to shift between auto aim and free aim since it is just "slightly push down your 
 RT / R2" and "push down your RT / R2 all the way down"
  
  To me, compare to GTA San Andreas, the gameplay is better, but some of the details that we used 
 to love in GTA San Andreas such as flying a jet, biking, tank driving, skydiving, and even deep 
 sea swimming are all gone. When I got my GTA IV copy the first day it came out, and playing it, 
 it makes me puke, but luckily Euphoria and Rockstar provided jokes, great story, and the hilarious 
 to watch physics makes me laugh. 
  
  Multi player?
  Great idea, it is intense, and hilarious moments, but it gets repetitive once you played every 
 mode. When you respawn, you will get so mad that there is no cars in where you spawn, but a bunch 
 where your team and your opponents fight. It makes you think that the spawning system is sometimes 
 as horrible as it is in Call of Duty 4
  
  In conclusion, don't buy this game till you played it. Go rent it or you can wait for the platinum 
 hits if you want, but thats gonna be in 2 years I believe. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squeakyfiend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is a long running, critically acclaimed series as you may well know. The newest 
 installment is no exception. In my opinion, GTA IV is the best one yet. 
  
  A few people disagree with me saying it lacks the customization and variety of San Andreas but 
 if you want customization, your better off playing World of Warcraft or a similiar RPG. As for 
 variety, this game still includes different outfits, activities like Pool and Bowling and even 
 adds new features like a cell phone that you can organize missions through or simply call a friend 
 to go out for a drink.
  
  The multiplayer is also a welcome new feature that was previously only seen on the handheld versions 
 of the game. Now, you can challenge your friends over xbox live or psn to a deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 and many other versus game modes. Party mode is also included whereby you and your friends can 
 just cruise around the city together, taking in the wonderful sights of liberty city or cause havoc 
 and explosions in full high definition.
  
  If you are looking for a solid crime action game, this is for you. Rockstar have suceeded in making 
 an amazing game with superb visuals, astounding sound and a totally immersive storyline.
  
  Buy it and you wont regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saikiran777
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  the story of grand theft auto is really wonder full after gta III liberty city has lots of change 
 and low budget cabs sports cars really amazing and street racing is ve
  ry nice in gta IV nice the Niko character is excellent and pool plying is good
  and bikes are 
 cool Niko is a likable guy helicopters are nice and graphics are excellent we will have fun with 
 playing the game and the locked cars he will kicking the glasses of car and he Niko will be the 
 most popular When you're not running missions for criminals, taking part in street races, stealing 
 cars to order, or randomly causing trouble, you'll find that there are plenty of opportunities 
 to unwind in Liberty City. Some of these optional activities offer tangible rewards that can prove 
 useful in missions later on, whereas others are just a fun way to kill time and take in more of 
 GTA IV superb humor. For example, you can watch television, listen to numerous different radio 
 stations, check out some genuinely funny shows (including some big-name acts) at cabaret and comedy 
 clubs, and use a computer to surf the in-game Internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The main thing that kinda killed me on GTAIV was that they took it in a totally different aspect 
 and direction. They wanted it to be realistic and griddy and dark. The story wasn't deep and didn't 
 want me to ask for more, it was also maybe the shortest GTA game I've played. The map wasn't really 
 big and by a week I memberized it to know where every hot dog vendor was. The driving ,although 
 nice to see, was too realistic and difficult on race's. And selection of weapons and cars and clothing 
 was terrible. I liked San Andreas and how Saints Row had Clothing and cars customizable. This made 
 me feel like I wasted money on a beautifully designed game with no story and game play fun. Like 
 in all the other GTA's the game play wasn't really serious (blowing heads off, jet packs, mini 
 cars, "unique" weapons, and funny dialog.) The map reminded me too much of GTA III, VC and SA, 
 in which was nice but strange. The vehicle parking is horrid and as well of housing. I really tried 
 to enjoy this game but it simply was a lack-luster. I hope Rockstar realizes by making a GTA game 
 realistic, dark, and life-like there feeding those stupid Anti-games/ violence on games protesters 
 have more fuel for there war. Go back to the basics gentlemen... Fun Game play and some of that 
 Crude Humor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakerunner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I will admitt to the fact that I haven't yet finished the story but that's not a really big deal 
 now is it. For as far as I am into the game, its really fun, its got an interesting story to the 
 game unlike some other games. GTA is an amazing, amazing, amazingly fun game to play online. There 
 are alot of different modes of online play, also their is more you can do in this game that some 
 of the other GTA games like, Vice City, and GTA 3. There is of course street races, then there 
 is darts, pool, and more character interaction, having a girlfriend, and also just other friends, 
 and Roman of course, to go hang out with, play darts, get drunk or something.
  
  I honestly am at a lose of words for how to describe this game in an true detail, or to help protrait 
 how the game is, but I how this was interesting and or helpful to someone at least.
  
  One small thing about the game though. At least up to the part that I am at the game is kinda easy. 
 I dont know if I'm good or lucky but it seems kinda easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Of course the hype couldn't have been any bigger and the game seems to get all the praise. But 
 could it be all it's cracked up to be? Not especially. Without the drawn out build up, if you've 
 played GTA since the release of 3. You've played this one, just not as good looking. 
  While the game doesn't compete graphically with things like Gears of War or Bioshock, what it does 
 is set a new standard for the open world 3rd person genre. Looking better than any of it's kind 
 (Saints Row or Crackdown) the game looks great for the sheer size of the world. 
  Past the obvious graphical upgrades there is very little steak where you heard the sizzle. The 
 games core gameplay remains for all intents and purposes unchanged. The addition of a cover snap 
 system like that of Gears of War adds some nice dynamics to combat but is rarely essential and 
 slows you down too much while trying to fight gangs and run from cops. The cover system is only 
 useful while in a prescripted mission, during the normal gameplay it serves no purpose. 
  Another nice addition is the cellphone, overly customizable the cell phone is your key to missions... 
 and harrasment. While some additions are great others are not. The need to have 'friends' is fine, 
 but the fact that they require upkeep is rather annoying. Exploring the city becomes a pain as 
 every little while someone calls because they want your attention. Thus you can choose to stop 
 whatever you're trying to do and maintain your friendship with that person OR say no and lose points. 
 Of course it's a choice but if you wish to make some acheivment points or have the help of some 
 of them it's a requirement. And since some of your friends can give you help like car bombs, weapons 
 or even sent thugs to help back you up you have little choice.
  As for writing and dialogue the game is very impressive, Niko being one of the most likeable GTA 
 characters ever really lets you delve into the game. That added with his chemistry with his cousin 
 makes for a many moments of comedy and personal involvement. You find yourself truly caring about 
 who you help and who you might upset. Or finding that you actually care about your loyalty to your 
 assumed family and friends. Will you help one person because you want the money? Or help a friend 
 bring him down for the respect? The choice is yours and yours alone... Now, onto the overall.
 
  
  The Good
  +Graphically a drastic improvement over previous GTAs, but still a improvement over other titles 
 of it's kind. Beautiful explosions when you have the time to watch them.
  +Story, one of the best stories written for this franchise since... well, ever. You'll eventually 
 find that you do care what happens to poor Niko and his cousin.
  
  The Bad
  - The entire social system while serving a purpose really feels too deep. relationship maintenence 
 and such feels more like a chore than enjoyable. The dating aspect is cute at first but when you 
 realize every dynamic character has very specific likes and dislikes it becomes a pain aswell, 
 adding in that you have to change your outfit before everydate and that the care you drives makes 
 a difference on the date. You get to the point where you just take her anywhere and find yourself 
 saying "You're gonna eat it and you're gonna like it or I swear you will find yourself in the trunk 
 of my sports car!"
  -While the radios stations are nice, it is rather obvious which kinds of music taste they are appealing 
 too. You can find a lot of rape and a many of it by more or less named artists. While the metal 
 and rock radios tend to have whatever Rockstar felt was within their budget. Also their content 
 is very limited. You'll find yourself listening to the same talk show or song very quickly. Personally 
 I'd prefer half as many stations and twice as much content. You only need ONE rap station.
  
  Overall if open ended games are your thing, you're going to be rather happy with this one. 
 If you feel the need to pursure the story though you may find yourself wishing that all your friends 
 would just die so you could finally have a moments peace to just explore the sights. With the minor 
 updates to the combat system combat has never been better, but with the added weight to everything 
 car chases feel much closer to a chore than to a exciting what if situation. Never the less if 
 you put the time into driving you'll eventually find that you naturally handle the cars better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The following are my views regarding Rockstar's open world masterpiece:
  
  Story - Second to none. The tale of Niko Bellic is extremely compelling with player decisions that 
 have a profound effect on the game. You must play the game through twice to get the full experience. 
 I can think of no other game before or since that actually provoked an emotional response from 
 me. I actually regretted some of my actions and vowed to be different on my next play through.
 
  
  Graphics - This is a favorite target for the haters. All I have to say is, walk down the streets 
 of Algonquin and just look around. The size, scope, and detail of the city easily forgives character 
 textures or the odd pop-up. How on earth anyone could find fault with anything graphically in this 
 game when standing on the corner of GTA4's version of Times Square is beyond me.
  
  Sound/Voice Acting - The talent and attention to detail is very evident here. The literally hundreds 
 of different voices interacting around the city never ceases to amaze me. The character voice work 
 is excellent as well. To compare the voice work in GTA4 to any other video game would be an insult. 
 Only Bioshock would even be in the conversation. More likely the dialogue in GTA4 would be compared 
 to a feature motion picture.
  
  Game play - Terrific. The shooting mechanic has been upgraded and it shows. many complain about 
 the driving. It is fine, they just need to get better at it. The replay value is off the charts. 
 You should be able to get 80+ hours of game play just out of the single player campaign alone. 
 When you add the multi-player facet to the mix you get a ton of entertainment for a mere $60. It 
 boggles the mind that someone will pay that same $60 for a clearly lesser game without complaint 
 but this masterpiece gets constant criticism. Frankly, GTA4 is a bargain at double the price!
 
  
  In conclusion, I fail to see how any gamer can not enjoy the humor, the action, and the engrossing 
 world of Liberty City. Any flaws in the game are more the fault of the 360, rather than the brilliant 
 offering of Rockstar games. When you stop and consider the breadth and depth of this game, I defy 
 anyone to point out a similar experience on any console, anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the best franchises is back again.. after having Vice City, San An., and Libery City.. the 
 series is back to bring the first chronological sequel to GTA III. GTA IV comes in with a new character, 
 new hope, Next Gen graphics, and Online play.. The question is.. how does this game stack up?
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto's story is step up from any other game in the series. You are Niko Bellic, an 
 East European immigrant, who comes to Liberty City aka New York, to see his Rich, famous cuz. Roman 
 Bellick. However unknonwn to Niko, Roman is a Bull crapper. So instead of mashions, hot babes, 
 nice cars. Roman drives around in a black Taxi Cap, a cockroach invested appartment. As the story 
 goes you meet people through Roman, and they introduce you to more people and so on. Pretty soon 
 everyone knows your name. And in every GTA storyline, it involves crime, and underground dealing. 
 And this is no different. However Rockstar games did an excellent job in having a lot of personallty 
 in Niko, as well as every other character in the game. As the story progresses, you start out small, 
 and gradually work your way up. The story is not linear, and it should not be, its a GTA game. 
 You can do missions at your pace, and do missions you want to do. Some are manditory, but the side 
 mission are just as well made.. well compare to the missions that is. I will get to that later. 
 Overall the story has more personallity and you care somewhat for the story.
  
  Liberty City is HUGE, and maybe a little too big for Niko. The mapping is largly based off NY like 
 i said above. Down to having Statue of Liberty, and Coney Island. There is a ton of stuff other 
 then Missions the city has to offer. There is resurants, bars, Bowling, shows, strip clubs, and 
 more! You can also have different Gf throughout the story. My only grip about this, is that there 
 are still a ton of places you can not get into. It would have been nice to add depth in that part. 
 Many buildings are just for show. Which is a shame, considering how detailed everything is. I would 
 say this is the best geographical GTA in a lot of ways. The story is broken up into Missions, you 
 go to your destination, have a cut scene, then do your job. For the first few hours its pretty 
 fun, however this gets far to repetitive. A lot of the missions are repeated numorus times. just 
 has a different setting. Lots of car chasing, stealing things, and killing people. Most of the 
 missions involves "taking out this guy" The story can engage you to keep playing, however most 
 of the time you will not want to play the missions because how repeatitive it can be. Its the same 
 thing over and over.. The Car and Land combat has changed dramatically. You use more of a duck 
 and cover method, rather then just going head on to people. Its very Gears of Wars Like.. You can 
 also have auto lock, but does not always work. The combat is better in a lot of ways, but sometimes 
 the range of challenge can be very unpredictable, meaing a lot of deaths. Driving is can be so 
 cool, well when your not after someone.. The car physics is a lot more realistic, meaing lots of 
 cool turns, and slowing down at turns is needed. When cruising around city its great, when its 
 a car chase, it seems like every car is out to hit you. you have to keep up, but its harder when 
 you need to slow down, make sure you won't crash. Worse Motercycles.. one hit your done.. very 
 careful.. Sometimes it can work well, and if you get the hang of it, its fun.. But it can be frusterating 
 by this..
  
  Online is great for the most part. Its no Halo, or Call of Duty.. but its a nice feature. You got 
 tons of different ranked, and free modes. You got your standard battle modes. But the best one 
 if you ask me is the Cops and Robbers is the best mode. Lots of co-op play with others, and you 
 can actually be a real cop. Instead of getting caught by them, you now can track down the crooks. 
 Online mode is a nice add on to a long single player mode, its pretty easy to find matches, and 
 there is little to no lag online. IGN, Gamespot, Gamefaqs, X-play, or any other reviewer WAY overhyped 
 it. Saying that this game is as great as Ocarina, MGS, or 10 worthy is funny. This game is a great 
 addition, but there is too many glaring flaws to even consider this a ten. Its enjoyable, but gets 
 annoying and tedious after a while. GTA is great series. This is the best looking, and best story, 
 but you expect more from a game to get this type of praise. I had my own expectations, but when 
 reivewers claimed how great it was, really shocked me.. just goes to show always trust what you 
 feel, just because it gets world wide acclaim, does not mean its for everyone. 10 games are suppose 
 to be ground breaking, ahead of time, and has little to zero errors.. GTA does nothing too special, 
 lacks some content, and has a great amount of flaws
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Its fun to play, you can do almost anything, cops are easier to escape, land, and driving 
 combat is improved, but the game is repetitive, and you find yourself bored..
  Graphics: Looks great, textures are nice, facial expressions are in great detail, and views from 
 the helicoper is breath taking..
  Audio: Great voice work, some of the music could have been better, but one of the best acting and 
 story writing in a game..
  Value: Depends.. long story, can do anything you feel in a sandbox game, like previous games.. 
 But it all depends on how much you get into the story, or how many buddies on XBOX LIVE
  Overall: Meh, after reading reviews.. and seeing clips befor. I expected a little more content 
 in this game.. having said that this is a great, great game for most people. But i found the game 
 to be a tad boring. Some of the combat was either too intense or too easy, I had better hopes for 
 this game. Still nice addition to any gamers collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lll_ROCK_lll
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now and its in my alltime top 10 list for sure. Certainly the best 
 of the series. Unlike the previous GTA games there is more that just shooting people, picking up 
 hookers, stealing cars and selling drugs. There's tons of extra stuff to do, like bowling, or playing 
 darts, or going on dates. It has a great story line, but I didnt expect a physcopathic Russian 
 to be the main character, but it worked out fine. In the latset instlament to the GTA series, Car-Jacking 
 is realistic, you don't just throw them to the ground, after yankin' them out of thier car, and 
 send them screaming thier heads off, they will actually fight back, and take back thier car. All 
 in all its a great game. Buy it before it's gone. Roman is quite a Nutjob, he has no clue he should 
 just give up, and crawl back to the gutter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  If you've never played a GTA before you'll probably think this game is the best thing since sliced 
 bread. Being a GTA veteran I found the graphics to be an improvement on previous installments but 
 by comparison it seems to lack in content.
  
  While your character is still customisable, there doesn't seem to be as many ways to customise. 
 There is no longer an RPG side to the game. i. e. you can no longer upgrade the characters skills 
 and physical attributes. This also leads to a feeling that there are less activities throughout 
 the playing area. There are no longer Gyms to attend or training centers for the various vehicle 
 types and only 3 stores to buy clothes in. Neither can you change your characters hair style. I 
 also felt there were less side missions available in this newest installment.
  
  The story and characters as always (In the GTA series) are great with a good mix of the dramatic 
 and funny. Some of the new characters are probably the most memorable of the series. The radio 
 stations are excellent and provide many a laugh as well. You may notice my review feels like I'm 
 just comparing and contrasting to previous games and you'd be right but this is only because there 
 are simply no new features introduced in this installment. If there were something original here 
 I could review it on its own merits but everything in GTA IV has been done before. 
  
  To summarize, it's worth playing but personally I don't think it warrants the 10/10 that game spot 
 have given it and I dont think it's an improvement on San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgauth
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  I am not a Christian or someone on some kind of moral high horse-just an average hard-working 48 
 year old engineer who enjoys playing video games as a hobby. So, don't think I am the far right 
 demographically jumping in here to pound 'the spawn of Satan' or something. 
  
  But I gotta say I am very disturbed that so many major review sites have lost all semblance of 
 conscience or moral responsibility by promoting with 10's a game that not only encourages, but 
 freakin rewards murder, theft, drug traffiking, cruelty, whoring, etc etc add nauseum. 
  
  What in the hell is wrong with everyone!!!!!!!!!!! I am not saying that games where shooting people 
 is bad, so long as the opponent represents a legitimate and morally appropriate enemy- like the 
 Nazis in WW2, or criminals in cop games, or aliens in invasion games, etc etc. That actually encourages 
 people to take a stand against that which is wrong. But this. 
  
  I know I know I know it is ONLY a game. I am not saying this will encourage someone to go out and 
 do any of this. Not at all. That is not the point. The point is how can anyone find it FUN to steal 
 things from people that don't belong to them, or run over completely innocent people, or shoot 
 cops? Do you reviewers, and gamers, who tout this game as the Second Coming have an ounce of backbone 
 to take a moral stance on ANYTHING?! Or do you not give a sh! t so long as you can have 'fun'?!
 
  
  I like the games graphics, animations, driving, voice acting, basic storyline, and wide open world 
 to fiddle in. That is all great and deserving high marks, but why not put it in a setting where 
 the protagonist is striving to eliminate the ills of society instead of be the champion of it!?
 
  
  I am no prude and do not mind some cuss words, or voilence, etc etc, but I must MUST say that ANY 
 medium that encourages someone to be as morally bankrupt as possible has crossed the line and is 
 not worthy of a 10, and in my mind, nor is even worthy to exist. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was the biggest game hit of Summer 2008, and everyone rushed to the shops to 
 buy it, but when i got it, i was seriously let down by what rockstar had done to the game. 
  1) You cant Fly Aeroplanes 
  2) You cant duel weild weponds 
  3) The Game Is Too Serious 
 
  4) Very Repetative Missions
  5) Game far too long 
  6) Driving Is Terable
  7) Dont Feel Like you have Acheived Much When Finshing The Game.
  
  I was looking for Rockstar 
 to take all of the ideas from "San Andreas" and to take them one step forward by making things 
 just a little bit crazier, which GTA is all about, but it seems as though they took 20 steps back, 
 and made GTA IV more realistic than people would have liked it too have been, the driving is awfull, 
 especailly the Motorbikes, you dont have a variaety of vehicals to choose from, and Liberty City 
 Isn't as big, im sorry, but i think rockstar should drop placing their games in "Liberty City" 
 andVice City" and create a new original place, Liberty City" is kinda getting old. 
  
  The Game starts well and there is a good storyline throughout, but the game does get extreemly 
 repetative and quite boring, 1/10 of my friends Finshed the game, because the rest of them got 
 really really bored with the same bloody missions, and that one person to finsh it is me. 
  
  The Game doesnt give you a great feel when you finsh it, you kill everyone chase down the last 
 boss ( whos a crap final boss anyway) and watch the credits and just throw it in your cupboard 
 to trade next time theres a good deal, its not a game that you would want to do again, because 
 its so tedious and boring. there are lots of bits that they didnt need to put in, like meeting 
 Elizabeth and Manny, and doing that stupid camp guys missions, they just prolonged you from finshing 
 it and closer you to throwing it away and never actually finshing it. 
  
  The Graphics are Satisfactory, its noGears Of War" but its okay, Lighting on th scenery is good, 
 and the water effects are good, Sounds great, got good Music Soundtrack to it.
  
  It does have a good idea about the Taxis which are a life safer, get in a taxi and he'll take you 
 anywhere, and the trains too, as long as your going on the track. 
  
  All in all i was extreemly disapointed with this game, game was repativie and the online mode wasnt 
 as good as i thought it was going to be, 
  i could really ramble on, i've always liked the GTA series and have got them all, even Playstation 
 1 versions, but this game really didnt take it that one step forward for me, it was a disapointment, 
 but still not the worst game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game since the release day, At first I was not sure about it because I didn't 
 play it for a while.. But once I got use to it, and started playing it, I got use to the controls 
 instantly and I'm almost done completing the game. This game is such a big revolutionary improvement 
 compared to ANY and all the past GTA games.. I can't wait till I get to the last mission and get 
 the complete storyline. Every thing is just superb.. the control, physics, graphics, character 
 AI, gameplay and the engine... everything is just soo incredibly new and improved.. I never thought 
 I would see and actual game with the 10/10 rating again.. and I have to say this is my #1 game 
 of 2008 
  I Highly recommend this game more than any other game released this year.. a major influence on 
 excellent games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is finally out after having a delay and might I say it is extraordinary. This 
 is by far the best story line out of all the previous GTA games. The story flows smoothly and Niko's 
 past adds much anticipation as you are completing the game. Phenominal graphics compared to other 
 GTA games like San Andreas make this seem like a brand new series. 
  
  The environments are life-like and very accurate. Even the pedestrians react to you if you walk 
 by them, sort of Assassin's Creed-like. You can now aim while doing a drive and also use grenades 
 and pistols if you become tired of wielding a machine gun out of your window. Even though there 
 are no planes in GTA, the helicopter controls are very good and easy to use. 
  
  The story line is by far the best part, also giving two alternative endings and choices to make 
 along the way. The missions, however, become very similiar. Most missions include killing someone 
 before chasing them down in a car chase. The game also takes a while to get on its legs and run 
 with the story. Despite that, GTA 4 is probobly the best game of the year. It is very immersive 
 and has many side missions to do after the game is completed. The only reason this game does not 
 get a perfect score is because of the multiplayer. Mulitplayer is a good idea for every game, but 
 it does not last in GTAIV. It gets very boring, very fast. 
  
  Robert Score 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game is not a 10, not even close. I have played some other GTA games and it grew on you within 
 the 1st hour of game play. I was and still very shock that this new GTA IV that everyone is so 
 hyped about will be AWESOME. So far I've given about 4 hours of game play and I cannot express 
 how bored I am with it. So far the game has been getting a call from my cousin to eat, and visit 
 the titi's bar, and occasionally go on a date with the girlfriend. I took the game out of the console 
 to make sure wasn't playing SIMS. Not it was GTA IV. If I want to eat, go to a bar, and go on a 
 Date I'd do this in real life and I don't need a game to do it. I'm still waiting for the Story 
 Line of the game to take place.
  
  Maybe the story line will take place sometime soon I'm hoping but this game is definitely not a 
 10. For anyone that thinks this is the greatest game, I'm sorry to say this, but maybe this is 
 the closest they get to titi's and outside activities. They should go out more often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great game but in some ways it's not as good as GTA San Andreas. You can't go into 
 people's houses and rob them like San Andreas and stuff like that. The city in GTA IV isn't as 
 big as San Andreas but there are some things to do there like: play pool, strip clubs, bowling, 
 buy clothes etc. But you can't get haircuts, tattos and some of the stuff from San Andreas as I 
 thought they would keep that type of stuff. Also the game is kind of short as well as I was expecting 
 it to be longer and the story of the game isn't as good as San Andreas, maybe that's what took 
 a bit of my fun out of the game. As it's not a gang story like the previous games, it's just a 
 man named Niko Bellic that comes from Russia and believes in his cousin to live the American Dream. 
 He then finds out his cousin was lieing to him and his cousin get's in trouble a lot, Niko Bellic 
 finds Russian gang members and etc on his way to earn money. The game is just about Niko getting 
 revenge and earning money which is a kind of dull story line. I honestly think this game is way 
 overpriced as it's not even that amazing. To be honest this game is just the same as San Andreas 
 but if they were to keep most of the aspects of San Andreas I think GTA IV would have been a bit 
 better.
  
  There is a lot of different says on this game and lots of people think it's amazing while some 
 don't. So here's a tip either try it out at your friends house or rent it first. It's just the 
 same as San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachsurf1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Well GTA IV probably the most enjoyable one since vice city (my favorite one)
  
  I have found that this game has a lot of great quality's. Great graphics for its genera. good story 
 and game play. This game although takes very long to get into and at the start seems like your 
 playing the sims. It does get a lot tougher later in, i am currently stuck on a mission. Multiplayer 
 will keep this game going for along time because its tons of fun with the free roaming and adversarial 
 types. Character customization although got a major down grades for San Andreas, we lost our plans 
 and the rpg aspect it just seems like a bit of a down grade then it is a upgrade. Although it is 
 fun i really liked saints row a lot more. The aiming system good but really really should of taken 
 out auto aim for multiplayer cause its just super cheap. Theirs some slight bullet lag (nobody 
 likes bullet lag) and the sensitivity options don't really help your aim. I will say this is the 
 longest game in the series witch i like... but i would like to see gta go away from this more dark 
 realistic feel that most games do now. all in all good game but didn't live up to the hype that 
 San Andreas set 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deevvon
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, how many times did I ever have fun on this game? Well, once. The multiplayer is one of the 
 two good things about this game and it's not great either. The game is garbage compared to San 
 Andreas. They took all of the great and fun stuff out of San Andreas and decided to make this game 
 completely awful. "IT'S A GOOD GAME CUZ GRAPICZ R GUD!"
  
  Shut the hell up, graphics is the other good thing about this game. It gets so god damn boring 
 after 10 hours of playing altogether that I SOLD it.
  
  Things they took out:
  
  -Car modification garages
  -Diving
  -Plane piloting
  -Parachutes
  -Bicycles
  -Quads
 
  
  Those MADE San Andreas! WHAT THE HELL WERE THEY THINKING?!
  
  "Hey, lets put awesome graphics in this game and make it more realistic by taking all of the fun 
 attributes from San Andreas! Yeah, this is going to be a great game!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The only thing 'Grand' about this game is I didn't buy it I rented it. You do get to feel 'Theft' 
 in a more then life like manner as Rockstar has stolen your money if you bought this stinker. And 
 as for 'Auto', yeah I did get to drive a freakin' car around town for a while like a taxi driver. 
 
  
  This game might be a 10 if you just got done playing Barbie's Fashion Fun House but it doesn't 
 even compare to titles such as Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, Ninja Gaiden II, Mass Effect and on and 
 on Heck my wash machine is more entertaining on spin cycle then GTA IV.
  
  The graphics are dated and driving is a pain in the arse. The game wasn't the least bit entertaining 
 unless you enjoyed Saturday Night Fever and that whole New York accent yelling at each, my clothes 
 are stylish, don't touch my freakin' hair, your mama's so fat environment
  
  This game was over hyped, over priced and over rated. If you need a $60 coaster by all means buy 
 a copy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Whether you love it or hate it, there's no doubt that the GTA series has blossomed into a Blockbuster 
 Power house in the video game market. Over the years we watched as GTA started as a look down on 
 the city as if you were God, 2D crime/driving game. For GTA, GTA 2 and GTA London all stayed true 
 to the looking down from the heavens feel. Then GTA 3 came and we got to try something we never 
 would expected. With a great sound track, 3D graphics enhancement, and more interaction, GTA was 
 a huge hit. Along came Vice City and Ray Liotta in probably the best GTA we've seen, with GTA Vice 
 City. Still staying true to the 3D and formula of GTA 3, but throwing us into the 80s of a virtual 
 Miami (Vice City) during the good ol' days! GTA San Andreas followed, and was a great game, but 
 some people still will and say Vice City was the best. Now we have GTA 4, its next generation Graphics, 
 expanded power in consoles have allowed us to take what we already love about GTA series, and blow 
 it up to monstrous proportions. GTA 4 takes everything you love about any of the past games, Great 
 Acting, Great Game play, Great Sound and Graphics, larger cities and more interaction with the 
 cities (more enterable buildings) , and of course a killer set of licks on the radio. It's hard 
 to imagine this is better than any other past GTA, but it is. The story is great, the acting is 
 phenomenal (and without a big name like Samuel L. Jackson or Ray Liotta) , and the multiplayer is, 
 well, phenomenal. You cannot help but not love the city, the change in Police is very good, and 
 gets rid of the need to finding Cop Badges to lower you Wanted level, if you are a hell of a driver 
 you can out run those cops and clear your wanted level, but beware, the more Po-Po you annoy, the 
 larger the radius to get away becomes, making it harder to avoid finding new cops to reset the 
 radius, and harder to get away without crashing, dyeing, or getting busted. GTA 4 is a great game, 
 but its not for everyone. Plain and simple, little kids should not be playing this. Finding children 
 online playing this puts gamers at risk to having some parent, who doesn't do their parental duties, 
 of going a crusade and trying to have games like this banned. Had the parent done their job and 
 not buy the game for their kid or, pay attention to the games their kids play, issues of mad parents 
 can be avoided. Fans of the series will love this game, new comers will also enjoy it, plain and 
 simple, this is the best in the series and is a shining example of delaying a game a few months, 
 can be a good thing! Plain and simple: Masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  By this point, so massive has been the level of exposure to the Grand Theft Auto games in our culture, 
 you're probably either a fan of Rockstar's franchise of crime games, or you're decidedly not. If 
 you don't like the games, then GTA IV, for all of its nifty little improvements over earlier games 
 in the series, is unlikely to change your mind. It doesn't reinvent the wheel. It just builds a 
 better one. 
  
  In GTA IV, you play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European with a rough past who, lured by tales of 
 wealth and prosperity sent by his cousin Roman, comes to Liberty City-thoroughly reimagined from 
 its previous appearances and closely modeled on New York City -- to escape the trouble he's gotten 
 himself into and start a new life. Niko is also bent on getting revenge on someone who betrayed 
 him and his unit during the Bosnian War. While the previous GTA games occasionally attempted to 
 create a sense of drama, for the most part, the comedy was broad and the pervasive violence was 
 presented in a humorous, cartoon-like fashion. In GTA IV, there's a much greater weight given to 
 the storytelling. Niko is a complicated and really likable character who you gradually learn more 
 about as the game progresses. The better you get to know him, the more you get pulled in to his 
 story, and you get to know him not just through the typical cutscenes, but also in fresh and compelling 
 ways, like the emails he sends to his mother back home. All of the supporting characters are similarly 
 well-defined and complex, and the violence here has a real sense of impact, of finality. When Niko 
 puts a bullet in the head of a gangster early on in the game, it's anything but cartoonish, and 
 Niko does not commit the act lightly. The tale the game tells ranges from the slums of Liberty 
 City to the penthouses, from disused factories to prosperous museums. It's an epic saga with themes 
 of trust and betrayal, family and friendship, revenge and forgiveness, and most of all, the American 
 dream. This isn't meant to suggest that the game isn't funny. It most definitely is. The satire 
 on the radio (and, now, on the television as well) is as sharp as ever, and is very much of the 
 moment, with frequent, obvious references to the current political and cultural climate in the 
 United States. And Niko's interactions with other characters are also frequently very funny, but 
 for the most part the humor comes out of the characters in smart, realistic ways that don't undermine 
 their complexity and believability. This is not the immoral or amoral story some people loudly 
 accuse it of being. On the contrary. Like all good crime fiction, it is a deeply moral story, a 
 story of choices and consequences. The plot moves at a slower, more deliberate pace than those 
 of the other GTA games, and some players may lose patience with the sometimes lengthy cutscenes, 
 or the frequent phone calls from friends asking Niko if he wants to hang out, but for those players 
 who can appreciate such things, the story and writing here are truly among the best ever seen in 
 a game. 
  
  Thankfully, while in some ways the game moves at a slower pace than earlier titles in the series, 
 there are also a few terrific additions to the series that keep things moving along at a steady 
 clip. For one, there are, as there should be, taxis all over Liberty City, and it's a very simple 
 matter to hail one and be whisked off to your destination. If you'd like, you can enjoy the ride 
 and watch the city pass by out the window, but more often than not you'll probably opt to warp 
 to where you're going. 
  
  The other really helpful new feature is the option to immediately restart any failed mission. If 
 you fail a mission, you'll receive a text message on your phone asking you if you'd like to retry 
 it, and restarting the mission is as simple as pushing A. Additionally, getting sent to the hospital 
 no longer results in the loss of your weapons, which generally makes jumping right back into a 
 mission a lot more feasible. (Being arrested still costs you all of your weapons, but unless you 
 surrender willingly, you're typically much more likely to be sent to the hospital than dragged 
 off to jail.) And when you are driving somewhere rather than paying someone else to drive you, 
 navigating the city is a cinch thanks to the GPS waypoint system, which will plot the shortest 
 legal route to any location. Of course, it's usually faster and more fun to take a few illegal 
 shortcuts here and there, but the system is nonetheless very useful.
  
  Another crucial addition to the gameplay is the introduction of a cover mechanic, which seems to 
 be all but required in games involving people shooting at each other nowadays. This mechanic, along 
 with a greatly improved lock-on aiming system, makes the gunfights in the game much more enjoyable 
 and visceral than they were in earlier GTAs. It also makes them considerably easier, as it's usually 
 a breeze to lock on to somebody, move the aiming reticule up just a tad so that it's in the head 
 region of your target, pop out of cover at an opportune moment and nail them, but despite its ease, 
 it's usually pretty satisfying. While improved considerably, the aiming system isn't quite perfect. 
 Particularly when enemies get close, things can get a little wonky, and it can be difficult to 
 target them, or to have Niko shoot them instead of whatever he's taking cover behind, but for the 
 most part it works quite well.
  
  Driving is also improved over previous games in the series. While earlier games rarely required 
 you to use the break to keep from losing control and flying off the road, here you'll have to be 
 a bit more conservative, though the driving model is still enjoyably far from being realistic. 
 Additionally, cars are more durable now, and can take a good deal more of a beating before they 
 burst into flames.
  
  The most significant improvement over earlier Grand Theft Auto games, though, or games in general, 
 for that matter, is Liberty City itself. The words "living, breathing world" seem to be frequently 
 tossed around when discussing games, but Grand Theft Auto IV creates the illusion of such a world 
 far more effectively than any game before. The sights and sounds of the city come together to establish 
 a rich and believable sense of place. Street vendors hawk their hot dogs and hamburgers. Radio 
 stations can be heard playing in passing cars. People answer their cell phones, or stand around 
 in groups of two or three chatting, or sweep or wash windows, or do tai chi in the park. They break 
 out umbrellas or shield themselves with newspapers and run when it rains. And all the while, the 
 city itself is a perfect backdrop, dirty and beautiful, diverse and tremendously detailed. Perhaps, 
 in a sense, the world is too detailed, as, playing the game on my 360, it's not at all unusual 
 to see details pop into place. I didn't mind this-to me, it's a small price to pay for the rich 
 level of detail the game offers-but some players may find it bothersome. For what it's worth, I've 
 heard that the game performs considerably better on some consoles than others. 
  
  The game's sound is tremendously important making Liberty City as compelling as it is, and it is 
 certainly up to the task. The voice acting throughout the game is absolutely terrific, bringing 
 each character to life and never hamming things up unnecessarily, letting the naturally funny moments 
 be funny and giving the serious moments the gravitas they deserve. All the sounds of the city are 
 present, from the rumble of elevated trains to the distant wail of police sirens to the muffled 
 sounds of the radio in passing cars. And speaking of the radio, Grand Theft Auto IV's soundtrack 
 is a diverse, vibrant, expansive collection of music that provides a perfect soundtrack for the 
 city and the story. Certainly, few things are more subjective than music, and there are those who 
 feel that GTA IV's soundtrack is weak. Personally, I couldn't disagree more. Nearly every track 
 from the game's radio stations is a solid representation of its musical genre. I was thrilled to 
 pursue a train while in a car to the moody rock of Mama by Genesis, to survey the city from a helicopter 
 by night to the sleek beauty of Philip Glass' Pruit Igoe, to gun down drug dealers to the pulsating 
 rhythms of the dancehall played on San Juan Sounds, and to drive down a rainy street on a gloomy 
 afternoon to the plaintive vocals of Inner City Blues by Marvin Gaye. When the songs played over 
 the end credits ranged from O Tebe by Russian pop group Ranetki Girls to Hello's New York Groove, 
 that jubilant celebration of the city Liberty resembles so closely, I realized what an ideal soundtrack 
 to this unusual take on the immigrant's quest for the American dream Rockstar had crafted.
  
  While some people may miss some of the more over-the-top mission objectives from Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas, the tasks you'll go on throughout Grand Theft Auto IV's storyline are always 
 enjoyable and occasionally surprising. If you push through the story with laser-like determination, 
 you'll wrap things up at somewhere under the 30 hour mark, but there's certainly no shortage of 
 other activities to engage in as well. 
  
  GTA IV also offers a number of multiplayer modes, all of which, in my experience, work very well. 
 You can race through Liberty City, have deathmatches, fight over turf, do a couple of one-off cooperative 
 scenarios, and so on. These are all cool, though to be honest, when playing with my friends, we 
 typically have the most fun just goofing off and wreaking havoc in the game's online free mode.
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV does a number of things far better than any game before has done them. It creates 
 a world that's convincingly alive. It tells a far richer, more compelling and rewarding crime story 
 than any previous game. It doesn't revolutionize the GTA formula in any way, but it keeps everything 
 that works about it, improves some things that didn't work so well, and delivers a game that is 
 exceptionally well-made on every conceivable level. Grand Theft Auto IV is nothing short of a masterpiece.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  I've never been one for Grand Theft Auto, I found the controls too tacked on, and the combat weak. 
 Though I always saw the appeal people saw in it, it's just I was unable to see past the very flawed 
 handling.
  
  Giving into my friend's constant raving on about the game, I finally bought GTA IV at a discounted 
 price (Thank you JB) and my mouth begun salivating at the thought of running down rag dolls with 
 my shiny sports car. 
  What I found at the beginning of this game was an interesting story, with a great deal of potential.
 
  
  If your not familiar with it, basically a Eastern European war veteran comes to American seeking 
 that diluted age old dream creatively called 'the American dream'. Niko Bellic, apparently the 
 most loved GTA character thus far) immediately starts blowing street trash away for various gangsters, 
 before moving onto a different group of various gangsters and doing exactly the same. The cut scenes 
 are well directed, and the dialog is clever and amusing. And this is the very reason I was eager 
 to move from mission to mission, to witness the cut scenes, so I can pretend I'm watching some 
 type of Mobster movie, instead of playing a video game with poorly designed characters.
  
  The game is fun, and that's really the appeal behind the game I've concluded. Blowing cars up, 
 blowing away street trash, slaughtering hoards of police, there is a type of sadistic amusement 
 behind all these actions, which is the very thing drawing you back into it. 
  Away from the main story, there are side missions (most wanted, taking your friends out for a drink/pool/bowling/strippers 
 etc, stealing cars and doing things randoms on the street order you to) and if you take the time 
 to pursue each side mission, you'll extensively lengthen the play time for the game.
  
  These side missions are fun, and I had a lot of fun swaying from the main story to explore them. 
 However, there is one fatal flaw that comes into the side missions, namely, your friends. They 
 CONSTANTLY nag you to take them out and 'show them a good time'. Imagine this; your blaring down 
 a street, pumped to go pop someone, and suddenly you get a phone call, "Hey, come get me and we'll 
 go get drunk!" And if you don't accept, their like for you decreases, which is only a bad thing 
 if you've unlocked their special ability as a friend. This system is one of my favorites, from 
 an amusing perspective, because if your lucky enough for someone to like you enough, they will 
 enable you to abuse them in a special way (the only USEFUL one being Little Jacob and his anywhere-you-want-me-to-be 
 portal gun store) . However to keep abusing your friends in this way, you have to constantly divert 
 for half an hour (sometimes) just to keep the ingrates happy.
  
  The story as I said, was well told, interesting, with plenty of twists and from what I saw in my 
 first run, not many plot holes. Though, as brilliant as the story was during the course of the 
 game, it pretty much trips over itself and vomits at the end. That's right, just as you approach 
 the end, the game diverts into a poorly written children scribbled drawl, with well established 
 characters running around like dorks. SPOILER. Let me sum it up for you; You kill bad guy, The 
 End. I would had expected a game with a story that had kept me immersed for 50+ hours (plus side 
 missions) would a better ending than that. I walked away from that with a little sadness in my 
 heart. Yes, you can keep playing after the credits roll, but where is the closure? I might as well 
 be dead END SPOILER.
  
  Running on a next generation console, GTA IV looks good, and due to it sheer scope, is held back 
 from looking the best it possibly can. The brightest shine on the games gem is the weather effects, 
 which made me pray for run within the game, if only my extremely fast car didn't slide around everywhere. 
 With that being said, the one vital flaw I have with this game, is the trees. This is a game where 
 light poles are knocked over if you run a little motorcycle through it at a slow speed, then surely 
 a truck going at top speed blowing into a tree would cause the same reaction. Not in the Rockstar 
 teams mind. Trees seem to be some kind of Godly force within GTA IV, causing you utter destruction 
 if you happen to run into them. 
  
  And that's it. With a terrific story which falls flat on it's face at the end, sadistic fun to 
 keep one amused for over 50 hours, interesting side mission (par friends, pigeons and jumps) , and 
 well crafted environment to explore, Grand Theft Auto IV is a game people should play, if you want 
 a solid experience that will take a large chunk of time to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nakasa5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has gotten a lot of hype, well, because it's a GTA game. But unlike others, it received 
 a 10 from multiple gaming sights (including the ever elitist Gamespot) . This sets up GTA as perhaps 
 the definitive game of this generation, and it does not disappoint.
  
  Gameplay- This is probably the best advancement from previous installments. The cover and aim system 
 has been vastly improved, which is good because there has always been a large emphasis on the story. 
 I also have to give major kudos to the cell phone, which is an integral part of the game. I can't 
 imagine GTA without it anymore.
  
  Story- A great story. Not quite Academy Award material like GS says, but it will keep you thinking 
 about it far after you finish the game. There are multiple decisions that you must mull over throughout 
 the game, challenging your character and morals. You also gain an attachment to several characters 
 (especially Niko!) There are some weak point too, however. Many missions require you to drive clear 
 across the map, which take a while. If by some chance you fail the mission, it takes 10 minutes 
 to get back where you want to be.
  
  Visuals- Great graphics. Looks great in HD. Also VERY cinematic. There are some times when the 
 camera doesn't operate how you want and there are occasional pop-ups, but it mostly OK. The map 
 is a lot like the real NYC, with the omission of Ground Zero (which is ironic considering the role 
 terror plays in Liberty City) . 
  
  Sound- Best soundtrack of the year so far! The music matches the themes and mood of the game perfectly. 
 There also entertaining radio stations, comedy/magic shows, and TV shows to enjoy. There is a little 
 too much liberal bias, but I managed to get past it in good nature.
  
  Overall, it is a great game that I must recommend to anyone old enough to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arab-man666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This is simply an amazing game, that not only exceeded my expectations, but I'm sure exceeded the 
 expectations of every Grand Theft Auto fan across the world.
  
  The gameplay makes you forget you're playing a "grand theft auto" game, with an amazing cover system 
 and exceptional weaponry. Diving and ducking, taking cover, blindfiring and targeting, everything 
 is great. The features could have made a great game, easily better than Kane and Lynch: Dead Men, 
 without the large scale world of Liberty City. When it comes to driving, it's never felt more real, 
 and although hard to get adjusted to, it's definatly better than most games incorperating vehicles 
 currently out.
  
  Then there's multiplayer. While I prefer some match types to others, there is no doubt that all 
 of them can be fun. Rockstar provides you with a vast array of match types, and I'm addicited, 
 personally, to 3 of them. Hang Man's Noose, GTA racing and Free Roam are amazing. To be honest, 
 I haven't played the others much, but I played Turf, and while it was entertaining, it wasn't as 
 good as the other selections.
  
  The physics engine. This is the most amazing engine I have ever seen. Everything has so much impact 
 on everything else. Bodies, dead or alive, are subect to the world, and they try to preserve their 
 existance as well. It's definiatly the most enjoyable physics engine out now. Amazing.
  
  The story. Shoot me, it's the best one of the lot. I may not be Eastern European, but I am Eastern, 
 so I've feel Nikos pain. The story isn't your typical one, and branches off very vastly, with many 
 options and decisions to be made. It's definatly an asset to the game. 
  
  The sound this game provides is superb as well from shots to cars, although the radio stations, 
 while expansive, arn't too good to rock music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalsi11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Gta 4 has lived up to all the hype. It looks like a great game with all the commercials and it 
 is one of the best games ever!! This game realy rocks and you must buy it. It has a great story 
 line. After Gta San Andreas we were left wondering will they make a game with better graphics and 
 more realistic? This Gta 4 is the one it is very much realistic graphics. The missions are very 
 fun and it is the best game out there right now. The part of the phone realy made it much better 
 then San Andreas. They kind of took a chapter out of Saints Row. It is the best Game in the Series 
 and better then all the Gta wanna be's. I would buy this game and say money well spent. It about 
 60.00 dollars and will stay that much for about a long time. It Should win game of the year. Please 
 buy this game it is the best game out there right now for ps3 and xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONE_LESS_CAR
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Back with the ps2 release of gta3, the world of gaming was changed for ever. This is a given and 
 hardly needs to be explained. However, was the release of 4 yet another dramatic change for games 
 to come... again.. maybe.
  
  The ability to trek the vast terrain with no load times is amazing. And so is the graphics and 
 beautiful rendering of detail through the city! The physics are fun, and story is not only compelling 
 but the cinematics are extremely entertaining and engaging. I have to say I have not finished the 
 story... and the reason being... I have yet to get over the online experience. It is amazing! I 
 cant stress this enough, imagine running rampant through a city doing what ever u please with friends 
 and foes. Trust me on this, I would go out right now and buy a 360, comcast, and friends just to 
 achieve the feeling i have had rolling up in a 4 door with 3 buddy's of mine guns a blazing! man... 
 its that good!
  
  However, some flaws... no bicycles!? im offended! But seriously... the lack of variety of transportation, 
 selection of weapons, and overall unfinished feel to the game just screams out "DOWNLOAD CONTENT 
 PLEASE!" and I bet if it ever roles around, unlike gears... this is gonna cost ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto a game that people have known for close to or over ten years now, it is a game 
 that has American culture written all over it and a beauty that lies deep under its rough and gruff 
 murderous texture. This is most true with the new game for X360 Grand Theft Auto 4, where the player 
 plays the role of a Slavic illegal immigrant coming to a fictional town known as Liberty City. 
 Niko Bellic the character you play is a very likeable guy as you get to know him through out the 
 story he's funny, emotional, and very angry. Niko comes to America in hope of a rich life supposedly 
 set up by his cousin Roman Bellic.
  
  When you first come to America you start with little to nothing and only fifty dollars in your 
 pocket as you progress through the game you get more girls, you make more, money and you get your 
 self in to whole lot more trouble. You end up to the same run of the mill jobs as you usually do 
 in any Grand Theft Auto game but somehow those game makers at rockstar can make moldy cereal into 
 a buffet of delicious deserts. This ran mostly by not the missions but the actually characters 
 in the game as they progress with you on your journey through Liberty City.
  
  The graphics in this game are just like pretty much every other X360 game amazing, but with that 
 being said they would not be very much if you did not have the amazing characters to run it. The 
 sunsets and night are one of the most awe inspiring weather effects you will see in a game. The 
 cars and building look just as beautiful, the only problem with the building are that you want 
 to go and see what is inside them all but you just can't. 
  
  The game play for the latest Grand Theft Auto 4 is also a new feature that keeps an almost new-old 
 device of game play going. For example in this game you have to make decisions that affect the 
 people around you and yourself. This leaves you sometimes unsure of the decision to make with each 
 having both their pros and cons. This pushes the game forward to a speed which sometimes blazing, 
 but in truth it also makes it very emotional and compelling story to play out.
  
  Going around stealing cars, selling drugs, and killing targets for money is not the only thing 
 you can do in liberty city this time around; going out with friends opens new doors to new experiences 
 and more fun, from bowling to going out drinking it is just a blast. This also gets you new friends 
 and allows for special abilities to be unlocked as you play. Another fun thing added to the game 
 is the internet. In Grand Theft Auto 4 the internet plays a vital role in several missions, it 
 also gives you some fun things to do when you have nothing better to do and just laugh at some 
 of the stuff.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a great game and with all of its new and improved features it is sure to 
 make it on any ones list for games to get, have, or love. This game left me deeply impacted with 
 thoughts on life what it is about and how we live our everyday lives. It is compelling and it leaves 
 a lot to be wanting after you finish that last cut scene. On my list Grand Theft Auto 4 gets a 
 10/10 sure it sounds clich to just do that but the game really, really deserves it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capnjoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Not a lot left to do after finishing the story besides multiplayer. Which fuels my opinion that 
 GTA IV is a shortcoming compared to San Andreas. In SA you could pick up a car full of your down'est 
 homies and get a mission started, ride on another gang or just have fun crusin the town. That option 
 is not in IV! Not even a little. (I think you can order help over the cell phone... but I killed 
 the contact that supplies the help!) Some things are better, such as aiming and shooting, using 
 the cell phone as the game menu, more engaging love interests and friends, and getting sloshed 
 at a bar and trying to drive home. I mean, you expect a lot of new features for the next gen consoles. 
 But some things have done a complete 180 since SA. Driving is much more of a chore. You have to 
 be skilled in the art of the E-Brake to make a turn at moderate speeds. I don't even want to get 
 into how hard it is to pilot a helicopter. That brings me to another point... Where is the Harrier? 
 Where the heck is the dang tank???? I thought there would be multiplayer tank/Harrier wars. Don't 
 get me wrong, multiplayer is off the hook! 16 player deathmatch is like nothing I've seen. As for 
 the story... it seems to be all about Nikko making moolaa. Theres a slight revenge plot. But again, 
 San Andreas is more of a movie type story. For better or worse this is a fun game. Some of the 
 achivements seem to be a time consuming chore. Considering all the hype and expectations, GTA IV 
 is more of a side step than a step forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Well GTA 4 is finally here, and guess what, its lived up to every bit of hype its got. In the past 
 I've played the other GTA games, but I wasn't a big GTA fanboy. Now GTA 4 has converted me into 
 one. This is simply one of the best games I've ever played. GTA gives you an amazing sense of freedom 
 and things to do that playing GTA is like having a second life. From doing the story missions, 
 hanging out with friends, going on dates, or just going insane, theres so much to do in GTA. The 
 story is well done and rivals a great hollywood blockbuster story. Characters are well done, sound 
 great, and you will actually start to care about some of them. GTA 4 has also takin the time to 
 fix a lot of problems with the gameplay in past GTA games that people had problems with, mainly 
 combat, and they all are great. There's a new cover system kinda like gears of war. While there 
 are a few problems with it like getting stuck to cover you wern't trying to get stuck to, for the 
 most part it works great. The new targeting system in the game does take a little getting used 
 to, but when you do it like the cover system works great. GTA 4 also delivers a new multiplayer 
 experience, but its not going to take you away from call of duty 4 or halo 3, but the single player 
 experience which can last over 70 hours depending on how fast you go certainly will. Graphics wise 
 GTA 4 does look good, while its no gears of war considering how much stuff is in the game, its 
 amazing that it all looks this good. If your asking yourself should I buy or rent this game buy 
 it. There's so much to see and do in GTA 4 that it's the easiest recommendation I could ever give. 
 GTA 4 in closing is just amazing. In this review I haven't even said all that you could do, cause 
 there's just to much to do. If you love videogames, are new to games, or like games this is a must 
 buy. Its to good to pass up. Its easily the best in the series and a contender for game of the 
 year. Don't wait , buy GTA 4 today, you won't regret it.
  
  The good
  Too many good things to list them all
  
  The bad
  Some tech problems, but you probably won't 
 even notice them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  So, i'll be 'straight up'... i loved GTA3, didn't enjoy Vice City or San Andreas too much. GTA4 
 looked like the true sequel, so i was definitely pumped to play the game. The story is probably 
 the reason i hooked and continued playing the game until the end. The "choice" factors that carry 
 out the overall story really play a role... and do a great job of it. The voice-acting and animations 
 in cut-scenes are amazingly done. The graphics are a give and take... the attention to detail is 
 incredible, all the minor little things make a huge overall difference. The car and people physics 
 are really well done as well... adding a great feel. But in the end, the gameplay animations and 
 popping issues hold it back from being a great looking game... and it still feels somewhat last 
 generation. You don't get a huge selection of customization options for your character, you can't 
 buy buisness', you can "level" up your character... in the end, overall.... the game feels bland 
 compared to the previous titles, but makes up for it with overall presentation. Plus, the multiplayer 
 is a blast... definitely keep you busy for weeks after finishing the single player game. There is 
 incentive to play through the game a 2nd time, it just depends if you aren't bored by the end of 
 your first play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  100 + hrs, and I finally got to finishing the last mission of the game. 
  
  How many games can you say that, GTAIV delivers on all levels, great story lines, amazing voice 
 acting, a value for your money feel, and complete replayability. GTAIV is a game that is fun & 
 challenging and allows you to become a part of the game, feeling that you are living the life of 
 a character. 
  
  Niko Bellic is amazing, a great character, that is neither a good guy nor a bad guy, with a great 
 ensemble cast that leaves you wanting more and more as you progress throughout the game.
  
  Liberty City is a living, breathing city with so many cool features, and you will find yourself 
 just wandering, driving, walking, and flying around the city trying to take everything in.
  
  Only 2 negative points. The graphics, although amazing, did infiriate me with the darkness 
 levels. Even with the lighting turned all the way up, I had difficulty on my '42 inch plasma to 
 see certain details, that I attempted to avoid doing serious missions at night time. Also, occasional 
 "lines" were seen in buildings, that I sometimes mistook for secret entrances or something that 
 I should be paying attention too.
  
  The other negative aspect in my opinion is the music selected for the game. This is by far the 
 worst GTAIV selection of songs and radio stations of any of the games. The talk radio stations 
 are really funny, and the other media like the television and the internet are a fun, but passing 
 interest.
  
  The multiplayer is VERY cool, with cooperative missions, as well as typical kill em as you run 
 around missions. 
  
  GTAIV is amazing, for it's beauty, you know that the Rockstar developers poured their hearts and 
 souls in the game, and all developers and publishers should come to the understanding that feeling, 
 drive and pride can be shown through a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodlust007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is just truly an amazing game. It gets the award of the most expensive game 
 ever made, a game that breaks every record out there. But of course no game is without a flaw.
 
  
  Liberty City is the setting for this GTA. I must say this IS the best city ever made in a game. 
 It is just so full of life that it can make your mind think your in a real world. Everything in 
 this city just comes together amazingly. The graphics is one of the best so far, An engine that 
 can render a city as big as LC with every detail seen very clearly and crisp. Pop a cap in the 
 head of a bystander they fall down realistically with blood nicely building up a satisfying puddle 
 in the floor thanks to the gorgeous physics. Pick up thrash in the floor then throw it at somebody 
 then watch him flee in terror. Doing a killing rampage here is so much MORE better because of how 
 the AI and the whole game reacts to your actions. You do things in GTA IV that you CAN'T do or 
 experience in real life which is what makes GTA so fun or any game for that matter.
  
  Storytelling in games just got a whole lot bigger in this title. The way the story goes, the pacing 
 is just spectacular. One of the best storytelling EVER in a game. I finished the game in 45 hours 
 and I'm playing through it again to get the alternate ending. I'm amazed at how greatly they've 
 utilized a cellphone in a game. They take an average everyday gadget like phone put in a game guess 
 what? They make the best tool ever in a game and bested the best story in the GTA series.
  
  Music, SFX, Voice acting what would you expect from a GTA game? What about top-notch radio 
 music and voice acting? Heck even the Title song at the start rocks.
  
  This game deserves all the hype it gets. R* deserves everything they are getting from this game. 
 Flaws in this are easy to overcome, I know a 10 out of 10 game when I see one and this is not it. 
 Some things are just missing but all in all this game is Beyond of it's time. GTA just keeps getting 
 better and better and I just know GTA V won't be an exception :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7.5/10 
  
  Lets talk about the good parts of the game first. The driving in the game is fun to me, and it's 
 pretty easy to get used to. I instantly felt like a skilled getaway driver in many situations. 
 The only problem I had in the driving is the camera angles, there are many humps and hills on the 
 road and the camera angles are located at areas where you can't see much ahead of you, there is 
 a lack of a higher viewpoint in 3rd person, so I constantly found myself using the right analog 
 stick to adjust the camera more often than I'd like. Other than that, I enjoyed testing each of 
 the vehicles differences and the details are incredible. Each vehicle has a certain weight, handling, 
 speed etc, and you will notice the difference in horsepower as you climb hills. I also noticed 
 a difference in weight and handling on mopeds and bikes once you have another person riding with 
 you. Damage is awesome, the handling and speed will become more difficult in areas depending on 
 where the vehicle has taken damage, tires pop even when you constantly burn-out, it's great.
  I also really enjoy the melee fighting in the game, it's more difficult this time around and requires 
 more skill, which also means that it's more rewarding when you win a fight. It's just a real shame 
 that the game never puts this excellent formula to more use. You will find yourself using guns 
 on most of the missions, because everyone spots you once one of them sees you and will constantly 
 lay fire on you making it incredibly difficult to go hand-to-hand. A few side missions that require 
 melee combat would have been great. Maybe a daily UFC/MMA-style tournament could have been hosted 
 in an arena.
  The shooting portion of the game is pretty bad in my opinion. It's on par with those basic and 
 cheap 3rd person shooters such as; 50cent bulletproof. Enemy A. I. isn't that smart, what makes 
 it challenging is that there are so many of them found at various locations. The fact that enemies 
 stay behind cover just made it more frustrating to kill people, because some of the enemies will 
 stay behind cover forever until you get near them. The cover system isn't great either, sure it 
 may seem useful, but I found crouching behind objects more effective than hitting the cover button. 
 The reason is because when you are behind cover, your reticle will be placed on an enemy, however 
 when you begin firing, the reticle moves from the desired position. I found popping in and out 
 of cover with the left stick button much easier. Plus you don't have to stick your head out to 
 keep your gun zoomed in. The camera doesn't help much either, especially when there are enemies 
 near you. There were many times when I'm running or walking around and an enemy was right behind 
 a wall, I then find myself attempting to fight with the camera to see him. This is also true when 
 climbing stairs, the camera is not your friend. It makes me wish that there is a 1st person mode. 
 I had to score the gameplay lower, because most of the time, you will be shooting. And it's not 
 very fun.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Details galore! While the graphics aren't jaw-dropping, it makes up for it in details. You will 
 notice little things such as cars getting dirty, certain type of people located in certain locations, 
 more detailed interiors, and also people doing various tasks, other than walking around. Rockstar 
 managed to capture a great depiction of New York that feels more like a living city more than any 
 other game to date. The water in the game and also the city view from above is incredibly beautiful, 
 however.
  
  Animations - 9/10
  
  The cut-scenes appear to be motion captured, so it obviously looks realistic when they move. Lip 
 animations are really good and help make the characters believable. It's also great to see pedestrian 
 animations, especially when they fly after you run into them.
  
  Sound - 9/10
  
  Excellent voice acting, except for the majority of the prostitutes, is it me or do they sound gross? 
 The only complaint I have is the sound of the weapons firing, they don't have that exciting sound 
 to them, everything else sounds pretty solid.
  
  Story - 10/10
  
  Great story of an immigrant attempting to obtain the "American Dream" Many of the characters tell 
 a believable and compelling story, filled with twists and turns that will make you want to see 
 what happens. 
  
  Replay value - 9/10
  
  The main story of the game contains a few areas when you have to choose what to do and it will 
 have a permanent effect on the rest of the game. Some may want to replay the game to see the other 
 side of the decision. There are also various things to find in liberty city, and things to accomplish 
 which may take a while for someone to get a 100% completion. The multiplayer is where most of the 
 replay value lies (obviously) , there are various game types to play, such as; death match, cops 
 n crooks or you can just go into free mode and roam around with your friends.
  
  Disappointments? There are quite a few things missing that previous GTA's had. You can no longer 
 purchase places to live, modify your cars, fly airplanes, ride bicycles. There also seems to be 
 a bit of a limitation in clothing and areas to visit. I would have traded two whole islands for 
 a much more detailed area, where every house and building can be entered and robbed. Niko will 
 constantly talk about gaining money and how important it is, but you will hardly find yourself 
 using much of it. There is really nothing much to buy with it and making money seems pretty useless 
 after you have completed a 3rd of your missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I think that a lot of people are not understanding why this game is almost always getting perfect 
 reviews. The review should be prefaced by saying that there are pop-in issues, and different graphical 
 quirks. However, I think that Gamespot put it best when it says that a perfect score is given not 
 because there isn't anything wrong but that there are so many things done right. Not only does 
 this game do a lot of things right, it completely redefines the way sandbox games will be made. 
 A city so alive it seems like you're living in it, characters so believable you feel like you can 
 reach out and touch them, Grand Theft Auto makes you realize what next generation games can become. 
 Missions are delivered authentically, cars drive realistically and if you're tired of being someone's 
 lacky you can drive around and do many of GTA4's many optional activities. This is certainly a 
 game that cannot be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto .IV Is a great game there are so many new features that have not been on any off 
 the other GTA's one off the most impressive is hugging walls (taking cover) also added on to this 
 feature is blind firing were you can stay safe in cover but the shot in- accurate but can be useful, 
 the story is similar to the other GTA's witch is disappointing in it's ways as gamers were expecting 
 something exiting and thrilling witch some of the missions are other new features of the game make 
 it feel you can enter the Internet and set up dates ring people on your cell phone small things 
 like this make GTA. IV a excellent game 
  
  getting around on this game can be fun in this game because nearly every car is a copy or a real 
 car some are easily noticed and also you can catch public transport like trains and taxi's.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer on GTA. IV is taken to another level you get you normal standard 
 games like team death match and other games but one of the things i have noticed the most is free 
 roam you can get up to 16 people in a game were u can explore all the islands and rampage and have 
 fun with your friends 
  
  
  I would highly recommend that you purchase this game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I was one of those geeky guys who went and picked up GTA 4 at midnight. And when i got home i decided 
 that i might as well go ahead and try it out. I ended up playing it all night, it really was awesome. 
 Graphics on it are killer, the amount of detail they put into the game is awesome. I love it when 
 you hit someone one with a vehicle that there is a blood smear on the vehicle. And the damage that 
 you do to a vehicle really does matter, its no long that if you hit the wall enough times that 
 its going to blow up, it just wont start, you'll just see Niko trying to start it but it wont. 
 Another cool thing they've added is that when your going high speeds and you all of a sudden crash 
 into something, Niko will go crashing out of the windshield.
  
  Now as far as the gameplay is concerned, its pretty much the same old same old. Go there and kill 
 some guy and get paid for it. But none the less, thats what makes GTA a great series, it lets you 
 decided how you want to kill them, and even sometimes which person that your going to kill.
  
  Overall though, this really is a great game for anyone who liked or loves the other GTA games, 
 and even if your new to the series this one is a great way to start off. If you haven't played 
 it yet, you really should head out and pick it up, its a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_priest03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me explain to you first what I wrote in my above statement about an unfinished game. This may 
 not have been Rockstars initial plans, seeing as Microsoft would want to reap in the huge mounds 
 of cash from the downloadable content. I would understand if there were some small modifications 
 they would add, but don't leave it off on an unfinished plot thread forcing people to buy the next 
 chapter in what goes on. Why focus on story when you could focus on enhancing the gameplay?
  
  Speaking of story, I felt pretty detached from this GTA. I was gladly anticipating to run around 
 as an eastern European, pounding anyone I disliked but soon found out that it wasn't as enjoyable 
 as I imagined. Basicly, you come to America off a ship (big surprise) . First thing that happens 
 you meet your cousin Roman who has quite an interesting personality at first, but later starts 
 getting dull. First few missions start off by introducing you to some of the members of the Russian 
 mob. From here it's just keep whacking guys in different ways till you finally reach the top and 
 there's nobody else to kill but the guy who's been giving you the missions. Now, there are quite 
 a few interesting variety into killing your mission objectives, and not all the missions are purely 
 drive to A, Kill target B, run from cops. There are a few very exciting missions that I will mention 
 later on. I'll mention that the "choosing" system is completely flat and dull. It gave me no sense 
 that I was controlling the story because either way I'd end up with a similar or slightly different 
 outcome. There are a few noteworthy characters in the story plot, some are very interesting, like 
 the Head of the Liberty Newspaper, who's enshrouded in mystery, or the crazy pumped up Brucie who 
 is just beat down crazy or Packie McCreary who's one of the most violent characters in this entire 
 game set aside you. The rest are the usual mobsters, gangsters and drug dealers. Of course they 
 vary but they have no uniqness they had towards them as in previous GTA games. Overall the story 
 had a bland ending, where a major character dies, one of them being someone you'd probably feel 
 some regret killing off, the other you'd cheer and jump because you'd never get laid no matter 
 how hard you tried. Speaking of hard, the game difficulty isn't set too high. Some encounters may 
 be frustrating but it doesn't involve extensive thinking, just get behind cover and shoot.
  
  GTA 4 was based on realism. Rockstar was going down the right path but then they got too serious 
 with it. Almost everything that was fun in previous GTA's, was the ability to wreak total havoc 
 in different and interesting ways. GTA 4 you can't "stack" huge explosions and they feel rather 
 small, and the impact you deal on your surroundings isn't as large or greater felt as in the previous 
 installments.
  
  Coming to gameplay elements. A nice feature is the cellphone, which you can use you access multiplayer, 
 call people for various things and take pictures. Friends are what I think is the bane of this 
 game. It is fun at start, and from time to time, but picking up person A, taking him somewhere 
 (usually to the same spot, where darts, pool and bowling do get boring after a while) then taking 
 him back don't feel really attractive anymore. Some of the perks you get for friendship are quite 
 nice, but you still have to keep in contact with your friends or you'll lose them. 
  
  Shooting has been greatly improved in the game. The cover system is great as there is nothing more 
 satisfying than pulling a 90 degree handbrake stop, getting out of the vehicle, ducking behind 
 it and pummeling the enemy with a shower of AK 47 rounds. The aiming system has a refined auto-lock 
 on system, that allows you to slightly tilt the aimer if you want a precise headshot or other body 
 part wound. The weapons are great in this game. The developers have really chosen the ideal weapons 
 for this game, each has a unique sound, effect and each reacts differently so shooting is always 
 entertaining. 
  
  Driving plays a big part in this game as well, and here I will mention straight off the bat, the 
 soundtrack to this game is much worse compared to previous installments. The talk shows have incredibly 
 low content, I feel that after 1 hour, I've finished with a particular station as I've heard everything 
 there is and they just keep repeating themselves too often for my taste. They've gone for a more 
 broader view of music but they could've put more effort into making more content, then more content 
 specifically involving Liberty City. Driving I must admit is a big improvement in this installment. 
 The physics are amazing as you fly out the front window after you hit an object at high speeds 
 (Kinda makes you wonder after 30 times why Niko doesn't learn his lesson and put on a speed belt?) 
 and it never gets old, and on a side not, seat belts would ruin the game. Driving feels more realistic 
 now, you can't take a turn at super high speeds, water comes into effect after its rained, car 
 damage is significantly more detailed now and stunt jumps are as great as ever.
  
  Audio in this game is great for when your in the city, but the radio content makes me cringe and 
 makes this game lose quite a bit of marks. 
  
  The multiplayer is fun I must say. Some of the modes don't appeal to my tastes as they seem a bit 
 slow paced, taking forever to reach a certain player, having to exit vehicles to gather weapons, 
 makes it a bit tedious at times. Random Free Mode matches turn into straight up Deathmatches where 
 anyone shoot anyone. Notable mentions here are the racing and 4 player co-op missions which are 
 all great. Racing is a great deal of fun but usually involves the first person being able to get 
 past the first corner car pile up. Ranks in multiplayer don't make a difference, hardly significant 
 at all lest your a fashion freak and even then it seems a bit bland but overall the multiplayer 
 component is a great new feature.
  
  As for the finale, I'll mention that it's still worth getting this game, as I'm not saying this 
 game is rubbish but that a few things that long term GTA fans love are missing. There's nothing 
 more memorable than the bank stealing mission, which everyone will agree on was a great stroke 
 by Rockstar. It really felt amazing, being armed to the teeth with body armor and assault rifles, 
 blasting your way through cops and trying to outrun them. Nice, improved gameplay, with not much 
 new added and a lot of good old taken away, above average audio (could be better) , great graphics 
 and physics, and a semi-decent replay value give this game an 8.5.
  
  Sorry fellow reviewers but comparing with the old, it's more of a downgrade in fun, upgrade in 
 eye candy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xscrapzx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Well I have to admit that when I heard there was going to be a fourth one I was really not that 
 excited. The reason I wasn't excited was because I played all the others and they basically had 
 the same tune to them. Go around blow stuff up, try some missions, get mad that you lost and go 
 run around and create some havoc. To me it was going to be another GTA that you really get hyped 
 for, for about a week and then it just collects dust. I mean my opinion was basically this "How 
 much time can you really spend blowing people and cars up, or doing the same missions over and 
 over again but the only difference is maybe the car you are driving at the time?"
  
  Well I have to admit my thoughts have changed drastically with this particular GTA. The thing that 
 really grabbed me in was the fact that the storyline is amazing. Along with the main story there 
 are some annoying missions that do get thrown in the mix, but all in all they have a great little 
 dialog to them, not only that but they all end up tying in with each other. With the great storyline 
 came the beautiful graphics. I mean when I saw screen shots I did not think it was going to be 
 possible to have all of this random stuff going on and have everything run as smooth as it does. 
 The other thing that really caught my eye was the draw distances. Absolutely amazing when you actually 
 can see the city in the distance and have it continue to look as smooth when you are moving in 
 several different directions. All in all the graphics are incredible and I'm very impressed that 
 the dev was able to pull it off, considering the GTA series has not really been noted for its graphical 
 impressiveness.
  
  I have not really dug into the multi player aspect because I have been tied in with the single 
 player for quite some time now. I have a played a few death matches here and there, but I do know 
 that there is a lot more to it. Trying to making the time has been tough.
  
  I do have to say this is the most enjoyable GTA experience I have had with this franchise. From 
 the storyline to the graphics I say to anyone who has been a fan of this series it is a must buy.
 
  
  
  EDIT: After playing this game a lot more after I wrote this review I found that the game was starting 
 to remind me of the older ones. It just seemed like every mission started to be the same thing, 
 kill this guy come back to me, get this for me and come back to me. It just seemed like it was 
 turning into a rehashed game that was very well covered up by the graphics and I still stand by 
 my original claim also by a great story.
  
  Some of the more annoying things are your friends during the game. I don't mind going and playing 
 darts or drinking for that matter. I find that to be a cool aspect, but to keep calling me every 
 minute or so to ask. Just way to much of an annoyance if anything. As much as I touted the story 
 as being great. The other missions that they put in the middle are just a complete annoyance and 
 really I don't think add anything to the game, but besides meeting new people. Another thing why 
 do you have to meet so many people? Why can't it be a few here and there and then get straight 
 to the plot of the story?
  
  Well I think I learned my lesson in writing reviews, complete the game to the fullest extent before 
 reviewing, because this game definately did not deserve then 10 I originally gave it. Still not 
 a bad game, can be enjoyable at times, to me at the end of the day it just came out to be like 
 the rest.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  In GTA 4 you will play as illegal immigrant Nico belic. The game starts as you walk of the boat 
 and into "the land of opportunity" Also known as america! Your cousin "Roman" which constantly 
 brags about how wealthy he is picks you up in a taxi and takes you back to his apartment which 
 he describes to you as a mansion. In reality, Roman is just the owner of a taxi cab company that 
 lives in a run-down apartment in the ghetto part of Liberty City.
  
  Throughout the course of the game, you will meet several people that will pay you to do specific 
 jobs for them. They can range from assinating someone, or driving somone around in a taxi. Though 
 side jobs can be good for money, missions are what actually help you progress through the game. 
 It will take you about 20-30 hours to complete all the missions. 
  
  GTA 4 has the most complex story i have ever seen in a game. Similar to other games, like Mass 
 Effect or Oblivion, you make choices that can alter the story, which can make for great replay 
 value. Certain missions will force you to make a choice, for example like assinating your cousin 
 in order to get an RPG. All the choices you make will affect how the game ends. 
  
  Aside from the superb story, the gunplay has improved greatly since that last GTA. You can hold 
 down the left trigger all the way to lock on or half way to free aim. It may sound sloppy, but 
 it really is easy to use. Aside from the improved gunplay, you can also take cover behind walls. 
 The new cover system is best described as the cover system in gears of war, it allows you to blind 
 fire, and even jump over ledges. Taking cover is especially important when you find yourself in 
 a huge firefight.
  
  
  Even though the missions can be fun, you can do several side activities such as playing darts, 
 bowling, getting drunk, going to the strip club, picking up a hooker..... the list goes on and on. 
 Its almost impossible to run out of things to do when playing GTA 4 when you have so many side 
 activities to take part in. One of my favorite things to do is to take your girlfriend out on a 
 date, you get to choose where to take her. (Try taking her to a strip club and see what happens.) 
 You can also do a variety of other things like races, watching a play or even watching T. V. shows 
 in your apartment. The amount of side activities will add several more hours to your experience.
 
  
  Although this game has an amazing single player mode it also has decent multiplayer! There are 
 about 10 different gametypes ranging from straight up team deathmatch, to people driving around 
 in cars shooting rockets at eachother. You can even race against eachother. Surprisingly, the game 
 doesnt really lag at all, it runs preety smooth online. You may not have the time of your life 
 playing GTA 4 online, but it is a good distraction from all the big multiplayer games.
  
  All in all, if you are thinking about getting this game just go to the store right now and go buy 
 it because it will probably end up being one of the best games of the year if not THE best game 
 of the year. 
  
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics:9
  Sound: 10
  
  OVERALL: 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto needs little introduction. It's a game most gamers know to be a totally free world 
 of chaos and action. Its no different in the the 4th one. 
  You play an off the boat immigrant who basically hits rock bottom with his degenerate cousin. Throughout 
 the game you basically do various missions all having something to do with getting from point A 
 to B. On the way you usually have to take someone out, or steal something. The story is no different 
 and can be a dry formula because of the lacking mission variety. But in GTA theres so many different 
 ways to kill someone, that it never gets old. The storyline is solid, doing nasty jobs for bad 
 people, all to find a man your looking for who screwed you over in the past. Their is also a huge 
 part of the game outside of the main story. And that is with your friends. You can now go play 
 pool, bowling, drinking, see a show, fly a heli, go boating and alot more. After doing these various 
 activities once they get pretty boring.
  The graphics for a game with so much content is great. They put a much smaller map in compared 
 to San Andreas, but with much much more detail. Which in my opinion is better than having a large 
 bland map. The weather effects/ day and night cycle, make you even more immeresed i the world.
 
  The music is great, good soundtracks on all the radios. Special effects are amazing especially 
 the explosions.
  The gameplay has been polished to near perfection. There is a simple cover system so with the bush 
 of a button your character will dive behind a car or whatever is near by. The aiming is alot more 
 interesting, so gun fights will be more intense and alot tougher. Taking cover and free aiming 
 are 2 major elements in the game you must learn to play with. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto is chock full with content. Multiplayer is fantastic, there are quite a few online 
 modes, such as cops ad crooks. Where there are 2 teams, and basically the crooks have to get to 
 a certain point while the other team tries to take them out.
  It's all great fun and definitly worth 60 bucks.
  Shooting, Driving, Killing, Open World, whats 
 not to love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffnb
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I have played most of the Grand Theft Auto series and this one is by far the best . It has great 
 game mechanics and keeps you sucked in throughout. Even the missions that are more difficult can 
 be completed after a few times. The graphics are stunning especially when raining and at night. 
 It is also impressive the details of the characters reacting as well as the driving system changing 
 to make the cars slide. Multiplayer has a wide range of options although the car stealing scenario 
 is somewhat difficult to see where to go. Multiplayer is fast paced giving that feeling like you 
 either kill or be shot by a player who has not slept in at least 12 days. The storyline does an 
 excellent job at getting you involved enough that when it is time to kill a character to continue 
 the plot you are more than willing. Each main npc is developed to a point where you understand 
 who they are supposed to be and why they are doing what they are doing. The dialog and references 
 to past games is witty and sometimes very tongue in cheek. Radio station talk shows are a hilarious 
 satirical look at real life events. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well before I start this review, I'm just going to let all the tools who gave this game 10/10 will 
 not want to read this. Now I'm going to say it doesn't deserve a high. But a 10/10 is too far. 
 I mean **** I'm gonna go play it after the review anyway. Yes the GTA series has been good to me. 
 And at sometimes it's bent me over and beaten my ass with a meat tenderizer. What I mean by that 
 is when GTA: Vice City was out, it was one of my favorite games. Until San Andreas came out. Sure 
 people say that that was the best one until GTA IV.
  But I was sick of the story line. It was broken boring and nothing I hadn't seen before. That's 
 when I lost interest of the GTA series. Now that this one is out. I only got just $60 on something. 
 Now before I really start hating on it (like I do to everything) , I will say that I did get my 
 moneys' worth of entertainment. There are so many things to do in the game.
  
  Although, they're are problems with that. Some of the things you can do in the game are just plainly 
 dumb. First: friends. I guess Rockstar North thought that the only people playing this game would 
 be people who have virtual buddies. Well wrong. Half the game I'm having to pick them up, drive 
 them somewhere they would enjoy, pretend to enjoy myself for half-an-hour, then drive them back 
 to their house or apartment, go get a hot dog watch the T. V. and then go to sleep. Then I thought..... 
 "wait, am I playing Grand Theft Auto 4 or Grand Theft Actual New York Life.
  So I decided to get steel a car run over some hobo, and a cop as eager as I was for this, turned 
 on his sirens and started chasing me. That's when I thought "now I'm getting back to what GTA was", 
 right? WRONG! (and shut up) . I easily escaped him within 2 minutes, and BAM! Niko Bellik, model 
 citizen. I felt cheated in some way. Anyway. The control scheme is terrific, except for the always 
 auto-targeting. When I feel like pointing my gun at someone in a car, I want to. Not to just point 
 it at some random person on the street. But I thank God for the auto-targeting in a way. Because 
 when you start to get in action everything looks like a bunch of blobs. So you can't see everything 
 as well. Multi-player is good not great.
  
  It was too hyped. I like the different games their are. My personal favorite being Cop's and Crook's. 
 But it is mediocre and I've seen this kind of multi-player before. Well not the free roaming part, 
 but everything else. The story is not that great in my opinion. I mean you have to do what else, 
 but rise to the top using stolen cars and dead bodies. But Niko Bellick is probably the most interesting 
 character in the series though. The driving in the game is a lot better. I mean I can actually 
 win a street race in a GTA game now.
  And driveby's are one of my favorite things to do in the game.
  There has always been a speculation 
 whether a game that starts out witty and wacky should take a step to grittiness and realism.
  I do like what Rockstar has done, I just don't think that they were ready for that. But hey, what 
 I say isn't going to stop them from making so much money. Rockstar is like the the third-party 
 version of Nintendo. They could make a game about a donkey picking it's butt all day. And make 
 over 300 million dollars in two days with it.
  So all in all. It's a good game. But not 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bondyd007
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I understand why people were instantly ratings this as the greatest game ever. It had massive hype, 
 just under four years after San Andreas, which was a phenomenal game. I will admit you will instantly 
 notice a more realistic feel to the game, which takes a short while to get used to taking into 
 account the other games in the series and it works well. People will moan about this and say it 
 takes away the so called GTA feel to it, but I think Rockstar were right in going with this approach.
 
  
  NOTE: Spoilers will be used to support my rant.
  
  The first period of this game, where you meet the main characters, get to grips with the new style 
 of gameplay is very good, it was probably the part I enjoyed the most- granted you are playing 
 the new GTA, you are bound to be impressed, but still I believe now after finishing it, this is 
 the way the whole game should have been approached like in terms of character and commonsense style 
 stories. My only criticism of the first stage is see possible long term main characters, only to 
 kill them in an instant eg. Mikhail and Vlad.
  
  This is when it begins to go slightly downhill, not fully, but you begin to see flaws in story 
 writing etc. You are betrayed by Dimitri, which is all fine and dandy, Roman's house and business 
 get torched and you are forced to re-locate which works very well and is a great way to make the 
 story progress. However as you will see later in the game, Dimitri is invoved in one of the latter 
 missions, how many times is he involved in the game?! He betrays you, which doesnt really affect 
 your status on the game other than the torchings and then kidnapping Roman. His significance in 
 the game is small, until the end obviously depending on whether you take the deal or not. His so 
 called enemy status is lacking compared to that of the cops and Smoke and Ryder in San Andreas. 
 Without sounding stupid you feel a lack of emotion for your enemies compared the other GTA's.
 
  
  After the betrayal you work for pointless characters- a guy who films himself protecting the streets??!! 
 You find out Michelle works for the government and then she has **** all to do with anything after 
 that and just disappears. Then move to Manhattan, how does Roman afford the fancy pad?! Still you 
 work for many pointless characters- a guy who's got out of jail and is suicidal and has the charisma 
 of a dead dog, about four guys who all look the same. This is one of the most important major flaws 
 of this game- a lack of importance to the characters. I forgot how I met some of the characters, 
 thats a big concern. There are some meaningful characters, such as Little Jacob- even though he 
 isnt used to his full potential, Packie, Roman.
  
  I'll skip to the end, as even I'm bored of this rant. You do many pointless missions for characters 
 who feel like they have no importance. The story begins to take shape as Romans wedding nears and 
 you decide whether to deal with Dimitri, the ending and who dies at the wedding depends on your 
 choice. You either take deal and have Roman get killed but Dimitri, who as said before has **** 
 all to do with the game apart from a few things, or you refuse the deal and Kate (who depending 
 on how much you see her, has **** all to do with the game) gets killed by Pegorino, who you do 
 like four missions for- its so frustrating!!! The last mission is OK but ends so unbelievably badly 
 even more depending on who it is you kill.
  
  The biggest game ever with so much hype ends with you chasing a guy down and shooting him- well 
 done Rockstar!
  
  This game has some positives but it is a huge huge letdown and would have been so much better. 
 The main flaws I have with this game is a huge decline in the story, pointless characters and just 
 a general lack of emotional involvement in the game. I would recommend San Andreas a lot more- 
 granted its stupidly unrealistic at times but at least the story works and the characters are meaningful 
 and the character story progression makes sense.
  
  Major letdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wayward_Cow
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now and its in my alltime top 10 list for sure. Certainly the best 
 of the series. Unlike the previous GTA games there is more that just shooting people, picking up 
 hookers, stealing cars and selling drugs. There's tons of extra stuff to do, like bowling, or playing 
 darts, or going on dates. It has a great story line, but I didnt expect a physcopathic Russian 
 to be the main character, but it worked out fine. In the latset instlament to the GTA series, Car-Jacking 
 is realistic, you don't just throw them to the ground, after yankin' them out of thier car, and 
 send them screaming thier heads off, they will actually fight back, and take back thier car. All 
 in all its a great game. Buy it before it's gone. Roman is quite a Nutjob, he has no clue he should 
 just give up, and crawl back to the gutter.
  Who keeps a Sprunk machine in thier office anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it: I was more than a little terrified of the hype that the fourth installment of the 
 nefarious Grand Theft Auto franchise had garnered. Incredible reviews from such mainstream outlets 
 as USA Today, Newsweek, and Time? A perfect 10 and near 10's from the Official X-Box Magazine, 
 GameSpot, IGN, and Game Informer? It seemed too good to be true. 
  
  And guess what? It is too good to be true. GTA IV is, in nearly aspect, flawless. 
  
  As might 
 be expected, GTA IV is the tale of a hardened criminal that arrives in Liberty City looking for 
 the American Dream. Niko Bellic, the protagaonist, is lured to Liberty City by his cousin Roman. 
 Roman had promised his cousin the riches of the land of oppurtunity but his promise proves only 
 to be a coackroach infested apartment and the Russian Mafia breathing down his neck. Naturally, 
 it's up to you to steer Niko and Roman to the top-by any means necessary. 
  
  GTA IV marks the turning point of the Grand Theft Auto franchise by steering away from the "sandbox" 
 world of the previous installments and instead into an incredibly fluid narrative of the criminal 
 underworld. I would like to warn any GTA players that ignore the story and go for the destruction: 
 that street has nearly closed. GTA IV, compared to it's forefathers, offers very little in terms 
 of side missions. There are no ambulance, firefighter, or taxi (with a very limited exception) 
 missions. The now infamous rampages quickly become boring. Most of the meat on this GTA steak is 
 in the story. And if your a organized crime junkie like myself, this GTA is flawless. Borrowing 
 from such movies and TV shows as The Wire, Eastern Star, The Departed, and The Sopranos, RockStar 
 and Dan Houser, in particular, have written a tale that would be at home on the big screen. I dont 
 want to ruin any of the story but I will tell you this: watch every cutscene. The writing is incredible. 
 While it doesnt have the jawdropping "amazingness" of San Andreas (James Woods and Young Maylay) 
 it has the consistency of a 5-star film. The characters, from Little Jacob to Brucie to Packie, 
 are all utterly believable. RockStar also has the innate ability of implementing the "wheels within 
 wheels" mantra that is essential to any crime story. As Niko, you start at the very bottom, working 
 for the lowest of the low, and work your way up to the men and women that control the city and 
 it's every breath. It's amazing. 
  
  
  GTA, along side some serious brains, has a very pretty face. Very pretty indeed. Libery City is 
 gorgeous and incredibly detailed. It's hard to put into words... so this is an instance where pictures 
 are worth a thousand words. But simply taking a spin around one of the boroughs is a treat in itself. 
 It's breathtaking. Getting into a firefight is nearly photo-realistic (And I've been in enough 
 of those to tell you so) . Bullets bounce and richocet off walls and knock down chairs, chip away 
 at concrete, and scatter pedestrians. The muzzleflashes are incredibly bright which add a real 
 sense of awe and danger to the fight. Each gun sounds very different, too. The shotgun is a dull 
 roar, the AK-47 is a loud pop, and the 9mm handgun is a consistent "boom-boom."
  
  In terms of gameplay, GTA has followed in the footsteps of Gears of War and the Tom Clancy series 
 by implementing an mandatory cover system. By using the right bumper you can now attach to the 
 wall and either shoot blindly around corners or stick your head out and try to line up a bead. 
 It prolongs firefights giving them a movie like feel and also is a vast, vast, VAST improvement 
 over the previous GTA's "run away, turn around, and shoot" procedure. 
  
  Driving has also gone under a bit of the overhaul. Using the right and left triggers to accelerate 
 and brake takes some getting used to and making sharp turns without the aid of a handbrake is damn 
 near impossible. Shooting out of the car also uses the left bumper which takes some practice but 
 when you get the hang of it, it's simply thrilling to shoot off the cops or gangsters on your tail! 
 
  
  There's much I've neglected to mention: Friends (Think The Sims GTA) , the huge array of mini-games 
 (Pool, darts, racing. but strangely enough, no table tennis) , the cell-phone, the radio. But it 
 might be better if you discover those for yourself. If you like story oriented games, with enough 
 freedom to play differently each time through, insane graphics and sound, and the glorification 
 of the "gangster" life you cant go wrong here. I might never leave Liberty City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt-Mosh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I feel that Grand Theft Auto IV is possibly THE best Grand Theft Auto i have played yet. Despite 
 lacking the ability to modify cars and build your muscles i feel that this game is solid without 
 them, i mean can you imagine Niko Bellic with muscles? No, because he wouldn't be Niko with them, 
 Rockstar have created a solid main role that is quite possibly the greatest character to grace 
 any of Rockstars games.
  
  On top of this i feel the added realism to the driving and physics makes the game a whole new barrel 
 of enjoyment, becoming adjusted to the different capabilities of the cars is plenty of fun, learning 
 how they handle and which is the best to escape a crime scene in.
  
  I also feel that the story-line is brilliant, many little twists and turns make it both interesting 
 and at times hilarious!
  
  Sorry haters but 10 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinator66
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Ok the greatest thing about this game are the physics. The coolest looking and funniest stuff ive 
 ever seen. I spent hours with my friends running into traffic, leaping out of cars, crasing on 
 bikes, jumping off buildings and just tryin to figure out awesome ways to injure or kill ourselves. 
 The gun fights were quite epic as well, seeing your enemies react to bullets flying around them 
 and into them. Are they hiding behind cover? well then shoot it to peices and them in the process. 
 Even doin the most mundane things felt cool, like taking a cab or goin on a date with your sweetheart. 
 I didnt actually think i could enjoy the campaign but i actually did, i also loved chases on foot, 
 they were so intense. Cars were so realistic, they actually had weight to them and needed practice 
 to get used to. The game is so immersive, you could even watch TV in your apartment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeuceBlack713
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off im going to start with saying that yes there are some things NOT in GTA IV that have 
 been in previous installments. I can see why a happen-stance gamer would give this game a poor 
 score. But the sheer magnitude of this game is PHENOMENAL there is no other game out there with 
 a physics engine to the caliber of that found within Grand Theft Auto IV. the absolute incredible 
 amount of detail is staggering. every street every building all have incredible detail, just to 
 drive the car down the street and watch as your car passes over each individual bump is a joy within 
 itself. that is what makes GTA IV a must have game. Now as for the story, i was pleased with the 
 story there were quite a few interesting missions, but there were a few things that bugged me. 
 No longer being able to purchase property was a let down to me, you no longer have safehouses with 
 garages these are just a few things that bugged me, personally. The biggest thing though was that 
 there really is nothing to spend your money on other than weapons. In the story i accumulated over 
 $700,000 thinking that at some point in the game it would be utilized, its not, you do missions 
 and get a bunch of money just to keep it in your pocket. None of this can drag down just how amazing 
 this game truly is it has set the bar for the half-life of the 360. People just need to sit down 
 and take the time to ENJOY a game instead of rushing through it and giving it a poor score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is my first purchase of a GTA game. But, I have to say I am pretty impressed with the game. 
 Rockstar Games made a game that you actually feel you're in a living, breathing city. There is 
 full attention to detail everywhere you explore, the way people on the streets behave, and the 
 endless variety of ways you can go about playing, even without being involved in a mission of some 
 sort. As Niko you learn the ways of the American city life, and criminal activity. In the beginning 
 you basically start out with nothing to your name. As you progress, you get a knack for car-jacking, 
 evading police chases, and collecting money and weapons.
  Missions are a-plenty. The missions get more complex as the game unfolds, the stakes get higher, 
 but so does the loot. It is fun to just drive around and get your bearings on out the city is laid 
 out. Of course certain sections of Liberty City are locked until you accomplish certain missions.
 
  Still the level of detail in LIberty City is amazing. The daylight, nighttime transition adds 
 an extra touch of realism to the game. Occasionally there is rain, and the streets look convincingly 
 wet and reflective. I really think that the story scripting was exceptional. In some games the 
 character acting and dialogue is bland and below average. In GTA 4, thats not the case at all.
 
  The story dialogue is strong and carries well with each character, making it that much more of 
 a good game. 
  
  There are so many different cars to drive, including a couple of motorcycles, and speedboats. But 
 of course, if you use the cheats, you can spawn several different cars (one at a time) at your 
 disposal. Just be careful where you aim the look camera when you spawn one, you could make it spawn 
 right in the middle of moving traffic. Aim it toward a open space. These you do not have to jack, 
 whew. Overall, GTA 4 is a superb game. It's got depth, open-ended variety of gameplay, and plenty 
 of missions to embark on. You can't go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlee1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  No complaints here, I can see this game taking some good time to defeat all aspects. Been playing 
 for two weeks now and I'm 52% through the story mode. All of the side missions will help to draw 
 the game out some and not make it a "beat it in a week and never play it again" game. I have not 
 explored the online play yet, though I have heard nothing but good things about it. The character 
 acting is wonderful, not full of crappy one-lines and boring like most other acting in games. The 
 game takes some pretty exciting turns in the story mode and seems to keep you interrested about 
 what is going to happen next. I would most certainly recommend this as a "purchase" not a "rent" 
 game, there is just too much to do in the game that it would take forever to complete 100%. Total 
 fun and definitely worth the wait. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  If anyone were to sum up gaming this decade, they would think of three words: Grand Theft Auto. 
 These games that started with GTA III ushered a new era because of its open-world game design and 
 pushed violence to a whole new level due to the amount of freedom provided. While some would say 
 the series started to get a little stale, Grand Theft Auto IV is now the pinnacle of the series 
 and open world gaming. Those who thought Rockstar Games could not top themselves after San Andreas, 
 think again because GTA IV is the complete package with perhaps the best stories told in gaming, 
 major improvements in gameplay, impressive graphics, amazing sound, and a multiplayer component 
 that does not feel rushed. Grand Theft Auto IV is arguably my favorite game of all-time and why 
 games are here to stay on our society today.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV returns to Liberty City, but redesigned for the current generation of games. 
 The protagonist is Niko Bellic, an immigrant who was promised the American Dream by his cousin, 
 Roman, with the money and the women. That promise did not come to fruition from the outset of the 
 game and Niko's purpose in Liberty City becomes more personal and a revenge tale because his past 
 is revisited. Rockstar's storytelling in GTA4 is more real and personal as previous games as you 
 get an emotional attachment to Niko because you want him to succeed rather than be screwed. Of 
 course, you run into a mix mash of wild personalities such as Little Jacob, the Jamaican you probably 
 not understand what he is saying, Brucie, the genetically stacked dude that is hyped about exercise 
 and cars, to various folks in the mafia. As the game progresses, Niko will face some tough decisions 
 that are crucial to the overall flow of the game as well as leading towards different endings. 
 These choices are sometimes hard to make because of that emotional attachment especially when deciding 
 to kill one important character or another. These types of moments make GTA4's story shine to something 
 special that can also lead to multiple playthroughs to experience the other side of a decision 
 you made previously.
  
  The overall gameplay in GTA IV is significantly improved to previous games especially when it was 
 being heavily flawed by San Andreas. The gunplay received a major overhaul with the new cover system. 
 Aiming still has lock-on, but you can switch to free-aim for a better opportunity for better shots. 
 The cover system does make the shooting elements more of a stop and pop game as seen in Gears in 
 War, which is heavily noticed in the single-player, but it is not a huge factor when it comes to 
 multiplayer. Melee is also improved with a counter system that requires perfect timing to master, 
 but the offensive maneuvers are not as deep as San Andreas's multiple styles system. Speaking of 
 San Andreas, the experience system is removed so you don't need to worry about bad aiming or sprinting. 
 Stealing cars (as well as bikes, boats, and helicopters) is still as easy as in previous games, 
 but stealing locked cars is even cooler when Niko breaks the glass to open up the car and then 
 starting it up by simply holding the accelerate button. The wanted level system also received major 
 changes this time around as the cops will tend to start a perimeter within a circle (the size of 
 that depends on how many wanted stars you have) . While it is easier to escape the police because 
 of that circle, the cops can still give a fight especially at three or more stars. While you don't 
 really get a wanted star for speeding or running red lights, the cops tend to get picky like passing 
 a toll booth without paying, stealing a car in front of them, and killing a set of cops can be 
 an easy three stars. There are other many improvements to the overall gameplay of GTA IV as most 
 of them are minor as they cater to more serious players and fans of the series.
  
  The mission structure in Grand Theft Auto IV remains the same of going to mission contacts, watch 
 a cutscene filled with amazing voice acting, and then doing the task (Two of the major islands 
 are locked from the outset) . Your cell phone is your best friend in this game calling up friends, 
 getting calls from mission contacts, and taking photos. These missions follow the pattern of previous 
 games of starting to slow and then ramps up as you get better weapons. Of course, there will be 
 the epic missions of robbing a bank, long shootouts thanks to the cover system, and longer car 
 chases (that might be too scripted for some of driving through narrow alleys and traffic accidents. 
 The new autosave system is a relief for series veterans after finishing a mission rather than getting 
 wasted or busted before saving at a hideout. Speaking of getting wasted and busted, you do not 
 lose your valuable weapons if you die, but getting busted by the cops will along with the usual 
 money penalty. The mission variety for those who were worried it is just various motives to drive 
 and shoot. Some of the major storyline missions start right away after completing some other ones, 
 which is a relief that an autosave system is there.
  
  Other than the campaign missions, there are plenty of side quests and activities to be completed 
 throughout Liberty City. Most of these provide good distractions from the main storyline if you 
 feel like not continuing the story right away and enjoy Liberty City as a whole. The side quests 
 range from working for the police to hunt down the most wanted criminals, stealing specific cars 
 for someone, being a hired assassin, driving in races throughout the city, and doing random character 
 missions. The other element of activities are the management of relationships with some of the 
 major characters and girlfriends. The variety of activities to take these people out to are astounding 
 such as eating a simple meal, getting drunk, watching a stand up comedy show, getting lapdances 
 at a strip club, or play various games like pool, darts, and bowling. Taking to specific locations 
 will factor in to the relationship or whether or not they like it or not. Another factor is Niko's 
 clothing, in which you can dress up him up to various styles of clothing like suits and street 
 clothes. Then there are the collectable aspect of the activities which make a return in with the 
 unique stunt jumps and the flying rats, GTA IV's version of hidden packages. These can be hard 
 to find, but those who driven to 100% the game, it may take a while to get everything done.
  
  If you're tired of being Niko in Liberty City, there is the multiplayer to mess with, which 
 is a first in a console GTA (San Andreas had minimal co-op so it doesn't count in my book) . Even 
 though you have to play the single-player a little bit (not much) to unlock it, the multiplayer 
 is surprisingly impressive and does not feel like a rush job as seen in other games. Once you create 
 a character for multiplayer, you can cruise around Liberty City (all of it) with friends or random 
 people online or test your skills in the various multiplayer modes. There is an amazing amount 
 of variety of multiplayer modes in GTA IV ranging from deathmatch, races, Mafiya Work, Car Jack 
 City, Turf War, Cops & Crooks, and some co-op missions. While kills matter in most of these modes, 
 the most money decides the victor of these modes. Deathmatch (also can be played in teams) is what 
 to expect from other shooters with respawn. Races are divided to normal races and GTA races, which 
 it is a race with weapons added to the mix. Multiplayer races are not really that great especially 
 in ranked matches when pile-ups are expected to happen at the first turn while GTA races have more 
 opportunities to screw up your opponents. Mafiya Work and Car Jack City are objective based modes 
 and also can be played with teams. Cops & Crooks is what it is with one team being the crooks trying 
 to escape while the cops try to stop them. Turf War is another objective based mode of gathering 
 the most money by holding on to as much posts as long as possible. Grand Theft Auto IV's multiplayer 
 is filled with many modes and it is fun enough to be played for weeks and even months.
  
  The graphics in Grand Theft Auto IV are definitely impressive for the amount of detail Liberty 
 City has. While it is not as jaw dropping compared to other games this generation, GTA IV can hold 
 its own being a good looking game. The major change to more real characters than cartoony ones 
 seen in previous games is a great choice bringing out more emotion and charm from the characters. 
 There are also a good amount of civilians throughout Liberty City and the amount of cars in traffic 
 at the Triangle, the game's version of Times Square, is as accurate seen in the real New York City 
 which makes the city seem more real and lively than it should be. The minor grip with the graphics 
 is that there are instances of texture pop-in at various spots and rare cases of slowdown when 
 things get way chaotic. The loading is kept down to a minimum with quick load screens between cutscenes. 
 The city itself looks beautiful and the various engines of graphics and physics combined together 
 is a technical feat for today's standards. The vehicles themselves look great along with the water 
 effects and explosions. The weather effects are also impressive with the rain and sun effects with 
 the glare not being a distraction like it was in San Andreas. While the graphics in GTA IV are 
 not the best in this generation of consoles, the style and amount of detail makes it a good-looking 
 game.
  
  Rockstar delivers again in the sound department as well. The voice acting is among the best in 
 gaming today with unknown voice talents now being known for being a certain character in this game. 
 Niko's voice acting is perhaps the best I heard in all of gaming today. Other characters do shine 
 with their voices thanks to their personalities. The amount of celebrities in this game are not 
 much like Katt Williams doing stand-up comedy and various DJs on the radio stations. The music 
 in GTA IV is another impressive list of old and new fitting in to the New York lifestyle. The mix 
 of musical genres is astounding from rock, R&B, disco, reggaeton, hip-hop, and disco. Some of my 
 personal favorites are the amount of today's music in the game like Kanye West's "Flashing Lights." 
 Ne-Yo's "Because of You," and more. Most of these songs provide great, epic, and awkward moments 
 during car chases in terms of sarcasm pending on which song is played. The other sound effects 
 also sound impressive with the weapons sounding like weapons, rain being rain, and cars sounding 
 like cars pending on how fast they go.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a representation of why gamers love video games, and the evolution of open 
 world gaming in terms of story and gameplay. All the hype and the delays was worth it as this game 
 delivers on what it promised. It is a great looking game and sounds great living up to the series' 
 standards. Niko Bellic is the best protagonist Rockstar has put together in a GTA game being more 
 real and emotional than previous protagonists in the series. The main storyline takes about 30 
 hours to beat especially if you are going for the "Liberty City Minute" achievement on the 360 
 version, but it can take longer because of all of the side quests and activities to do in Liberty 
 City. The multiplayer is surprisingly good and addictive with the amount of variety in the modes. 
 With downloadable episodes on the way this fall on the 360 version, Grand Theft Auto IV has legs 
 to be a game you won't stop playing months or even years for now. As a complete gaming package, 
 GTA IV is among one of the best games put together in a while. Liberty City is indeed America's 
 new playground.
  
  Score = 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewd4
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Now that the hypes worn off me i can safely say that GTA4 is not all it is cracked up to be. Yes 
 the game is excellent and i wont deny that i had alot of fun playing it however for me the game 
 doesnt have as much replay value as the previous gta games did. Basically, the game has gone too 
 realistic for me to totally enjoy the game. The core gameplay is there and if you steal a car, 
 shoot a pedestrian and get a six star wanted rating while you drive full speed through algonquin 
 in an infernus then yes youre playing good old gta. However for me the game feels as if it doesnt 
 want you to do this anymore partly to do with the realism, character (s) and mainly the story. The 
 story was too short and made me feel as if i had to restrain my fun just to please npcs as i take 
 them bowling every two hours. Niko feels like a real person and by no means is this a good thing. 
 In past GTA's i loved how i could pick up a controller and wipe out half the popuation of a city 
 with no care for the character doing it. It was a nice casual bit of fun and now when i play GTA 
 i feel too pressured to keep Niko from whipping out an RPG and destroying a tourbus and feel as 
 if i have to keep him on a constant boring daily routine, im not here to play the sims im here 
 to play GTA.
  
  When rockstar promised a slightly smaller map with much more detail i was all for it but the map 
 feels way to small for this game and to be perfectley honest seeing a ped open a trunk and put 
 their shopping in the car does not interest me one bit nor does a living breathing airport that 
 serves no use for the game other than taking up space. It feels like a step backwards enough said.
 
  
  Its a good game but if you want to play GTA, prepare to take a long time finding it in IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Well it's finally here. After being delayed for a number of months, the highly anticipated Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is finally out. I was there at midnight and I took my time in beating the game. It 
 was a good amount of game play while it lasted, but most of the time I felt like something was 
 lacking
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play is probably the worst part about the game. I understand that Rockstar is trying to 
 be realistic, but come on. The combat is rediculously sluggish. And it's not even JUST how Niko 
 moves, but it's how the controls work with the movement. The controls are not as responsive as 
 they should be, and targeting the right target often becomes a real pain. You'll come out of cover 
 wanting to target the guy in front of you, and it will target the guy on your right. And it might 
 take you a few tries to be able to properly switch targets. Do yourself a favor and turn off automatic 
 targetting, even though it will make the game much more harder as you are often put in ridiculous 
 rambo situations. One guy taking out 50 in a 5 story building, yeah... I definately see the realism 
 there. They should have made the character more versatile. If I was in Niko's shoes, I'd probably 
 kill the bad guys better than he could.
  
  Graphics:
  As you would expect. With the right TV, the game looks pretty damn amazing.
  
  Sound:
  Great 
 music, great sounds. Ambiance is good. I have no complaints about any of the sounds.
  
  Content:
  This is also a major point of disappointment for me. It's like Assassin's Creed all 
 over again. We all read about the great content in GTAIV before it came out: a living breathing 
 city, hanging out with people, a HUGE open world. I don't see any of it.
  
  Living and breathing? There's people walking on the street, you can't talk to any of them, you 
 just shove them out of the way (unless you RARELY find a blue dot that starts a side quest) . 
 
  
  The hanging out with people is just plain retarded. It's a good idea, but serioiusly? First of 
 all, there's a very limited amount of places to go. In the beginning area, you are introduced to 
 bowling, darts, restaurants, strip clubs, bars. It seems quite interesting, until you realize that 
 those are the only places to hang out, and most of them are in the beginning area. Every burger 
 shop is the same. There's not much to do AT ALL in the city. You don't even get to see what you 
 do when you hang out with a person. For example you'll pick someone up, drive them to the let's 
 say the bar, and then you come out with them drunk. You have NO control of character interaction. 
 The whole game is like a movie, which is disappointing considering the fact that GTA is famous 
 for its openness. Isn't that what the game is all about? 
  
  Also another big issue for me is the fact that money is absolutely pointless. You accumulate a 
 bunch of money from missions, but you can no longer buy property or anything as you were able to 
 in GTA3. The only thing you can spend money on is weapons, which you already have the choice of 
 buying every single weapon in the middle of the game. The weapons aren't expensive, so money is 
 actually COMPLETELY pointless.
  
  The game is not big, I read on IGN or somewhere that it takes an hour to get from one side of the 
 city to another. Are you kidding? It takes like 5 minutes. Did he mean walking? Why would you walk?
 
  
  There's a very limited variety of cars and weapons.
  
  This all being said, it's a good game. I just had very high expectations. My review is biased negative 
 because of the RIDICULOUS reviews this game has gotten from reviewers. Best game in 10 years? Are 
 you kidding me? It's an OKAY game. Vice City was better, IMO. More vehicles, PARACHUTE?, unforgettable 
 characters. I don't remember liking any of the characters in GTAIV except for the rasta.
  
  The multiplayer is okay i guess. But it wouldn't make you want to put down COD4 or Halo 3 (I'm 
 not a Halo person, but i still think I do appreciate the MP. If you have alot of friends that play, 
 you can have some good times online. But for me, the game play faults of singleplayer kind of kills 
 the multiplayer for me.
  
  As for the positive points, There are moments that will thrill you. Chasing a motorcycle in the 
 subway track, armed robbery of a bank, blowing up police cars, interesting plot twists. Alot of 
 the quests are very repetetive sometimes. The game, in the end, is fun. As long as you don't let 
 the many faults bring you down. Driving is very realistic, though I really wish there were more 
 cars. Racing was a disappointment as well.
  
  GTAIV is something you SHOULD experience. You'll have fun playing, but I don't reccomend buying 
 it. Rent it, beat it, return it. Rent it twice if you have to, it's still cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix_Funk
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  So many things were taken out of this game; car customization, working out, flying planes, base 
 jumping, weapon skills, gambling, buying property.... that's just to name a few, and they really 
 haven't been replaced by anything either. This makes the game feel empty compared to it's predecessors 
 and often leaves me struggling to find things to do when free-roaming.
  
  On top of that, the game feels like it just hasn't had the effort that San Andreas had put into 
 it... with bog-standard GTA weapons, actually there are a hell of a lot more in San Andreas and 
 I really miss the fun things like the Mini-Gun, Flame-thrower and Katana Sword, there is only a 
 fraction of the amount of clothing available compared to S. A. and surprisingly there aren't many 
 new vehicles to joyride but they do look good and each vehicle handles in it's own unique way. 
 Another big disappointment is the radio. While there are more stations to choose from, there are 
 only about half the amount of songs on each station and the selection of songs aren't very impressive 
 either. I'm constantly switching stations to find one of the few good songs worth listening to, 
 and with more stations to flick through.. you can see how this would get annoying.
  
  The city itself is nowhere near the size of S. A.'s map. This really surprised me as I expected 
 it to be huge in comparison being as this is supposed to be next-gen GTA, but it's taken me two 
 weeks and I feel like I don't even need to look at the map anymore. It would have been a very nice 
 touch to include at least SOME countryside and wildlife, but understandably there isn't as the 
 city is meant to be R*'s version of New York, however this doesn't excuse the fact that there could 
 have been at least some cats and dogs in the city and there just isn't.
  
  It's not all bad though, the city itself looks and feels amazing with many small details included 
 to make it really come alive, although get too close to a building and you'll see the windows are 
 just silly pictures and have absolutely no depth. Graphics for almost everything else are great 
 though. The driving and shooting have been improved, and the storyline and characters are brilliantly 
 scripted and played out.
  
  Multiplayer is also a lot of fun with lots of different game modes to choose from. The only thing 
 that bugs me about it is that while you can free-roam the whole city with other people online, 
 it's not possible to play any of the mini-games with them, like pool and bowling.
  
  My bottom line is this; GTA IV is a great and fun game with a storyline that you will find yourself 
 caring about and I would definitely recommend getting it, but, with it missing so many things compared 
 to it's predecessors, don't expect this game to live up to the hype of all the 10/10's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  It's GTA. It's nothing more or nothing less. I guess I'm trying to say is if you like the Grand 
 Theft Auto you'll like this. But if you don't, chances are you won't like this. GTA 4 is too much 
 of a big game for me to sustain your and mine interest in talking about all the little details 
 and all the things you can do within the game. The main core of the game is still the standard 
 formulae of car jacking, shooting and following the main story. The diifference this time round 
 is all of these factors have now finally caught up with today's modern standards and is all the 
 more better for it. Yes, Grand Theft Auto 4 has almost lost its juvenile roots and you can definitely 
 tell the developers at Rockstar North have worked extra hard in trying to make this iteration of 
 the series the most serious and thought provoking to appear. There's simply more content and more 
 things to look, listen and play. However, even with all this ridiculous amount of things to do 
 it's still GTA at heart and as I've said, if you never GTA before this one, this one won't convert 
 you.
  
  I was going to finish this review after the sentece before this one but this is too big a game 
 to simply end like that. For fans of Grand Theft Auto everything that you wished for i. e. better 
 combat has been completely overhauled. Fire fights and driving (less arcade and more realistic) 
 have definitely changed for the better. They're far more exciting and more importantly more fun. 
 I'm not so keen on the police system this time round though. It has a similiar setup to the system 
 used in the Scarface game, just more refined and far more leniant. It's far too easy to lose the 
 police and the police A. I is just as atrocious as ever.
  
  I do like this game. I really do. It's definitely the best GTA games and Rockstar North and the 
 rest of the pretenders have a lot of work to do to surpass this. It's not the perfect package that 
 many have made it out to be (the multi player is good, don't get me wrong) because I wasn' totally 
 blown away by it. In fact, I was a bit over whelmed by it all. This game will last you for a while 
 and with the downloadable chapters coming in August (360 version) it'll only get bigger. Now if 
 you'll excuse me, I need to get back to games that really interest me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phant0m13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I have always loved GTA from the very begining. My all time favorite GTA (besides 
 this one) would be San Andres. To start off I will tell you how I feel about the single player. 
 I would hold the main story as perfection, it was dramatic, different and full of change. I feel 
 that Niko is easier to relate to then any other GTA character. The combat system adds to already 
 amazing missions and tasks. As for the extra content I feel that they brought back the same old 
 stuff but multiplyed it by like a thousand. The packages are now pigeons and instead of just hundred, 
 I think there is nearly three-hundred. Same for the stunt jumps. This is all fine and dandy, but 
 kept it for a ten for me, and I mention me, I love customization, especially of the automobile 
 type. There is no customization of cars what so ever. You can customize Niko's cloths, but that's 
 about it. As for cars there is barley enough room to store your few favorites. I miss the reward 
 of completing every game in which you get a huge mansion with a huge garage.
  
  So enough of my complaining about the lack of me being able to create my dream world, lets move 
 on to the multiplayer. I would have to say that the multiplayer is both amazing and absouletely 
 a dissapointment. 
  
  First, the bad news. Everyones favorite, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, absouletely will let you 
 down. The deathmatchs are too small to the point of a huge frag fest, or too big to the point of 
 little frag fests all over the map every hour someone actually finds eachother.
  
  The good news. The co-op, racing and especially crooks and cops are pretty decent, but what is 
 absouletely ground-breaking to me is the free-mode. This can act as a pregame lobby or a chance 
 to explore, have fun and to make up your own games. I play free mode for hours by myself just to 
 explore and try out vehicles and gun fights with effecting my story mode.
  
  Over all GTA 4 is amazing in all forms, there is plenty to do for months and more. Besides a few 
 left out aspects of other instalments, GTA 4 will definately please the average gamer and the above 
 average gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I am going to begin this review by stating the only advancements Rockstar have made in this game: 
 The graphics are amazing, the sound is great, the multiplayer is fun, the car damage is realistic.... and 
 thats about it. I was absolutely gobsmacked that they took so long to make this game. It is so 
 short.. it only took me 24 hours to finish the story, there are so little variations in weapons 
 that it isn't funny, rockstar have taken out the fun feature of player customisation (haircuts 
 etc.) and this game in general is just a weak attempt to try and make the grand theft auto series 
 "more realistic than ever"
  
  It amazes me that people can give this game a 10/10 rating. It's not a terrible game but I would 
 never in a million years give it a 10/10 rating. The pathetic attempt to make this game realistic 
 is stupid... i can think of hundreds of examples where Rockstar fail to do this, a big one is in 
 the vigilante missions where you are working for the cops but for some reason as soon as you open 
 fire on the enemies you immediately get a 2 star wanted level.
  
  Games like this shouldn't be too realistic.... even when they try to be made realistic there are 
 always ways that its not so why bother? I absolutely loved the Grand Theft Auto Series so I couldn't 
 wait for this game to come out....... now that it has I couldn't have been more dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchgun
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 was a great game and had a great story . I preffered playing Grand Theft Auto 
 San Andreas, however. GTA4 is lacking a few things GTA San Andreas had I'm not saying it isn't worth 
 playing, all I am saying is it still has a long way to go before being called perfect I enjoyed 
 playing this game but it was somewhat of a disappointment but not in a really bad way of disappointment 
 it just wasn't what I had hoped to see in the game. This is just my opinion and should not be taken 
 seriously. I had high expectations of this game and it was not what I had hoped to see that is 
 why I was disappointed. I do recommened this game It just wasn't for me. Whoever likes this game 
 knows its a good game but to whoever it was not what they expected they know what was wrong with 
 the game this game just was not for me but maybe you would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's been about a month since I picked up GTAIV. A month of mayhem and debauchery and murder. 
 I read the reviews when this initially came out and figured this was a must own for the 360 and 
 that I was going to be in video game bliss with this "perfect" game. I will admit that I was never 
 a fan of the series, mostly because of the irritating missions that had to be repeated in their 
 entirety if you made an error. Well, after this month of playing I can't say that GTAIV is any 
 different than it's predecessors. It just has a more polished look, which wasn't hard considering 
 the presentation of the previous titles. 
  
  There isn't any real development of your character along the way, other than getting new clothes 
 and new apartments which are of no benefit in the game at all. You just collect money for doing 
 missions, but you hardly need to spend any money in the game anyway. The only thing I regularly 
 spend money on is body armour and ammo, which is dirt cheap. 
  
  The missions in the game are fun for a little while, but they all become similar pretty quick..... drive 
 to dot and kill a bunch of guys. Don't manage to kill bunch of guys, start from the beginning. 
 Why oh why are there no checkpoints in this game.... there's nothing worse than screwing up a mission, 
 but to then have to drive for five minutes just to get back to the start of it is infuriating.
 
  
  The game does feature a new combat system which is supposed to be the bees knees, but can't compare 
 with the cover system in Vegas or Gears of War. The target lock in this rarely targets the enemy 
 you want to kill. It's more likely to lock onto someone in complete cover than the guy whose standing 
 in the open, or better yet a hot dog vendor or pedestrian. It's cumbersome and will often have 
 you facing the wrong direction. Maybe I've just gotten used to playing shooters.... or real "perfect" 
 games like COD4.
  
  The most fun I've had in this game is just driving around and blowing stuff up and then getting 
 chased by some cops for a while. As you can imagine that doesn't hold a persons attention for very 
 long.
  
  I find it odd that gamespot gave this a perfect score and not one to World of Warcraft or Call 
 of Duty 4 which are far and away superior products. If you didn't like the previous titles, don't 
 expect a revelation with this release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since GTAIII came out but everyone who played it knew how important it is. R* 
 created the crime sandbox that brought up so many clones. But it was more than that, it was a completely 
 different formulae from GTA II. Instead of the top down view, we get third person. We could drive 
 around the detailed city of Liberty City and gasp at the attention to detail. We ran from the police 
 until we were wasted or renewed at the pay-and-spray. It was an experience nobody has ever seen. 
 But it also was the foundation of which politics would loom over the game industry. They thought 
 GTA III would increase crime just like what happened with doom. But there wasn't any lasting evidence 
 to support the claim that GTA would create more crime in cities. GTA III was also a satirical look 
 into American pop culture and was genuinely funny most of the time. I asked just before GTA IV 
 came out "How in the hell are they going to do that again!? It's impossible! If they do it again, 
 I will eat my left hand." Well they recreated and revamped the genius that was GTA III and turned 
 it into a completely new experience that is GTA IV.
  
  
  Nothing has not changed in terms of story elements, man goes to city, man starts out small, man 
 goes through problems and must change living quarters, man finds new friends and tells us why he 
 is in city. Man uses friends to get revenge and goes through all areas of crime and settles in 
 but has to do one last thing. Ties everything that was once loose but gets visit from man he once 
 betrayed for the good of others and kills him. Friends are reunited and a massive existential crisis 
 goes through the player's mind. That is exactly what happens to Nico Bellic, an Eastern European 
 war veteran who goes to Liberty City to meet with his cousin, Roman Bellic, to find the man who 
 killed his friends. At first sight, Nico Bellic looks like a heartless maniac but in reality is 
 completely broken because of what happened to him. What GTA IV does unlike the other GTA games 
 is have the main character evolve. Literally, Nico will change in Liberty City. Once we see what 
 truly bothers him, we feel pity. But the main story isn't what's important in GTA IV. No, the real 
 story is America's treatment of immigrants who have no chance of getting ahead unless they commit 
 some type of crime.
  
  That's right, GTA IV isn't about Nico (no matter how much you like him) but it's really a criticism 
 of American assimilation of culture. Every GTA game since III has had some underlying theme. For 
 example; San Andreas was a criticism of the police not using the appropriate form of action when 
 dealing with gangs. Or Vice City's criticism of the poorly delt with drug cartel. OR GTA III showing 
 us that the people commiting crime in the mafia have no say in what they do because their life 
 is on the line if they do not do as they are told. I personally barely know what GTA III was about 
 since I was ten when I played it. That's something else, kids should not play GTA since they will 
 have no clue of what is going on explicitly and implicitly. GTA is for intellectuals as well as 
 idiots who just want to relieve their anger.
  
  The gameplay mechanics have also changed completely, in terms of driving, fighting, shooting, flying, 
 boating, and side-idle missions. First off is driving. If you still insist on driving like you 
 did in San Andreas, you got another thing coming. If you played Forza Motorsport, drive like that, 
 and no that is not a joke. You must drive carefully if you want to fully maximize your ability 
 to drive around Liberty City. Or if you don't want to drive, take the taxi. Taking the taxi will 
 lower the amount of time that it takes to get from mission to mission. But your GTA IV experience 
 will be significanly lowered in comparisson to the other games. So the taxi must only be on repeat 
 missions. The driving must go like this. Gas Slow-Down Brake Turn Repeat. You must keep your car 
 in pristine condition because the car's quality degrades over time and must occasionally be brought 
 to the pay-and-spray if you want to keep your car. Shooting is the same, auto aim is still there 
 but a more realistic recoil system is put in place alongside a cover system, and a behind the shoulder 
 aiming view. These make the game much simpler as well as make you and me feel much more involved 
 in the killing process. The fighting is by far the toughest of the game since they block and punch 
 just as hard as you do. Before they punch you must counter so you can take them out really quickly 
 so you do not catch the attention of the police. Speaking of cops, if you do attract attention, 
 your escape can either be daring or stealthy. A daring escape would have you drive as fast as possible 
 to the nearest pay and spray where the attention would be gone. But the problem is that if the 
 cops are at the pay-and-spray, you must keep escaping until they are not on your tail. Problem 
 with that is the ablility of the cops to shoot you while in your car. You will most likely die 
 during this time. Fear not, the stealthy approach is better. Kill (or incapacitate) the cops and 
 take a car, check every street to see if there is a cop car on it. If there is, turn around and 
 find another route. Because the cops do not spawn right behind you anymore, you can gently escape 
 and the cops will nevere find you. If there is a cop behind you either lose him or shoot the driver. 
 The cop will either die or exit the squad car. The police will only search inside the zone you 
 were in an once you are out, lay low for a few seconds and continue of your journey.
  
  The graphics are good, but they are made better considering the draw distance you experience. There 
 are more pedestrian models and each main character in detailed. The building are well designed 
 and the city look fantastic during the night. Each car is wonderfully detailed each with their 
 own crumple zones and driving patterns. The insides of buildings are also well designed and are 
 great for multiplayer madness (cop battles mainly) . R* has even kept up the tradition of easter 
 eggs but as usuall, you must look for them and are in unusual places (or even right in your face) .
 
  
  You must remember that GTA must never be taken seriously. In fact, even after traumatic events 
 occur, R* still manages to pull out a couple of jokes. Don't even say that the people you kill 
 are innocent, they are all crooked and evil (as well as characatures of real life people) . The 
 only good people you meet are Roman and a friend you meet. That is it, so don't go into this speal 
 that you kill innocent (even the whole prostitutes with baseball bats is dumb) . The game itself 
 is satire, so if Jack Thompson, or Glenn Beck say it is evil, tell them exactly what I'm saying. 
 Or better yet, tell them to read Grand Theft Childhood it is a great book and they will understand 
 what is going on. The best way to fight these pundits is to throw conclusive evidence in their 
 faces.
  
  The radio stations are the best in the series and this is coming from a longtime rock fan. There 
 is something for everyone. The best songs in the game are not in the same radio stations. Giant 
 Steps by Coltrane on JNR, Pruit Igoe on Journey, Oxegene IV on Journey as well. It is highly suggested 
 that you try out Liberty Rock, JNR, The Talk Stations, Journey, and Integrity 2.0.
  
  If you have never enjoyed GTA in the past, give this one a try. If you own every other GTA game, 
 buy this one. If you are Jack Thompson, don't you have anything better to do than to read this 
 review. Buy GTA IV and don't take the taxis. Take your time and enjoy yourself in the city. Or 
 enjoy it with a friend. You will not be disapointed if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  So you may not want to take my word for this game because I have never beat any of them the whole 
 way through. I have not played the multiplayer either. I will explain why. GTA in general is a 
 great game. My issues with the game are the length of it and the monotany of it. Now it is good 
 but it gets old in a way. With the length of the game it gets gets that way. Now if the gameplay 
 was better it would not be as bad. I just cant come to terms with how it handles. The melee attacks 
 are horrible and it is very easy to run off a ledge because the controls are so sloppy. Now it 
 is not the worst but the way it is all put together is sort of blah. When you get in a gun battle 
 the cover system is great but running around is not fluid. I usually find myself getting into a 
 comfortable position before I go to town killing people. 
  
  I have to keep telling you it is not that bad but it dies on me. This is no different from the 
 other GTAs if you ask me. They have all been a little chopped out. I really liked the other ones 
 and this is the best one I think but I enjoyed #3 the most. It was the first one I played so I 
 was excited about it. I have never played all the way through any of them and I was hoping to get 
 through this one but it is too long and I want to move on. 
  
  I cant really describe it because it does not get real old it is just too much for one game. It 
 is something you would want to put insane amounts of time into because there is so much to do. 
 So it is really cool on that note. I just feel that it is not awesome as much as it is all of the 
 aspects being good. On the whole there is so much to it and it adds up to a good game, but only 
 if you want to only play one game because to get out of it what the game has then you will not 
 have time for anything else.
  
  If you are really into these games get it you will love it. If you like it for the most part I 
 would pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartondemon
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  basically once youve done the story its real boring, the multiplayer gimmick runs thin early on 
 because its full of idiots. my main problem is not being able to FIRE A SHOT without having 50 
 cops on your ass who drop you in 10 seconds on foot.
  
  the car physics are excellent and make them much fun to drive however try jackin one without getting 
 the filth up your anus
  
  quite entertaining though.. for a week. traded in a week ago and back to san andreas which actually 
 lets me do what i want without sending me to the hospital
  
  ill most likely pick it up on the pc to get a no cop mod etc and have some REAL fun, but for now 
 its a good rental as i finished the story in like 3 days, i seriously like other people played 
 SA for MONTHS and then theres the mods and multiplayer mod when you have the pc version OMG
  
  if you want a decent game get MAFIA, its 10x better (on PC)
  
  kthxbi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andytill1993
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  This game is great, i have to say though it really doesn't desrve a perfect 10. I'm not having 
 a go at the game or anything so dont bad rate me fanboys but they have missed out lots of the things 
 that made some of the other GTA titles great, mainly the funny things you could do after you had 
 finished story mode like randomly parachuting of buildings or messing around with loads of wacky 
 cheats. Though it also misses out on some of the not so crazy things like car modding and where 
 is the silenced pistol and pedal bikes?
  
  The online is a lot of fun and i have the anoying rockstar develepor achievement (though i still 
 dislike it) , that is when it is working properly. A lot of the time i disconnect from games and 
 this isn't my internet conection as all my other games work fine and it's more than fast enough 
 to support it. Also the random cannot connect to game anoys me.
  
  Aside from this it is a great game with an amazing amount of detail and a great storyline a lot 
 better than any other in the series also the graphics and gameplay are amazing, so i would still 
 recommend this game to people as it is alot of fun even though there are some things which would 
 of made it amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  The new grand theft auto game set to be the groundbreaking game of 2008.. wrong or right.
  
  The game is a very good game alot of missions but too much has been taken out of the previous games 
 which made the series so fun,
  
  
  For example Aeroplanes, Own estates/businesses...
  The storyline is possibly one of the best though,
  
  
  But seriously this game is one of 
 the most overrated games and it failed to live up to some expectations but still a great game overall.
 
  
  
  So go out and buy GTA IV you won't regret it but don't go out thinking it will be the best game 
 ever because seriously it will fail to your expectations..
  Also if you are thinking of what console to buy this game for either the xbox 360 or the ps3 buy 
 it for the console what your friends have got it for because the multiplayer is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandyman94
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft auto 4 has got to be one of the best games released this year. In my opinion one of 
 the best games released this decade. You are a illegal Russian immigrant named Niko Belic on a 
 ship to America to meet your cousin Roman and embrace the American dream. Your cousin Roman has 
 sent you emails about how good America is and how he owns his own mansion and sports cars. But 
 when you arrive you realise he is a fraud and has made it all up, he really works his own business 
 in an unsuccessful taxi ferm. And gambles all his money away in poker and the Internet. And your 
 job is to make money any way you can from hitman missions to robberies. The game is set in liberty 
 city and is extremely vilent. You can also make freinds and take them to bars restaurants strip 
 clubs etc. You can make girlfriends and also meet new girls on a online dating system on the games 
 pc's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake-I-Think
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best I have ever played. A great story mixes with awesome gameplay, 
 making this fun to play. While it is missing a great deal of fun stuff from previous games, GTA 
 IV has gotten rid of some of the more annoying things from San Andreas and has added quite a few 
 fun features. As of playing it, I have yet to discover a major glitch, and sometimes I'm just driving 
 along and notice a new subtle touch, such as rain not falling under a bridge, or the water getting 
 disturbed when a helicopter is flying over it. Another thing which is cool is how damage to the 
 car effects who you can drive it. If one of your wheels buckles, the steering is effected. If you 
 cause too much damage to the engine, the car fails to start altogether. 
  I have also found this game the hardest in the series, not just for the gameplay, but the moral 
 choices you have to make. Sometimes you have to choose between killing one character or another, 
 and I found it hard to kill either of them. 
  I don't know anything about the online multiplayer for GTA, but I must say that I found the exclusion 
 of local multiplayer quite annoying. It would be fun to have a friend over to mess around with. 
 
  As I said, the game is missing a couple of worthwhile things from previous games. My brother and 
 I were annoyed that you can't customise your cars, like in San Andreas, and there only seems to 
 be 3 clothes shops in the game, and they all seem to have rubbish clothes (although that's my taste, 
 not yours) 
  I also miss being able to fly planes, but then, Liberty city is too small to have aircraft flying 
 around everywhere.
  
  One of the best things about GTA is the humour, the game is incredibly funny in some places, with 
 spoofs of things in real life, and the character's reactions to certain events
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a brilliant game, well worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma83
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  By far, Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the best visual games we have seen. Especially during first 
 years of the next generation consoles. i understand that to be called GTA 4, in sequence with the 
 numbered game titles, Liberty city was very similar to the 3D world of GTA3 but with a little more 
 added to the map. But, the next GTA game should have aspects of all the games in it, with some 
 better developed and more intricate addatives. Like, I want to see more out of mission goals and 
 quests. i like how San andres had it where you could start gang fights. but along with that, you 
 shouyld be able to take territory for yourself to grow you own empire. You can clear out house 
 in the area to make any kind of drug to be sold. get the dealers and put them on the street, even 
 have some prostitutes in the areas too keep more incoming flowing through. And even when you get 
 a lot of respect in the entrepreneurial. You could unlock smaller missions to make ur empire larger 
 and protect it from a rival. i have never played scare face, but I am sure rockstar could expand 
 on the free roam of building ur crime syndicate. two cool places to have the next, either vegas 
 or detroit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motoshark
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Playing the game was fun. a few glitches that made the game interesting to play. GTA IV added some 
 parts from Saints Row that made it better. I would have like to see the game with more user interaction 
 with more objects and people in the story. It's to bad that the game did not allow the radio the 
 car to play your personal music stored in the hard drive. 
  
  I don't understand why there is large amount of money to collect if you are unable to buy anything 
 good in the game. Having all that cash and not spending it is like being married and your wife 
 looks great in lingerie and she tells you "I have a headache". 
  
  Maybe the next game will let you have more fun beating the other characters around a little more. 
 Like picking them up and dropping them off the bridge.
  
  Great game when is the next one coming out?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  To start off I really love this game the environment in this game is truly amazing I mean i actually 
 watched fake TV with the fake TV channels and of course the story is truely one of the best i have 
 seen in a video game in a long time
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  
  The game is like every other GTA game before it --sandbox environment, funny commercials with sexual 
 innuendos police chase you etc etc there are minor changes that make the game feel better overall 
 like the cover system is a blessing it is kinda hard to get into also the fighting (fist to fist) 
 is overall better yet the driving sucks... ya whenever you have to race or chase someone the game 
 gets frustratingly hard not because of traffic or anything just the controls it actually takes 
 a very long time to get into the driving aspect of the game, another thing is the police system 
 is updated where when you are chased you have to escape a circle which is at some times easy... a 
 little too easy also (i love this aspect) you don't have to worry about feeding your character 
 or working out if you need health all you do is go to a food place and buy food and you get full 
 health i love that aspect i hated the old RPG elements of GTA SA, another good aspect is if the 
 drive is too long all you have to do is hail a cab get in and skip it (if u want) and you will 
 get to your destination in seconds also a new aspect is the cell phone-friend aspect you get text 
 messages and phone calls from friends and girl friends and basically the more you hang out with 
 them the more they like you and you get to unlock their abilities (for example one of your friends 
 owns a cab company once they like you, you can call them and they send you a cab and you go anywhere 
 you want for free) also another life saver the game has a auto save function you can use so you 
 don't always have to run back to your hide out to save also there is internet and TV shows to watch 
 if your ever bored and trust me some shows/websites are hilarious 
  oh 1 more thing the single player is long as hell which to me is a good thing and has ton of replayablity 
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  All i have to say is WOW they are truly amazing the explosions, the physics of either you or a 
 pedestrian getting hit by a car or explosion are awesome i love them they are truly great eye candy 
 
  
  SOUND:
  
  another aspect which is great the guns noises are awesome the car sounds great the radio is awesome 
 but there is one thing i have a problem with is the music selection (to me) sucks i really don't 
 like the music selection at all
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  when you can actually get on (I'll explain later) it is a great.. no fun... no.. amazing expirence 
 there are a ton of modes to play and you can play either the whole entire city or just sections 
 against teams and i can't tell you how much fun it is to do a drive by with 4 players in the same 
 car but the car is just about to blow up because another team has a helicopter with turrets and 
 them shooting out of it 
  
  
  CONS:
  
  Like every great game there are allot of cons and this is why i gave the game a 8.5 (wish it was 
 a 8.9) the first one is there are too many simple glitches like for example there was a mission 
 where i had to sneak in a building and i snuck through the basement and then out of no where the 
 whole building disappeared and my player fell out of the whole game and he was falling and screaming 
 for 20 seconds then finally he magically respawned outside the building, another glitch is my screen 
 froze to a bright pink for no reason (luckily though everything was saved) another thing that irks 
 me is you character Nico can't take much damage (even with body armor) which isn't that bad it 
 takes the run and gun element out BUT at the same time the people you shoot at are like part terminator 
 because they take tons and tons of bullets to die even civilians take forever to die also there 
 are only 2 weapon classes (only 1 rocket launcher and 1 grenade) the rest are 2 pistols (one crappy 
 one awesome) 2 sub machine guns (1 crappy 1 awesome) etc etc also the clothing aspect of it is 
 kinda weak but it didn't affect my score also the auto aim sucks (i never used it i set my to free 
 aim i liked it better) 
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER CONS
  
  I have to put this down and its quite simply it takes over 20 min to get into a game and the game 
 is only 10 min long.... i rarely go on the amazing mulitplayer because its a huge hassle to physically 
 get into a game the best is you decide to host it... no one will show up only 1-2 people and they 
 decide to leave its truly a pain in the ass and i really wish it wasn't
  
  
  
  CLOSING:
  
  this game is great and any GTA fan should get it but these glitches should be taken 
 care of months ago they truly ruined this awesome expirence for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most realistic game ive ever played. No other game will make you feel like your 
 in another world like GTA IV does. You can do so many things that you can't in other games, such 
 as customize your cell phone, go on beautiful and scenic taxi rides, and call for some guns in 
 a trunk of a car. All of these details really help you immerse yourself in Liberty City. 
  
  Speaking of Liberty City, the city is gorgeous. The buildings are tall and very nice. At night, 
 especially. When your drive and see the city lit up like Vegas, you feel like your really there. 
 Also, the cutscenes look pretty nice. Grand Theft Auto was never a visual stunner by any means, 
 but this doesn't hold true to this installment. With no loading times between island, and with 
 all the detail in the city, cars, and enviroments, this realy is a technical masterpiece.
  
  The shooting has been overhauled too. Now there is a new cover cover system that is very helpful. 
 If might not be as proficent as Gears of War or Rainbow Six, but it definatley is a welcome addition. 
 Once you get the hang of it, you will be dispatching cops and gangsters with ease.
  
  This story is the seris best. Niko is a very likeable guy. He is just an immagrant who wants money, 
 and will do just about anything to get it. You will rob banks, go on helicopter and boat chases, 
 and be given hit contracts that need to be done. This game has plenty of variety when it comes 
 to missions. 
  
  Overall, GTA IV brings you into the game like no other. If you ever even considered playing this 
 game, or any GTA in the past, you need to at least find a way to play this. You will be immensly 
 rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumbeeman055
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto is a truly remarkable game that continues to inspire me to buy games its just 
 extremely addictive and the story is just right its not to out there and it makes for a much better 
 game than a game that has something put together. grand theft auto is the best in the series by 
 far and thats not easy to accomplish because the other grand theft auto games have been great as 
 well. the online modes makes it for an awsome game and like i said it makes for a perfect ten in 
 my review book. if you have not bought this game and your a fan of the grand theft auto series 
 you need to check it out becaus you will really have fun playing it. scince i bought the game i 
 have had no regrets it is the best sixty dollars i have sent in a long long long time. i can only 
 hope that rockstar keeps putting out games that can come close to this one because whatever they 
 are doing i can only hope that they keep it up for hopefully some more grand theft auto games to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is the Best Game I have played in years, and unquestionably one of the best 
 games ever released. Really though, If you haven't heard about GTA 4, or how good it is by now, 
 then you truly need to get out more. It is absolutely fantastic, worthy of superlatives that I 
 could not hope to come up with. Forgive me for being vague, but if you really need to read this 
 to convince yourself to take a look at GTA, then you are really in need of help. If the string 
 of perfect 10s from the gaming press aren't enough to convince you of the merits of this game, 
 then the fact that GTA has received just as great as acclaim from the mainstream press ( ex NY 
 times) should be enough. It's really as close as gaming comes to "high art" (how many other games 
 are there that you can think which devote so much of their content to social criticism?) , with 
 an attention to detail that I have never seen before. 
  
  Oh, and the lousy shooting mechanics of the previous GTAs have been scrapped in favor of a GoW 
 style cover system that is fluid and easily learned. 
  
  Well worth the wait, and easily the best game of the Decade!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnm
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 29, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping to get a great game with all the filler like san andreas, but i was highly disapointed 
 in this game. It has absolutely nowhere near the amount of things to do and places to go like san 
 andreas did, its like they took a huge step back with the production of this game. Sure the aiming 
 system and graphics are good (which should be typical on any next-gen system now anyways) , but what 
 is that without all the fun things to do? Just running around on 3 islands that feel identical 
 with no landscaping, rural areas, just plain sux. It gets extremely boring way too fast, and it just 
 is not worth it. As usual, I am left unsatisfied with most games i go out and spend 60 hard earned 
 dollars on anymore, mines well throw it out the window then buy this stuff. Where is the lube, i 
 need it for buying these junk games anymore, thanks again. Hopefully soon something good will come 
 out to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  If you thought that the previous Grand Theft Auto titles offered an amazing level of freedom, you 
 haven't seen anything yet. In Grand Theft Auto IV, you really feel like you have ownership over 
 the entire experience. You build relationships, approach missions the way you want to, and even 
 dictate the flow of the story. In true GTA style, you do the dictating with your gun. Some of the 
 choices you make will have a dramatic "I can't believe that just happened" effect on Niko Bellic's 
 life. This isn't like Fable or Mass Effect where you can clearly see how your input is affecting 
 the story. You just have to live with it, swallow hard, and hope you made the right choices. It's 
 an amazing story that ends up having a soul and isn't afraid to poke fun at society's hot topics. 
 
  
  As much as the game makes you sweat bullets through its choices, it no longer makes you dread firing 
 them. The new targeting system is a remarkable contraption that, strangely enough, also offers 
 choice. By applying a hard or soft click to the aim trigger, you can switch between free aim and 
 lock-on, a combo that sings on the battlefield, and makes you feel like a skilled assassin. With 
 intelligent foes putting a bead on you, the gunplay is a far more visceral affair, requiring pop-and-shoot 
 tactics, ammo conservation, and some serious skill. Thankfully, with the gameplay firing direct 
 hits, you no longer feel like a death was something you had no control over. The gunplay is extremely 
 polished, and is one of the game's strongest points
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delbert84
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 28, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh yes, here we are a month out from the release of the "Hugest Funnezt game. Like ever. Dude." 
 and all I can say is... recount b*tches. You are most likely more than familiar with this game's 
 story and means of gameplay so I will go ahead and skip all uh dat jib'rish. Here we have the latest 
 installment of GTA. At first you are blown away by the shear size of everything, and excited by 
 the large veil of uncertainty about just what is going on. But once you start playing the missions 
 seriously (which you don't have to be serious because they are as hard as Ian McKellan at a lingerie 
 party) , you realize that, my god, all I freaking do is take a cab to the gun store, take a cab 
 to a dot, take the person from the dot to a dot in my cab, and then you and the person from the 
 dot kill the person on that dot. Jesus Christ. But seriously, the car handling is so bad you will 
 resist stealing anything, made worse is the terrifying prospect of a cop seeing you and having 
 to out run the "po rider bubble." This game should be called grand irritating cab ride to the dot 
 to kill the dot. Vice City was off the chain. It was. Everything was over the top and hilarious, 
 and because the creators knew using guns was irritating they had you do things like deliver drugs 
 in an ice cream truck. The closest thing here is taking a cab to get some "brown" or "white" or 
 "random color representing drug" and then killing whoever is represented by a dot, and trying desperately 
 to flag down another cab to get back to the gun store and visit a new dot. Seriously the shooting 
 here is like a slap in the face to r6 vegas and gears of war. Those games only needed shooting, 
 because that's what was fun. Gta4 thinks it's shooting is better than eating a filet mignon and 
 having a cocaine snooter for dessert, but it's not. It's more like eating Hilary Clinton's bird 
 and snorting something else that makes your whole head go numb without the euphoria. Just trying 
 to stick to a wall is an excercise in patience, and shooting is shear repetition.
  
  But the story. I like it. It's all about drugs, sex, alcohol, death, and revenge, and it reminds 
 me a lot of my college years. Sure it has no cohesive flow, and you will be lead from one random 
 situation to another hoping for something ridiculous to happen (again, college years) . But that's 
 what our generation does now, we wander aimlessly in hopes of random entertaining things happening. 
 Our games have aged as well as we have, not like a fine wine. The more we gripe about everything 
 not being the way we want it, the more they are going to make games exactly the way we want them. 
 And yes folks, this means every game coming out will be trying to be exactly what you expect it 
 to be. No more creativity. No more plumbers jumping on turtles, goombas, and bowser (mario brothers 
 2) . No more putting genitalia shaped blocks into genitalia shaped blocks to make lines and change 
 the screen colors while speeding things up and making things more difficult (sim city) . Now we 
 have a never ending stream of mind numbing crap that is shiny. Well folks, I'm about done, I'm 
 23, if I wanted shiny crap I would eat the chrome wheels on my whip (Hyundai) .
  
  Now playing: With Myself GOTY Edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Raider
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Now close to four years since the release of Vice City the Grand Theft Auto series has finally 
 emerged on the next gen consoles. Along with it they bring many new elements from multiplayer to 
 a revamped Liberty City map. After the numerous delays GTA IV went through the game has finally 
 come through and is not a disappointment. 
  
  The story mode is quite lengthy and without Xbox Live this game can still last you for hours and 
 hours. If you rush strait through the game the main story can last anywhere between 23-30 hours. 
 You start off leaving a boat that has brought you to America, the land of oppurtunity, to leave 
 your past behind and start over with your cousin Roman. Soon after you arrive you find out that 
 your cousin has a gambling problem and has found himself in quite some debt. He begs you to help 
 him, and as his cousin you have to. As you progress through the game you meet many different people 
 such as Little Jacob, Packie, and many more characters. After you do enough missions for them you 
 can become their friends and go bowling, eating, play pool, or many more activities to raise their 
 like and respect for you. If their like is high enough you unlock special abilities from them which 
 can be anything from a car bomb to buying guns for cheap.
  
  Now GTA also has some new story changing elements such as choosing the fate of people. In some 
 missions you have the choice to kill or to save a person's life. Some of the choices can make huge 
 changes as to whether you get to be a friend or not, others just leave them as random characters 
 to meet on the streets if they live. Also there is a split ending. You have to choices you can 
 make. One for revenge or one to make loads of cash.
  
  Also this time around GTA IV introduces multiplayer. You can choose from hanging with 15 other 
 friends in free roam or playing anything from team deathmatch to cops n' crooks where you have 
 to either escort your boss (crook) or kill the mob leader (cops) .
  
  Now GTA IV is not without flaws. Sometimes you will have a hard time connecting to an online match, 
 especially Team Deathmatch. Also the driving AI of the NPC's is not very good. If you turn on your 
 siren as a cop some of the cars will run into you as you try to chase someone, or if your on the 
 opposite side of the road you will find the cars do more to run into you, cop or not, then getting 
 out of your way.
  
  Now these few minor flaws do not take away from the crown jewel that is GTA IV. They can make the 
 game frustrating at some points, but GTA IV still shines as one of the best games I have played 
 in the past three-four years. The difficulty level keeps it not to hard but not to easy. That way 
 a casual or hardcore gamer can find enjoyment from playing the game. Not enough to merit a 10 from 
 me yet, but still good enough for a 9.5. This is a a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjohnsen
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  As a long time player of the entire series I was disappointed with GTAIV. The graphics are glitchy 
 but overall good, this is the result of the game being designed for newer consoles. The sound effects 
 are improved, also console related. Weapon targeting is great, an improvement over previous versions 
 but your character has the same old weapons. The vehicle physics are improved and the crashes can 
 be spectacular. The big disappointments? The radio soundtrack was repetitive and the overall game 
 play has regressed. There is no character development or customization? Come on! Reward me for 
 my addiction to the game like before where your character learns to fly, shoot, drive, ride, run, 
 swim and work out like a true psycho. It's a game worth having but it's not worth 100 hours. I'd 
 rather have San Andreas with the upgraded graphics, targeting and sound thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted-Ice-God
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  im not a huge gta fan, infact i loathed the past installments, they are all the same to me, just 
 cookie cutter sequels from 3 on, i will say the gta style games arnt all bad, the formula is okay, 
 but up until 4 they were all lacking... this game blew me away by suprise. my best friend got collectors 
 edition version of the 360 one and we went to get it at launch, went to his house, consumed some 
 herbal therapy and proceded to be mind F***ED by how awsome this game is. this is truly the greatest 
 game i ever played and i am still not at 100%!!! from the vehicles to combat this is a well polished 
 game and the story is spot on with any hollywood block buster, heck maybe better than most. multiplayer 
 was not something i expected to consume my soul but it has, its addictive fun and suprisingly refreshing. 
 but why is this the first game to have it? i do wish there was a co op via xbox live but hey that 
 would probaly screw with the story so not a real complaint here. this is the game to get if you 
 have a 360, not a rental, not a borrow youre friends game, a buy a few cases of red bull, get the 
 game and prepare to lose youre girlfriend kinda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeano
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the biggest franchises in game history returns with some interesting changes, and yes the 
 game is great- how great though, depends on your taste. This GTA does things differently and that 
 of course will lead to some division on the quality of the game. For starters Liberty City and 
 game worlds in general have never been more alive or had more depth. Seeing other people engage 
 in random everyday things (watering plants, using cell phones, etc) or see wrecks, fights, and 
 criminal activity that doesn't involve you in quite impressive. Just walking and driving around 
 to see it all is amazing. The game also delivers with a great character driven story; even though 
 it's less epic than the others it is leagues better with characters that all have personalities, 
 back stories, and usually reasons for their actions. The game play has also been upgraded, though 
 still not refined. Gun wielding and fist fighting better and makes encounters much easier, and 
 using cover helps too; it also makes driving more intense but even more insane. This is one of 
 the few times in games where characters are truly likeable and actually has you caring about what 
 happens to them in the end, especially Niko who thankfully isn't a clich gangster and is the greatest 
 hero or main character in the series. Unfortunately though, the game is not perfect. 
  
  One of big drawbacks is with the game play. The learning curb is steep and will take at least a 
 few hours to get down and maybe double or triple that time to master it. The other drawback is 
 that quite a bit of game content has been cut. Hair cuts, tanks, airplanes, gang wars, and many 
 others have been taken out and as I said the story is a little less epic (and crazy) so anyone 
 who really loved those aspects of GTA will be disappointed and the former does hurt the replay 
 value after the story is complete but they do not cripple it. Of course there is still stuff do 
 after the story is said and done, especially the creative minds, and one of those things is multiplayer 
 which is pretty good. Any bit of violence done in single player can be done in multiplayer, if 
 of course you find people with good connections. Every multiplayer mode is great- races with weapons, 
 team death matches, co-op missions, and a free mode where you can do whatever you want- but it 
 doesn't have everything (friend activities just to name one) , still it is thoroughly enjoyable 
 and a great leap for GTA. So if you like a more realistic, character driven GTA with a solid multiplayer 
 component and don't miss the cut content, and can deal with the steep learning curb, then you will 
 find this to be the best of the series and one hell of an impressive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzthat_kill
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto franchise has brought a long a series of great and fun to play games. As people 
 say this game dos not deserve a 10 and I strongly disagreeI don't think giving a game a 10/10 
 rating means they think the game is perfect. It is assumed before reviewing any game that it won't 
 be perfect, because that would be impossible. So a 10/10 just means it's one of the best games 
 around, but not quite perfect. as quoted by foolio a friend of mine. this game has a lot of fun 
 futrea to it as do the other games in the series. And there are some interesting new feautures 
 like the new cars, multiplayer, being able to have friends, and go to places like a strip club, 
 bar, or comedy club. It's just so awsome of how many things you can do in this new game. One of 
 the only things that im a little disappointed about this game is that you cant drive airplanes 
 lol. And since this game is on 360 the grahics have improved a lot a long with the walking systtem 
 which goes great with the graphics. The weapons in the game are as same as before but only expanded 
 and better. Such as he sniper which I don't think you coulduse and the other grand theft Autos. 
 The shooting is more accurate and the scope is very fun to use. And the other type of fun weapons 
 to use such as a molotov cocktail and grenades are easy and fun to use but have little explosions. 
 But and the end all the weapons get the job done and I'm glad there in the game. Over-All I hope 
 to see mor GTA's and other games like this but only better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MixMaxDancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I was PUMPED when this game was going to come out for the PC/PS3/Xbox 360!
  
  I played non-stop until i finished the game, sad part of the story is, its a bit to easy i think 
 you could probrobly beat the game in a day if you tryed
  
  Also some other things i notice, You don't do much with the money you get unlike Vice City and 
 San Andreas were you can buy other houses ( Or safehouses ) I have only used money for guns and 
 that is basicly it.
  
  Yes, if you heard this game does have humor in it.
  
  What I was wishing for was that Custom Car feature ( In San Andreas ) Sadly its not *sad face*
 
  
  I do love the combat-cover system, new and easy to use but can be a little bit rigged in a way.
 
  
  Multiplayer I have not used a lot but I have played free mode on it and its definitly fun.
  
 
  The cell phone was a pritty neat idia with the features it has.
  
  So, i'd recemmend you getting this game *wink* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLamezero991
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, GTA, the game of all games, the mother of all playgrounds, the father of gang based games 
 is finally here with its fourth new sequel. We've all been waiting for it, pre-ordering, camping 
 outside Best Buys and Gamestops alike, but its finally here and guess what, its worth the hype. 
 So, without further adeu, I give you GTA IV.
  
  At the moment your disc tray slides back into your noisy white and green friend you call an Xbox, 
 the loading screen will flash buy and you will be greeted with a very peculiar, very comedic opening 
 of the sight of a man being whipped in a bondage sexicipade with his lover while our main protagonist 
 Niko is knocking on the door to see if everything is ok. With that opening you get the nice and 
 warm feeling that this game is defiantly not going to be o' so serious, but later on in the game 
 you start to understand that the game isn't always going to be fun and games (For Niko that is) 
 and there will be times where Niko and the gang will have go through their little family issues, 
 you really get attached to these characters. The whole story behind this legendary game is Niko, 
 the main character, comes to America, the land of oppurtunity, to see those "round American tities" 
 and live the goodlife with his cousin Roman. Apposed to his old life in Eastern Europe, where he 
 had a relativley nonthing. Later in the game you will find out that Niko has some extra things 
 on his international to do list. Little to his knowledge Roman is in debt with a lowly job and 
 lives in a small run down apartment by himself, a life far from expected, Niko realizes he must 
 build his way up anyway he can to achieve his objectives.
  
  Enough with the games introduction, time for the graphics. GTA's visuals are just amazingly beautiful, 
 sometimes I just like to look at the disgusting waters of the hudson river (something I would not 
 normally do as a resisdent of NY) just because of the way the sun rays bounce off the water. The 
 people in the game look almost real, ofcourse from a distance, and the cars look great. Not to 
 mention the game is almost an exact copy of NYC itself. Now you must be saying to yourself, "wow, 
 this game must look amazing", it does, but with one problem, as soon as you see that computer generated 
 sun set under your virtual NYC, the games visuals start to go down hill. The game doesn't necessarily 
 look like crap at that point, but it does start to look like a very good looking Xbox game (Original 
 Xbox game ofcourse) and that compares almost nothing to the morning to noon visuals. Other than 
 that I see nonthing less than outstanding about the games graphics. 
  
  Just to knock this out of the way, the sound is outstanding and to the T, it reminds me of the 
 busy streets of Manhattan like it should, and the people sound angry like they always do in NY.
 
  
  Last but not least, the reason why I skipped over something as unimportant (imo) as the sound, 
 and the part you've al been waitng for, the gameplay. GTA has always been a game where Fun comes 
 first and Graphics and Sound second, now even with technology's innovation, the graphics and sound 
 still can't keep up. The game handles amazing, running, jumpin, swimming, driving, all perfect. 
 Driving may take a bit of a learning curve but thats about it. Aiming, shooting, blowing up the 
 mafia, all perfect. The game has no problems and a minimum amount of glitches. Your enemies are 
 smarter than they were before, still not too bright, but smarter, enough to get you killed that 
 is. Another new addition to this series is the multiplayer, packaged with a dozen game types including 
 cops and crooks, death match, and some standard vehicle Races, GTA has more than enough to offer 
 in its arsenal of fun.
  
  
  All in all, GTA came with more than expected, and with only a few minor problems GTA gracefully 
 car jacked its way up to a 10/10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dino_Swe
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great, but it has its weak points. 
  
  The Good!
  Great graphics and excellent physics! You will be blowed away when you take a boatride on the water 
 or when you see raineffects etc because they made it look so real and fresh. The driving part is 
 very hard for most people so you cant drift fast and stuff like that, you pretty much have to slow 
 down A LOT before you turn, but still you'd want to crash due to the realistic carcrash effects. 
 The combat-gameplay is the best feature of this game i think, because of the "Gears Of War-feel" 
 as they say. You pretty much feel like you're Tony Montana in the final scene of scarface throughout 
 the whole game, because every shootout is increadibly enjoyable.
  
  The Bad...
  The bad about this game is that there are not enough clothes, and no haircut/beard-change being 
 able. But the most stupid mistake of this game is the Serbian voice-acting, everything about the 
 voiceacting is just ridiculous. First off Niko has a Russian accent, and his last name cant be 
 spelled Bellic because you cant have 2 L's (or any other letter) put together in a Serbian/Ex-Yugoslavian 
 name. His Serbian in the game is so terrible its hilarious, they could atleast have brought in 
 a real serbian guy to help them get the pernouncing right since the game is so large (I'm Bosnian 
 and i know the language) . The Serbian was just way off! Its even worse than when americans try 
 to act swedish but actually act like Germans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  When I was waiting for this game to come out, I have to admit that even I, a big fan of the previous 
 games in the series, didn't know what to expect. Another city? New characters?
  
  Suffice it to say I was so much blown away by the results, I can recommend this game to all gamers 
 with a brain and a strong stomach. 
  
  The new title is set in a New York-like metropolis of recent vintage. You play immigrant Niko Bellic, 
 who hangs out with his crazy cousin and gets into the world of petty crime. Soon, it's not so petty 
 anymore. 
  
  You will go on plenty of missions that remind you of the previous editions, but you will also do 
 ancillary projects like take your girlfriend bowling. I'm not kidding. That is actually one of 
 the most fun parts of the game. I was almost sad when I had to go back out into the rest of the 
 game and start getting in fights with strangers.
  
  The New York environment is very close to the reality of the 1990s, right down to the bad traffic 
 and recognizable imprints of the different boroughs. The only flaw in the atmosphere is that the 
 volume of the radio stations was a bit iffy. They do have some good genres, though.
  
  Become part of this world and you will look at reality as if it is a poor substitute... because 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I will say right now. I am not a fan of the series as a whole. I enjoyed vice city, but GTA3 and 
 San andreas just didnt resonate with me.
  
  Lets be honest with ourselves for a second. The smorgasboard of gameplay on offer has never really 
 been that well polished...
  
  Thankfully, Rockstar have gone out and corrected almost all the flaws of the previous titles with 
 this new installment, it is really a great game and the first time I have been rivited to my screen 
 with this series.
  
  The graphics, although nothing spectacular do the job very nicely and obviously are pushing this 
 gen consoles to their limit for a sandbox game.
  
  Physics and motion capture animation, do alot to clean up the unpolished feel all the previous 
 games have had, and the damage modelling on the cars is great.
  
  Gameplay systems across the board are more focused and polished, especially the targetting and 
 gun combat, which i have always had a problem with.
  
  Servicible multiplayer.
  
  very good story, nuff said.
  
  and the level of detail is simply amazing, special mention to 
 the AI, I am surprised GS didnt mention this. this is how you do a sandbox game, are you listening 
 bethesda? this is how you make a believeble world. AI, AI, AI...
  
  
  one thing alot of people seem to be dissapointed about is the downsize of features compared to 
 SA. Lets get this stright VC and SA were not offical sequels, they were tweaked versions of GTA3. 
 they were expantions. Expantions typically add content to an existing engine.
  
  I am almost certain GTA4 will have expantions as well, they had to make sure they got the basic 
 engine and features right, for this installment.
  
  the car customisation, chainsaws, airplanes and everything else will be added in the next couple 
 of installments I am sure.
  Still, i do not agree with this game recieving a ten. nothing is perfect and this game still has 
 enough quirks that it shouldnt deserve a perfect score. i really think GS need some normalisation 
 across the board with their reviews. Terrible games should be gettin 1.0, average games should 
 be getting 5's and the top tier games should be hitting 9 maybe 9.5 max. (I know I have been guilty 
 for this in the past as well) 
  
  No game is ever perfect, when one comes along it will deserve a ten. I can saftely say we are unlikely 
 to see this in our lifetimes. Still that said...
  
  Rockstar you have a new fan...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  After Vice City GTA became a brand of gameplay. "Free-roaming" and "non-linear" became the tag 
 lines and hordes of imitators tried to recreate the formula, none succeeding in the same way as 
 GTA. So each GTA release has become a monumental event, now reaching unheard of financial plateaus 
 in the industry. It is a wild ly popular franchise and a cultural benchmark. Unfortunately the 
 gameplay has not kept up with the hype.
  
  The game looks incredible, it is true. The soundtrack is sublime, no longer simply a hit parade. 
 The structure of the  gameplay has been improved and is clever 
 and smooth. The A. I. is improved and the targeting is manageable. This is all scaled back from 
 the overly ambitious San Andreas and it works well. The Rockstar team has even managed to craft 
 out an interesting main character, something that most video games are not able to pull off. I 
 even find myself pondering the vaguely challenging "moral" dilemmas posed to the character from 
 time to time. Overall this is a very good game.
  
  On the flip side, someone has to call out the mechanics of control in this game and the fact that 
 there is no real gameplay advance here. For a game called Grand Theft "Auto", the game still suffers 
 from a serious amount of questionable, even poor vehicle controls. While you learn to compensate 
 in time, the feeling that the driving controls are simply unresponsive never goes away. There is 
 real variety in control of different cars but none of them respond well to turning or cornering 
 and all vehicles suffer from extreme drifting issues.
  
  The on-foot controls suffer from lagging response issues as well. Turning a corner not only looks 
 odd but makes control difficult at times, especially when dealing with a staircase or a ladder. 
 The character often seems to stop too late causing him to be shot or to fall off things. Lastly, 
 this game does not break new ground. Only the arrangement of gameplay ideas, the shuffling of them 
 makes the game more playable than the ones before. There is no new development in any department 
 here, the mini games are still dumpy but playable and the missions are still "chase then kill" 
 most of the time. This cannot be engaging for much longer, I know it has ceased to be interesting 
 to me. The Gangster theme is tired as well, but fortunately there seems to be less imitation (read 
 aping) of popular movies in this version. That is refreshing.
  
  The one glimmer of breakthrough is in the co-op online missions. With development this could be 
 an incredible new game by itself. The ability to coordinate the fairly simple GTA missions makes 
 them enjoyable again. Maybe Rockstar will work this into downloadable content or make this into 
 "GTA IV: City Rats" or some other new game in the same way Vice City was to GTA III.
  
  Overall this is a high quality game that is unoriginal. The truth is that there is no such thing 
 as non-linear gameplay yet although games like The Sims, Elder Scrolls, GTA and even Black and 
 White or Populous have made progress toward that end. Perhaps with developments in AI we will one 
 day have an environment in which we can truley impact an interesting virtual world.
  
  GTA IV does not warrant a perfect score by any means but if you are a "free-roaming-non-linear" 
 gameplay junkie who can't get enough of gangster posturing, the word **** and PG-13 sex and you've 
 loved the last 8 or so in the series, then pick it up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richterpwns52
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game epitomizes free roaming games for this era. If you feel like blowing stuff at random, 
 then do it! this has very few flaws with the occasional graphic glitch and the AI turns on you 
 way too easily. The sheer amount of content is amazing and demonstrates how to make a free roaming 
 game. The size of Liberty city is also very expansive and with all the people and crime, there 
 is never a dull moment in this city. There are hot dog vendors, gun vendors, cops, ambulances and 
 also multiple establisments for going out with a friend in the virtual world. it has its own only 
 part too and has even more things to experiment with. All in all, this is a game that has enough 
 content to keep you playing for well over 40 hours of play and is sure to be a hit for years to 
 come and is by far one fo the best games available on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamchuff
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is great to me perfect 10! i cant get enough of it. serious. something that you don't 
 see eventually comes along and your just like WHAT THE F***! was that! well sir you had lightning 
 strike next to you just be glad it didn't hit you. serious the way the wreaks are tell you please 
 don't do this in real life, when you fly out the windshield and die. just it shows that a game 
 has morals and it shows that yes there are repercussions between this and a real world. but the 
 story line is amazing, you make choices between good and bad, and those have ways that the game 
 effects in story. its fun without cheats just to see how many times you get busted or how many 
 hospital visits you make in your journey to the top of he underground work. you have social options 
 that give you prievliges that keep the game fun instead of killing people you can shoot pool, bowl, 
 go see a show all out on a date. at home play watch t. v. or get on the computer. this game has 
 enough to keep you occupied for a long time and then some. get it. play it. enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well done, but is it a perfect 10? There in lies the problem. A perfect 10 means 
 its perfect, nothing needs to be fixed, and you can find nothing wrong with it. In the history 
 of games, how many games fit that description?
  
  The graphics are very good. The bloom effects give everything a surreal ideal look which is very 
 cool. But I had some issues with light and dark, some areas were lit so poorly that I couldn't 
 find a staircase in a dark ally. Likewise I had issues reading the text on my phone in certain 
 circumstances that seemed to be affected by the lighting.
  
  The story is entertaining but a bit disjointed when it comes to how things come together. It feels 
 like there is something missing, maybe some unspoken dialog that leads to places that don't always 
 make sense. While I always enjoyed watching the cut scenes, I didn't always understand how the 
 story leads to its conclusion. The voice action is excellent, even if I want to kick the blood-clot 
 actor Michael Hollick in the junk! (IF you don't know why just do a search for his name complaining 
 about not getting enough money for his work on GTA) . Whaaaaan! A whinny no-name actor like him 
 should be glad to be part of a project with this much coverage.
  
  The controls were very good, I rarely had problems with the controls. The few exceptions were with 
 combats where enemies would get close the auto targeting became very disorienting when the camera 
 would suddenly snap to a target behind you it was easy to get confused about what direction you 
 were facing. The second problem was if you ever wanted to throw a grenade to a specific location 
 it was almost impossible to do because the auto targeting would lock onto the nearest person, even 
 non-hostile pedestrians. And if you tried throwing a grenade without aiming it would just drop 
 the grenade at your feet. That was frustrating.
  
  The sound effects are great. Music. not so much! My gripe in this category was the lack of good 
 music. There were so many radio stations to listen to and there was so little good music it was 
 very disappointing, I ended up just turning down the music so it was so low it wouldn't bug me.
 
  
  The camera was pretty good, but when I was driving I could never see over the roof of the car so 
 I always wanted the camera a bit higher. You can move the camera, but after a few seconds it slides 
 back to its default space. Since you can't do anything about that I spent the whole game holding 
 the camera where I wanted it.
  
  There is little character customization, only clothing, and a firly limited selection at that. 
 There is no car collecting, no garage to access your cars. There is no car customization. There 
 is nothing cool you can do with your apartments, no weapon stashes, no upgrades. One of the last 
 apartments I got was a filth hole that was almost as bad as the first one you start with. I did 
 get a penthouse flat with a hot tub, but you can't do anything with it, so who cares.
  
  So with all the problems and features that were left out, does that sound like a 10 to you? This 
 brings me to my next rant about the game industry strong arming the game media into giving better 
 scores than a game deserves. I hope to have that for you later today so stay tuned.
  
  This game is very good and totally worth getting, just don't buy into the hype!
  
  Final Score: 
 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: remf18
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I've put +40 hours into the game and beaten it, so I think it's a good time to do my honest review 
 of the game. I wanted to score the game horribly after my first few hours of play, and to be honest, 
 little has changed for the favorable at 10 times the play time.
  
  Let's start with graphics. The city looks amazing at times, especially when it storms and at night. 
 A helicopter ride around the city by night is awesome. But on the other end of the specturm, the 
 city is most often a brown smear. Next gen light and shadow leaves the whole game washed out and 
 most every detail indistinguishable. It becomes impossible to tell the difference between similar 
 colors in most of the game's settings and lighting. It's also hard to tell where people are and 
 who is friend and foe. If not for auto lock on and red or blue arrows above npc heads, the game 
 would be unplayable when it comes to gun battles. Brown days, red brown mornings, black nights... 
 The game looks bad most of the time and is hard to play because of it.
  
  As for gameplay, it's not much of a step above San Andreas. Car handling was the most noticeable 
 change in the game, and not for the better. Rockstar took a page out of Grand Turismo's book and 
 learned how to not only make driving not fun, but how to make it unbearable. Most cars handle poorly, 
 but even in good cars, expect to slide and spin out when weeving in traffic. Turning requires a 
 complete stop to be reliable. Cars can't even handle low speed turning well. Which brings us to 
 the real issue with driving: breaking. Standard breaking will take you a minimum of a block to 
 come to a complete stop. Hand braking will lock your cars stearing and brakes and send your car 
 into a 360 or several rotations. Maybe in a game where racing and high speed pursuit or fleeing 
 wasn't part of it, this would be passable, but this game requires you to chase and be chased, so 
 the car handling doesn't cut it.
  
  Let's talk about chases. Specificly police chases. GTA4 brings in a new means of police pursuit. 
 It doesn't work well. You can easily lose pursuers by speeding out of the bubble (fear not, cops 
 don't drive at full speed and can't handle their cars either) and then waiting in the middle of 
 the road for 10 seconds. It's that easy. On the other hand, it can be very hard at times to lose 
 even 1 star, ebcause cops randomly spawn in mass all over the place. So, leaving a bubble will 
 instantly link you to a cop and create a new bubble. It gets ridiculous trying to lose the cops 
 at times because they are everywhere, and the fact that there are alleys doesn't matter. Cops don't 
 use line of sight. If you're in the bubble, they know where you are, and will spawn endlessly every 
 few seconds and kill you. It's amazing how quickly cops can swarm the ocean or fill out roof tops 
 to pick you off from behind cover in the alley below them. What it comes down to is, same cheap 
 GTA style gun battles, lots of cool places to flee from pursuers, but a system designs so those 
 places don't matter and luck of finding a place outside of the bubble to park is your best weapon 
 against police pursuit.
  
  Gunplay has improved... Sort of. The weapon selection is terrible. There are 2 pistols. Both are 
 worthless and nearly identical. There's a bat and a knife. Both are worthless, because you cna't 
 stealth kill without cops and criminals knowing what you just did. Fist fighting is a mashathon. 
 There are 2 shotguns. Both are nearly identical. They have phenominal power up close, but are worthless 
 are even a hallways length away. The 2 machine gun choices are equally poor. The uzi is exceptional 
 for rate of fire and clip size, while the new SMG has a tiny clip and terrible accuracy. While 
 aiming at a mid rnage target, most bullets spalsh down all around the target. Big machine guns 
 consist of either an AR or AK. Both are identical in every single way. Grenades and Molotvs are 
 back and awesome, except Niko has the weakest arm ever and prepping a grenade takes so long, an 
 enemy will charge you and gun you down before you can toss the grenade out and change weapons. 
 Sniper rifles are identical except in clip size. The Rocket Launcher fires slow moving unreliable 
 explosives. The rocket tends to ping off course, can't lock on, and will miss every target you 
 want to hit for its slow moving speed. Blind firing would be cool, but most often, the cover button 
 glues you to the wrong wall and you are dead before you realized what was going on.
  
  Missions are typical GTA fare with nothing new or terribly exciting. In fact, the entire game is 
 a chore from a mission stand point. You know what to expect if you've played the other games. Rockstar 
 chose to not try anything new and rehash the same missions that sucked several games back. Side 
 missions also return unchanged and dull. Overall, it's the game's freedom that is the star, not 
 the dull mission rehash.
  
  The music in GTA4 is mostly poor and the chatter is mostly unfunny. All the charm and humor of 
 the GTA's past has been omitted. Character customization has dropped immensely as has car customization. 
 In the game where cars finally have durability and are less disposable, you'd think a car shop 
 to customize and paint your cars would be implemented, but it hasn't been. You can't even choose 
 your car color when using a pay and spray. Other side notes include the dating and friend dates. 
 Essentially, you pick a person up, do a dull activity or stop at a resturant, then bring them back. 
 They then call you non stop for the rest of the game. It's worth not having any girl friends this 
 time around. They yield nothing of value and are not worth their constant texting and calling. 
 When it comes to activities, GTA4 got it wrong. You can watch TV, bowl, play darts, or play pool. 
 If you've played the games on yahoo messenger, then you've played a superior version of the games 
 and you know how dull they are. TV is bad, but as a distraction from playing a game, it is even 
 worse. Which brings us to the internet. GTA4 adds an abridges web with all the annoyance of the 
 real thing and all the lost time on top. 
  
  Overall, the game scores about a 5 - 7 for each of its individual pieces, but having them all in 
 a single disc raises the score to a solid 7. You have a lot of junk to do and a big city to find 
 your own mischeif. All the best features of the series have been removed in favor of a more serious 
 more ordinary outting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3yardy3
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game not a let down like halo 3.
  This game had the same hype as halo before it came out but lived up too it and is a great game 
 to follow the previous gta games.
  The gameplay itself is amazing it still plays like the previous games but they have added some 
 better touches and tacken out some of the bad ones in the older games. 
  This story mode on this gta starts off a bit slow in my opinion if you had never played gta before 
 i feel you would get bored of the story missons quiet quickly and just mess around in liberty city 
 for a while. But after you have got a few some of the Beginner missions the story mode gets very 
 intresting and keeps you very involved.
  The xbox live is also very good really fun with a lot of youre mates on free roam. As well as this 
 there is a lot of other different types of multiplayer games you can play. If you play a ranked 
 match the more money you receive you can unlock different clothing for youre Character on live
 
  To conclude an alround very good game. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Longshot
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  For starters I know this review is going to make a lot of fan boys upset and they will probably 
 just disagree with this review just because its giving GTA4 a low score. 
  
  I cant believe how many people just eat this game up only due to the fact its an installation in 
 the series with a little better graphics than before, unfortunately this seems to be the only thing 
 they really added to this title. Someone please tell me why there are no parachutes, no jet packs, 
 no planes,??? And why no car customization whhhyyyy? Why take out so much that made the old games 
 good. Just doesn't make sense to me. 
  
  My biggest problem with this game, the driving, for christ sake its called grand theft auto 4, 
 and the driving of the autos is unbearable, someone tell me why every surface you drive on seems 
 to be covered in oil? If the main mechanic of a game can be so busted and it can still get a unanimous 
 10/10 from reviewers isn't there something a bit strange going on? No one can say otherwise about 
 this either, plenty of people have told me "You just need to get used to the driving", but i say 
 screw that, why do i have to get used to a mechanic that is called "new" (which in this case equals 
 crappy) when the driving in all the old games was perfect, why didn't they just leave it alone? 
 and maybe make the cars drivable, tell me how good something can be when the majority of the missions 
 and the games title revolve around driving, yet the driving in the game is totally busted? It made 
 most of the missions a pure headache to try and get through and defiantly lowered the overall fun 
 to be had in the game. 
  
  Secondly, What the hell is up with having to make friends and go on dates? where is the thefting 
 of autos in that pre-tell? Even the whole cell phone thing is another gimmicky last minute add 
 on feature, other games have made decent use of pda's and cell phones and things *cough* Saints 
 row* why couldn't rockstar get it right, you cant tell me that when your just driving around trying 
 to do anything in the game, and your cell phone pops up every 30seconds to ring and let you know 
 one of your buddies wants to go on a date doesn't annoy the hell out of you. 
  
  What about the guns? health armor ammo? You ask. Well theres the smallest selection of weapons 
 in any grand theft auto to date, in this title. Cool huh. Another thing is for some reason it takes 
 only a few shots from the rabid police to destroy you completely whereas it takes about 6 shot 
 with the 50. cal desert eagle to kill a bum on the back streets, (thats no bs i pumped about 5-6 
 rounds into each one before they died, if not hit in the head, even with a 50. caliber weapon it 
 took that many shots to kill anyone) so tell me where is the realism in that? O and those nice 
 big looking chain guns on that elusive helicopter you see, yea don't expect to have to much fun 
 with those either, takes about a minute and a half of straight open unrestricted fire on a vehicle 
 to make it even catch on fire, then you have to sit there about another 30seconds till the thing 
 actually explodes!!,.....? fun?...
  
  How about health not regenerating, thats right, you gotta find a happy hot dog stand to ever regain 
 any health, pretty convenient when your robbing people/trying to get away from the cops, im sure 
 they just accidentally left out the feature that allows you to ask the cops to stop shooting for 
 a second so you can eat a tasty hot dog. The worst thing about this health regeneration system 
 is that the hot dog stands are dastardly hard to find and sprace throughout the city as a whole. 
 In my entire play time i counted about 3.
  
  So sure the graphics are alright, but I believe its been established on many a front that graphics 
 are no substitute for game play. Certainly not in this case. As for the Controls, sure they buttons 
 are all there, but getting anything to work the way you want it in the game is more than a chore. 
 The cover system is a cool idea but also practically useless due to the limitless number of angles 
 you are usually barraged upon. As far as the radio selection in concerned, well they have a few 
 good songs, but theres only a few songs in the game, look at each radio station and notice there 
 are only about 8 songs on each, pretty **** when you only play for like 20minutes and the songs 
 on your fav station just start to repeat again and again,....
  
  Overall I can only imply my utter disgusting disappointment's with this game, i really wanted it 
 to be good and was hoping it could be the next good title to add to my collection, fortunately 
 I'm glad i only rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_b9
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, as a past fan of GTA titles I am definitely impressed with the new game, however 
 it has some draw-backs.
  
  Focusing on its strengths, the GTA IV has an unprecedented level of detail, from utilising internet 
 access, calling a cab etc to the realistic dynamics in running a pedestrian over. The graphics 
 are excellent, with high definition models of individuals, buildings and the city as a whole. The 
 Gameplay makes the game good fun, if not making the game a little too easy with the simple lock 
 on function. True also, is the entertaining story-line and plot, that makes the player really feel 
 part of the gaming world, and want to see Niko succeed. 
  
  If I was introduced to this game, as the first in the series (ie no past titles had been produced) 
 I would have been astounded by the originality and sheer brilliance of this sand-box styled game. 
 The relevance of this is that my criticisms stem from the expectation of the retention of elements 
 from past titles in the series:
  
  A factor that made the player so immersed in previous titles was a more influentual in-game economy. 
 For instance, a player felt could feel a greater part of the game where they could buy businesses, 
 modify cars, buy from a proper selection in in-game clothes. In this game the player accumulates 
 hundreds of thousands of $'s, with little more than guns to spend them on! I suppose this relates 
 to customisability, and how individuals get more satisfaction from playing as character's modelled 
 on their own preferrences. I think this was the element that compelled me most to play, I'm finding 
 I am no longer desparate to keep playing to complete the game, whereas in previous games I'd completed 
 the game in a few days.
  
  Secondly, the in-game music isn't great (in my opinion) , I loved Vice-City's classic 80's soundtrack 
 that genuinely created an in-game atmosphere, and the player felt they were in the 80's. So too 
 did I enjoy San Andrea's eclectic range of tunes... BUT in GTA IV personally, I've found maybe one 
 or two songs I actually like in the whole soundtrack.
  
  Another factor I personally miss the hierarchy system, the feeling that, "Ah, only a few days ago 
 I was but a street punk, and today I run the mob". In GTA IV I feel I'm just doing endless missions 
 and my player isn't reeping any benefits other than useless cash and the unlocking of yet another 
 mission to do the same again. In San Andreas the recruiting of fellow gang-members to do drive-bys 
 etc when you were of a certain respect level was really good fun. This is now substituted with 
 a certain in-game friend liking you enough (discussed below) , which is quite frustrating making 
 him so, and takes away from the fun, "I'm the boss, follow me" fun of previous titles.
  
  My final gripe would be the "relationship" factor. I believe this was an attempt to make the player 
 once again, more a part of the game, but I find it in reality slightly annoying. Every two minutes 
 I'm getting phoned by a character who wants me to take them for a virtual meal, or virtual bowling 
 or the likes, this is just tedious! It seems almost like one of those annoying virtual pets that 
 you must feed all the time. I suppose the mini-games are good fun, but it does not really offset 
 the fact I must constantly keep my game friends entertained.
  
  All in all, the game is a brilliant stand-alone game, and good sequel, but it's greatness is limited 
 by some annoying quirky counter-productive add-ons, and lack in continuation of some enjoyable 
 elements to past games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atejas
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Everyone here is, I am sure, familiar with the nearly insane hype sorrounding GTA IV. May I just 
 say that the game has lived up to its expectations magnificently. The combat AI is much the same 
 aside from the fact that opponents take cover, but this is made up for with a MUCH lower life bar. 
 The graphics look a little dated ( I myself noticed a remarkable similarity to Hitman Blood Money) 
 but they wont annoy you too much. The use of ragdolls is....... beyond words. Enemies (or bystanders) 
 slump over when shot or hit, temporarily entering a semi-ragdoll state for the duration of the 
 fall, then pick themselves up- with seamless animation- from any pose they had fallen into.
  The gameplay itself retains the solid GTA element that powered the other titles, but in a greatly 
 enhanced way. Combat is augmented by a GoW-ish cover and blindfire system. Friends are not bullet 
 spewers or meat shields- they are friends. You can go out for drinks, play a game, all kinds of 
 things. Your influence with your friends is affected by all kinds of things, such as whether you 
 agree to go out with them, whether you honor that agreement, whether you call them, when you call 
 them, where you take them, etc.
  Getting them to a high enough level of friendship allows certain perks to be unlocked, ranging 
 from a free taxi service to discount weaponry, losing heat with the cops, backup in the form of 
 some gangsters, and even an assemblable car bomb.
  Therefore, it looks old, get over it, no, it has not been done before, yes, you should buy it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Well man I actually have to some up this huge game. Well lets begin with the story mode. It shines 
 in all the parts of this games amazing story. Though there can be minor glitches that will occur 
 while your playing. So don't get to mad with the A. I. being annoying at times. Though that may 
 be a minor set back don't let it stop you from playing this games amazing story line.
  
  Ok now for the Online. It is just so awesome it runs very well and I haven't experienced much lag 
 when playing online games. You will spend hour after hour in GTA 4's huge online modes. So where 
 most people are playing are The Deathmatch variants and Free Mode. So let me tell you about them. 
 The deathmatch is every man for themselves or they get put into teams. It is very addictive. Now 
 for the Free mode variant. Well Free mode is like your social GTA. People can team up and kill 
 cops or kill other people. It is so much fun it i just free roaming with no objective in mine. 
 So you can do anything like steal cars, kill people, kill cops, etc.
  
  Well that is my review.
  GTA 4 gets a 9.5/10
  Story 9.4
  Online 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Game_Head
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  this games has 1 of the best gameplay i have ever played if u have an xbox360 or a ps3 u must have 
 this game its was alot of ppl told me i was not going 2 get it the day it comes out but i guess 
 they whats wrong fun onloine play if u have ur realy life firend with u i promiss u will have meny 
 joking moments lol i know i did. and they realy got a great pic of nyc cuz i looked just like it 
 well u just have 2 see 4 ur self and ifu like 2 just chill and have fun killin ppl free roam with 
 ur buddys is fun as well its just like the game of life u make whats best of it and there no bored 
 moments with this game i told 1 of my firend 2 go and play it cuz he never like gta game and when 
 he went 2 school the next day he told me "god dam that game is addicting i never wanted 2 stop 
 playin it" and i was crackin up and told him i told u so well if u dont belive me the go and get 
 the game ur self and tell me what u think so i can tell u i told u so well enjoy the info see ya 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nugXL
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a Grand Theft Auto title with some purpose to it. The story is pretty interesting, it 
 is a little weak, but is far better than former GTA games. I personally love how the game is structured, 
 and Niko is one of my new favorite game characters, beside Altar. With a GTA title you can always 
 expect some crazy main characters, and they have done a great job once again. For instance, Brucie. 
 He is one of my favorite story line characters because he reminds so much of FPS Doug with his 
 voice, look, and personality. The new Liberty City is amazing. The level of general detail that 
 has been put into the game is astonishing. The textures are not very high definition and detailed 
 up close as some people may complain, but the lighting and range of colors really make up for it. 
 At a distance the city is truly photo realistic. Another thing that I'm really impressed by is 
 the water. I haven't seen many games where water looks and behaves so realistically. It's okay 
 Crysis, I still think you top the water detail charts. Concrete cracks when vehicles slam into 
 it, vehicles have damage physics fairly close to reality, pedestrians don't randomly say stupid 
 random crap to you as you pass by such as, "my cock feels large" or "i want to find some hookers 
 tonight", pedestrians also take mind to crime going on around them, and they will get the hell 
 out of dodge if you fire a weapon, the national guard is not called to take you out, you wear helmets 
 on motorcycles, and hand to hand is actually effective. Radio stations are as great as always with 
 their funny talk shows, and great music. Nothing is better than wiping out hordes of mafia members 
 to 20's jazz. The new assets to gameplay in GTA 4 make it feel a lot more life like than previous 
 titles such as the new "friendship system" where you can make friends with certain people and go 
 on dates with them, or play some pool or darts. Cabs are actually worth something now. If you need 
 to get to a destination and you don't feel up to driving for 5 minutes across the city (trust me 
 it will happen... you have been warned) you can grab a cab and they will drive you there for you. 
 You have the option of skipping to the destination, or watching the scenery as you travel. Cell 
 phones are operational now, and you can receive text messages, call up your buddies, or take pictures. 
 Another life like addition to the game, that I absolutely love, is the internet. On the internet 
 you can download ring tones for your cell, buy cars, or set up dates with local ladies. Of course 
 you can find more of Rockstar's brilliant, cynical humor in the websites and junk mail you receive. 
 The combat feels much more realistic as well. You can take cover behind objects and use some gears 
 of war or rainbow six vegas gun play tactics. I must note that the gun fights feel very realistic, 
 and I have not seen better blood effects in any other game. Pretty much everything in the game 
 (vehicles, people, weapons) behave as it would in real life. Except for when you slam into a car 
 going 150mph, fly out the windshield, tumble 200 down the street, and slam into a building get 
 up and walk away.
  
  So to sum up GTA 4, it is same feel as the older games, but with more realism and purpose, better 
 looks, and a few added game play enhancements. 
  
  ~cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has not only passed my expectations of what it was going to be...... it shattered them. Though 
 they aren't a thing I normally care about in games, I must say the graphics in this game are absolutely 
 gorgeous. The gameplay is rock solid, and it is backed up by a great story and a protagonist with 
 a very unique personality. Speaking of the gameplay, the new targeting system is finely polished, 
 and is the best targeting system out of all the GTA games. Rockstar also made a vow to make this 
 game more realistic, and they delivered. The driving feels great, and seeing the peds actually 
 doing things besides walking around like meat puppets is a greatthibg to see (which makes them more 
 fun to kill lol) . Like I said earlier, the story in GTA IV is just exciting from beginning to end, 
 and IMO is the best in the series. I'm really surprised that this has online play, and good online 
 play at that. It runs so smoothly, and the variety of different game modes makes it even better. 
 Overal, this is still the same GTA experience that we're used to, only with a wealth of great new 
 features that will keep people playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  You start the game as the illegaly-immigrated protanogist, Niko Bellic from Eastern Europe. You set 
 foot on the dangerous urban city of Liberty City, south of Miami, Florida. The home of drug dealers, pimps. gangs, thugs, you 
 name it. You greet you cousin Roman with a welcoming hug as you set foot on ground. You've been persuaded 
 that there will be a mansion in the urban wonders, but all you get is a run down, old apartement. You're 
 first client, Vlad, the evil money making bussiness man that I really hate. There's many things you 
 can do in Liberty City. Such as, internet cafes, restraunts. bars, car washes, carried contracts for 
 as a  you get the picture. Grand Theft Auto IV is like an M rated 
 Animal Crossing sequel with many curses, violence, and including drugs. Niko Bellic is often considered 
 the most known GTA protanogist in the series. You can do moves and environmental techniques such 
 as shimmy, car hijacking, improved gun targeting system, and many more to execute from. The targeting 
 system unlike many of the previous GTA games have really improved with a 2nd person camera perspective. The 
 only you can switch targets is using the camera stick, but I really appreciate the crosshair for 
 having the enemies health bar, showing life and flax vest at the same time. Hijacking cars hasn't 
 really changed that much, you just kick the driver out of the seat and drive free. But the driving 
 is really complex, the thing I hate is the drifting so you need to get used to driving in certain 
 types of cars with different speed, drifts, and turns. Also you can shoot out of cars with just only 
 three weapons like grenades, uzis' or smgs', and desert eagle of pistol. There are over 10 or more 
 weapons to unlock including the uzi, shotgun, rocket launcher, pump shotgun, desert  
 bats, assault rifle, sniper rifle, dragonov, bottle flares, and the non-arsenal item, the flak vest to 
 protect yourself against enemy fire. Firing your weapon, killing, and hijacking vehicles can cause 
 police attention which starts out with a one star wanted level. So the only way to live is to get 
 out fo there. Escaping from the police is easier than the other GTA games right now, because you 
 can see a large circle on your radar, so if you escape from the "circle of death"than tr staying 
 there until the police forget about you. If you go to your own apartement safehouse, you can change 
 clothes, save your game by taking a nap, or watch television. Watching T. V. is really fun, there are 
 many shows to watch from but don't come in order you know. There is Republican Space Rangers; a spoof 
 of George W. Bush sending soldiers to space instead of Iraq, The Men's Room; talk show about self-esteem 
 and understanding you anger, Liberty City history and stand up comedy. What more could you ask for? The 
 dark side I really hate about this game is the nudity that heiniously ruins the game. I know what 
 you thinking and what place you go to check out women, yeah. I love the idea of the whole "rising 
 through the ranks of a criminal"which really goes well with Scarface's movie tag"The World Is All 
 Your's."Liberty City has changed beautifully since 2001 after Liberty City Stories, with bigger 
 island and more buildings. The combat system has changed well with taking cover and blind firing 
 from Gears of War and Uncharted Drakes Fortune. The game can be beaten is only 30 hours or more 
 if you play it nonstop without any sleep. GTA IV is added with over 100 missions, but the time can 
 be doubled with side quests such as car  extermination, and stunts. Later 
 on you will earn missions from Brucie, Little Jacob, Playboy  
 Derrick McReary. You earn money by completing each mission with a thousand dollars or less. There 
 are two restraunts to eat at ,Cluckin' Bell and Burger Shot, restraunts can too raise your health 
 from staring death in the face. There are sky rats and peguins that needs to be removed from the 
 Liberty City cannon, there are over 200 of them to kill. The stunts in the game are really cool which 
 you can earn money depending how good it is. So you can't enter every building in the city, but there 
 are many things to look at. The bottom camera (looking below Niko) looks really fantastic like from 
 some movie. You can do mini-games such as bowling, pool, and darts. You can hang out with your friends 
 too, you can drink, play mini-games, race, eat at restraunts, have a date with women (or guys) , and go 
 to shows. Going out with friends and women are really annoying because they keep calling you during 
 a mission, so I always say "no."Another thing you can do is go on the Internet at the Internet Cafe. You 
 can look up cars, online dates, banks, stores, news, online shopping, almost anything. The game has a 
 good mixture of comedy and drama at the same time. The radios in cars are good to listen to. The 
 game is so beautiful, there's many things to do around the city, it took Rockstar many years to develope 
 this game. This manages to beat San Andreas with great effort through hard work. This is the best 
 game I've ever played. Now no offense, but I love GTA IV better than San Andreas because of the graphics 
 and the environment. GTA IV gets Graphics 10/10, Gameplay 10/10, Sound 10/10, Tilt 9/10, Fun Factor 
 10/10. Well that's my review on grand Theft Auto IV. Children, have a good school's out summer break, happy 
 Ubidays. Let's hope that this game is not the last in the series, and myabe all of the future GTA 
 games could be like this. HAVE A GOOD NIGHT. Thank You 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 has finally been released to the masses eager to wreak havoc, and cause insurmountable 
 pain in Liberty city . All I have to say is this game is phenomenally put together and simply must 
 be played by anyone. The single player campaign stars Nico, a immigrant who comes to Liberty City 
 in search of an opportunity. the city is huge, open and awesome. the sounds of the bustling city 
 are so real. The weapons are detailed so beautifully and sound godly. The new combat system, which 
 is practically from Gears of war works wonderfully. The multi-player aspect of the game is an instant 
 win, as it allows the players to customize their instrument of destruction and run rampaging throughout 
 the city. The vehicles are awesomely rendered and handle like their real life counter parts. The 
 game simply is a work of art that must be viewed by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad1087
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped this game in at 1 Am after waiting in line at a Best Buy for a midnight release, 
 I was amazed. The graphics were soo good, compared to any other free roamer out there. After about 
 a week of straight playing the game wore down some, but never the less I just finished it yesterday. 
 Anyways, this game has a great story, a bunch of caracters that you will get interested in, and 
 more of the same great carnage that you all love from the GTA series. I didn't think Rockstar was 
 going to disappoint, but my expectations were really blown away. The only complaint I have is all 
 the damn tech issues that should have been worked out a little better than they were. Every so 
 often the game is prone to freeze. It was great that they took away all the load times in between 
 cities. I'm just waiting for the DLC, and the next game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotherSuperior
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of, if not the best game on the 360. However, there are too many aiming and camera 
 issues that actually slightly degrade an otherwise exceptional game. If you fully depress the left 
 trigger in the heat of the game, you will sometimes target a nearby harmless citizen instead of 
 the person shooting right in your face. You have to halfway depress the left trigger to enter free-aim 
 mode or quickly flick the right stick left or right to lock on to the correct target. This is a 
 minor annoyance and if you position the camera just right you will mostly lock on to your target.
 
  
  The camera is probably the worst part of the game. As with previous games, it is a free-roaming 
 camera but you can temporarily turn the camera for a better view before you walk again and the 
 camera goes back into it's default position. This has affected some gameplay moments, but only 
 when you are low on health and frantic to escape.
  
  Another minor problem is that sometimes when you want to enter a car, you will for some reason 
 walk to a completely different nearby car that you don't want to get in to so you have to walk 
 back to the original car. 
  
  All in all, This is a must-buy game however, and I would recommend anyone and everyone to at least 
 try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsrock_on54
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone can agree grand theft auto 4 is a good game, but i do not agree with the perfect 
 score. I guess it could be the best in the series, but i think some of the minor things from grand 
 theft auto san andreas could have been added to make it better, like flying airplanes & the stat 
 building element was kinda cool. i just think this game is too much like the others, which makes 
 it less special. its good, but i dont think its perfect score worthy. it is good, but it is overrated. 
 too much like the others
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rowerr
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The new GTA game that came out has proven it self with having us to wait for so long but it was 
 all worth it. Everything in this game is prefect I can not find anything Rockstars games need to 
 improve. This not something they need to improve but the only thing i think they should have put 
 in the game is more car dealerships and be able to walk in more house and more shopping for like 
 drugs and be able to walk in to a bar without a friends just so u can get drunk.
  
  To let you on a little secret you do not have to pay for somethings ( like prostitutes when you 
 are done just drive off do that a couple times then they think you are kidnapping them. Also if 
 you want the One Man Army achievement all you have to do is get a helicopter but you can not have 
 Alderney yet. You have your helicopter then you fly over top Alderney that give you automatically 
 6 stars. Then all you have to do is not crash and you waste five minutes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godan200
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Yeah i think its the best game i have ever playin in my entire life. No not really haha but one 
 of them! This game is great on both PS3 and Xbox 360. Definetly a game you must get no matter who 
 you are. But just a little word of advice... IF you got kkids keep them away from this game. 
 
  
  People all over the world are lovin this game. The game story line is great and the visuals and 
 graphics are even better than that! The cheats are even fun to use cause you can do anything you 
 want.
  
  HAHA wanna know a little secret? Go to the Statue of liberty with a helicopter and fin your way 
 in. In the middle of it theres a live beating heart. Yeah its alive and its beating... i know creepy 
 right.
  
  Well whoever reads this will agree cause they're looking at the reviews. BEST GAME IN THE FRANCHISE 
 AND BEST GAME FOR 360 and PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION:
  There's no denying that Rockstar North's Grand Theft Auto series is something truly magical. While 
 I can think of numerous games that feature minor incremental additions in sequels and therefore 
 lose some of their magic, GTA is a series that expands, develops, and improves dramatically with 
 each release. Countless imitators come and go, but few even manage to match the brilliance of 2001's 
 Grand Theft Auto III, let alone its follow-ups. Volition's Saints Row, released in 2006, is undoubtedly 
 the best effort to emulate GTA so far, but even that was a far cry from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. 
 It's been creeping up on four years since Rockstar North last distributed some new product, but 
 the wait was inarguably worth it.
  
  STORY:
  What does the American Dream mean today? For Niko Bellic, fresh off the boat from Europe, it's 
 the hope he can escape his past. For his cousin, Roman, it is the vision that together they can 
 find fortune in Liberty City, gateway to the land of opportunity. As they slip into debt and are 
 dragged into a criminal underworld by a series of shysters, thieves and sociopaths, they discover 
 that the reality is very different from the dream in a city that worships money and status, and 
 is heaven for those who have them an a living nightmare for those who don't. I don't want to spoil 
 the rest of the story for you, but I'll just say that it's easily one of the greatest game stories 
 ever. It's worthy of winning an Academy Award, as the plot and acting is better than those of most 
 films. It's also much longer than your average game, as it took me around 26 hours to complete, 
 but I still haven't got bored of the game, and at the time of writing I have been playing it for 
 over 32 hours with a completion percentage of around 80%.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  A whole lot of features added to the Grand Theft Auto formula in San Andreas have been removed 
 for GTA IV. While there were seemingly a million different things to do in San Andreas, it's almost 
 universally accepted that only a handful of them were actually well implemented, and most of the 
 extras were only checked out once or twice by players. Honestly, how many times did you go out 
 of your way to parachute, enter the low-rider competitions, dance in the clubs, gamble, mod your 
 car, fly a jetpack, or play basketball? You could probably count them on one hand. Other things 
 axed include aeroplanes, military vehicles, chainsaws, swords, bicycles, flamethrowers, diving 
 underwater, jetpacks, open country, silenced weapons, property management and that's not even 
 the entire list. While that may sound like a lot, there's a reason Rockstar North has cut out so 
 much: Every little detail, right down to the shortest of alleyways and the smallest of activities, 
 has been crafted to perfection in GTA IV. There is simply no mediocre filler.
  One thing which may upset some fans of GTA: San Andreas is that the character customisation element 
 has been greatly stripped. Unlike CJ, Niko doesn't have any stats to build, so you can forget about 
 pumping yourself up at the gym, perfecting your skills behind the wheel, or practicing your aim 
 at the firing range. You can also forget about getting haircuts, tattoos, and wrist-watches as 
 there are only three different clothing shops with limited selections. While this will perhaps 
 be the most disappointing thing about GTA IV for some, a large number of gamers did not necessarily 
 enjoy or indulge in these aspects of San Andreas, and Rockstar North's decision to make GTA IV 
 more accessible than its predecessors inevitably meant the streamlining of the character customisation.
 
  If you would like more details on the specifics of the gameplay, i suggest you read the GameSpot, 
 IGN, and GameTrailers reviews.
  
  GRAPHICS & SOUND:
  The graphics are amazing. If you think of something like Saints Row, it's so much better than that 
 (and that looked alright) . This is truly Grand Theft Auto in next-gen. The characters look amazing, 
 the buildings look outstanding, there's an excellent visual design to the city, the water looks 
 and moves fantastically, the Euphoria physics engine with the cars and the people looks great... 
 just about everything about GTA IV looks superb. The frame-rate can fluctuate at times but for 
 what it is showing, GTA is a game with a streaming, open, sandbox, free-roaming world where you 
 can do anything at any time, and normally the graphics in these types of games aren't that impressive 
 because the developers have to compensate for that fact. But very few concessions have been made 
 for GTA IV, it still looks comparable to the top games on the respective systems. The sound is 
 phenomenal. The voice acting just stunning. It's up there with Mass Effect, The Orange Box, and 
 Fahrenheit/Indigo Prophecy... it's just absolutely gob-smacking.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  Yes, I have awarded Grand Theft Auto IV with a 10, but that doesn't mean that the game is perfect, 
 because it isn't The few minor flaws the game does have are easy to overlook when considered in 
 the context of everything that the game gets right Which means GTA IV breaks new ground, pushes 
 boundaries, expands a genre, and does a multitude of things to a level so far above and beyond 
 its competitors that they overshadow any flaws. Everything in GTA IV works in harmony. The story 
 would be nothing without the city; the city gains realism from the physics engine; the physics 
 complement the improved AI; the AI would make no sense without the new cover system There is no 
 one major weak aspect. I haven't played a game that comes this close to perfection since The Legend 
 of Zelda: Ocarina of Time back in 1998. GTA IV is a rare, elusively stunning game  the kind that 
 comes around only once every decade if you're lucky. We're not even mid-way through 2008 and I'm 
 certain I've found my Game of the Year. I won't be surprised if this is the best game the Xbox 
 360 or PlayStation 3 ever sees. If you do not play, or more importantly, if you do not buy Grand 
 Theft Auto IV then you're not a true gamer. It's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josliandr
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Plot - 
  
  This game is based on an easten europe troubled man named Niko Bellic that is tricked and lied 
 into moving to Liberty city by his cousin Roman Bellic who lies to Niko saying that he owns a mansion 
 and many fast sports cars where he actually is in complete inutter debt and only owns a flat full 
 of cockroaches and a taxi depot . The game isn't only based on you sorting out Romans debts because 
 you Niko is also looking for someone special from his past . Anyway enough of the storyline now 
 lets get onto the main bit ... 
  
  Combat system - 
  
  The combat system is alot better than the other combat system in the other Grand theft autos. Infact 
 it features almost the same combat system as Gears of war being able to shoot whilst hiding behind 
 a wall and blind firing. 
  
  Bril features - 
  
  Whats also amazing about this game is that you get to have and use a mobile phone. With this phone 
 you can call your freinds / bosses to catch up woth extra work or to arrange social activities 
 to do such as bowling, pool, darts, heli flying, boating getting drunk or eating and manny other 
 things. Also when you get to a certain amount of likeness with freinds then they will give you 
 coll features which will help you throughout the game like when you get to a certain freindship 
 level with a character named Brucie then you will be able to get lifts from him in a helecopter. 
 Also, when you see a cab you can wave / wistle to the cab driver to get his attention and then 
 hel stop allowing you to get into the cab and go wherever you want !!
  
  Map -
  
  the map is approximetly 1.3 times the size of San andreas featuring 5 main parts name Broker, Dukes, 
 Bohan, Algonquin and Alderny. 
  
  Overall -
  
  There is much that I have not had time to mention in this reveiw though thankyou for reading this 
 reveiw but now its all up to you . Dont wanna buy it - think again though if you do than all I 
 can say is that wise choice cus Youl never get bored even once you have completed it : ) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's a good game, a very good one. Great even, but what does this game rely on the most? Humor. 
 Nothing more or less; it's what makes it worthwhile to play. All the missions you get are as boring 
 and as irritating as a mission can be. Kill that, drive that one, date that one and once in between 
 the nonsense mission you uncover something about your past or realizes that there's a traitor in 
 your midst that once again has to be executed.
  
  And for a 4 year old game in development, you just have to have had time to develop more AI for 
 those stupid cops which seem like they haven't done any improvements in. Oh... I run over the bridge 
 which I'm not suppose to do yet and I'm suddenly the biggest threat in the national history - how 
 can something like that not lower the game's in every aspect?
  
  Missions are either simple as killing a bug or as irritating as they can be. Once you deliver drugs 
 for Little Jacob you have four guys surrounding you - and you better have an armour or you're screwed. 
 And the next time you just have to get to a place within a certain time. So the mission differs 
 from very simple or very irritating.
  
  Ok, new features add great value to the game - like getting friends - which you can't even kill 
 of even if you try a hundred times. I can't believe they can be so valueable to the story. Hell, 
 what the hell is wrong with this game? Shouldn't Vlad be rising from the dead soon because I killed 
 him too, why did he die when all the others I've blown up, shot to dead, driven to death does?
 
  
  Yeah, you have a cell phone; you can call ambulances, cops, firetrucks whenever you need one of 
 those vehicles but what's the point? And if you shot a civilian, pedestrian they don't rise up 
 like they've done in all the other GTA game.
  
  So every aspect of this game's story is simply stupid, and every feature of the game is simply 
 stupid. Because the only enjoyment in this game is driving over pedestrians to see them fall in 
 funny way, or go on a rampage run across town, or listen to funny radio shows.
  
  That's the only enjoyment in this game. AND YES, you can "SOMETIME" choose someones destiny that 
 will probably later on in the game have some value in a "kill someone" mission. What a great improvement 
 from San Andreas! Ha!
  
  Now i'm in the middle of thing where i'm just doing stupid things, for bad money or for bad reason 
 and once in awhile you get that plain stupid mission that gets you irritated and makes you loose 
 it and also lowers your trust and reputation to the mission giver.
  
  What the hell is wrong with this game? I played to a point where I climbed up a ladder, and when 
 I was about to get down on it again everything bugged out and now I can't even play from that point 
 on anymore. I had to reset the Xbox and start over from a long time ago, since I'm doing these 
 "pick up a hundred passangers and deliver a hundres of drugs" time, which is funny because the 
 game doesn't autosave during those missions.
  
  Isn't that awesome?
  
  Great improvements, but if they've focused so much on the story (which sucks to play anyway) I 
 understand why they've lost so much time to do the essential things that this game needs to run 
 good.
  
  If the true thing that keeps this alive is driving over people, shooting cops and simple just stalking 
 around doing nonsense things - in the end, with reflection it don't longer feels like a game. It 
 just feels like "Just Cause" in every cause, and every game alike it's own copies.
  
  The storyline is another story, because what happens is good, but how you interactive in the story 
 is just a goddamn hellhole to be in because it's not entertaining. I can do a mission, but I cannot 
 almost do two at the because I've gotten so bored of the last one so I have to release my anger 
 over it for a long while.
  
  Chase that care, chase that car and kill the one in the car, chase that car and kill that one in 
 that car or rescue the on in the car so you might get "ONE" mission from that person 10 hours later 
 on in the story - which is very pointless.
  
  How can this be called a game? It's a goddamn simulation of a city, full of cars, people who don't 
 matter, with a story that just blows away with the Liberty City wind and doesn't affect you in 
 anyway.
  
  I know for a fact that if any GTA story would be made into a movie, it would be awesome because 
 the stories are always well written, but how can one go from one "good" game when it came (San 
 Andreas) to this piece of **** when they've just done nothing but redesining the city, adding few 
 new cars, boring new features which lacks EVERYTHING that makes them worthwhile, a less interactive 
 story that feels as pointless as a bottomless pit.
  
  If this game is 30 hours long to complete, it will take me 300 hours if I try. Because I can't 
 stand to do it.
  
  I'm just saying to everyone who will buy this game, that you might as well replay San Andreas because 
 that game is better in everyway. And everything new in that game doesn't feel "cut and pasted" 
 like here, but with so small improvements that you don't even care about it? The most impressive 
 feature: The reaction of NPCs. That's about the only thing that makes this better than San Andreas.
 
  
  Buy it at your own will.
  Don't take me wrong, I believe it is a good game, just a good game you have to have constant patience 
 with to be able to enjoy it. And remember to hang out with everyone at everytime you get, otherwise 
 they might get angry. WKTT is the best radio channel by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1712
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto IV is a VERY fun game. The Multiplayer is worth the whole package. The single 
 player has fun missions and is humorous at times. Grand theft auto IV multiplayer has a variety 
 of weapons and vehicles. Your character is named Niko Bellic, he works with his cousin as a taxi 
 driver, and Niko bumps into some gang leaders that make him do work. Multiplayer has up to 16 players 
 and 16 modes, some of these modes are death match, team death match, cops and crooks, and Free 
 mode. This game is endless fun, and you will not be able to put it down for a while. Some people 
 think its a steal at $60, because... it is. You cant afford to miss out on this game, if your a 
 fan of action shooters, you defianatly have to pick up a copy. I would like to see someone name 
 a better shooter than this game. (Halo 3 doesn't count) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PimpinE
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  in this game, much like gta san andreas and saints row mixed, but better!, you play as an immagrint 
 from europe named niko bellic. He thought his cousin had the good life and he came to live it, 
 but it turns out it is a real gta game (meaning noo good life) . You have to work your way to the 
 top doing sooo many things. Lots of the features include: more realistic grapghics, ever physcical 
 object os more realistic, blood and realistic car damages, car wash, internet, internet dating, 
 cell phone, games, tv, hookers, clothes, more realistic strip clubs, comedt clubs (featuring katt 
 williams) , open enviorment, not much loading screens, more resteraunts, ability to get drunk, and 
 much much more!!!!!!!!! i highly reccomend you get this game as soon as possible! also..... its 
 multiplayer, thres many fun multiplayer modes to choose from also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_eater_121
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  GTA4 Could have been a lot better, I am a huge gta fan but this game was all hype, there could 
 have been a lot more they added to this game. The story mode was great but online is not what it 
 should be, its fun for a while then u just get bored of it and there are some where it will not 
 even let u play the game. To me gta4 was a bit of a let down although I do enjoy it. It does get 
 boring at times, ive been playing Ncaa 08 and NHL 08 for the past while and my gta4 is not even 
 cleared gets boring fast at times u just dont want to play it. I cant wait for saint row 2 to come 
 out its seem that it could be a better game then gta4, they still have time to look at the things 
 in gta4 steal it from them cuz u know they are going to and add to it. I dont think that it will 
 outsell gta4 by any means but I bet that it will be a much better game then gta4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  GTA IV! the game everyone was waiting for so long is here. and well, it's a teeny bit of a disappointment..
 
  
  GRAPHICS: The environments and city are very pretty. the cars are okay. the models are horrible. 
 the guns look **** the pyrotechnics are gorgeous. the lighting is extremly impressive. the texture 
 detail is relatively low and blurry. Not great.
  
  6.8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Fun, fun and more fun!! its great to nick a car shoot people in the head and so on. the police chases 
 are intense and brilliantly cinematic. the story and missions are great with much less repetition 
 than previous GTA's. It's brilliant
  
  10/10
  
  LIFESPAN:
  i got this on 29th april, thought i was going to play it all the time and it last ages. since the 
 launch ive put it in my xbox 4 times and racked up 4 hours of gametime. i really just cant be arsed 
 to play it. the side missions are also tedious and uninspiring.
  
  5/10
  
  OVERALL: its got mediocre graphics, great game mecghanics but you'll really never be arsed to play 
 it as it just is too irritaing and tedious. the games a bit ****.
  
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I dont understand the big hooplah about this game, alot of key little things are missing, first 
 i want a customizable charecter to follow along the story line, what if Im anti russian or what 
 ever the hell niko is, and thats not my biggest complaint, what happened to the vehicle selection 
 in gta4, it seemed that every year it got better and better and then damn you get some nice rides 
 and two helicopters, but thats it, and i like side missions they keep me entertained, but i get 
 in a taxi, i can do anything, I do like the police one but its too easy, and then the chases, let 
 me catch him instead of making me follow some ass jack on a 3 hour car ride across the interstate, 
 and finally parachute, do i not get a parachute, alot of key things are missing i just have to 
 much of a headache to **** about them all, the sad part is gta is getting back seat to games like 
 saints row, which saints row 2 looks to make a bigger bang then gta 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanokano
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Before people say anything about this game, remember 2 things; 1) it's a video game=meaning no 
 matter how hyped a developer makes the game in the end of the day its still a video game, not real 
 life. 2) the whole aim/theme/motto of GTA IV is realism=meaning the way you play the game; driving, 
 fighting, escaping from police, doing missions, side missions are based on realistic choices and 
 animations. but still the end of the day no game is perfect without any flaws. 
  
  
  This game is the best to date because of the whole experience GTA IV can bring. For some reason 
 the more you played the game, the more you love it... the beautiful sunset, the morning fog, the 
 weather changes, the realistic physics/animations of how people act and react to Niko. People have 
 to remember developers these days are still only using a 9GB Dual layer DVD and to have a game 
 the size of GTA IV which has huge details city along with buildings having different interiors 
 designs on a DVD in truly amazing!!!
  
  There are games that have better graphics compared to GTA IV... yes, there are games that have 
 better weapons features... yes, but to have a game that has a huge detailed city along with beautiful 
 sunsets, changing weather, realistic physics animation all rendering on a 9GB dual layer DVD is 
 truly AMAZING!!!
  
  For example: People always say "whats the big deal?" "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" has 200 hours 
 of gameplay, but the thing people don't understand is that "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" has 
 copied and paste techniques which means the buildings and people you see in the background have 
 the same designs and pattens. Where in GTA IV at least each buildings has different designs and 
 people have different cloths, voices and animations styles.
  
  Also people have to remember GTA IV is a game that is 4 years in the making and with the developers 
 at Rockstar North using the Xbox 360 and PS3 the first time, future games will only get better.
 
  
  Overall quality, experience, fun factor GTA IV deserves a perfect 10/10
  
  Now i'm going to try to write the difference between the 2 versions PS3 and Xbox 360.
  
  First 
 off, i have both versions so have played both versions on HDTV and a projector as well.
  
  First up the Xbox 360. The first noticeable difference is that the Xbox 360 version has brighter 
 colors... which seems the picture quality has more life. For example if you see somebody or know 
 somebody that has a energy/enthusiasm to them... that's what the Xbox 360 version has... energy, 
 life!
  
  The framerate on the Xbox 360 is stable nearly all the way from start to finish. The only framerate 
 drop i can see is where theirs huge car explosions and cop cars come in from every direction, i 
 saw a little framerate drop. Also the Xbox 360 runs at native 720p resolution along with a steady 
 30fps, which is impressive for a game like GTA.
  
  Overall i found that the Xbox 360 version is smooth and silky with picture quality that brings 
 life to the screen!
  
  The PS3 version on the other hands runs at native 640p resolution with framerate drops at the start 
 of the game. In the PS3 version i played which had framerate drop somewhere in the beginning to 
 the middle where i tried to escape from the police in a very fast sports car...
  
  The picture quality on the PS3 is darker and doesn't seem to run as smooth as the Xbox 360. i know 
 IGN and others did a comparison between the Xbox 360 and the PS3 version and they decided that 
 the PS3 versions is ahead of the Xbox 360, but when i was playing the PS3 i did not see any aspect 
 of the game that was better then the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  The long-awaited anticipated game is finally here. GRAND THEFT AUTO IV. Grab some popcorn and get 
 ready for a lengthy review. Let's start with the story of the game. The game is about an illegal 
 russian immigrant named Niko Bellic who moves into America after he hears about the AMERICAN DREAM 
 from his cousin Roman. Not long after he arrives does he realize that Roman lied about The American 
 Dream and it's actually the opposite. His cousin owes lots of money to a bunch of gangsters and 
 he is in big trouble and that's where Niko steps in and the crime-suspense-intense action begins. 
 Later in the story, u find out that Niko is at war with a bunch of russian gangsters and with the 
 help of his friends, he will try to achieve victory. He is also looking for a "special someone" 
 and u find out who that is later in the game. All the twisted moments and suspense makes this game 
 a blast. Who dies and who survives? Play the game to find out more about the story. Now, let's 
 move into the open world gameplay. Let me tell u that u can do almost anything u want in this game. 
 From screwing prostitutes to beating up hookers. From falling off the empire state building to 
 getting chased by a bunch of cops. Sorry to tell u but you are not going to see the chainsaw or 
 samurai sword in this game. They cut out the gore from this game so forget about that. There are 
 about 2 strip clubs that u can go to and get wild with the dirty hooker dances and sex. There are 
 restaurents u can go 2 to refill ur health bar. U can also go to a cafe to access the internet 
 from a computer. U can also check ur emails whenever u want. As u get further in the game, the 
 more friends u will make. U also get a cell phone in this game and u can call any of ur contacts 
 anytime in the game. Trust me, u will get lots of contacts. U will also get text messages from 
 ur contacts and u can use the camera on ur cell phone to take pictures of the city or ur targets. 
 U can also access multiplayer from ur cell phone. I will talk about that later. U can also watch 
 TV at ur safehouses. It airs fake shows but they are still darn funny. The cars still have a radio 
 which u can listen to different kinds of stations. U can take helicopter tours or go bowling. U 
 can play pool or darts. Go on the internet and date a girl online and u can go out somewhere with 
 them and get real dirty afterwards if u know wat i mean. U can still pick up prostitutes and screw 
 them and then kill them. Enough of the gameplay. Now let's move to the multiplayer. The poor part 
 of the multiplayer in this game is that its ONLY on XBOX Live. I know, it sucks. So, u guys better 
 get XBOX Live pretty soon. I tried Cops and Crooks, free mode, and deathmatch. Let me tell u that 
 it's almost impossible to survive for at least 5 minutes. There are players everywhere that can 
 just kill u. Cops and Crooks is the funnest mode that i played. Although, my team sucked at driving. 
 Anyway, i won. That's enough of the multiplayer. Let's move into the poor parts of the game. When 
 it's night in the game and ur on a mission, it's really hard to see the doors and where ur frikking 
 target is and where u have to go just like in Bioshock. I found that real annoying. Another one 
 is that they still did not put any checkpoints in the levels except the last level which trust 
 me, if there wasn't, it'll take u a long time to beat. That's pretty much all except the fact that 
 the levels can get really frikkin frustrating. Anyways, the good things about the game is it's 
 a pretty long game and it took me about 35 hours to beat the story mode. For most people, it takes 
 them even 50 hours to beat. So, yeah it's a pretty long game. Finally, rite? so many games have 
 been short this year. The action is really intense and bloody. Niko Bellic is actually the best 
 GTA character. He's the most bad-ass! There are lots of new features in the game. So, u have to 
 check out the game of 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moester10
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I've now played this game for over 100 hours, and although the story and multi player angles are 
 among the best I've ever encountered in a game... It seems like there are quite a few things that 
 need some tweaking. 
  
  I'm not one of those people who miss the driving lessons, the planes, and the parachuting... but 
 I think that for a morality tale, there could have been more choices to make. Sure sparing or executing 
 people has its satisfying moments, but I never felt Niko really being able to get salvation or 
 damnation from his actions. I would have liked more endings, and more depth to the character.
 
  
  The clothing options definitely were secondary, there's only a few outfits, and there's no room 
 to really customize Niko in any real way. Some of the outfit choices are so atrocious, I just can't 
 believe that they made it into the game. I also missed the car customization options, I also missed 
 the property purchase options, it would have been nice to see Niko assert his own independence 
 more. Its funny that he keeps saying he needs money when I have over 500k in the bank. How much 
 cash does this guy really need anyways? 
  
  This game reminds me of GTA III in so many ways, it seems like the foundation has been set, and 
 we'll see how Rockstar can take this amazing foundation and build successively better games on 
 it.
  
  I'd say that although I focused on the negatives, this game has depth and enjoyment to keep me 
 playing this game for two or three times the amount of times I've played it. Its among the best 
 games I've ever played, and will probably be talked about for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  
  -Niko (great character, destined to be an iconic video game character)
  -Liberty City, very detailed (Great technical acheivement, cant helped but be amazed when traversing 
 it)
  -Great dialogue that matches and emulates the wide variety of culturally different criminals (Irish, 
 italian, jamaican, etc.) . Feels like any good crime movie or show.
  -Good center story
  -Overall great sound 
  -gunfights are just as exciting as those found in Gears of War and other 
 games (destructible environments, cover system, gunfire sound, enemies screaming, and response 
 to location shots all very impressive)
  -Very good Mulitplayer Suite. 
  
  Cons:
  -there is still some rather hampering detail and texture popin. Though drastically improved, it 
 still really takes away from the amazing liberty city. Though this GTA is next gen, this seems 
 almost unacceptable in a game of this caliber and expectation. (Major Problem)
  -Gun combat controls are STILL not as fluid as they should be. Dont believe what they say! (Minor 
 problem)
  -Though driving is fun, it has its moments where it can be downright aggervating. (Minor Problem)
 
  -Sometimes missions can get repitous and for a period of time, an excess of these smaller missions 
 take away from the main story. (Major Problem)
  
  
  
  
  
  Welcome back to Liberty City!!!!! best GTA game to date. Some say it is not next gen because of 
 everything that long time fans have loved have been taken out, though I disagree. The technical 
 acheivement of the beautiful liberty city that is so detailed is over looked. It is simply the 
 most amazing part to this game, it makes the great story and character fall into place. Walk down 
 a street in liberty see, look arouond, and be amazed. It just looks big. Maybe it does not have 
 as much distance as San Andreas, but it sure as heck looks very grand in its appearence. One of 
 my teachers once told me that the advantage of a novel or a book is that the viewer gets to see 
 what the characters are thinking. The conflict within themselves. He said that the advantage of 
 a movie is that the viewer can see the conflict of a character with his environment. The same rule 
 in movies applies to video games and that is what we see in Niko's story in Liberty City. Grpahics 
 and being able to do more technically IS an important part of being nextx gen, because it helps 
 tell a story more effectively, that is why GTA IV is next gen. NOT because it has all the same 
 little extra stuff San Andreas had and more. 
  
  However, even though GTA IV is a technical acheivement, it is still hampered by the same detail 
 and texture popin (see Cons) , and this takes away a little bit from the story and it seems almost 
 unacceptable given how it is suppose to be in the top tier games of this next generation. 
  
  As for the rest of the reviews, I think my pros and cons pretty much sums it up. Good luck 
 trying to shoot that guy behind you in a fire fight, lol, its aggervating. Also the last con listed 
 is a huge problem in this game. Really takes away from the full impact this game could have had 
 with it's center story. 
  
  After this review from Gamespot, I think we all know Gamespot is being bought out. This marks the 
 end for me at Gamespot 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: preachcuster
Rating: 2
Date: May 23, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited to pick this game up. I have been waiting for it for what seems like a lifetime. 
 So to my surprise the best time I had with this game was before I put it into my 360. First of 
 all I don't watch cut-scenes if I don't have to so I could not tell you about the story. From what 
 I gathered it's the same old same old. Guy moves to LC gets no respect blah, blah, blah, works himself 
 to the top. The visuals are a nice upgrade but by no means pushes the limits. My major problem 
 with this game is that it is very un-inspired. Somehow Rockstar thought just making a game pretty 
 makes it better. There are so many downgrades from past GTA's this game feels like a demo. Ready? 
 No jetpacks, no parachutes, no planes, less weapons, far less customization options, no barbershops, 
 no gyms, no fire dept. missions, no ambulance missions, no jet skis, no bicycles, no properties 
 you can buy, no buissness' to own, no custom cars, no tatt shops, NO INSPIRATION. They managed 
 to take things from saints row (like the shooting/driving) , but failed to take the best innovation, 
 being able to wreck/abondon your ride and go back to your garage and pay for it to be restored. 
 Speaking of cars the driving in this game is just plain dumb. People will argue to their wits end 
 that it's more realistic, and that just not true. Take the viper, it stops like a fully loaded 
 semi and turns as well as one. Bikes have the turning radius of a semi as well. You can cope with 
 these awfull pysics but it just takes away from the experience, not adds. The missions are the 
 same thing as every other GTA. The best thing I can compare this game to is it's like when that 
 guy goes to a car dealership and sees a shiny red corvette and has to have it. He forks over his 
 hard earned dough only later to find out the transmission is blown, the odometer has been turned 
 back about 150,000 miles, the engine block is cracked, and it smells like cat pee. Shame on you 
 rockstar for not putting one thing in this game that is groundbreaking. If this was the first GTA 
 ever it might deserve a 10. Hopefully the people making Saint's Row want to make a game that is 
 new, different, and fun. The good folks at rockstar slapped GTA on a box and watched the cash roll 
 in. Don't be a sucker like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vids
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I sped through the single player and loved ever minute of it. Great visuals, the new driving mechanics 
 are well done and the missions never really get boring or outdated. The relationships are pretty 
 poorly used and are quite annoying as well. Also, why am I getting all this money? My bank ended 
 up with over a $900,000 in it and i have nothing to buy with it. Overall though, great experience.
 
  
  
  BUT the multiplayer in this game is horrible. The only good part is when you and your buddies go 
 in free mode and smash cars, shoot pedestrians and do some crazy jumps. The other multiplayer modes 
 are brutal, the spawns are horrible and it really takes no skill at all. Anyone can kneel down 
 and shoot anyone else most times leaving both players dead. Races are laggy and often if you dont 
 start first on the grid then your screwed. Finally up to 16 players gets extremely slow, I cant 
 even count the times ive been driving full on into another players car and it suddenly vanish into 
 thin air. Quite frustrating.
  
  Stick to the single player story, but even that is really easy.
  I got wasted once and failed 
 only 3 missions my first play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhaslkhwg
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is probably the greatest video game achievement ever to be produced thus far. 
 Its highly addictive throughout its lengthy story thanks to vast mission variety and a truly original 
 and well made story with superior voice acting. The game play has really changed specifically when 
 it comes to gun play which has received an overhaul. Its much more cinematic and strategic thanks 
 to a great new cover system similar to that of gears of war. The city and all the possible interactions 
 with it have been given an overhaul as well to make this liberty city feel so real its incredible. 
 And that said its absolutely mind blowing the visuals didn't take a hit and the frame rate stays 
 silky smooth. They took out some of the needless details like weightlifting and things of that 
 nature and added much more exciting features like the cell phone which can be used for social calls 
 or mission information. Niko Belic is definitely the most like able GTA character yet but hes also 
 the most interesting and layered. All the characters have their own unique personalities to support 
 its near perfect storyline. Even if during maybe the 3rd quarter of the game the story may become 
 somewhat slow for a short while, its all worth it in the end. Theres so many good things to say 
 about GTA that they not only completely outweigh minor flaws not even worth mentioning, i simply 
 can cover every piece of gaming perfection in this review. Buy Grand Theft Auto 4 immediately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  In late 2004, GTA San Andreas came out, and it was a hit. Due to a mod on the PC version, users 
 were able to access the infamous "Hot Coffee" sex minigame, which had politicians blasting developer 
 RockStar Games. A cleaner Second Edition came out for the PC (as well as patches) came out, but 
 despite all this friction, it was still an amazing game (it STILL is) . Two spin-offs came out: 
 GTA Liberty City and Vice City Stories came out on the PSP (and later ported to PS2) . While they 
 were great on the PSP, the ports were more or less milking the franchise. For a while, I figured 
 maybe they wouldn't go back and make more. But with the announcement of GTA 4, all bets were off. 
 It was to be a PS3 and Xbox 360 exclusive that promised to bring us a true next-generation GTA 
 experience. Did they deliver? Absolutely. When I heard the setting was in Liberty City AGAIN, I 
 had doubts since we've been there more than once already, but I was pleased (and kinda confused) 
 to find the city completely different. Sure there are buildings and places that may LOOK familiar, 
 but it's all new. The only place that's sorta the same is the airport, which has the same name, 
 but is totally different (it's on the east side of the city, whereas it was on the west before) . 
 The graphics look much nicer (still not the best on 360, but impressive) , whereas the older games 
 look more like a city of boxes with no depth or detail. You still can't go in EVERY building, but 
 you can go into a lot more than before. It's true the city isn't QUITE as big as San Andreas, but 
 it's much deeper and detailed. The city feels more like a real community, and the vast population 
 of NPCs really bolster the effect. Weather also plays a big role. Realistic weather patterns make 
 the city have several other faces that you just don't see anywhere else. Rain and storms even make 
 the roads slippery and glossy, making you focus on your driving. Characters are also more realistic 
 than ever, doing away with the almost cartoony look of previous games. The audio is some of the 
 best I've heard in ANY video game, and the cutscenes are all handled to resemble a movie, rather 
 than a game. The voice overs are good, and the music is great too. There's a lot of lesser-known 
 music and artists, but I enjoyed most of it. Aside from the talk-show stations (which are always 
 funny) I'd have to say I like the LRR classic rock station because it has some really great bands 
 like The Who, Black Crowes, Genesis, Stevie Knicks, and Black Sabbath. There's something to suit 
 everybody. I won't get into the story much because it's so good and I don't want to spoil anything, 
 but the missions are mostly all great. Admittedly, you still do a lot of the stuff you do in other 
 GTAs, but because of the diversity, you never really get sick of it. SOME missions can be punishing 
 though, so you might be replaying some over a few times. The last point of this review is about 
 the awesome new multiplayer. You get your standard deathmatches and turf war (like King Of The 
 Hill) , but there's also racing, and a "Protect The VIP" mode where one team plays as a mob, and 
 another team plays as cops trying to wipe them out. I can't begin to even go through all the details, 
 you just have to try it to see how addictive it gets. Lastly there's also a Free Mode where you 
 and other players just run around causing havoc and doing whatever you want. Need to kill 5 hours? 
 This is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent story, amazingly vivid open world, tons of stuff to do throughout Liberty City, 
 fantastic voice acting, amazingly detailed visuals, outstanding online multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Vehicle controls take getting use to, music could have been better, there's more F bombs 
 than "The Departed".
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I will freely admit it: I am not a GTA fan. I never have been, but I still desided to give the 
 latest installment in the series a try, and boy I'm glad I did. GTAIV is simply a modern gaming 
 masterpiece in every aspect. It's not very often that I agree with the critics about a game, but 
 this one was a rare exception.
  
  You play as Niko Belic, a Russian who goes to America in hopes of starting over with help from 
 his cousin, Roman. Unfortunately, the two get into a load of trouble so that the land of oppertunities 
 becomes more of a nightmare. Now. Niko must steal cars, kill mob bosses and preform other dirty 
 deeds in order to pay the rent and to stay alive in Liberty City.
  
  The first thing you'll notise once you set foot into Liberty City for the first time is how massive 
 the place is. Now, it may not be as big as other GTA games, but it is much more detailed and there 
 are a ton of things to do throughout the city. Liberty City is pretty much to scale a replica of 
 New York, and the team at Rockstar wanted to make sure that if you went to a place in New York, 
 you could find it in Liberty City, looking almost the same. Obviously the names have changed, but 
 the city's structure is pretty much the same. The visuals are also extremely impressive. The amount 
 of little details put into the visuals shows how much effort the guys at Rockstar North put into 
 this game, and their effort really shows.
  
  Liberty City is yours for the taking. You can go jack cars, cruise around running over pedestrians 
 and ticking off cops, you can race, you can play darts, bowl or play pool, you can go to a comedy 
 club, a bad cantina or a strip club and so much more. The pure amount of things to do in Liberty 
 City is staggering. They also put a lot of effort into making the game more realistic. Now, if 
 you jack a parked car, you may have to smash in the window and then hotwire it, while jacking a 
 car while someone is driving it will make for a cleaner getaway. One aspect that really impressed 
 me was the storytelling. I never thought that a game like Grand Theft Auto would have such a good 
 storyline. Dispite the fact that he is a thug, I actually like Niko as a character. The character 
 development in this game is similar to epic RPGs and feature films, which is interesting. 
  
  There are tons of missions to do throughout the game and a ton of side quests that will boost 
 your bankroll as well as earn you achievements, so you will be set with the single player game 
 for a very long time, but another aspect that really shines is the online multiplayer. There are 
 14 different modes for up to 16 players, and in each mode, you can wonder around Liberty City and 
 pretty much do whatever. You have your standard deathmatch, team deathmatch and turf war, but you 
 also have modes like GTA Race where you must jack a ride and drive from point to point or free 
 mode where you can do whatever you want to with friends in Liberty City. The amount of multiplayer 
 options is staggering, but their quality is also outstanding. There is virtually no lag, which 
 is really impressive considering the graphics and how big the city is. Plus, you can jump into 
 a multiplayer game at any time my accessing the multiplayer option on your cell phone during single 
 player. 
  
  GTA does have some extremely minor issues, but nothing that can really blemish the rest of the 
 game. First, the vehicle controls take getting use to. Once you play the game for a while, they 
 aren't so bad, but at the begining, they are tough to get use to. Second, there is a ton of F bombs. 
 Now I know this is an extremely mature game, but still, it doesn't need that many F bombs. Lastly, 
 dispite the reputation of the series to have great licenced music in game, the soundtrack left 
 a lot to be desired. The ability to create a custom radio station would have been awesome. Let 
 me say that I would definately not let children play this game because of how extreme the content 
 is. There is lots of language, violence, sexuality and much more, so please, don't let children 
 play this game. This is for older teens and adults only.
  
  Overall, GTAIV is an amazing game that must be played by 360 and PS3 owners. It is truely a masterpiece 
 and iis one of the best games I've played in a very long time.
  
  Gameplay: Massive city and tons of things to do as well as great multiplayer options make this 
 a game that you won't run out of things to do on.
  
  Graphics: A massive city has never looked so good and so vividly detailed.
  
  Sound: Excellent 
 voice acting, but the music left something to be desired.
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny, so go buy it NOW!!!
  
  Final Thoughts: Maybe here, things 
 will be different...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BellXross
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Never has such a short sentence summed up a game that is so morally questionable, yet so diverse 
 and ambiguous, so perfectly. Life is complicated, and no one's life is more complicated then that 
 of Niko Bellic  protagonist to Rockstars' new game: Grand Theft Auto IV. 
  
  Morally ambiguous as ever, the critically acclaimed developer has taken the series to the next 
 chapter by officially crowning their latest release as the fourth GTA. (As opposed to Vice City 
 and San Andreas, which are considered 'spin-offs' of the third game.) Returning to Liberty City, 
 GTA IV has you take over the life of Niko Bellic, a Serbian with a dark past and the desire to 
 make a new life for himself in America.
  
  From the moment you step off the boat, you can tell there's something different about this game. 
 The rain falling down around you, the street lights desperately trying to hold the darkness at 
 bay, even the people going about their business for the first time, Liberty City feels alive.
 
  
  This sense of realism is a feat not many can achieve, and whilst Rockstar come close, they don't 
 quite manage it with perfect execution. Like the previous GTA games, IV carries with it some bugs, 
 some oddities, and those little things that can sometimes ruin the experience for you. The controls 
 can also seem a bit 'fiddly' at times, especially with the new 'cover & shoot' combat system that's 
 been added. But if you look past this, if you ignore the hype and just enjoy the game for what 
 it is, then you're guaranteed a worthwhile experience. 
  
  One of its high points is the story, the character of Niko Bellic. Unlike previous GTA titles, 
 Niko's story revolves around the irony of his situation; that of a man who wants to do good, who 
 doesn't want to be controlled by others, yet inevitably finds himself reacting to other peoples 
 actions. Previous characters, whilst being well-rounded, have often come up short when trying to 
 factor in the sociopathic behaviour that comes as a result of the players actions.
  
  Niko himself is a troubled man; he fought in the Bosnian war, he's killed, smuggled and traded 
 people and illegal waresand now he's on the run, and looking for a new life in the 'land of opportunity'. 
 The game starts you off in the 'working-class' district of Liberty City, Dukes & Hove Beach, where 
 he lives with his cousin Roman who moved to America years before.
  
  As you progress through the game, you meet new people, not all of them good. Despite his reformist 
 dreams, Niko finds himself time and again do other people's dirty work, and he makes more then 
 a few enemies. As you slowly fight your way up through the districts of Liberty City, you're confronted 
 with betrayal, jealousy, friendship, love, and hope.
  
  The physical world of GTA IV is smaller then that of the last game and other little things like 
 the use of planes have also been dropped. This is because Rockstar have tried to shift the entire 
 focus of the game; instead of just randomly walking around and blowing stuff up which was the favourite 
 hobby of most GTA players, you actually get engaged in the story and what it has to offer. 
  
  Graphically, GTA IV is stunning, equally on par with the likes of BioWare's Mass Effect, or 
 even Creative Assembly's Viking. As mentioned earlier, Rockstar have really brought Liberty City 
 to life in this game. The pedestrians now act in a more realistic manner, they stand around and 
 talk, they react to the environment, and even the weather. Other tweaks like the 'escape radius' 
 for police chases, and the impact damage on cars, add to reality that this is a city, and you can 
 do damage. 
  
  The multiplayer adds yet another layer of depth, letting you team up online with up to 16 people 
 in a variety of different modes  Deathmatch, Car Chase City, and Free Roam to name but a few. 
 Both fun and challenging, this extra mode will help ensure the game is played well passed the single 
 player story. 
  
  If you were say that GTA IV was a triumph, that it was the best in the series, and that it is one 
 of the best made games this year, then you wouldn't be far wrong. That said, GTA IV is not a God, 
 it's not perfect, and whilst it my have wide appeal, they'll still be those that question the ambiguous 
 morals that it teaches to those that play. Still, it's a damn good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  When Gamespot gave Grand Theft Auto 4 a perfect 10, it was the first ten since Tony Hawk 3 in 2001. 
 Wow that speaks volumes. Anyway the Grand Theft Auto series as a whole, is iconic in the world 
 of video gaming. The violent nature of the game is controversial an is known to push the envelope 
 to the point where it has been either banned or censored in other countries, or pissed off a congressman 
 or two. The game takes place in Liberty City which is basically New York City. And the detail level 
 is just mind blowing if you want eye candy, just go to Time Square in the night time and you'll 
 see what I mean. But what really make the game is the story. The protagonist Niko Belic, is a character 
 who is plan pretty much a cold blooded killer, is overall a great character. The voice acting is 
 top notch and the overall script is funny, profane, and makes you want to invest time in single 
 player campaign. I love the new targeting system, when you turn off auto aiming. And when you do 
 it's similar to Resident Evil 4, at least for me. So far I've spent 20+ hours and I'm only 30% 
 finished. So that alone make the game worth buying. You read numerous reviews that gave GTA 4 perfect 
 scores an this one is no different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFS-Marc
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  http://pixelatedsausage. com
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is no question the biggest game of 2008 (even though it's only April) and there 
 have been epic amounts of hype behind it. I have been a fan of the series since it's birth on the 
 PC and all those people who argue that the series is a Sony series can go and F*** their PS3 in 
 a closet because they are what I like to call "retards". This is no question the best game in the 
 series, but it is far from perfect. Some problems from past games are still present, but major 
 issues (like shooting) have been fixed overall.
  
  The story is of a high production value just like the previous games, but now with a bit more importance 
 placed upon it. Everything is extremely well done as a whole, but as you progress through the game 
 you'll notice that the character of Niko isn't as human as you might expect. Niko soon becomes 
 someone who will do anything for money and barely ever questions what is asked of him. He bases 
 most these actions on "loyalty", but he comes across as someone without empathy. This may be a 
 good thing for most because it makes dicking around in the game easier to swallow because you will 
 no longer doubt Niko is capable of doing those actions. Besides that the story is really well done 
 and the voice acting is excellent. I found the writing to be great and especially enjoyed the dialogue 
 between characters after a night of drinking. The drunken chats are funny and believable, but most 
 importantly feel like the kind of conversations one would have while being intoxicated. So you 
 heard it here first, I fully promote drinking and chatting. It's a win/win situation!
  
  I found the controls for the game to be great, especially the shooting. The game does have a lock-on 
 system that does "work", but you can turn off lock-on feature so that you always use free-aim and 
 that is where it works best. I found the shooting system similar to that of Resident Evil 4 and 
 it worked great for me. I never enjoyed the shooting in previous GTA games that much, but now I 
 absolutely love the system and even the cover system works well. Pretty much any piece of architecture 
 can be used as cover and though the action of getting into cover isn't super smooth, it does work 
 surprisingly well. The hand-to-hand combat has been improved from "sh****" to "decent" though you 
 never have much reason to fight with your hands. I will say that after you get used to the fighting 
 system the small amount of depth does become fun and it is more challenging than the retarded counter 
 system in Assassin's Creed. The driving has gone down a more realistic tone (just like the game 
 as a whole) and it may take a little getting used to, but after some time you'll be driving like 
 you always do; which means you'll be knocking over a lot of light poles.
  
  The mission structure follows a very similar path as the previous games, but there are a few epic 
 missions that will not soon be forgotten. The bank job has been the most talked about mission and 
 all I'll say is that if Kane and Lynch was like that mission then I would have bought that game. 
 Some missions have major flaws though, mainly most of the chase missions. When you are chasing 
 someone in a car/bike most of the time it is impossible to kill them until they have reached a 
 designated point, such as crashing their car or getting some backup etc. I can understand the reason 
 behind this decision because the chases do have many scripted events that are cool, but knowing 
 that I can't do anything until I hit a specific point really takes you out of the experience. I 
 was chasing a guy on a bike and shot the hell out of him but he never died. I was chasing a dude 
 in a car and shot at his tires, but apparently he found the only bullet-proof tires in game. These 
 issues tend to take away from the open mission structure and pull you out of the experience. That 
 is just a small gripe and for the most part the missions are fun to play.
  
  Graphically the game is gorgeous and is truly one of the best looking games out there. Old series 
 plagues like pop-in still happen, but they are nowhere near as bad as in previous games. The real 
 star of the game is the Euphoria engine which allows for greatest physics I've ever seen in a game. 
 Not only does the engine bring this game to life, but it will also leave every person with tons 
 of great memorable moments. Though some times the physics are a bit over-the-top with crazy crashes 
 happening when you're going around 15mph. Another big change for the game (on consoles) is the inclusion 
 of a multiplayer component and it works rather well (with friends) . I find the MP to be overall 
 pretty good, but there isn't much depth to keep me coming back months down the road. GTAIV online 
 is fun, but most of the fun comes from playing with people you know. I will say that I would love 
 to see a co-op mission similar to the previously mentioned bank mission; they could even call it 
 something like, "Cane and Linch".
  
  GTAIV is a great achievement in the industry and is one of the best games I've ever played, but 
 I feel so many people are quick to call it "The Greatest Game You'll Ever Play". A lot of people 
 making that claim haven't finished the story, or are just plain consumed by the hype. The best 
 way I can describe how I feel about GTAIV is with this statement. If I were on a deserted island 
 and I could only take one game that I would ever be able to play, it would be GTAIV... but if I 
 could only play one game that I would ever remember it would be Bioshock. Both games are great, 
 but they deliver very different experiences. I would say that overall GTAIV is more fun to play, 
 but a game like Bioshock is more memorable to me. I'm not "dissing" the game and I can pretty much 
 guarantee that I am a bigger GTA fan than you, but people claiming that GTAIV is the greatest game 
 you'll ever play is just a ridiculous statement. With that, I give you the first 5 Sausage game 
 and it is some nice, tasty sausage!
  
  (PS3 vs. X360... The PS3 does experience less pop-in, which is especially noticeable in the gun 
 stores. The 360 does have a sharper image from what I've seen and the PS3's color palette does 
 seem a bit more vibrant. Either way the game looks great and the real question you need to ask 
 is, "Which controller do I prefer and which system do I prefer for online play". No matter what 
 system you pick, you won't be missing out at all.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  GTA IV's seismic release after months of pent-up anticipation has seen perfect score after perfect 
 score from critics abroad. I guess the collaborative impact of seeing GTA in next-gen graphics, 
 in multiplayer and sporting a criminal amount of features has made its perfect score a verdict 
 very little could refuse to reward it. Not to mention of course, Gamespot's well-regarded word 
 also bears a 10, sidling up next to the likes of 'Ocarina of Time', (which any gamer worth his 
 salt would tell you its massive acclaim was well within the boundaries of justice) . Is THAT where 
 GTA IV really is? Does its integrity still hold up especially after the initial impact has had 
 a few weeks to marinate?
  
  Well firstly, let it not be stated enough that GTA IV delivers beyond the precedents of it's immaculate 
 track record. GTA III sent the entire gaming community into a dumbing shock with its staggering 
 freedom, Vice City polished, stylised and improved and San Andreas just exploded, upping the ante 
 in pretty much every sense of the game, and amongst this immense success it's hard to picture how 
 Rockstar could top themselves again. What GTA IV does in it's first roll with the new hardware 
 is a whole lot of recreating, and this is what makes it so special. Rockstar has rightfully broken 
 down and reworked many fundamental elements to the franchise. The resulting product is something 
 that weaves carefree between the classic and the fresh.
  
  Realism appears to be the word of the day. The movement and physics in this regard have had a serious 
 do-over as driving and even walking around feels like there's a lot more gravity to it. Practically, 
 this means that the difficulty, or perhaps the ease of performing certain manoeuvres have been 
 affected as fans of the series will be looking at a bit of time for adjusting to the new realistic 
 feel of the game. Shooting mechanics (which many regarded previously as the weak link in GTA's 
 chain) have now been improved with a new 'Gears of War' style duck and cover system which has greatly 
 deepened the combat, making gunfights way more dynamic and exciting.
  
  But GTA IV's 21st century context blesses it with perhaps the most profound and exciting new feature 
 to the GTA franchise. As much of an anticlimax as this may appear to be, the revolutionary tool 
 I'm talking about is actually Niko's mobile phone. While Vercetti and CJ both had them, what makes 
 them so special this time around is the way Rockstar has deepened and integrated its use to make 
 it as crucial to the game as they are to us in real life. Niko's phone does everything your phone 
 does: receive messages, plant reminders, take photos, form a contacts list, customize themes and 
 ringtones etc. To reveal the devilishly clever ways in which the game's missions utilize your new 
 toy is to spoil much of the fun, suffice it to say you will find it very, very, very cool.
  
  However, let's not neglect some of the disappointing omissions that have confounded some of 
 us. While some features such modding cars, rampages, buying property or the RPG elements are debatable 
 as to whether or not they'll be missed, most fans of the franchise can agree that the omission 
 of garages was a surprise.
  
  What of perhaps the most anticipated new feature of GTA IV, its multiplayer? The transfer of the 
 mayhem you usually wreak solo into the competitive arena signifies a solid and visceral experience 
 that at times can become very exciting. GTA IV's multiplayer component however, is not as essential 
 to its own success as say, COD 4's was to its success, but it's certainly not just a distraction 
 from the single player either. However, the online experience may vary for some. Framerate may 
 dip here and there and dropping out unexpectedly may also be a problem. But when it works, GTA 
 IV's multiplayer component is something exciting that has only been dreamed about until now.
  
  But is it worth all the perfect scores it's cashed in upon the wide impact of its release? 
 It's a superb game, there is absolutely no doubt about that, but after playing, finishing and seeing 
 most things there are to see in the game, I'm left in a position to wonder whether or not this 
 is the right game for such momentous critical appraisal. Now that a few weeks have passed after 
 the release, I also wonder if the 10/10's, the 5 stars and the A++'s were just automatic amongst 
 a thick atmosphere of Rockstar's best franchise on the new hardware. Something that deserves such 
 staggering praise should be absolutely groundbreaking, revolutionary and unimprovable in any way. 
 I don't think GTA IV is quite there. But let's not leave it at that. The game is an absolute rip-roaring 
 ride that makes III, Vice City and San Andreas and the rest of the competition look like Piwasser, 
 and that right there is something that deserves a hearty round of applause.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a work of gaming Excellence, this game should have a its own gaming classification Real 
 Life Gaming. Rockstars incorporation of the Internet, TV & cell phone is perfection.
  
  The no changing gaming difficulty is spot on. A very brave choice as had they got this wrong then 
 this game could have become the biggest turkey since Driv3r.
  
  The storyline is based superbly on you're life choices this will eventually determine which ending 
 you will recieve, again nothing but total respect for Rockstar they set the bar in 1997 with GTA 
 and wow have they raised it everytime since.
  
  This game is as good a storyline gets since the awesome MAFIA, and that says a hell of alot. I strongly 
 suspect that the brilliant Gathering team had a very large hand to play in this game.
  
  With Niko Bellic being a serbian from the former Yugoslavia, where most of the Gathering Developers 
 crew was based. The Graphical effects in this game will blow you away (quite litterally in the case 
 of the lap dancers & pro's case) Driving in the rain @ night down star junction is something to 
 behold, the tounge in cheek digs @ social & economical & political views is once again a pleasure 
 to hear. 
  
  From the liberal PLO to the over the top views "that everyones a terrorist ,and all incidents in-game 
 are "performed by terrorists" views of the neo-cons @ weezel news (isnt that like a fox lol ) keep 
 em scarred is sadly the motto of the idiot's.
  
  The Net cafe's being called TW@ the TV ads being hillarious, Iggy Pop (isnt that a term now for 
 avoiding convo with older ppl hmm) telling us how radio is dying on its as* as you have to be a 
 non tallented, nothing to say celeb these days to get air-play is point proven. Famous for being 
 rich = Fame 4 fu** all is sadly also true of the world in 2008.
  
  This game is quite simply PERFECTION cant wait for GTA 5, but MAFIA 2 will ease the wait somewhat 
 but then their is always GTA IV and finding things out like the sky-train, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokingrenade
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  From the point that i got this game i wanted to fire up my xbox 360 and play for seven days straight 
 without going out into the real world. When you play this game and you are able to rack up all 
 the achievements you get a better sense of grand theft auto iv. If you want to get all the achievements 
 you will have to play it twice (in order to get the 30 hour one completed) . The missions are truly 
 fun to do missions not to hard but not to easy either. I found one flaw though (which doesn't hurt 
 the altogether score) which is the multiplayer flaw. Sometimes you are kicked off the multiplayer 
 option and back into single player. So far for me there isn't alot of people online when i'm on 
 maybe about 15 (find me online my gamertag is elitegunz) . But altogether a magnificent game!! You 
 have to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macwho
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  With GTA 4 or Grand Theft Auto IV you instantly get into the story as soon as you turn your console 
 on. While the credits are running you are getting a breif laydown of the story. I wont give to 
 much away just let you see for your self. Does start like most GTA games where you get in a car 
 and drive to your hideout where you can save your game etc.
  
  With GTA 4 as soon as I started to play I noticed just how much the graphics have changed. Not 
 that you can enter every shop or building you see but most buildings have there own signs and well 
 made. Then the shops and buildings you can enter you don't have to walk into a little marker like 
 the old GTA games. Just straight in no loading screens nothing. 
  
  Since im a first timer with the Xbox 360 the new controllers first felt a little awkard for me 
 to handle as you had to drive and steer with the analog sticks which is a cool feature but at the 
 moment ive changed my controls so i'm using the old press the button to accelerate which is good 
 for people who don't like to much change in there GTA experience. Buttons for the game are very 
 easy to get the hang off ive had my Xbox 360 for only a couple of days and already nearly mastered 
 GTA's buttons so there shouldnt be any trouble there.
  
  As for playing the game cars have a life like realness to them now. You can run through car doors 
 when there open and stuff like that. And you can't just sprint and push a car round anymore like 
 you could with other GTA games because lets be honest not many people can push a car around 360*. 
 You can probably push a car from behind I havnt tried that.
  
  There are so many little things I could tell you about like darts, pool, watching TV in your home 
 but I dont want to give them all away for you and also I havnt found all of them yet. Many of you 
 probably know most the ones like internet cafes and buying clothes for Niko, but what im loving 
 the best so far in my gaming experience is the ability to use your mobile phone to organise dates, 
 get togethers, missions etc. You can buy your own ringtones and all that kinda stuff its really 
 great.
  
  You get your first girl friend from a mission very early on. Her name is Michelle and she isnt 
 very good with the whole dating thing as shes very shy. She doesnt care what you wear and you can 
 wear the same outfit all the time and she loves it. Also I will let you know she loves motorbikes 
 and playing activities like bowling and pool.
  
  Anyway GTA 4 on the Xbox 360 I find has supurb graphics even without a High Definition television 
 and the Difficulty of the game is just right. You cant just go around shooting in the open like 
 the old days now you have to protect yourself behind anything you can find. In saying that though 
 you can almost shoot anywhere when behind an object so don't think its harder. In fact its probably 
 easier. Cops are easy to lose on 1 star which is handy for people who hate being cased by cops. 
 So far i've found it hard to get my hands on weapons. I've only got a pistol and a shotgun so far. 
 The pistol you get from a mission fairly early and the shotgun I got from shooting coppers haha.
 
  
  Anyway thanks for reading my review I hope you like what you've read and hopefully you go out and 
 purchase if you don't already have your copy of GTA 4 on Xbox 360 or the PS3 which I also recommend 
 with the GTA bundle pack coming out only on PS3. I rate this 10/10 as its got nearly everything 
 you could want in a action, shooting adventure game in Liberty City. Imagine what Rockstar and 
 Rockstar North are going to make after this release?? This is only the first release on the Next 
 Gen consoles people and already changed the way we game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabooservb117
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  With the limitless exploring and grand-theft-autoing there's no wonder that this game got a 10/10 
 on Gamespot. It lets you experience a game in a deeper level. You can go on dates, pick up hookers, 
 get in a little trouble with the cops, go on random rampages, etc. There's no limit to what you 
 can do. There is also a huge improvement with the AI, they recognize your driving, don't just get 
 in the open to shoot you, cuss at you when you do something wrong. Another great add-on is the 
 cellphone (which will help you a lot around the game) . You can get a cab with it (the driver for 
 the cab is really pissed at you... you'll know why if you get the game) , call for a job, call to 
 schedule a date, call to ask your friends to hang out with you., and many more. One con is the 
 cops, the fuzz, the men in blue, or whatever you want to call the feds. They have a tiny search 
 area which you can easliy escape. It can also be a good thing when your on a mission and you don't 
 want to get bothered by them. Another great thing is the internet which you can get online people 
 who are desperate for some luvin', or get a theme or ringtone for your phone. If your still not 
 interested there is a large assortment availible of guns and vehicles. The vehicles include helicopters, 
 boats , and of course cars. I hoped this review helped you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShortyMJF
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV has the graphics, gameplay and Single-player story of a true 'next-gen' console game! Rockstar 
 has delivered again in its over-the-top violence Grand Theft Auto series. New gamers to the franchise 
 will enjoy the array of game types including; action, driving, first person shooter, etc. However, 
 those who played previous GTA titles will have a mix of emotions.
  
  GTAIV has truly evolved the franchise but previous GTA fans will find some of the missing features 
 such a customizing your car or going to the gym a disappoint. Also, the radio stations are fairly 
 limited and you can't add your own stations!
  
  Aside from the minor little details. This working title has 35+ hours of thrilling and enthralling 
 gameplay. At times, the cut scenes make you feel as though you are watching a movie.
  
  Once you pound out the hours of gameplay the online world awaits which has several game types to 
 satisfy even the pickiest of gamers. Just be aware of the 12 year old kids! (I still wonder how 
 there parents let them get such a game) .
  
  All and all GTAIV is a great buy and only suffers minor imperfections. This is definitely a must 
 buy!
  
  9 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sullen_LaMorte
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  There are few things in life that could be considered absolutely perfect and deserving of a "Perfect 
 10" and GTA IV is not one of those things.
  
  While I have never played a GTA game before, I had a sudden craving to check one out after reading 
 an elaborate article about it in a gaming magazine. It wasn't all it was cracked up to be: terrible 
 AI, clunky controls and boring missions. Needless to say, I wasn't terribly impressed.
  
  I am and always will be a fan of a detailed and immersive storyline that draws in the player, and 
 it always saddens me when big hype games like GTA IV or Halo 3 get such good reviews when their 
 story is as deep as a puddle drying up in the sun.
  
  GTA certainly has it moments, but it's nothing to keep someone who appreciates a good story playing 
 for long.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocool1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows by now that the GTA series is for mature audiences only, so I'm not going to prance 
 around the issue of mature content... if you have children don't play it in front of them or don't 
 let them play it (young ones, not mature teenagers) unless you want them to end up on Jerry Spinger 
 in 15 years!
  
  With that out of the way, let me just say that something that people don't realize is the technically 
 amazing achievement this game truly is. The reason many wouldn't even think that is because its 
 not the best looking game on either system (360 or PS3) there are better looking games that even 
 came out some time ago (Gears of War; xbox 360) but none of those other beautiful games pull off 
 as much technially as GTA IV. With the high quality graphics, the sheer amount of dynamic and background 
 loading content and the life (and death) and attention to detail is just not seen in other games 
 to date. There is so much to do, single or multiplayer, Rockstar is really the King of Sandbox. 
 And for the most part they do it so seamlessly.
  
  Technical achievements aside the game is damn fun too. Sure I'm only 30% through the single player 
 campaign so I have a ways to go and probably some bouts of frustration along the way as well, but 
 with what little I've seen and the great joy my friends and I have had in Multiplayer so far this 
 game is a must play for any mature gamers who were fans of the series in the past or just want 
 to enjoy some great run-n-gun action and story.
  
  Top notch voice acting - I've only run across one voice/character so far that I thought was kind 
 of a sub-par performance. Quality writing and dialog and such a seamless blend of action and entertainment. 
 I am a big fan of Mass Effect and I'd say, although its a completely different genre, this game 
 also shines in some of the same areas that Mass Effect won me over with (story, in game cutscenes, 
 dialog, etc.)
  
  I could go on but I really haven't played enough to write up a full on review, but I have played 
 enough to know that the kudos and high scores this game is getting are well deserved. It does have 
 some issues, like being the first of the series to make its debut in the multiplayer arena. While 
 there are a host of options there, some of the interfaces are kind of clunky and I've been reading 
 were the PSN/PS3 version in particular is having some connection issues (I haven't experienced 
 ANY with the 360 so I'm even more impressed with multiplayer) . But in the end it's just one HELL 
 of a game and one that I hope I finish and know I'll continue playing online with friends for some 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  CONS: There are no more Firetruck missions, Ambulance Missions, Jetpacks, Planes or Rhinos to jack. 
 No more Rampages or Ammunations. Packages became pigeons. What gives? These where the things that 
 made GTA GTA. The street races are terrible. You can win them with any car... talk about no competition 
 whatsoever. Theres points in the game where the graphics go completely black & white. There are 
 no country areas at all... its all city. Taking friends & girlfriends out completely sucks. I think 
 Rockstar needs to eliminate that aspect of the game. I just there to fill the game up & irritate 
 us. The stunt jumps were dumb this time around just because you could get them without landing 
 them correctly. 
  
  PROS: The new aim feature is a nice addition to the game. The water looks fabulous. Graphics are 
 mostly top notch through the game. When its a sunny day in the game you really realize how much 
 detail there really is. Another great soundtrack. The GPS system was pretty helpful at times. Catching 
 cabs & trains was pretty cool considering some drives are long. Alternate endings made the game 
 have a littler replay value. The hot dog vendors are very helpful in the game. This time around 
 they made some of the mini games kind of fun. Dragging victims from cars & then smashing them across 
 a street light was funny to do. Cop computer was nice. They added some decent stuff to arsenal. 
 
  
  All in all I still had a blast playing this game but I just felt like it was too easy now... like 
 they dumbed it down to put more into the graphics. Still awesome to play just don't expect the 
 fun of San Andreas or the difficulty of GTA 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1988
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Where to start?
  
  Gta 4 is most probably one of the best achievements in game history. The detail that has gone into 
 this game is nothing less then atonishing. 
  
  The game starts with Niko, just about to make land on a large ship from mother russia. Roman, Niko's 
 cousin has promised Niko women, cars, mansions and everything else his heart may desire, meets 
 Niko at the dock, drunk and in a whole lot of trouble, Niko's hopes for a more comfortable life 
 is flushed down libertys citys crap hole quicker then your "friends" drugs when the police are 
 knockin at your door. And so the greatness of GTA 4 begins. 
  
  I wont go any further into the story, as im sure you have already read many other reviews.
  
 
  The missions are nicely done, and vary alot to keep you from getting bored. The characters are 
 well stuctured and have depth. The music will make you pull your car over sometimes and make you 
 wanna just sit and listen to its long tracklist. 
  
  Theres just so much about this game that just makes you go snap.
  
  Although I would not say 
 its perfect. There are a few problems, even if few and far between that do just pull its down slightly. 
 I noticed a few graphical issues where walls and cars would just load out of no where. And AI on 
 occassion seemed to forget what awesome game they were in and lost concentration. 
  
  But all and all Rockstar should be very proud. My advice, if you havent got gta4 yet, get it now 
 and you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentshady
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  The most hyped game of the year and with a rating of 10 i personally dont think that GTA4 is that 
 good. I have completed the game like 80% and i'm still not satisfied . The thing that bums me out 
 is that many things have been deleted in this game that were there in San Andreas like Variety 
 in  building, sex appeal etc. And overall the gameplay 
 is not that much fan and repetitive . mostly missions involve u going to a building or a site where 
 u kill a lot of goons or u kill them in a chase . Where is that GTA innovations we always see ? 
 The thing that bummed me hard was the story firstly the characters are not that cool and the plot 
 is very weak it has no twists at all the game ended where it started no significant changes in 
 NB's life . I was waiting to get hold of a mansion kill a big don and be the talk of the town but 
 it didnt happen and in the ned when it happened it was not the same. The handling of the cars and 
 bikes is too realistic for a video game and its diff to control at turns and high speeds .Even 
 when u go to diff cities within LC its all the same the kind of diversity that SAn andreas had 
 with the deserts , farms ,casinosetc was missing. ALL in all i'll say San andreas was much better 
 and this is a step down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTW87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  After playing through gta 4 I feel the single player was great but the multiplayer was at best 
 OK but did not play well when compared to other games multiplayer like Saints Row but lets talk 
 about the good stuff. The single player in gta 4 is the best in the series so far. good story telling 
 and fun missions but I still do not like the aiming lock on. Are we still playing gta 3 come on 
 I want free aim all the time. multiplayer is hit and miss I thought playing team deathmatch on 
 the single player map would be sweet. I was wrong it is just to BIG and takes to long to get around 
 and all the bugs like the one that splits you up from your party and sends you back to the single 
 player. and what happened to my chain-saw? where are all the cool weapons and planes o well. Not 
 a bad game not the best game its just GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Well, I just finally beat it tonight actually. And while I got slightly disenchanted half way through, 
 after laying off of it for a couple of days, I fell in love with it all over again after I came 
 back and finished it. This game is truly a perfect example of the saying, "The whole is greater 
 than the sum of it's parts."
  
  However, the main thing that I missed was the ability to buy property. The things that disenchanted 
 me towards the middle of the game was the annoying calls from your needy friends, and the soundtrack, 
 which I felt was much weaker than previous installments. However, in retrospect, all of that is 
 trivial when measured against the brilliant scope of the entire production. 
  
  As this game, when measured for what it is as a whole, is indeed a masterpiece. In order for me 
 realize this fully, it took me playing half of it, and then laying off a few days so that I did 
 not get completely burned out. After which, I picked it back up fresh, and completed it over the 
 course a few days. At which time, I was able to fully appreciate what a beautiful monster this 
 game really is. Patience with this one will reward you.
  
  On the technical side of things, the graphics are plenty good enough for a game of this size, and 
 quite a leap for the series in general. In fact, at certain times of the day, the lighting is such, 
 that your eyes will even register some things as being real. Such as the water for instance.
  
  The character animations and envronmental physics are some of the best you will see in a game. 
 Euphoria has truly made it's mark and helps set this game apart in only bringing Libert y City 
 to life even further.
  
  The gameplay and driving are a step up from previous installments as well. While being quirky at 
 times, the cover sytem is a life saver. Driving has a much more ralistic feel to it, with each 
 mode of transportation having it's own feel more than ever before. Just a pleasure to play, really.
 
  
  Well, all that can be said, has been said. And aside from whatever nit-picky flaws you may find 
 in this game, and you will. Just remember to look at it from the perspective of what it is in it's 
 entirety, and the flaws will quickly seem far too petty to make a big deal out of. Afterall, we 
 are not dealing with some random 10 hour game here, now are we, lol.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Liberty City, a city where the American Dream can become a reality. Enter Niko Bellic, 
 an immigrant starting with almost nothing. As soon as the game begins the the choice is yours of 
 what to do. How will you reach the Dream? Will you help your cousin and friends beat the darker 
 side of society? Or will you bring the city to its knees as you terrorize it with weapons, vehicles, 
 helicopters, and many other implements. The choice is entirely up to you, GTA 4 takes 'open-world' 
 gameplay, to a whole new level.
  
  Gameplay 10- Rarely does a video game offer so much to do and in such a realistic way. A lengthy 
 mission is accompanied by virtually endless other things to occupy a day in Liberty City, whether 
 it is going on a date, going to a restaurant, bowling, pool, and yes, even the strip clubs. You 
 can also use the internet to surf the web, use a cell phone to call people, plus many more. It's 
 as if this game took real life, and made a near perfect replication.
  
  Graphics 10- Outstanding visuals. The sheer amount of details packed into every little thing is 
 mindblowing. Walls have graffiti, sidewalks have cracks, wall posters are actually readable. Roads 
 have various textures and surfaces, including sewer covers and patched up pavement. Game physics 
 are also realistic, curbs stop vehicles, the traffic lights swing on their poles, I could go on 
 and on.
  
  Sound 10- In true GTA style Rockstar has made the radio tracks superb. With some songs even pulled 
 from our local radios or hot albums! The sounds are just like what you would hear while driving 
 through a busy metropolis. Voice acting is some of the best Ive heard.
  
  Fun Factor 10- The game never feels stale, as there is always something you can do, even if it 
 is watching TV at home.
  
  Replay Value 10- Liberty City will bring you back into its immersiveness again and again for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible down to the last detail. I have noticed flaws in it, though. 
 To me the biggest problem was how easily I went through all of the missions. This could be due 
 to the fact that I have played every GTA since GTA III and am a big Gears of War fan, but I was 
 still a little disappointed. I remember San Andreas having this incredibly long story mode with 
 so many missions that it gets overwhelming. This game didn't take me nearly that to finish the 
 first time around, and I have started playing a second time where I should finish in only around 
 twenty hours. The replay value is good to me because the missions are generally enjoyable. I am 
 a little upset that in my opinion, the easiest missions were the last two or three, which no matter 
 what choices you make, end up with Niko ducking for cover and killing as many people as Arnold 
 Schwarzenegger in "Commando". The strategies are similar to that of previous games which I enjoy.
 
  
  The plot is the best yet. I love Niko as a character because he is likable and the story is realistic. 
 I always got the feeling you could pull off miracle stunts in the other games and still take crap 
 from the mob bosses, or whoever was giving you work. In this one, people accept that Niko is this 
 incredible killer after a few missions, which adds a lot of realism. You also see that he doesn't 
 enjoy the amount of killing he does and it literally shows in his facial features how stressed 
 out he is. The character development regarding Niko is incredible and the ability to effect the 
 story to the point that you do really makes a person want to replay the game choosing the opposite 
 from what they did the first time. Overall, this is probably the best game I have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is probably the most hyped game ever since Halo 3, and what happend was that 
 the developers realized that, and didn't care that much about making it as good as promised, they 
 released it and hoped that it will earn in alot on the hype alone in the first week... unfortuneatly 
 this what Rockstar has done with GTA IV... They've cut off most of the weapons (like chainsaws 
 and miniguns and flamethrowers WTF?!?) Afterwards they remove all the fun vehicles like the Apache 
 helicopter, the harrier jet and our beloved Rhino tank!
  Bad enough? nope they even made our violent experience in (again) Liberty City even shorter, cut 
 the main story down to roughly 9 hours if you completely ignore everything else. Now they promised 
 we would be able to destroy certain buildings in the game, but apparently Jack Thompson and ESRB 
 came screaming that the gamers would replicate 9/11, because Liberty city looks like New York in 
 this version, Rockstar then tried to fix this by removing planes, but that apparently wasn't enough, 
 so the buildings remained as hard as always. The worst enviromental damage i saw was shooting out 
 a fence, or driving head-on into an building and it left a little crack in the wall, leaving me 
 flying through the windshield and dying. But some of the worst is that you are able to earn tons 
 and tons of money, and never be able to use them, why? because Rockstar added ammo limits (WHY?!?) 
 which means that you can't carry around 10000s rpg's, and that ind the end leaves you with roughly 
 750000$ to spend on nothing as customization options are extremely limited and you are no longer 
 able to buy property.
  
  But anyways onto the game. We start off as Niko Bellic, hardened veteran from the Kosovo-Serbic 
 war, filled with mental scars he comes to liberty city in hopes of a new and better life, like 
 the one his cousin Roman describes in his letters, with fancy sportcars a big mansion, and lots 
 of money and girls. But when you arrive, you find out that the mansion is a low budget one bedroom 
 apartment, the sportscar is a cheap cab on a shift, and that Roman is broke as hell. Even worse, 
 he has got a hard gambling problem and owes money to some very bad guys, and as he is your long-time-no-see 
 cousin you intend to help him out.
  
  As always, the story and voice acting in the game is terrific, and nothing lacks there. The combat 
 system has been greatly improved, now that you are able to take cover against walls and such, but 
 the lock on system is just simply the worst of the worst ever made. Even with enemies around, having 
 you pinned down in a corner on low health, and it still can choose to target a casual pedestrian! 
 this will in the end become so frustrating, that you may even decide to either blindfire, or throw 
 an grenade or launch an RPG and just hope that it will kill them. Even then, the combat system 
 makes the fire fights so damn easy, and results in the game being finished rather quickly due to 
 that the story itself only takes roughly 9 -11 hours.
  Now onto some of the new features in GTA IV, as a almost whole new thing, some of the characters 
 you meet, you can actually go out with and do some activities like getting drunk, bowling, playing 
 darts and such, and eventually if you become close friends with them, you can unlock a special 
 ability with them. The whole realism friendship thing works great IN THEORY, because when you have 
 gotten roughly through 40% of the game, you've unlocked all the possible friends, but unfortuneatly 
 they also have cellphones, meaning they will call you nearly 24/7 asking you to go out with them, 
 which results in you will between every mission drive over to a friend, pick them up, go to some 
 place and pretend to enjoy yourself with some horrifying crappy made activities, then drive them 
 back, and the go pick up the next one and onto the exact same thing again until you've gone out 
 with everyone of them and at that point, a friend is almost ready to go out with you again. 
  Another big feature is the internet, yessir you can now go online in liberty city, note that "LIBERTY 
 CITY" not the world, and that ends up with roughly a dozen websites, where only 5 of them actually 
 can be used to anything at all. And most commonly of these two are your email where you can write 
 to the characters in the game, and the dating site where you can go meet girls (great, more relationships 
 and phonecalls) and date them. There is in fact so much run-off-the-mill content, such as bad ingame 
 tv, or surfing on an useless internet, and it all contributes to some sort of feeling that Rockstar 
 apparently doesn't want you to play Grand Theft Auto IV
  About one third through the game when you've seen pretty much everything you will just ask yourself 
 :Hang on, am i still playing Grand Theft Auto, or Grand theft NORMAL BORING LIFE"
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a good game, but there just ain't enough content or replay value to justify 
 the waiting, and way too much realism which sadly brings the worlds biggest game franchise down 
 to a mediocore level... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -G3NEl21C-187-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  
  Wow!! GTA IV so here it is. You may have heard that lots of people say "SaN AnDr3aS was b3tter!!!11! eleven!" 
 Well frankly put they don't know a master piece when they see one. I will be rating this game on 
 it's true merits as this game is truly something to marvel at. 
  First off must know something about GTAIV it's not about you. It's all about him. Niko, the main 
 character our cold hearted, friend from the Balkland islands who does take crap from no one. GTA 
 IV could be compared more to a movie this time around it's about Nikos story this time around as 
 you experience his problems, his fights, his decisions, his war. 
  
  Story 10/10
  Rockstar really out did their selves this time around wow where to begin. If you don't know yet 
 Niko Bellic The main protagonist of the story is coming to America in search of a better life. 
 He has been receiving e-mails from his 
  cousin Roman telling him of his fast cars, Big house, and beautiful women. Niko in hope of a new 
 beginning goes to liberty city to go and live with his cousin. Now Niko is of Slavic decent not 
 some gang banger or big headed prick but someone who's conscience obviously died many years ago. 
 As soon as he realizes it's not so great. Roman is a chronic gambler in debts to some Russians. 
 He own a cab depot and a rundown apartment. Niko has realized he has the same crap but a different 
 toilet. So now he must make money in any way he can and along the way he meets some reliable people 
 that he does work for and some that become his friends. Probably the one thing that makes you truly 
 see Niko develop before your eyes is when you must make some hard decisions that you really don't 
 want to make. Some of these decisions remind of the real world and how you can have it all. As 
 the story develops from doing odds jobs to organized crime it becomes and amazing epic tale of 
 love, loss, and revenge. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics in GTAIV are incredible and the really help bring the characters to life. There are 
 times when I'm flying through the city and I just marvel at the glory of the city night lights 
 I mean it is truly freaking amazing! The detail is incredible there really is no irrelevant space 
 in liberty city ever street corner every alley way every building has so much detail it truly is 
 beautiful. 
  
  Content 7/10 
  I know this is a huge debate right now but Im sorry GTA SA did have more side missions but that 
 is sacrificed for an amazing city, an amazing story, the ability to have friends, a better shooting 
 system, and better graphics. In GTA IV you can do illegal street races vigilante missions which 
 I like better than SA's, assassination missions, car theft missions, taxi cab missions, drug running 
 missions (Don't confuse this with drug dealing your just the trafficker here.) And probably some 
 other stuff I left out but between all this and the story and pleasing your friends it can sometimes 
 feel a bit over whelming if you're trying to do it all. Although there could have been more there 
 was definitely enough to keep you busy. And of course there is stunt jumps and hidden packages 
 and such. I was hoping they were going to bring back the kill frenzies from GTA 2. 
  
  Multiplayer 5/10
  The multiplayer on GTA 4 is not that fun but I didn't expect it to be because 
 it is mostly a single player game. Lag is a real issue on the multiplayer too many times you will 
 be shooting an opponent and their health will not go down and then they kill you two seconds later 
 it will say that you killed him AFTER he killed you. The races on GTA 4 are much worse on lag than 
 a death match, they are a real lag fest to the point where it's not even a race just a bunch of 
 cars skipping around and you trying to figure out where they're going to skip next. Also there 
 are no gangs or clans of any sort just normal party playing. There was a lot of room for potential 
 hear but honestly I considered GTA 4 a game meant to be a single player experience like oblivion. 
 There was obviously not much innovation here but with as detailed as liberty city is I'm surprised 
 they had enough time to make the multiplayer. But perhaps the biggest flaw is that they allowed 
 lock on in ranked matches. Although many people turn it off its still annoying because any noob 
 with an AK-47 and lock on becomes nearly untouchable. 
  
  Realism 8/10
  Realism was supposed to be a huge part of GTA 4 and it is without a doubt much more realistic that 
 other GTA's. Five shots up close with a pistol will drop you. The driving is one of the best parts 
 of the game, it takes a bit to get used to but once you do it is really awesome as it is much more 
 realistic this time around. The shooting is pretty cheap in my opinion and makes the game way too 
 easy so I turn it off. This can be done by going into your preferences on your dashboard look for 
 game settings or something like that and turn auto aim off and presto, no more auto aim ever except 
 for hand attacks. 
  
  GTA 4 is really an amazing game. The graphics alone are enough to lure most people in let alone 
 the fantastic story. True GTASA did have more stuff to do but think of it this way GTA 3, GTAVC 
 and GTASA are all part of the GTA3 series and now that were in the next gen I think there is going 
 to be some really great things to come for future GTA's in the 4 series. So that's it GTA IV is 
 not game it's an experience that will put some hair on to your XBOX's chest and may just change 
 your outlook on life a little. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coopere
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  i can't put it down. if it wasn't for work, i wouldn't stop playing it so that i can sleep. i find 
 myself eating later than usual and going to bed at two or three in the morning in order to wake 
 up at six to get ready for work. and while at work, i'm thinking of it. i love this game, it is 
 huge. there is so much to do besides the main mission. the game simply draws you into the world 
 of liberty city. i like the radio stations. my favorites are 'tuff-gong' and 'massive-b', coming 
 from the caribbean i have to support. "wickid!!" the missions are fun, a few being frustrating 
 like 'no love lost' because riding a bike is crazy as it is, without chasing a biker through traffic 
 knowing if you hit a vehicle its over, but its still fun. there is so much to do in so little time. 
 i have not played online as yet but soon will. if this game isn't in any 360 owner library they 
 are missing alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazydeano
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Lured to America by promises of living the American Dream by e-mails from his cousin Roman, Niko 
 Bellic steps off the boat and into Liberty City, sporting a slightly dog eared jacket and a thick 
 eastern european accent, and after the opening cut scene you're thrown right into his shoes. So 
 begins GTA IV. 
  
  Personally to begin with i found GTA slow, very slow infact. The first few missions mostly consist 
 of a series of tutorials, each teaching you how to do different things such as shoot, drive, walk, 
 run, sprint, take cover, steal, bludgeon, punch, stab, kick, murder, drown puppies and all of the 
 other criminal acts that fans of the series have come to expect. However after the tutorials the 
 missions become great fun with some completely mad characters to be met such as the steroid pumped 
 Brucie or the rasta Little Jacob. 
  
  Obviously as with all of the GTA games a huge part of it is the city that you run amok in and as 
 usual only part of it is available from the get go. 3 of the 5 city districts (which consist of 
 2 islands) can be terrorized in the beggining an trying to gain access to the other two islands 
 gains you nothing but a six star wanted level and a nice shiny pair of handcuffs or a hot shower 
 of lead. One very noticeable change from San Andreas is how Liberty City now seems to be bursting 
 with life. Civilains will talk on mobile phones, get chased by the police and acknowledge you if 
 you walk by them. 
  
  GTA's graphics have also been given a massive overhaul with the fire, smoke and explosion effects 
 helping to give GTA IV a more cinematic feel. 
  
  A new addition to the series is online play. Online offers up a total of 15 game types ranging 
 from the usual deathmatch to the more unusual mafiya work in which players compete to complete 
 objectives and earn money. Online also uses a level system, players level up by earning money in 
 games by killing other players and completing objectives which in turn levels them up when a certain 
 total amount is reached. Leveling up unlocks new clothes for your online character and also extends 
 the life of the game as some players will want to acheive the highest level.
  
  Overall GTA IV is an excellent addition to the series and is definitely worth the 40 that I payed. 
 There are numerous side missions, races, girlfriendsand pigeons (flying rats) to keep completionists 
 ocuppied long after the 30 hour story is finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow5fall
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I cannot believe how quickly reviewers were to give this title a 10. whether they got so caught 
 up in the hype or they're just kissing up to Rockstar, VERY few games are worthy of a 10 rating 
 and GTA 4 is no exception. Don't get me wrong, I think it is an innovative, immersive and very 
 enjoyable experience that has not only vastly improved from previous versions, but has set the 
 standard for the sandbox genre. Graphics-wise, while the cityscapes are visually impressive, the 
 title still suffers from the same sub-par facial animations and physics engine that causes that 
 random AI enemy to run in place in a doorway like he's on a treadmill as well as "ghost walls" 
 . Flaws such as these have cost several other titles review points in the past, and by overlooking 
 these flaws, It may give developers the impression that they will not be held accountable for similar 
 oversights. Secondly, I found myself saying "Why did'nt they add that?" for example: One of the 
 stations on the TV in the safehouses is a home shopping channel that had swords & knives and stuff 
 on it. There's also a # to call which I immediately assumed would let me order these items. Nope. 
 While the cell phone feature is no doubt an invaluable tool and a welcome addition to the series, 
 I can't help but think of how much more it could have been. Lastly, making you stop to pay tolls 
 is just plain stupid. I have been late for several mission goals because I had to stop to wait 
 in line to pay a toll. It slows down the action and seriously, After wasting 20+ gang members then 
 mowing down countless pedestrians in a car that is filled with narcotics, The cops are chasing 
 down TOLL VIOLATORS?? Overall, it is an entertaining game that never takes it self too seriously 
 and is a must-play for fans of the series or action/sandbox games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubergameking00
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  So this is the American Dream.......
  He first needs to climb up from the American Nightmare to achieve it........
  The gam is absolutely 
 awesome, brilliant and many other things.
  
  The story revolves around a russian man who came to America to ezperience the American Dream along 
 with his cousin Roman.
  His name is Nico Belic (i hope I prenounce it right) .
  The story goes through Liberty City where you'll encounter lots of new missions and friends whom 
 you can work with or work for.
  You'll start with your cousin and then work through Liberty City and eventually you'll end up on 
 the second and third island and complete the final mission.
  That doesn't mean you'll have to stop playing cause there are several other missions you can perfotn 
 by calling some of the friends you've made.
  
  The graphics of the game are probably the best i have ever seen and believe me i have seen a lot 
 ; )
  Although there is only thing that i didn't like about it.
  With some missions it is hard to find the exit or something else because it's so dark but that 
 could also be my TV slthough I experienced it on other TV's too.
  
  The controls and fighting and such stuff is nicely made although he runs kinda slow but i quess 
 i can't make a complain about that cause the rest really compensates for it. 
  There isn't much left for me to say about this cause it is just really awesome.
  Everything has 
 it's own control and is easy to handle once you get the hang of it.
  
  Conclusion: WOW !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! If you got the money then don't hesitate!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Too start out it took me a while to really enjoy this game and really piece together what made 
 me constantly keep coming back to this even though im sick and tired of playing it.
  
  You are Niko Bellic an ex-soldier turned gun for hire you are the deffinition of old school killer 
 one that questions what he does yet still does it. The main character is probably the best in any 
 game I have ever played hell he is probably the best I have seen period.
  
  The shooting is solid not one problem you aim you shoot your bullet goes where you aim it and as 
 you continue to shoot your aim gets crappy. The game has an auto aim feature which I hated so very 
 much. It locks onto whoever is closest to you this is great unless you have a perfect shot at the 
 guy you are supposed to kill and it locks onto some lackey playing with himself. Yet at the same 
 time some areas are so dark you need it because all you can see is muzzle flashes thats pretty 
 much my only annoyance with this game.
  
  The driving is really strange at first. I never played a game where the cars handle like they do. 
 At the start every single turn I took I ended up hitting the other side of the street. It took 
 me the better part of three hours to really get the hang of it and once I did I loved it you can 
 pull off all sorts to crazy stuff. You can also in this one shoot at a 360 degree angle is very 
 helpful!
  
  The world is huge, fun, and there is ALWAYS something going on. They made Liberty city live and 
 breath. Like in the san andreas you get a cellphone although unlick in SA you get to use your cellphone 
 nifty eh? yea i didnt think so either until you learn you can do stuff with your friends such as 
 play darts, or get drunk (this is endless amounts of fun absolutely histarical) or even a comedy 
 club and see Katt Williams and some other guy who i cant remember his name, that i really didnt 
 like much and more or less made fat jokes. This is all pointless I know but if you hang out with 
 your friends they will do stuff for you like sell you discounted weapons or will send a cab and 
 give you a free ride anywhere you want to go. You can also hail cabs but they cost moolah but you 
 get so much of it who cares.
  
  This brings me to one thing that really dissapointed me about this game. Unlike the last GTA's 
 you really dont gain anything you dont become big you dont get a mansion at the end all you are 
 is out of debt. Which brings me to the fact this game is a huge political message. I loved it although 
 on the outside it is more or less childish stereotypical jokes if you really start to delve into 
 it the entire game is a huge satire on how amazingly lost and more or less how blind and dumb we 
 are.
  
  To continue on that the game features the radio (as always) and a new addition the internet. The 
 internet in this game is hilarious and massive I think I read every page but who knows. It has 
 everything from my mexican doctor to a dating site and you can date girls from the internet. They 
 work the same as friends but more annoying although they are also more helpful because they have 
 careers and if one is a lawyer she can make them nasty porkers stop hatin. There is also news there 
 is your extremely right news which is potrayed as Weazel news and is the mainstream information. 
 Then you have the local news which is more or less how it is. And finally you have your completely 
 useless news about all them rich people. To tack this on the music on the radio was okay I really 
 enjoyed the Reggae station and the russian station but the others more or less sounded the same. 
 The talk radios are hilarious although a little on the short side.
  
  Weaponary and dress-up. To start with the latter not to many clothes shops not to many items but 
 I didnt care I got a black suit white shirt red tie and I was happy. Weaponary not a whole lot 
 you get the, basic pistol, smg, shotty rifle machine gun, RPG. Each one of these accept the RPG 
 have an upgraded version which is more or less put a combat infront of all those weapons.
  
  Vehicles there are TONS of them from your basic 4-door to a unstoppable patriot to an infernus. 
 There are there plus more. You also got the bikes these were a bit of a pain if you knick anything 
 slightly you have a VERY good chance of flying off your bike fase first into incoming traffic and 
 have an old guy stop on top of your body so you die although if you sit on the bike a few seconds 
 before driving Niko will put on a helmet although I dont think it helps you one bit. Second I dont 
 know if it was just me but there were a few to many bike chases. The vehicles are fun if your driving 
 a really old rusty car your engine will sputter and sparks will shoot out of your exhaust. If you 
 are driving a high end sports car and you pound the gas your car will shoot out flames here and 
 again.
  
  Graphics are really great. Weapons have a neat muzzle flash, the bullets are like tiny fireballs 
 hurling into you. The cars look amazing explosions are cool its like the movies but a lot better. 
 Game also has a neat little slow motion effect if you are in cinema mode which doubles as a helpful 
 way to navigate traffic.
  
  Missions are pretty much the same as always go there kill them chase that. There are neat little 
 bits where you have choices on whether or not to kill somone or a choice on who to kill. These 
 have a effects later if you dont kill somone the person who hired you might find out and be really 
 unhappy or it has no effect at all. There are also friends these arent the same as your friends 
 but just random people on the street you can talk to and then help. If you fail any mission (accept 
 the friends) you get a little message on your phone asking you if you want to redo it. This will 
 then pop you right back to where you got the mission and you will be on your way.
  
  The detail is AMAZING it is absolutely amazing. To explain this lets have a little in the day of. 
 You walk out of your apartment pop out the biggest rifle you own and everyone runs away screaming 
 and two cop cars show up with reports of a man with a gun. So you quickly run to the closest car 
 and point the gun at the driver. Instead of how they usually would just honk the horn at you they 
 put up their hands and get out of the car or more likely they just duck. Unluckly for niko they 
 did the latter so he pops em in the face. No longer does the body convienantly fall out his head 
 flops onto the horn and his foot floors the gas and you have a car running you over. By now the 
 cops are right next to you so as you get up they point their guns at you and Niko will then surrender 
 and happily go to jail or you can bust away and run lets do the latter. So we pop up and run to 
 a car because after the shooting everyone gets out of their cars and runs. So you jump into your 
 car and are breaking the window of the car to stick your arm out and shoot. While shooting you 
 go driving off full speed and are paying more attention to shooting then driving and run into a 
 wall you then fly through the windshield and head first into concrete. You wake up at a hospital 
 much poorer.
  
  Cant end this without mentioning the multiplayer. Yep you have the entire city and you can have 
 your friends run around the city with you. There are guns all over the place and you can then either 
 drive around with em or kill eachother. Other then free roam there are tons of different game types 
 and they are a lot of fun. They range from deathmatch to team deathmatch to all sorts of random 
 games one being crooks and cops where the crooks have to protect their boss until he can escape 
 on the chopper while the cops have to kill the boss. This is endless fun and there is a gametype 
 that everyone will enjoy.
  
  This game i reluctantly give a 10 to. I hate saying something is perfect but in the spirit of next 
 gen this game has raised the bar tenfold. I doubt I will see a game anywhere near this good for 
 a while.
  -Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The first "true" sequel to the revelutionary Grand Theft Auto III, GTA IV throws gamers back into 
 the crime-ridden streets of Liberty City for another spree of sex, violence, humor, and drama. 
 However, the only thing gamers will recognize from the original GTA III is the same signature free-roaming 
 sand box gameplay that put Rockstar's game franchise on the map. Though things have been added, 
 its what GTA IV removes from the picture of past experiences, the way it streamlines gameplay and 
 adds the smallest fiber of detail to create a living city combined with a superbly written story 
 that makes GTA IV a near perfect experience from top to bottom.
  
  The story this time around puts you in the shoes of slavic refugee Niko Bellic. Now Niko has gotten 
 in some trouble in his east European home, his role in the Bosnian War leaving him a shell of a 
 man forced to criminal activity to just make ends meet. When Niko gets in a bit of trouble, he 
 decides to make a break for US shores, and what better place to make port than Liberty City, where 
 his cousin Roman has reportedly hit it rich and is living in a mansion with fast cars and loose 
 women. However, once reaching dry land, the picture starts to unravel for Niko, discovering Roman's 
 legendary BS skills are still as keen as ever. Roman is in debt, his mansion is a crappy Broker 
 (Liberty City's analogue for Brooklyn) apartment, the fast cars are cabs that Roman drives, and 
 the loose women are only really loose for pay. Still, Niko loves his cousin and has a few more 
 agendas in Liberty City than he lets on at first, so he sets out to just make a living in this 
 strange land. The story escalates into a crime drama of revenge, memorable characters, and even 
 more memorable story scenes that really satirize the idea of the American Dream as nothing more 
 than a selfish culture of consumerism and sin. Powerful stuff.
  
  But that all doesn't mean **** if the game plays... well... like **** Ok ok, maybe even if the 
 game wasn't the greatest triumph of the series, the story would still be worth checking out. Luckily, 
 this year's installment IS the pinnacle of GTA's playability, taking the classic formula, stripping 
 away all unecessary mechanics and adding new ones that either help immensely or at the very least, 
 do not hinder. Anyone unfamiliar with the franchise, the biggest boon to GTA's popularity was its 
 freedom of gameplay. You are dropped into a living city where there are a number of missions and 
 activities that you CAN take part in to advance the story or boost your in-game fundage, but that 
 has never been necessary for you to do to enjoy the Grand Theft Auto experience, as it is open 
 to freestyle gameplay. The majority of this gameplay has always been driven by well... driving, 
 and this year's driving might be the most realistic of the series, with vehicle physics being most 
 impressive as you zip around the streets of the huge five burroughed Liberty City. Where once the 
 shooting was one of the weakest elements of the game, this year's installment sees a revamp that 
 adds not only a cover system to make your protagonist a much more deadly fighting force, but also 
 a new targeting system that not only supports lock on targeting, but free-aim as well.
  
  One of the more interesting additions to the mix this year is that of a veritable "social life" 
 for our hero Niko. Throughout the game, you'll meet various characters who will be added to your 
 in-game cell phone. Eventually, you'll be able to call them to just hang out and try out some of 
 the city's activities (darts, bowling, strip clubs, etc.) and if they get to like you enough, they'll 
 even offer you a service on occasion. This adds a brand new element to the game, as you'll have 
 to balance friendships and story progression, or just choose to use these friends as a break from 
 the daily grind of theft and police evasion, and overall, this is perhaps the most surprisingly 
 well-done features of the game. On the minor side, the gym, barber, and diet elements from San 
 Andreas have been removed (though you can still shop for clothes) and you can now use any of Liberty 
 City's public transportations, be they trains or cabs, to zip across the lengthy landscape.
  
  Grand Theft Auto has never been a pretty game, well, that is until this new installment. For 
 once, GTA looks like it belongs with the other games of the current generations library. Though 
 some textures don't exactly hold up to close scrutiny, character models look and animate great 
 and there is just so goddamn much going on at any given time that if the graphical quality of the 
 game sagged a tad (which it can, at least as far as frame-rate and pop in) one couldn't blame it. 
 Overall, the scope of the world with top notch visuals make this easily the most graphically impressive 
 Grand Theft Auto to date.
  
  In the end, GTA IV didn't need any kind of critical approval to be one of the biggest games of 
 all time, but it certainly did enough to reinvent and better itself to deserve the reviews it inevitably 
 recieved from critics. As for this critic, he gives it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I decided to check out GTAIV. I am a huge fan of gears and I heard the battle system was like it. 
 I thought this game would be interesting even though I have not liked previous grand theft auto's. 
 
  
  First I'd like to say who ever says the graphics are good is stupid. They are only good compared 
 to the other crappier graphics of the GTA series. I don't know if they want to keep them that way 
 or not but they are bad. 
  
  The driving gets annoying and I feel the in-game roaming is a little frustrating because you pretty 
 much have to use cheats to get away with stuff. From knowing other GTA fan's they liked causing 
 chaos in the city and having cops chase them and surviving. In this one you cannot. The littlest 
 things trigger the cops, some in which make sense but put it this way if you are off killing people 
 and don't have a record what makes you think the cops will not find you and keep you in jail? The 
 game is clearly not worth a 10 out of 10. They had to have gotten paid off for the advertisement. 
 
  
  When I did ranking I got second in my group. I found it to be okay. Here is why the running sucks. 
 I feel like it is an old N64 game where a person cannot make a quick turn. The character literally 
 spins around. If they can make a cover system, then why do they make a character spin around fully 
 in such a stupid way. The game's missions get old fast because they are like any other gta game. 
 The game is a waste of time and I doubt you will be playing this more than a month. It gets old 
 fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewbAmoeba
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I am completely speechless on how good this game was. I heard it was the typical, but I stuck 
 to what I thought of it myself and I was right. Its the best game I have ever played. Story: 9/10 
 : Very mind blowing and a great twist. I was not expecting the story to be so uber spectacular 
 and as amazing as I could ever imagine. Gameplay: 9/10 : There are barely any things that could 
 be improved on. Moving is kind of difficult, but the learning curve is fairly one hour, compared 
 to its 30+ hours story mode and multiplayer.
  
  Graphics : 10/10 : Great. Just right for this game.
  
  Multiplayer : 10/10 : More fun than 
 I have ever had, many maps and playlists... virtually never boring.
  
  Overall I thought this was worth my buy, its a shame to call yourself a gamer and not have a copy 
 of GTA IV. Absolute shame on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeedMan929
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Man i was so exicted to see that Rockstar was coming out with another GTA i spent some much time 
 on san andreas just messing around and it been the same way for this one too. GTA4 is so much fun 
 just too drive on the sidewalk and watch people roll over the hood of your car or you can just 
 sit back and have a giant shoot out with the Police. The misions i havent really got into beside 
 getting off the first island i have just been causeing mass destruction all over liberty city.
 
  
  The online part for GTA4 is just so much fun to play all the different game types they have too 
 offer i think i have a pretty good excuse too not have done too many of the mission in the game 
 in my own opinion i have way more fun just messing around in liberty city or just shootin it out 
 with some people online in some hangmans noose or bomb the base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDuntBanMe
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Probably the biggest reason to delve into GTA IV is Liberty City itself. Nearly as large as the 
 state of San Andreas and easily a hundred times more detailed, Grand Theft Auto IV's game world 
 looks and feels like New York City. Everything, from the crowded, borough-specific traffic and 
 self-absorbed passersby to the imposingly tall buildings, comes together to make the town convincingly 
 like the real thing. More importantly, it's all crammed with cool secrets to discover, ranging 
 from weapons, cars and pigeons (GTA IV's version of Hidden Packages) to random people on the street 
 who'll approach you and ask for your help.
  
  Its also absolutely huge, and not just in terms of raw acreage. This version of Liberty City is 
 filled with vertical spaces and seamless building interiors to explore, and a lot of the cool stuff 
 is hidden up on rooftops - if you can find a way to get up there. You will be able to climb ledges, 
 ladders and fire escapes, so it's all a matter of knowing where to look.
  
  Driving feels a lot different this time around; in many ways it's smoother, but more realistic 
 handling (especially on the crappier, clunkier cars) also means it's a lot harder to brake or turn 
 corners at high speeds.
  
  Overall, this is a must buy game, and the best yet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I have never been a fan of the GTA series. I have played them before, and I just don't 
 get it. The whole gangsta, open world just bores the pants of me. 
  
  Having said that, I thought I would give GTAIV a go, and see what all the fuss was about. Who knows, 
 maybe every single time I played the last instalements I was in a bad mood. 
  
  Having played GTAIV, I still don't get it. At one point I was taking some virtual girlfriend bowling, 
 BOWLING?! I'm sorry, but why the **** would I want to go bowling in a video game? I can do that 
 in real life. Computer games are about doing things you CAN'T do in the real world, like saving 
 the plant from aliens with a ******* chainsaw!
  
  I know EVERYONE loves this stuff, but I just don't know what people see in it. I have been playing 
 games for over 20 years, played every game imaginable, but I thought this was a total waste of 
 time, and promptly returned it to the video shop. (thank god for rentals) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I can clearly see why EA had a big "H on" for wanting to buy Rockstar! 
  
  This game is insane! 
  
  Rockstar made this game with "no limits"! 
  
  
  I will not begin 
 to tell you about anything in the game ... just like I told everyone else .... you can NEVER fully 
 explain what makes Rockstar games so great to a friend. It's just one of those games you have to 
 experience for yourself! Where else can you visit a recreated lively world that makes you feel 
 you really are in New York City aka Liberty City..... The attention to detail is mind blowing! 
 I want to write about some of the features and activities in the game, but I'll feel like I need 
 or will be compulsed to explain the other million other reasons and details of the game. 
  Rockstar has always managed to mix edgy content and humor along with a great experience..... which 
 bring me to my ONE hang up but for sure not a major issue. Is that the MP gameplay at time is very 
 clunky and needs the user to practice and get used to before going on online against others (its 
 kinda in the same relms as other games like: MSG, Ninja Gaiden and some parts of Gears Of War... and 
 these are game I love too, but gotta keep it real!) . Even the cars make you feel that they are 
 WAY to WOBBLY and have no weight to them and the momentum for the players need tweaking! I guess 
 the RS devs feel asleep during that part of class.... But I guess they make up for it BIG time in 
 the other areas of the process. 
  This is something that if you are use to the GTA series your probably use to it by now or still 
 expect it to play clunky and you probably can't wait to write a re-buttle to this review. But all 
 I have to say is..... "NO game will make me dis-miss, turn the cheek or be brainwashed on clunky 
 gameplay!" Some people are fanboys that don't think ALL games have flaws.... I'm a fanboy that can 
 see the flaws!
  
  Don't get me wrong this game is AMAZING and you are an idiot if you don't have this title .... 
 it just can't get a perfect score from me due to the clunky gameplay! 
  
  But for real go get the damn game and quit reading this S**T!
  
  southwestairlin. wordpress. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4...... I would say the greatest game for a long time. It has all major gaming elements, a great 
 story, good graphics, entertaining, phsyics and all the rest. If more people could have purchased 
 this game (some people couldn't because their parents didnt want them to have it or some other reasons) 
 this could be GOTY. The story is great, traitors, twists and turns and other things. The game is 
 fun to go on rampages or just fool around by getting into street fights. The funny perverted humor 
 is in this game too (thanks Rockstar) along with other comical humor, you can even watch Katt Williams 
 "American Hustle". Next onto the multiplayer! If you dont like the single player, this will make 
 up for it. You can customize your race, gender, and clothes. You get more as you rank up. The game 
 modes range from racing and coop missions to team death match and stuff. And if that doesnt STILL 
 please you, Free Mode will, for sure. You get to screw around in Liberty City with up to 16 of 
 your friends. This was so worth the grueling wait!
  
  All in all, I say this game is perfect though there are a few flaws
  
  10/10
  
  ~PS~ How 
 do you get the zombie skin in multiplayer???
  Message me if you know how (im past rank 2so idk)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkMcGuirk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Last September, on the verge of the '07 Gaming Surge, Rockstar released some disappointing news 
 to fans of their free-roaming crime series, that being the delay of Grand Theft Auto 4. Several 
 months later, we come to ask ourselves, "was it worth the wait?"
  
  The answer, to put it simply, is: Yes.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 takes everything from the past 
 entries in it's series and elevates it to a completely different and new level. The city itself, 
 driving mechanics, refined gunplay, a masterful and dark storyline and much more are somehow all 
 weaved into this package. Rockstar has simply outdone themselves in every facet of game developing, 
 and considering this has been the most expensive game produced, I'd expect no less.
  
  We start off with our fresh off the boat Eastern European immigrant Niko Bellic, who has arrived 
 in America on false pretenses claimed by his cousin Roman. Niko believes he will be treated to 
 elaborate mansions, fancy cars, and beautiful women, only to discover his mansion is a small apartment 
 in the slums of Liberty City's Brooklyn-equivalent Broker and his "sports car" is a shabby taxi. 
 After our protagonist becomes somewhat more comfortable in his new home, we learn of his second 
 reason for leaving his homeland. During what is presumed to be the Bosnian War, Niko's army unit 
 was betrayed by one of two surviving fellow soldiers. Throughout the rest of the game we follow 
 Niko's quest for vengeance as he searches for "That Special Someone".
  
  Perhaps the strongest point of this game is the wonderful cast of characters, each amazingly written 
 and performed. Niko proves to be the most likable main character featured in the series yet, with 
 a criminally hardened mind yet sarcastic wit that never lets up. As Niko continues his journey 
 throughout Liberty City, we run into dozens of characters ranging from crooked cops, to heroin 
 dealers and second rate mobsters, and it is through these characters that we see a much darker 
 side of The American Dream; nearly everyone you encounter is addled on some narcotic, an alcoholic, 
 a traitor, or psychotic murderer, with very few showing some sign of virtue.
  
  I cannot mention the cast of characters without acknowledging the most important one of all: Liberty 
 City itself. At every moment in the game, it truly feels like the city is alive. No matter where 
 you go you're bound to see something in the environment or an action by the citizens that will 
 amaze you. The little things such as people's conversations on cell phones, or smoking cigarettes 
 make a massive difference to the experience as a whole. The most noticeable aspect is how the city 
 becomes a whole new animal at night; where there were once businessmen carrying briefcases and 
 people enjoying a day in the park quickly turn to vagrants, prostitutes and thugs in a matter of 
 hours. The city as a whole of this magnitude has never been done in a game before and it will be 
 quite some time before we see it again.
  
  Next we have probably the most noticeable change in the game mechanics compared to the previous 
 entries in the series is the aiming and gunplay system. Before taking out an enemy meant running 
 into the open and hoping you shot them before you wound up in a body bag. Now we have a Gears of 
 War style shooting and cover system. There is the standard lock on function that was in other games, 
 but far more refined so that you aren't mincemeat in a matter of seconds. What really makes fighting 
 more dynamic is the aforementioned cover system. Now you can pop-out behind a wall or dumpster 
 or anything (and I mean anything) you can take cover behind and pick off a few gangsters here and 
 there.
  
  The most anticipated add-on for the series is probably the new multiplayer component. Accessed 
 from Niko's cell phone, you can join or host multiplayer matches for up to 16 people. Now I'm sure 
 Rockstar could have simply tacked on some half-rate deathmatch mode and called it a day, which 
 still would have made the whole package worth the 60 dollar price tag. Instead, the gracious developers 
 at Rockstar decided to give us 15 or so multiplayer modes. Now I haven't played most of the modes, 
 in fact all I've touched so far are the Turf War mode and Free Mode, where you and as many friends 
 as you want can wreak havoc throughout the city freely.
  
  Overall, Rockstar has outdone themselves once again, and have given us the best GTA yet. Nearly 
 every aspect of this game is flawless, and can only be recognized as so. Grand Theft Auto IV might 
 just be one of the most important games of this, or any generation and will stand alone as one 
 of the few games that greatly changed the industry. Nearly every aspect of this game is flawless, 
 and can only be recognized as so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Articfox6
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is probaly the best game to date. Ill let you be the judge. GTA 4 has so much 
 to offer. The game is large and you will get engulfed with the story. The game has many twists that 
 will live you wanting more and feel depressed when not playing. The first week I spent playing 
 the single player and had only done like one multiplayer match. The games single player is enough 
 to get a 9.0 or higher but the multiplayer adds an extra digit or so depending who you talk to. 
 Any other game will feel less satisfying and GTA will take control of your console. Rockstar did 
 a phenomenal job. The game acts and feels like life. Sure the police dont chase you when you go 
 speeding down the road but think about it. That would take out most of the fun. The game features 
 television channels you can watch at your safe house and you can also use the internet at cafes 
 you unlock later. Also the car damage looks more real such as if you steal a piece of Sh*t car 
 the it will back fire occasionaly. Dirt will cling to your ride over the course of time and you 
 can use a car wash to make it clean agian. The game does however seem to freeze more often than 
 others. It only happens every once in a blue moon but when it does it can really piss you off if 
 you didnt save anytime soon. The clothing stores will offer a small variety of things to buy but 
 it feels limited in customization. Also it would have been nice to have a car customization store 
 like in San Andreas. Good news though is that new Downloadable content is coming in Fall. I heard 
 a rumor that one may take place in a modern day Vice City. The game lacks jets and planes but that 
 wouldnt work well in a city. Helicopters are in the game though which dont disapoint. Multiplayer 
 is a fun expierence but most people on there are real A**wholes who talk about there genitals and 
 sound like there 6 years old. Playing with friends is much more fun and often makes light of the 
 matter. If your thinking about buying I suggest you should. And to those who think all you do in 
 GTA is run around and shoot people, your wrong. All you do in guitar hero is play a guitar. All 
 you do in Call Of Duty is run around and shoot people. Same for Halo. All you do in Forza is race. 
 When you think about it, all games have a simple core. Just add many different modes and options 
 and it makes a good game for the most part. GTA offers races, third person shooter experience, 
 Chases, Cops and robbers, Free play, single play, and the most important............ Strip clubs! 
 All jokes aside, GTA offers much more than anyother game and does it well. Its funny how so many 
 games try to copy GTA but most fail, Horribly. GTA is violent and thats why its rated M. You give 
 these violent games to your children and want to sue because you were stupid enough to ignore the 
 girl sucking a loli pop and the 17+ sign and the back that features guns and shows all the things 
 in the game such as strong language, partial nudity and alcohol. So stop being stupid and rember 
 that its your falt for your own stupidity not the game developers or the store clerk that asks 
 you for your Drivers liscence and states that this is a mature rated game. Also if your child is 
 like 6. Dont let him play xbox live. They are the worst players. 1 They suck at the game they play. 
 2 They Cuss way to much and dont even know what they mean.3 They take the fun out of gaming when 
 all you hear is some annoying kid making some noise that sounds like a cat, a dog, a moose, and 
 a turtle having intercourse. Stop the madness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeM760soCAL
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was definitely worth the wait! This is how next generation games should be. 
 I will never forget the first day I got it! The graphics are beautiful. If I had to rate this game 
 based on its graphics I would give it a ten! The characters ar cool. The driving is fun once you 
 get the hang of it. The shooting is very cool and the game delivers a great story! I agree on Game 
 Spots rating of 10. I really don't see how people could rate this game a 1.0! They must be all 
 about Saints Row or something. It has alot to offer. In my opinion GTA IV is the best in the series! 
 The only thing I think it could have improved on was the music. It didn't have as good as music 
 as San Andreas did. This is a game that you can continue to play many times after you beat it. 
 Definitely a game for the collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game you've most certainly heard of.. A large open world action game. 
 Hell, I wouldn't be surprised if most of the people reading have the games, Im just here to give 
 my two cent, so lets get on with it.
  
  Grand Tehft Auto sets you in the large metropolis of Liberty. You progress through the main story 
 by completing mission that you get from various characters and these missions can be completed 
 in many different orders and fashions, making it a very open ended (Why it's called open ended) . 
 While it is for the most part an open ended game, don't let the idea get to your head, it's not 
 as if the game will craft an entirely different story for everyone. There can be some minor differences, 
 but for the most part the game fallows one main story. Now, that we have the bassics down we can 
 get the actual gameplay. When in combat, Grand Theft Auto IV Plays much like Gears of War. You 
 can get behind cover by pressing the Right bumber. Locking on target is done by pressing the left 
 trigger and the right trigger shoot. Most of this is pretty basic stuff you've probably learned 
 from other shooter, Gears of War and Call of Duty 4 especialy, and it all works very well. Combat 
 wise my only real complaint is that sontimes you might take cover behind somthing you didn't intend 
 to on occasion, but it's no big deal. I also have to say I think it's really strange that in a 
 modern action game such as this that instead of recharging health, you have the old fashoned health 
 bars that you have to worry about, making you desperatly look for health pack, armor and vendors 
 if your in a sticky situation. For vehicle controls, all I can really say is that you'll either 
 like it or hate it. The vehicle controls are more realistic and in line with what you'd see in 
 Gran Turismo Forrza Motor sport. It takes more skill to drive cars in this game than in the usual 
 action game. It's not as difficult as the racing games mentioned earlier, but don't be surprised 
 if you spin out of control in same car chases. You'll either get the hang of it, or you wont, and 
 if you don't, may God have pity on your soul. In GTA IV, you have a cell phone and while it's pretty 
 cool sometimes, It has it's downs as well, First I've gotta say the text on that thing is to small, 
 and I've got an HD TV. It's not unreadable, but you really have to look hard. Then theres also 
 your friends in the game. At first you wont mind going out with them, but as you get further into 
 the game it get really anoying, but if you don't go out with your friend they'll start gettingangry... 
 I suppose it's not a big deal though I guess. It's all optional and most characters wont really 
 do anything if they get angry at you other than maybe not assist you with some of their services, 
 but I'm sure it'll still bother people a bit. Really, it's nothing big, it's just a minor anoyance. 
 Also, you can only save in safe houses... which can be a bit inconvenient if your pressed for time. 
 
  
  The game looks fantastic really. It's hard to beleive the game is so detailed based on it's epic 
 scale (It's the biggest game I have ever played) . The only problem is that there is some texture 
 pop ups every now and then, but the game is still rather impressive and it's easily one of the 
 best looking games I have ever had the pleasure of playing. I'd also like to note that the new 
 euphoria physics engine used for this game is utterly fantastic.
  
  The voice acting it's excelent and the ambience of the city is perfect. The licensed soundtrack 
 for the radio stations have great variety and are of the highest quality and the original track 
 for the game are great to.
  
  Honestly, if there werent an achievement for it, I wouldn't beleive, but the game can be beaten 
 in under thirt hours, but Im sure the average is higher. Personally it took me around fourty hours 
 to beat the game. Theres alot to do here. Once you've beaten the game you will most certainly have 
 alot of missions left to do and some achievements to unlock. And considering the game has to ending 
 and some plot points that can be altered there enough here to go through game more than once. besides 
 the long single player game though there is a pretty good multiplayer mode. To sum it up, just 
 think of Halo 3's multiplayer modes and most of them are here in GTA IV under a different name. 
 Theres death match, team death match, Cops n' Crooks is bassically VIP (you must kill a specific 
 player on the enemy team) , Turf war is basically territories and there are a few unique game type 
 like Mafia Work. There are also a few co-op mission, unfortunatly it's only a few. Over all the 
 multiplayer is great and it's certainly formiddable competition for Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. 
 I just find it amazing that it was possible to have up to 16 players all there in a huge map at 
 the same time with cops and citizens all in tact. It's truly a achievement.
  
  I may nit picked alot, but Grand Theft Auto IV is an excelent game. It may not be perfect like 
 the critics have been saying, but that shouldnt stop you from getting such a great game as this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  GTA IV's gameplay is basically much the same as previous GTA games. You can run around an open 
 world jacking cars and killing randoms. But like previous GTA games there are also street races 
 and many other mini games. There may not be as many mini games as they had in GTA San Andreas but 
 there a lot smoother now and they actually have a purpose. The game also brings life to old a stale 
 features and adds an extra realistic detail which makes it feel like your playing GTA 3 for the 
 first time again.
  
  The driving in GTA games has always been fun. Whether it's the sliding around corners or really 
 getting that sense of speed, it was always just plain fun and only sometimes annoying. But with 
 GTA IV comes a real learning curve. The car physics have been redone making the car control seem 
 more real and more fake at the same time, it's a good balance. You'll still slide around corners 
 like a madman but if you drive that way you'll end up smashing into the sides of a lot of buildings. 
 You also won't feel the same sense of speed that you're used to even when you're a sports car like 
 the Infernus. But those are just small annoyances when you consider how fun it can be learning 
 to drive with the new car physics, at first it's hard but you'll soon realise that you have to 
 break on every corner and then it will feel natural. Anyway, if you don't like the new driving 
 you can always catch one of the many taxis roaming the streets of Liberty City. Which is one of 
 GTA IV's new features and trust me your going to want to catch a taxi sooner or later, the ease 
 of just hailing a taxi, holding the Y button to jump in and then letting the taxi driver do all 
 the work for you. Or you may prefer to skip the trip all together for a little extra cost, but 
 I do highly recommend listening to the hilarious dialogue of the taxi drivers. A little feature 
 Rockstar also added was that you can no longer just open a parked car and drive away you'll now 
 have to watch a short animation of Niko breaking the windscreen and hotwiring the car before you 
 can drive away.
  
  The aiming systems in previous games have been highly criticized for being clunky and very simplistic. 
 Each game has slightly improved on the lasts aiming system but this isn't the case with GTA IV. 
 The aiming system has gone under a complete over-haul which was much needed. You can still choose 
 to lock-on or free aim at your target but you'll want to lock-on to your target because of being 
 able to choose which part of the body you want to shoot at. This feature adds a lot of strategy 
 to shoot-outs; with a flick of the analog stick you can take aim at an opponents head for an instant 
 kill. Or if you're getting attacked by an enemy on a ledge you can take a shot at his legs making 
 him fall to his death. Another feature that increases strategy in shoot-outs is the new cover system. 
 Just like Gears of War if you don't take cover you will die... quickly. It was a smart move to 
 add cover to GTA. In the old games shoot-outs were very unrealistic because you could run into 
 a room full of twenty plus enemies and come out with barely a dent in your health meter. Alas the 
 cover system has some flaws, like the old aiming system it is very clunky. The only real complaint 
 one can have about the shooting in GTA IV is the extreme lack of guns. In total there are only 
 15 different weapons to have in your arsenal and the more destructive ones like the Rocket Launcher 
 can be really pricey.
  
  Friendships were subtly introduced in GTA San Andreas in the form of Girlfriends. In GTA IV they 
 are a vital part of the game. Most friends you will meet during the games main storyline but you 
 can also meet some male and female friends over the internet dating site love-meet. com. Each relationship 
 will have its own benefit, whether it be a taxi service or dial-a-bomb they all add something new 
 to the gameplay giving you an incentive to go out with them. To make your friends like you more 
 you can call them or they can call you to arrange a game of bowling, darts, pool or even a little 
 bit of drinking. The drinking will especially have some fun implications. You may also like to 
 see a show with them, you could watch the cabaret or go to a comedy club and listen to well known 
 comedians Ricky Gervais and Kat Williams.
  
  The internet makes its debut in GTA IV in the form of internet cafes called tw@t (which we're actually 
 in GTA 3 just not accessible) . The internet offers over 100 pages of content which is all in its 
 own way hilarious. Whether you're looking for dates, a new car or even hacking into the police 
 database there will always be something for you to do on the internet. You can also receive e-mails 
 form family members back in Russia giving a little bit of back story to Niko before he came to 
 Liberty City. Some side missions can also be received via e-mail.
  
  The side missions are much the same as they have always been. You have street races, vigilante 
 missions, taxi jobs, deliveries, stunt jumping and hidden package collecting. And the addition 
 of most wanted missions which along with vigilante missions are accessed through the use of a police 
 computer. You may be thinking but wait, there was more in old GTA's and yes you are correct. There 
 are no ambulance and fire truck missions. Which isn't a big loss as they where boring.
  
  GTA IV has fewer mini games than GTA San Andreas. Which like the side missions is not a big deal. 
 The mini games that they have left in are now just better and actually have a purpose. The mini 
 games include pool, darts, bowling, Cubed and drunk driving. The drunk driving is extremely fun 
 to do because it actually makes you feel like your walking around the streets tumbling off the 
 curb and driving a car into lamp posts. After a while you can sometimes find yourself feeling a 
 little dizzy just from watching the blurry screen swirl around. Pool is nearly an exact replica 
 of the San Andreas version and darts is just too easy. Cubed is an interesting take on tetris which 
 if you play too much you may just become addicted to it. The worst mini game of the lot would have 
 to be bowling. The pin physics are horrible. What would be a perfect strike in real life would 
 result in maybe five or six pins falling down. It's completely random if you get a strike or not. 
 This is easily the worst mini game GTA has seen.
  
  GTA IV's gameplay delivers everything you would expect from a GTA game. Stealing cars, shooting 
 people and roaming around a city and doing what you like when you like. Which is a lot more than 
 any normal person would need. It is only slightly let down by a few things that could have done 
 with a bit of polishing like the cover system and bowling mini game. It's missing a few things 
 from old GTA games that were never that great so it's really no big loss.
  
  STORY: 10/10
  
  Past GTA games have had stories that were never quite 'there'. For example 
 GTA San Andreas had a long story, longer than GTA IV, but 60% of the game was irrelevant to the 
 story. Where GTA IV's story (which is about 90 missions long) is constant the whole way through.
 
  
  The main reason GTA IV's story succeeds is the main character. This time around you fill the shoes 
 of a Russian immigrant who is just arriving in Liberty City because his cousin lied to him about 
 living the 'American Dream' with many women. But as the story progresses you'll learn that he is 
 also trying to escape from his past. To quote him, he's killed people, smuggled people and sold 
 people. His name is Nikolai 'Niko' Bellic and he is the most three dimensional character the series 
 has ever seen. Unlike the old characters he's not a yes-man. Instead of doing everything he's told 
 like a good boy he questions his employers motives and makes them give him a reason to do there 
 dirty deeds. Hell at some points in the game you're given the opportunity to spare your targets 
 life for your own benefits. It's moments like these you realise that Niko Bellic is no ordinary 
 video game character. Oh, and lets not forget, Niko is a cold-blooded badass with no morals. Now 
 you try tell me he isn't appealing to you.
  
  The secondary characters in the game are varied and interesting. You have your comedic characters 
 that you love, and the tough mob bosses that treat you like crap which you can't help but hate. 
 Having these interesting characters draws you into the story of the game in new ways. You're no 
 longer playing through the story to unlock everything you need to cause destruction, your playing 
 through to see how the characters evolve around you.
  
  As I briefly mentioned previously, at certain points in the game allow for you to choose what you 
 want to do. I'm not going to go into to much depth but at certain points of the game you can choose 
 to kill your target or go after your employer, each option will have its benefits in the long run 
 like earning houses and bonus outfits. You may even get a different ending. This helps the player 
 immerse themselves into the story of the game.
  
  GTA IV's story is one of the best I've seen in a videogame. It has dynamic characters that evolve 
 over the progress of the game. Rockstar have given us the chance to change the story by making 
 our own choices during the game which can result in two different endings. Few games can boast 
 a story to be better than that of GTA IV.
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  
  Sound has always been one of the GTA series strong points. There amazing dialogue, diverse radio 
 stations and the sounds of the city are top-notch, and this GTA IV is no different.
  
  The dialogue in GTA IV has been called Oscar worthy. That may be a slight exaggeration but without 
 a doubt the dialogue is excellent. Rockstar has done things a little bit differently this time 
 around, instead of hiring big Hollywood stars like Samuel .L. Jackson and James Woods to do voice 
 over work they've essentially hired a bunch of nobodies. This helps make the game more realistic 
 because you're not relating characters to there voice actors. You have no choice but to let the 
 character tell you who they are, giving more depth to the characters and story.
  
  The radio stations in GTA games have always been diverse and besides a few exceptions, hilarious. 
 Like always there are talk stations, hip hop and rap stations, funk stations and rock stations. 
 But what makes GTA's stations special is that even stations with the same genre of music have a 
 unique flavor. The music of GTA IV consists of licensed music from names like The Smashing Pumpkins, 
 Queen, Kanye West and there's pretty much a whole radio station dedicated to the legendary Bob 
 Marley. GTA IV's soundtrack also consists of music written specifically for the game that fits 
 seamlessly with the feel of the game. Rockstar has also bought back the fan favorite radio DJ Lazlow.
 
  
  "Get moving you jack***!" "Get out of my way you **** face!". Ahhhhh the serenading words of your 
 fellow Libertonians... yeh not quite. While your walking through the streets you'll be treated 
 to sounds of pedestrians conversations, engines failing, metal clashing against metal, an inconsiderate 
 ped drive by with his radio booming and occasionally a gun shot or a ear shattering explosion. 
 These improved sounds really makes it feel like your there during that gun fight or when your speeding 
 down the 'Booth Tunnel' at a 100 mph.
  
  The sounds of GTA IV are extraordinary. The dialogue is movie-like; the radio stations are as good 
 as ever, and you can really tell the difference between firing a pistol or firing a shot gun. Everything 
 just sounds, right. It's things like these that make GTA IV what it is.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  The first thing you will notice about GTA IV is the graphics, they are technically 
 outstanding. They may not be the most photo realistic graphics you've ever seen but if you take 
 into account the sheer size of the redesigned Liberty City and how much is always going on you 
 should realise that GTA IV's graphics are a technical masterpiece.
  
  Even when your just taking a stroll through the streets of Liberty City you'll notice how much 
 effort Rockstar North has put into getting the animations right this time around. The animations 
 in previous games were at best sub-par. GTA IV ends the tradition of clunky animations through 
 the use of the Euphoria game engine. Niko's motions are now fluent and well choreographed, adding 
 to overall realism. For example if Niko were to turn left while running his body will tilt left. 
 The sharper he turns the more he tilts.
  
  It's clear that Rockstar has also worked on improving pedestrian looks and behaviours. You will 
 rarely see two pedestrians which are identical, contrary to previous GTA games where in area with 
 10 pedestrians in it 3 of them would look exactly the same. The peds actions have also been improved, 
 instead of walking around aimlessly they will read the paper, tie their shoes and even enter and 
 exit buildings on their own accord. The improvements to the peds really helps sink in the fact 
 that Liberty City is now a living, breathing world not just a bunch of pixels shaped into a city.
 
  
  Like all games in the open world genre the frame rate isn't perfect which is understandable considering 
 the game's size. But what makes this game better than the rest is its frame rate issues are minor 
 and barely noticeable. In 3 hours of straight game play I only noticed it play up twice, compared 
 to the GTA games of old where you would see a car pop-in every two minutes.
  
  Although GTA IV's graphics aren't the most photo realistic we've ever seen they are truly astonishing 
 to look at. You could spend a whole session of playing just walking the streets being amazed by 
 how Rockstar succeeded in creating a living, breathing city.
  
  VALUE: 5/5
  
  Do I think GTA IV is worth buying? Yes. I was asked about a week ago if I would buy GTA IV if they 
 were selling it for $300. My answer was yes. GTA IV is jam packed with content which will keep 
 me busy for months. And that's not even starting to think about the DLC that they will be bringing 
 out. If you buy one game this year make it this one. You could call it game of the year, or you 
 could call it the game of the decade. But what it should be called is the best game ever, period. 
 For every bad thing in GTA IV there are 50 good things. This game is so full of content that 80% 
 of people will never experience it all. It may be a while before you see a game that tops this 
 one.
  
  TILT: 5/5
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV in one word...... Revolutionary
  
  Basic Score: 10/10
  
  Detailed Score 98/100
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadShifty
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Well basically it took about 2 weeks and 62 hours to beat GTA IV 100%. While San Andreas was about 
 a good 120 hours. But I can't really complain even though the story was a little too short to my 
 liking it was very Immersive. Doing missions for the crazy cast of characters that Rockstar has 
 in every GTA game was very fun and the girlfriend feature is a lot better than it was in San Andreas. 
 Also, the new cell phone and Internet cafe feature is interesting and makes this game even more 
 realistic. The only thing I really miss is the Driving and flight schools from San Andreas plus 
 the Stats feature like leveling weapon skills and etc. Also the rewards are pretty dull in this 
 game. Beating it 100% was very disappointing because all it did was take off the ammo limit so 
 you could get tons of ammo and do whatever basically. The pigeons reward was pretty lame too but 
 having annihilator helicopters everywhere around the city is kinda cool I guess. Hopefully the 
 DLC will make this game a whole lot better. But for now I'm giving it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st4lk3r_y_not
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played the game for over a week now I have to say that I am still blown away by the sheer 
 scope and realism the game offers. While like any game it is not without some flaws they are minor 
 enough that you'll hardly notice and surely won't be bothered by them. A very compelling story 
 line has you coming back for more while the slick graphics and amazing physics and gun battles 
 will have your jaw on the floor. 
  The adition of the multiplayer is a long awaited one for fans of the series and has been well worth 
 the wait in my opion. It adds to a game with great replay value and extension that well warrants 
 buying the game and not simply renting it. All i can say is i hope ea doesn't get its wish because 
 with that publisher at the reigns we will not see this kind of innovation and progress in the future 
 of the series. Take-two, rockstar, and rockstar north as well as anyone else who worked on this 
 title should hold their heads up high knowing they have created a game that will go down as one 
 of the best in history.
  Simply said this game is a must have to any fan of the series and all gamers alike. Don't be discouraged 
 by any nay-sayers. the fact the this game got a perfect 10 from the gamespot staff should speak 
 for itsself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this is one of the most detailed games I have ever played - they've even looked 
 into the little things which I greatly appreciated.
  
  Pros:
  1) Graphics: are very good, particularly the work on the facial expressions.
  
  2) Cars: are 
 varied and the control for each type of vehicle is different which is good. The amount of radio 
 stations give a wide choice with some great songs. The damage to the cars are realistic too, even 
 to the point of struggling to start the engine after taking in some damage.
  
  3) Voice acting: is overall quite good but it would've been nice to interact with people on the 
 street (Like in Bully)
  
  4) Map: I think its pretty detailed and large enough for this game
  
  Cons:
  1) Weapons: 
 as good as the action of the weapons are, the range is not enough
  
  2) Clothing: Could've used more variety
  
  3) Tasks: the game does get repetitive on the tasks 
 you have to do - usually to steal a vehicle or wax someone. But there are nice touches where you 
 can hang out with your friends 
  
  Unfortunately I dont have time to write more but this is a game worth playing. I wouldn't say it 
 was an addictive game but once you get the controller, you'll be hooked for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJakeness
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The story mode is excellent as usual. There is so much to do with the regular story, side stories, 
 internet, making friends, and more. The hooker action is a little graphic, but you can still kill 
 them when you're done to get your money back. The driving has changed, it's more realistic. It 
 kind of takes the fun out of the driving now, but oh well, you get used to it. The game has so 
 many little details that make everything feel so real. If you burn out too long, the tires will 
 pop, you can use the internet, you can get drunk and feel the real affects, and so on. The cops 
 are hella annoying more than usual, but you can just kill them with a shotgun.
  
  The multi-player is fun when in free mode, the rest of it is mediocre. It would have been 200 times 
 better if you could dress your character as Master Chief!
  
  Great game, a must buy, I'm already waiting for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  i think not! this is by far the best GTA game ever! and probably one of the best games ever! There 
 is so much to do in the large city, the cars are a massive improvment from the previous GTA games, 
 and you can catch a taxi anywhere and be there in just a matter of seconds. The guns in the game 
 feel alot more powerfull than the other games, and everything just looks alot better. 
  
  The storyline in the game is also just amazing, this GTA isnt about who can sell the most drugs, 
 or trying to take ooover the city its about you, Neko the main character from russia who came to 
 America to have a fresh start. Its a much more realistic story and you really get drawn into it.
 
  
  The graphics are so realistic that you actually belive your in a city, the way the shadows and 
 lighting look is amazing. The soundtrack is also one of the best. Definatly buy this game, if its 
 the only game you get this year it is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to buy GTA:4. I didn't plan on it or really even wanted it for sometime. I then 
 started watching the trailers and reading the previews on it, then I couldn't "live" without it. 
 Now I'm really happy I got it and I've already put 40 hours into GTA:4.
  Now, lets start with the overall gameplay.
  Unlike the other GTA's the gunplay is more GoW stylehave. 
 The weapons in the game are watch you would find in a GTA game (SMG's, Rocket Launcher's, AK-47's) . 
 But now each weapon has a certain feel and style to mix up the gunplay. They are actually so different, 
 each player might prefer his or her certain weapon. The guns do justice to a GTA game and feel 
 powerful. I have to say it's something when you shoot the shotgun for the very first time and feel 
 how the controller viberates violently.
  The cars in GTA:4 aren't miss placed either. They all feel different and for the first time have 
 suspension and handling. The motorcycles are the same and equally fun, but you could lose half 
 your life bar when going full speed into a van.
  The new multi-player on Live is very fun and somewhat addictive. The whole expirence is fresh and 
 puts some orginality into the GTA franchise. The only problem with GTA:4 in my opnion is the multi-player. 
 I felt like I didn't need to play anymore after a few matches, because there are no goals to achieve 
 or accomplish (COD:4 and Halo 3's ranking system keeps them addictive and you feel like you wanna 
 be on the top of the leader boards) .
  While the multi-player is at fault I still love this game and it never gets old trying to escape 
 5 stars on your wanted level (6 is impossible) . I love the overall game and have to say it's one 
 of the best Xbox 360 games yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 Is the kind of game that parents need to buy for their children, because it's M rated and 
 the clerk at the store went sell it directly to them. It's so chalked full of sex and violence 
 and wholesome family goodness that if your parents don't buy it for you, then honestly they are 
 lying when they say they love you. 
  
  The graphics are amazing as is the sound, the game play has been improved, and the game itself 
 is really fun. During the course of exploring the city you are bound to see or hear something that 
 will make you burst out laughing with its greatness, or you'll do something that will just bring 
 a smile to your face. 
  
  For example I saw someone drop a cup of coffee on the street and being the environmentalist that 
 I am. I picked up the litter and threw it right at the SOB's damn head, and then I stabbed him 
 to death. When I put the cup in the nearest trash can I was honestly expecting an achievement, 
 and was disappointed that one wasn't to be had, and it was one of the few disappointments I had 
 with the game. Here are two others: the camera is too low when your driving, easily corrected with 
 the right analog stick but they could have made it better. Two, there needs to be more hookers, 
 they seem to gather only in certain areas which might be more realistic but is very disappointing 
 nevertheless. On the hookers issue I was also disappointed that they didn't give you additional 
 health as they did in previous games, having full armor and 125 hit points made you feel like a 
 god and there was a reason to have sex with them. Now as Niko points out "I feel so empty." 
  
  Now not everything is perfect, nothing ever is, but the flaws in GTA 4 are so easily overcome, 
 or otherwise minute that I have a hard time remembering what they were. It really is the best GTA 
 game to date. Mostly because they have made significant improvements to various aspect of the game, 
 beside the graphical overhaul. If you have played previous GTA games than you are likely aware 
 that the best strategy was often to stay in your car as much as possible. With a knew lock on, 
 and cover system, I'd rather face 20 guys on foot than do a drive-by.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is just good fun. 
  
  A quick word on the story in GTA 4, a story of the 
 American dream. The American dream and revenge. It's a great story. You want to know more play 
 the game. I will tell you the game has two endings depending on a certain choice the player makes, 
 and hopefully they expand on this in the next game as it adds to replay value. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Like most people who play GTA games, I am a long time fan, up to GTA 3 that is. Most people who 
 love GTA have never played the series's earlier 2D counter parts or have really found an interest 
 in them. So we truly aren't long term GTA fans after all now, are we ? But non the less, we now 
 have GTA 4, the latest installment. Much like most of the 3D GTAs, this one outdoes the rest, even 
 the acclaimed San Andres. 
  
  You start the single play campaign as a Serbian immigrant named Niko Belic, a Kosovo war veteran 
 who wants to start a new life. Once you're fresh off of the boat, you're in the same situation 
 as many immigrants today, you're not legal. So once you're in Liberty City (New York City) you 
 meet up with your cousin (Roman) who fabricated the idea that if Niko leaves the old country, he'll 
 get all kinds of riches, from mansions to sports cars. Niko soon realizes he swapped one hell for 
 another, and now has to deal with His Cousin's gambling debts. Dealing with what Roman owes gets 
 Niko involved with the criminal underground world in "The land of opportunity".
  
  To start things off, the story is Superb, as usual. The depth of the Characters and how unique 
 each one is is almost Hollywood quality. The story mixes both humor and drama in what seems to 
 be a satire on American culture. Graphically speaking everything is superb, gamplay is great with 
 new innovations, muliplayer is new and fresh, the works.
  
  But some people say "it's not as good as SA, there soo little they don't have in here that they 
 had in SA !, Why ?" This is because Rockstar is rebuilding the franchise. Seriously, how much more 
 could you add from San Andres ? They pretty much humped everything out of GTA with that game. So 
 they're rebuilding it so they can put more in. enough said.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warewolf77
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This games is amazing. It definitely deserves its 10 rating. My favorite parts of the game is the 
 freedom, story and the cell phone. The cell phone is so cool. Truthfully I would have never thought 
 of it. When i started up the game and saw no main menu I was so confused. Then I saw the cellphone 
 and was like WOW! That is so cool! You use the cellphone for everything in story and multiplayer. 
 Also the story is wicked cool. And what i figured out when i talked to my friends is that you can 
 change the way the story with your friends (Little Jacob, Brucie, etc.) turns out. Also you don't 
 have to do the missions right away, if you want you can go on a killing spree. The only reason 
 i gave this game a hard and 9.5 is because of the driving. I mean that stuff is realistic. I suck 
 at driving , but get ready because it is really hard, especially in the rain. Also the achievement 
 when you have to finish the game in 30 hours is really pissy! Rockstar if your going to make a 
 game so long, don't expect everyone to beat it in 30 hours. But, it is still i really cool game 
 and i have to give Rockstar kudos for the amazing job they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLSYOU123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the most immersive games I've played in a long time but soon after you'll 
 become bored with the repetitvie storyline of LIberty City The enviroments have good interactivity 
 but the mini games are truly a dissapointment and while the ability to get drunk and drive around 
 is definitly good fun but Unlike the other games where earning a bunch of money was a simple Bullet 
 in some guys head money is immensly hard to earn in the Beginning and because of this it will force 
 you to play farther in and you can either choose two things keep playing or quickly become bored 
 while I haven't played Online yet My friends say its a great experience so if your a die hard fan 
 i suggest to pick it up and if not I suggest a rental too try it and If you like it buy it at your 
 local Gamestop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamie_Robertson
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been a major fan of GTA - 3 being my favourite because it was indeed revolutionary - but this 
 has been somewhat of a letdown. I sat down and played it with friends as the first XBOX360 game 
 i had ever played - new console, new Full HD TV the lot. To start with i was impressed - the graphics 
 were seamless and could not be faulted. My friends comment "its like watching a film" which it 
 was - but that faded very quickly into a monotonous series of missions - pickups, drop offs, assasinations 
 - different people - different items but in the end all the same. The additions to the series - 
 (smashing through the windscreen, entry to buildings, and the cop radar circle) though fun and 
 exciting to start with, soon became a pain in the ass - the cop circle made huge cop chases very 
 limited.
  
  To conclude - GTA IV is just more of the same - with boosted graphics - typical of most next-GEN 
 games today. I just hope they come up with something better.
  
  (PS. This game after 2 days - RED RING OF DEATHED my xbox. Thank you very much. I shall be purchasing 
 a PS3 in the near future :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  well, first the pros:
  
  gameplay: when it comes to shooting stuff, you actually want to do it thanks to the new cover system 
 and good AI. Euphoria is also something new, and damn, its impossible not to lol when riding over 
 someone.
  
  Euphoria: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=87qdmuOesRs
  its gives the ragdolls a bit more life.
  
  graphics: Rockstar gave the game a serious graphics 
 engine this time, the only way to describe this wonderful thing is to look at the screenshots. the 
 car damage also took an overhaul, this time around you can almost swear your playing burnout, yes, you 
 can ride the car so badly that one wheel will stop working after a while. hehe
  
  story: it also changed, no rampage like in SA though (damn) and you have two endings, you can also 
 make choices throughout the game, but there is no consequences whatsoever, just extra side missions 
 if you spare their lifes.
  
  gameplay again: the side missions decreased drastically, about 6 to do (only 3 of that 5 is infinite) 
 oh well. you also get a phone later in the game, which you can assign ringtones to (and themes) 
 and call friends and ask if they want to hang out and stuff. (go bowling, pool, drink, eat, strip club, darts 
 with them)
  also there is internet (quite alot of websites) where you can get a date with a girl, and buy ringtones 
 (100$ each!) + a TV with 2 hours worth of shows
  truly great
  
  now the cons:
  
  gameplay: you score big money in the game, but nothing expensive to spend it on. Internet could use 
 more interactivity (all you can actually do is check out a secret forum and date 3 people, the rest 
 of the sites is just there to read) most useless stuff, like towing things (people miss that for 
 some stupid reason I don't know of) are removed. but in that process they also removed a few fun 
 things like buying properties and having a garage to put a car in.
  
  the cover system is near perfect,"near" as in sometimes when you press the cover button, Niko takes 
 cover behind the wrong side of the object, forcing you to take a few rounds while adjusting him 
 to the right side again (happens especially when you try to take cover on pillars and small objects)
 
  
  the fact that you park your car in a marked spot instead of keeping it safe in a garage really 
 is frustrating because sometimes that infernus you loved so much, just disappears from that marked 
 area sometimes (and never returns)
  
  no problems with euphoria or the RAGE engine so far
  
  like any gta game, its more addictive 
 than whatever drug there is and damn long (well, if you are too busy to play it then its long, but 
 if you play it without end, then it will take 2 days. maybe 30 hours, hence the achievement)
  
  now done with the pros and cons, I believe you youngens want to know the story?:
  
  Niko 
 just climbs off a boat ready for a new life of "luxury", well, he is actually after something else, but 
 NO SPOILERS
  
  so his cousin, Roman, the one who told him to come to Liberty City, and told him he was rich, with 
 cars, women and alot of money, lied and....
  
  that's all kids!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto one of the best selling series out there and I have played them all and have not 
 been disappointed. Grand Theft Auto IV is finally here and does not fail to disappoint Rockstar 
 North in Scotland have really done their best to make sure that this game is top quality which 
 it is. Grand Theft Auto has taken a big change for once this game looks, feels and plays realistic.
 
  
  The first thing when coming in to this game I had problems the screen was too dark you can't hardly 
 see a thing. I configured the brightness and contrast which did solve the problem just warning 
 you at first.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic who is a a Serbian veteran of the Bosnian War now makes his way to America 
 in Liberty City. Niko meets his cousin Roman Bellic who has lived in Liberty City for 15 years 
 which he says he is living the American Dream. Niko is not like any other character from the previous 
 Grand Theft Auto games for one he is funny and the other reason he gives the choice sometimes if 
 he wants to kill a person. As any other Grand Theft Auto game you have to kill loads of people 
 you will work with Russians, Gangsta's, and even the cops and Government theres more.
  
  The story of the game does get very interesting once it really gets into it but I will not say 
 more over the story as I don't really want to spoil it for you.
  
  Liberty City has changed a lot more as it looked in Grand Theft Auto 3 it is bigger and looks more 
 beautiful. There is Times Square which has been called The Triangle which with the graphics used 
 it looks amazing every bit of this game looks fantastic. Rockstar games have really made the game 
 top quality I have never seen anything as great as what they have done here.
  
  Back in Liberty City you would think you would see the others from the previous games though quite 
 few of them have died as you see tribute's on street walls of some.
  
  Niko has a phone which is carry around with him which you can phone people to do extra jobs, make 
 prank calls to the cops, fire department or the paramedics, you get a camera on your phone which 
 you will use in some missions. If you get sick of driving you can phone up Roman who gets you a 
 taxi to take you a places for free but sometimes he's to full and the man is not that nice at all. 
 I want to know if anyone else thought one of the taxi drivers looks like Saddam Hussein because 
 I think he does.
  
  The driving on Grand Theft Auto has changed a whole lot it feels a whole lot more realistic but 
 it harder in the game at first. Driving at speed takes quite sometime to slow down and if you are 
 speeding and crash you will fly out of the window.
  
  The radio stations to me feel a bit dull I don't really like the music on them and I have never 
 of most of the songs. If you don't like the radio stations you can put your own music in the game. 
 Lazlow returns to make another talk show and the humor of that is still there it is good. The theme 
 of this game though is excellent which is Soviet Connection by Micheal Hunter you here a remix 
 version at the start up of the game.
  
  Now as I said with Niko having a choice to kill people can change the game a little bit which is 
 one of the new features to Grand Theft Auto.
  
  The game includes stuff to do you can play a bit of bowling which you can phone one of your contacts 
 to play a game. Other stuff you can do is play 8-ball pool, darts, go to the strip club, the comedy 
 club. In the safe house you can switch on the TV and watch a bit of it. These are great to add 
 to the game but shame the theme park is closed.
  
  The blood in the game is better shooting someone you will blood all over there face and body as 
 well as when Niko gets shot you will see blood come out from him nice to see more of that. The 
 shooting can be good though a hate auto aim I use free aim that way a get better shots. The police 
 now have a 6 star wanted level and on the map you can see where the cops are so you try and dodge 
 them much easier if you can but they can be hard and annoying at times.
  
  After finishing the game you will go back to playing it again as you get get different parts in 
 the game with killing certain people will change a bit of the storyline.
  
  Grand Theft Auto is one of the best games of all time and here you have a masterpiece with some 
 of the best graphics of all time. If anyone needs a great game it's Grand Theft Auto IV just if 
 your going to buy it for kids make sure they are responsible and not to be stupid to copy anything 
 from the game. As for the war of which is better between Saints Row 2 and GTAIV the winner all 
 the way is going to be GTAIV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Amazing realism.
  Amazing graphics.
  The story grabs you and doesnt let go.
  HUGE
  So many things to do.
  The addition of choices lets you choose what happens.
  Multiplayer 
 in GTA
  Superb sounds
  
  Cons:
  A few clipping errors.
  A few shadow graphic errors.
  
  Well its finally here, the game to end all games of its genre. 
 If there are any other games like it.
  GTA IV will blow you away, the first time you start playing it. You can tell straight away how 
 much effort has been put into this game, everything down to the tiny scratches on your cars have 
 been thought off. The realism is one of the best things about this game. Previous GTA's didnt have 
 that much, you could crash into anything without many consequences.
  Now however crashing too hard to the front will send you flying out the front window. Crashing 
 the side of a wheel can cause it to buckle and stop the handling and speed, and if you get too 
 fast you can burst the tire and set the rim on fire, or even kill the guy in the car in front. 
 The cars are still the same old GTA, made up names which are nearly identical to real life cars 
 (get the infernus then look at a pagani zonda!) but still if you have played GTA before you will 
 love this. You still get the same sense of freedom, you can go anywhere you want.
  The graphics in this game, are stunning. Compared to what we are used to with the PS2 and Xbox, 
 you can tell Rockstar have taken full advantage of the next gen consoles power. You may still get 
 tiny frame lag when large explosions happen, but that will happen regardless.
  The story of GTA is typical of the series, you usually have killing missions, collecting missions 
 etc. As you work your way to the top of the pile of crooks and gangs. There are also more imaginative 
 missions, such as a bank heist, or hanging onto a speeding truck so you can hijack it.
  Rockstar have followed suit of GTA SA and made the game work huge, but they havent restricted the 
 realism to cars too, on the streets you see people sweeping, fixing engines, or getting stuff out 
 the trunk of a car. Depending on what you drive, you can cross the 3 main islands in around 5 minutes. 
 There are 3 main islands and 3 other smaller islands. You are a little restricted in the air however, 
 there are around 3 helicopters but thats all i have found.
  Around Liberty City there are loads of things you can do with your dates or friends (they have 
 there own like, fondness levels, a bit like the sims) such as bowling, darts or drinking. There 
 are also Burlesque strip shows and a comedy club with real life comedians, such as Ricky Gervais.
 
  The game also lets you choose different things, whether you kill someone or dont is usually the 
 choice, they affect the story by the cutscenes and the final mission, some people you save may 
 come help you.
  The cutscenes are another amazing feature, they are well acted and well animated. They make you 
 laugh and they make you shocked. Especially with Niko Bellic the main character, who you will learn 
 to love.
  
  There are a few graphical glitches like all GTA games, you drive too fast and it still takes about 
 half a second for things too appear, but it is usually the road and nothing serious like traffic 
 or buildings.
  
  Long review but meh its a great game! You should definately buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is awesome, you start the game as soon as you get off the boat as Niko. The 
 story is the best yet as you play as Niko and move to Liberty City to live with Niko's couson Roman 
 who lied about living in a mansion with fast cars and women. But he lives in a crap apartment with 
 a huge debt with the russian mob.
  
  Niko ends up having to save Roman's arse a bit and you will end up as a Hitman earning money to 
 help out your cousin.
  
  The gameplay of GTA IV is perfect as the gunplay has been inproved as if you hit a person in the 
 leg they will fall and limb which is better for getting run away targets. You can also get behing 
 cover and blind fire so its always your fault if you die now because you can't blame the gunplay 
 system.
  
  The missions are very fun as always and add new elements into the game (gun shops, safe houses 
 etc) . You can have a social life this time which allows Niko to get dates and make friends which 
 allows him to get a hand from his friends which includes heli copter rides, guns, taxis and more.
 
  
  As normal there are loads of side mission which as normal include the cop missions (killing theifs 
 etc) , drugs devilorys, assasstions, races and helping random people on the street. 
  
  As you go through the game your friends and contracts in the game will give you new odd jobs like 
 street racing which are some of the best parts of the game.
  
  
  The entainment places you can go to are great and include strip clubs, bars, food courts and comedy 
 clubs which has real comadians in the games comedy clubs.
  
  You have to buy GTA IV as its the best yet and the multiplayer mode is awesome and has a few modes 
 that you have to play which are team car jack city, team deathmatch, free roam and a few others.
 
  
  The game does have a few problems which don't happen that often. The cover system can fail when 
 someone sneaks up on Niko which means if you don't have any armour you chould die in a few seconds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redboxa
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Is there anything really else to say? Well... yes. First off, I've played 
 all previous Gta games on the ps2. So this one, with new controls and all, kinda took getting used 
 to. And even though all the new cars are beautiful, I don' t think I like the driving mechanisms 
 too much until I got used to it, but now I just think it's genius. So, if you own either an xbox 
 360 or a ps3, I suggest that you BUY THIS GAME now! The graphics are just amazing for an almost-real 
 open world (sandbox type) city modelled after NewYork. The storyline is great and lives up to previous 
 GTA games, while the action seems new and fresh and really gives a great experience to the Grand 
 theft Auto series. The open world is almost true-to-life and the new cellphone menus are just ingenious! 
 I recommend this game to everyone, although its minor faults keep it from being a perfect 10.... 
 Better luck next time, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenyong
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  GTA4 Review-
  
  GTA 4 is a awesome game which everyone should lay their hands on to.
  
  With interesting story line and very like-able characters (exception of few) , the game keeps you 
 craving for more. All you want to do is just to keep on playing and see how the story is going 
 to turn out.
  
  The entire city is beautiful, making it enjoyable just to drive about when you don't feel like 
 doing the missions. Everyone on the streets looks different. You will hardly see the same looking 
 people in your sight. 
  
  New GPS system makes driving from place to place easier than ever with routes already planned out 
 for you. Feeling lazy to drive? Just take a cab. Everything is also made simple by a phone button 
 away.
  
  Combat gets more intense than ever with superb effects and sounds. New Covering system comes really 
 handy, working well all the time. Aiming is made easy with auto-aim, by holding the aiming trigger 
 one, you are able to use the analog to adjust a small bit to give the damn cop a headshot for irritating 
 you.
  
  Physics in game is simply awesome. The realism are stunning. Car knocking down a dude makes you 
 go "wow! Cool!. Trust me.
  
  What are you waiting for? Just grab a copy and join in the fun of crime.
  
  Graphic: 9
  Sound: 
 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Value: 10
  
  REVIEW SCORE: 9.5
  
  (Please note, my review will never be bias in anyways, no matter how much i love the game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZackerThe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto, obviously, was one of the most anticipated game of late 2007 and 2008, with good 
 reason. *Graphics* Great, however streaming can sometimes lower the quality for a while. Driving 
 at really high speeds doesnt mess with framerate. One of the only ways to lower the fps is 6 stars 
 and have 2 helicopters and a **** load of cars after you.
  
  *Gameplay*
  Tons of stuff to do, ranging from searching for flying rats, to jacking kick ass cars, and going 
 on rampages killing everything you can. The story itself is 20-40 hours depending on your pace. 
 Thats only 60%, the other 40% is all extras, ranging from doing work for a friend to finding stunts 
 to complete. Plus, a few easter eggs, internet, and hilarious television. Stealing a car includes 
 Niko breaking the window and hotwiring the car. The Cover system is good, not much to talk about 
 except it can sometimes press you against the wrong wall/car/object. The friendship system is kind 
 of unrealistic in the way that you can bring a friend almost anywhere and they will still be happy. 
 However, a good friend can help you alot. Shooting is very similar to the last GTA games, except 
 to free aim, you press the trigger down half way, to lock on, you have to press it fully down. 
 Driving is a bit harder, but easy to get used to after a while. Drivebys are a bit harder, to fire 
 you need to press Left Bumper, you only have a few seconds to aim before you fire, so youll end 
 up wasting ammo. If you want to know, the weapons are bat, knife, pistol, combat pistol, combat 
 shotgun, shotgun, micro uzi, SMG, AK-47, M4, Sniper, Combat Sniper, RPG, Molotov Cocktail, and 
 Grenade.
  
  *Story*
  Niko is a Slavic immigrant who has come to Liberty City because of his cousins lies. After arriving, 
 he discovers Roman (his cousin) had nothing the he told his cousin about. He had a taxi depot, 
 a trashed apartment, only a taxi cab, and he was in big debt to the local gangsters. Niko helps 
 his cousin earn cash and protects him from loan sharks. Roman`s gambling problem lost him alot 
 of money, and so did the angry loan sharks. You have a few descisions to make such as wether to 
 kill someone, or to work with some or kill them. In the end, you have to make an important desicion 
 which will make more of an then you might think.
  
  *Audio*
  When it comes to music, GTA IV has something for everyone. There are hip hop stations, classic 
 rock stations, alternative stations, hardcore rock stations, disco stations, jazz stations, talk 
 shows, russian stations, funk stations, and a few more. The selection of music is great. Plus, 
 there is a feature that if you call a certain number, you will get the name of the song thats currently 
 playing. As for sound effects, great too. The combat pistol and shotgun make a really loud bang. 
 The RPG blows up cars with a satisfing explosion. *Conclusion*
  GTA IV is a game that everyone can enjoy (except people under 17) . Not only is this game an easy 
 contender for Game of the Year, it is currently the best game on the 360 and PS3. Tons of replay 
 value. Unfortunatly I can not comment on the Multiplayer, having not played it. However, if you 
 have the money, get in your car and drive to the nearest game store NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgT_P3pr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  GTA4, great game.
  
  GTA4 has a great story line which spans over 70 missions which will find you running away from 
 cops, shooting people and stealing things, the story also has a lot of twist and turns which will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat... and yes, you play a lovable Russian.
  
  the graphic and sound quality is amazing, for a map so large the detail is pretty good and the 
 sound is probably second to none. Character voices are amazing and played by great voice actors. 
 The game play in this GTA is also a lot lot better. The addition of a new cover system makes firefight 
 feel a lot more real and fun. New physics make car crashes and being hit by car more realistic.
 
  
  So thats all the good stuff i can think of, but i can name a lot of things that disappointed me. 
 I actually miss all the cars and weapons they took out, i miss the army that would chase after 
 you on a 6 star wanted level, i miss th ability to buy properties and drug warehouses etc etc. 
 I miss the gangs wars, i miss getting fat and going to the gym, i could go on and on but I'm not 
 going to.
  
  GTA4 was a great game but not a 10/10, i waited months for this game and pre-ordered the special 
 edition, but when i got it, i was just, in the tiniest little bit disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v_3_n_0_m
Rating: 4
Date: May 18, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't get why people like this game at all after 1 play through I couldn't stand to 
 play it anymore the only reason I'm going to play through again is for achievement's this has to 
 be the most overrated game ever made.
  
  The only semi redeeming thing is the multiplayer which is ok I spose but at the end of the day 
 it's nower near as good as san andreas or even vice city. 
  
  BAD POINTS.
  
  1. Its to short mission wise is ok i guess but there's just not enough to do after all mission's 
 are completed, 2. Lack of vehicles SA had hundreds of cars, planes, choppers, boats etc this has 
 no planes only like 2 choppers and a few boats ok there is some nice cars but NO comedy vehicles 
 or push bikes, 3. looks good but is WAY to small compared to SA it's like a 3rd of the size. 4. 
 You cannot custamize your character and you only get a few good outfits one good pair of shoes 
 and two hats which are both terrible.
  5. The characters seemed mostly boring and I didn't feel there was as many
  likeable ones as 
 SA, I only seemed to like 3 or 4 and hated the rest of them.
  6. No parachute which won't bother some people but really anoyed me as that was what was most fun 
 about San Andreas.
  7. Same old escort/driving/shooting missions there was only 2 missions I really enjoyed and only 
 1 i wanted to play again and like 20 I never want to see again.
  
  Am I the only person who dosn't like this game because everyone I speak to about it loves it and 
 I just don't know why, In the end this was bound to happen as the last 3 or 4 gta games have had 
 EXACLY the same formulae and you could guess the ending about half way through and only one twist 
 at the end which did kind of suprise me I guess. I just think that rockstar should mix it up a 
 bit and make the next one a little different other wise there going to loose fans fairley quickly, 
 Or maybe everyone else loves it and i'v missed something I don't know all I know is if you love 
 GTA games then you will probly like this one to but if your getting bored with the same GTA formula 
 then you might want to give this a miss.
  
  GOOD POINTS.
  
  1. I liked the realism attept in this one alot.
  2. good cover system works most of the time
 
  3. Did have good graphics
  4. Mission wise lenth was quite good compaired to some games will take about 25-40 hours 1st play 
 through even with exploration.
  
  To all the people who will complain and call me a **** for not likeing it, I can understand how 
 you like it so much I'm just getting bored with the same game over and over every few years, that 
 said there was a few laughs to be had in typical GTA humour but it felt like less than he last 
 games, after San Andreas I thought that this was going to be fantastic and it turned out to be 
 ok.
  
  What I'm trying to say is if you love GTA then you will love this but I just think It felt like 
 half a game. As for the extra content to be released I hope that it adds what feels like is missing 
 from this. I would love to see some new multiplayer missions, like the single player bank robbery 
 as a multiplayer game would be great something like kane & lynch's multiplayer. 
  
  Story 1/10
  Gameplay 3/10
  Multiplayer 5/10
  Overall 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: test65420
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  By far the best of the series. Still, however, almost nothing's changed. The graphics shouldn't 
 really surprise you (it's a 6th gen game) making it the first real 3d but then again the very first 
 gta wasn't bad given the tech at the time. Sound is also great with a mixture of good tunes, but 
 still lacks one thing as the rest of the games of the series... Real world names, real world cars, 
 real world people, real world everything. Maybe for you it's ok but not for me. I wanna see something 
 real except some dumb@ss named niko bellic coming to the u. s. like all the other immigrants we 
 know. Still, i would say its a good deal for your money as you will spend too much time on it. 
 But if you are not too fond to this kinda stuff choose something else. Can't believe that the only 
 thing that sells these days is crime and wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  So basically, GTA 4 is the new GTA, that is more realistic than ever, putting you in the shoes 
 of Niko Bellic. 
  
  Good things is, everything seems more real, you can do many new interesting things. The handphone, 
 you can call girls for a date at a nice restaurant, call friends out drinking, or play pool, go 
 to a show etc. You can use the internet, with many many websites to go to, blogs, love finder etc. 
 
  
  Combat is awesome, way better than any previous titles, you actually get to do more in combat than 
 just spamming bullets at stupid AI. You need to take cover, aim and shoot, and that ridiculous 
 headshot that blows off the whole head is finally gone (now is just blood splattered behind the 
 target) . 
  
  Graphics are nice, but not the best though. you'll see tons of different people, that actually 
 looks different from each other. And now, you can take a cab, to where you want to go. 
  
  Now, for the not so good part. There are no fighter planes or helicopters. There are no tanks. 
 There are no weapons of mass destruction, except for the rocket launcher. Many are definitely going 
 to miss the fighter planes and apaches. But even with all the missing things from previous series, 
 GTA4 will still be an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisCrysis
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I have played through the whole story in less than 19 hours and GTA IV is so far, the game of the 
 year, without a doubt. I play as an immigrant from the north, named Niko Bellic. Liberty city is 
 the city he enters to meet up his cousin and so it begins. I've always loved GTA for its freedom 
 and graphics and this game is the best of the series, although I find GTA vice city to be the funniest 
 of them all and the greatest gameplay. 
  The graphics are amazing during play, but not that well during cut scenes. The car physics has 
 been improved and you have more choices to perform than ever before.
  The story, what should I say, it is good and well made with all the conversations but I didn't 
 think it godlike, no it stays simple.
  The gameplay here is very high and its speed as well. I love free roam and that's what makes this 
 game so special.
  And then we come this the durability, which is actually good, compared to San andreas. However, 
 after a couple of playing, you just want to lay off.
  The disadvantage I find are, the graphics during cut scenes and the cover system which I dislike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond2d
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has now entered the 7th generation of gaming; new visual, improved AI and a great 
 storyline. The graphics, story and gameplay is great BUT there's something missing? Things that 
 were in San Andreas that made that game; game of the '05. The ability to fly planes, make your 
 character fat, buy property, do-up-cars all this and more is NOT included in this years GTA. ROCKSTAR 
 ..... WHY NOT?? 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  The multiplayer on GTA on PSP was awsome. Me and my friends would spend hours playing it. on GTA 
 4 we got bord very quickly. I no Rockstar intended it to be more "realistic" but it felf really 
 slow and annoying!!!! BUT it was fun for the 1st 1hr or so.
  
  My advise get GTA if you are a hard fan of the series.....
  The multiplayer may not be as good 
 but its all in the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Good: Auto Targeting System, great voice acting, great sound effects, superior animation, allot 
 of tracks on the radios and most of them should suit your taste, Laslo is back.
  
  bad: The Auto Targeting System is a pure mix of HORRIBLE and TERRIBLE, Laslo is quite as funny, 
 some minor spawn problems, driving could be more improved and the game is against you.
  -------
  
  Ok, this game has so many goods and bad's it's gonna be long so you're gonna most 
 likely discover them. Most likely your gonna discover the same thing like i did, this game has 
 a case of Downs Syndrome. To those who doesn't know, people with Downs Syndrome can be good at 
 one thing, but now, let's just say this time this game is particularly bad at one thing, and i 
 mean B-A-D, which is: The Auto targeting System, we'll get back to that later. Now let's focus 
 on the game and focus on that later
  
  SO, the game is good in THEORY, the euphoria in the game in the game... is what makes this game 
 in gameplay complete, because when you crash on people you can see them rolling, when they crash 
 they may crash out of the front window (which is quite blatant AWESOME, however this can happen 
 to you too!) it makes the game more realistic, if you have played GTA4 as long as me, most likely 
 your gonna have great laughs in this game thanks for the Euphoria.
  
  The storyline in this game is something i won't go into. But i can give you some clues how to do 
 some side quests because i had no idea what they meant until i accidently discovered it. On the 
 minimap, when you see a people's symbol, drive towards it and step out, then you start the side 
 quest.
  
  The radio here is like all other radios from the former GTA games, great music, i've found few 
 favs and whenever i tune on the radio and change to the radio station i prefer, i always sit and 
 wondering "when is it coming on!?" However, the Laslo show is somewhat lacking, last time he was 
 on he had atleast 15 - 20 worth of length, but this time he has a short 5 - 10 mins... but he has 
 his moments of course!
  
  The driving in this game is kinda akward... when you are turning in this game, it's like there 
 is some force adding more weight on the car so in a high probability you're gonna end up spinning 
 around and hitting a cop... and of course when you are chasing someone in a car, it feels like 
 the game is against you then! It's like it clears everything away for the enemy and throws everything 
 it can to prevent you from complete the mission, and i mean anything.
  
  And now to the absolute biggest and worst developed feature in this game, the Auto Targeting System. 
 This feature is a complete hybrid of horrible and terrible (www. answers. com) and what i'm gonna 
 tell you now is fact because this has happened to me:
  
  (MINOR SPOILER) when i was chasing Dimitri to kill him, i saw someone shooting his shotgun on me, 
 and there was a civilian few feet away from me, so when i tried to aim at the enemy, just guess 
 what he did, yes, he aimed at the civilian and i accidently killed him. So i killed the enemy and 
 luckely i didn't get any stars on me, i continued the chase when i was met with more enemies, one 
 of them was shooting at me while the other one didn't but if course, he aimed at the unarmed civilian 
 who turned out to be a COP! So i was quickly killed because i didn't have body armor so i was quickly 
 killed. FACT: there is 95% chance he will aim at a dead body or a civilian rather than the henchman/cop 
 with the shotgun right in front of you
  
  To sum it up: This game has the Downs Syndrome, the targeting system is downright hybrid of horrible 
 and terrible and really needs a fix, the driving is akward, the story is good. It does deserve 
 to be praised as a good game but not The best game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcouch
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  A fully involved world. Cell phones, internet, cab fares, bowling, etc. Rockstar brings a whole 
 new excitement to the GTA series by making the most realistic Liberty City series game to date. 
 However there are many things that just aren't the same. It seems for every new opportunity explored, 
 two more were forgotten. 
  
  This version of Liberty City is a cold cut of what we know as New York City, NY. Times Square, 
 Broadway, Central park (a bit smaller however) ; however even Rockstar, the riskiest of game developers 
 is smart enough not to mess with the horrors of 9/11. There are no flyable planes in GTA IV (as 
 of yet, I have not yet completed the game. I'm about 72% done as of this morning.) We understand 
 you don't want your fanbase to fly planes into buildings that resemble the streets of NYC we know 
 today, but in losing this feature it really pulls away. My suggestion is allow flyable planes in 
 single player mode and ZERO planes on Xbox Live. 
  
  Lowriders? Negative. Firetruck Missions? Negative. More than 3 types of motorcycles? Nope. There 
 aren't even any bicycles. Many of the things we grew to love in Vice City & San Andreas have ultimately 
 disappeared. There are no Gym's, you don't get fat or muscular and your hair doesn't grow anymore. 
 Tattoo's? Not yet, for me anyways. 
  
  What's the deal Rockstar? Why pull back on something so awesome? 
  
  On the other hand, the 
 online feature in GTA IV is pretty awesome. Multiple scenario's and mini-game's to keep even the 
 heartiest of GTA players busy. My personal favorite is Cops & Crooks. In this classic cops & robbers 
 style game, one of your crook teammates is the 'Crook Boss' and must make his way to the getaway 
 vehicle. You must do everything in your vested power to ensure his safety along the way. However, 
 the opposing team, 'The Cops' will do everything in their power to murder this crime boss player. 
 Ton's of fun! 
  
  Even then "Free Mode" version of the online experience is a blast. Run around with people all over 
 the world with no objective but to simply interact. Most of the them turn into gang wars or sniper 
 matches but in the end it is fun nonetheless.
  
  So I am a little disappointed with the final product of this game. It left out some many things 
 I loved from the previous GTA titles. However, there are many new and exciting features that will 
 peak your interest and could possibly be the longest GTA IV single player campaign we have seen 
 yet! Even though many of the VC & SA beauties are gone (for the moment) , I know that GTA IV is 
 only the birth of a whole new series. I'm sure as the future GTA games progress on the current 
 generation consoles, we will see a lot of what was lost, returned. I look forward to the next expansion 
 of GTA IV! 
  
  LET'S GO FOREIGN COUNTRY! (Japan? China? Return of the Triads?) ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergeantscul
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  GTA started out as a 2d car jacker game which has evolved into one of the most popular, highest 
 grossing videogames in history. GTA IV incoperates many new aspects that GTA has never seen, for 
 example Multiplayer. The story follows Serbian immigrant, Niko Bellic, who comes to America to 
 work with his Cousin Roman. Like GTA 3 it uses the same city "Liberty City" a spoof of newyork 
 city which is very interesting. Its the first GTA to be in "modern times" unlike past weres its 
 been from 70's-90's. Theres also more tactics and realistics to this game. You no longer just get 
 into cars, parked cars have to be broken into and hot wired. Remeber how in the past gta's you 
 crashed a car 4 or 5 times and it burst into flames? Well in GTA 4 you can crash your car alot 
 and stuff like flat tires or stalls will happen :P
  Multiplayer also has many modes like Deathmatch, Cops and Crooks and more! So if your a GTA fan 
 this is more than worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is the most recent addition to Rockstars ever growing Grand Theft Auto series and proves 
 to be one of the best ones yet.
  
  GTA IV was relitively hyped but wasnt exactly dissapointing, the main campaign puts you in the 
 shoes of Niko Bellic, a certain someone who comes to Liberty City to come see his cousin Roman 
 who promises Niko he has a great life, house and is swimming in cash.
  
  Turns out, Roman is lying, his house is an old run down apartment, his isnt swimming in cash and 
 he works for a Taxi agency. The storyline is simple, you start as an underdog and rise to the top, 
 by killing mostly. 
  
  Your role as Niko is basically to be a hitman and their isnt alot of variety in the missions, its 
 alot of drive here, do this drive back and outrun the cops, you know that old chestnut. 
  
  The graphics were an element of the game i enjoyed, also the characters AI and physics, the proved 
 to be some of the best i had seen for a long time. The physics made Liberty City feel so much more 
 alive, for instance if you came barging past someone as they are falling them might reach out for 
 a wall or a ledge they can hold on to stopping them from falling down. The physics were by far 
 the most real thing i had seen in the game. The graphics were great, obviously couldnt be outstanding 
 all the way through due to the fact it was all the detail and feel about liberty city that made 
 it feel so alive.
  
  There were plenty of vehicles to drive, but they still suffered from problems they suffered in 
 previous GTA's. If you were to find a rare car such as the Infernus, in GTA IV which are not around 
 as much but are around, and drive it around you would only have to drive for a short while before 
 you saw Infernuses popping up everywhere, the same thing happens with every car you drive. Also 
 some points in the game you may come across deserted streets, with a few changes of camera angle 
 you look behind you to see a massive line of traffic which wasnt there a while ago. Its understandable 
 that there were a few things wrong with the game since the city must have so much to process, even 
 when Niko isnt around, because there are no loading screens apart from when it goes from game to 
 cutscene and when you save, but there is no interuption from going outside to inside. They have 
 clearly tried to add more things to do on the side here, such as visiting friends and playing pool, 
 though the thing that truely lets all the GTA games down is boredmn.
  
  The game has already recieved plenty of controversial attention, and has tried to be banned several 
 times already since its release, due to the problems they had with a previous "Hot Coffee" situation 
 in the last GTA installment, and R* nearly went bankrupt due to the fact they were always in so 
 much trouble... if you think about it last year they realeased lots of games in a short space of 
 time
  
  *Manhunt 
  Manhunt 2
  The Warriors
  Bully/Canis Canem Edit
  GTA: LCS
  GTA: VCS
  and multiple bundle packs combining the GTA III trilogy.
  
  GTA IV is a great addition 
 to the series but as i mentioned boredmn is its greatest downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Bottom line Grand Theft Auto IV i have to say was worth the 6 month wait. one problem though the 
 game is short not like regulare GTA games and there is fro what i foun there is only two girlfriends. 
 Also Hot Coffee maskes a famous retrurn to the GTA world. The stroryline revovles around Niko Bellic 
 an immigrant from Europe. Roman Bellic Niko's cousin tells him of the riches and luxurys of America 
 but when Niko gets there Libirty City turns out to be a crime, mob, mafia fest! Niko fights his 
 way to the top and no i won't spoil the ending but you have to play the game the whole way through 
 to unerstand it. Taxis can drive you around now and you can take helicopter tours plus there are 
 shows you can go to. Burger Shot and Cluckin Bell are much bigger. Rockstar even if this is the 
 end of Grand Theft Auto the game was awsome and leave us jaw-dropped and at awe. Grand Theft Auto 
 IV is perfect in everyway and it sure lived higher than the expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SU1C1DAL1D1OT
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is, by far, the greatest sandbox game ever. With numerous good qualities and very few 
 bad, this game will have you playing for quite some time.
  
  The good --
  1. Story is exciting and interesting, with missions ranging from the predictable easy to the surprisingly 
 difficult. 
  2. Driving - More Realistic, more fun.
  3. Liberty City feels more "alive". With rush hour traffic causing major Road Rage, and calm nighttime 
 cruising for that special "alone time" with some prostitute. The citizens seem to have jobs that 
 they go to, they go to eat, they party at the bars. They get arrested. They get shot.
  4. Side missions are fun and may get you that extra cash you need to buy that new suit.
  5. Dating 
 and Friends -- Interact with people and get a girlfriend, who knows, you might get lucky tonight 
 *wink, wink*.
  6. FIRE TRUCK -- Lol, its fun to shot the water at people to knock them down before you run them 
 over.
  7. 
  
  
  The bad --
  1. Police AI, wtf? -- Tell me why the police run me and/or pedestrians over instead of trying to 
 swerve out of the way? Why do the police get mad at me for damaging their vehicle when they're 
 the ones who crash into me?
  
  2. Bikes -- REALLY Hard to drive and the bike missions are very nearly IMPOSSIBLE.
  
  5 out 
 of 5; 10 out of 10; 2 powerthirst energy drinks out of 2; This is surely a game YOU MUST BUY if 
 you are even interested in gaming (best not to buy for that 5 year old though, definately not a 
 good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobatlarge77
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  GTA: IV 2 me.... was a slight disappointment. The game is great... don't get me wrong.... but everything 
 i liked from the last 1.... the rpg feel.... increase your stats... and the layout of the world aren't 
 in this 1. This 1 is pretty good... but doesn't compare 2 GTA: SA 4 me. The city is a little bit 
 hard and nnoying 2 go through. There are problems in GTA: IV... so i have no clue why this got a 
 10 out of 10! Some things don't load up in time (ex. going into a buliding and i open the doors and 
 it's all black, or i'm about 2 drive down an alley, then all of a sudden, i go flying out of the 
 windshield only 2 find out that a small wall spawned at the last moment) .... driving problems (breaks 
 and handling of cars) and the aiming system. (hard to switch between targets) The things i do like 
 about this game is that you have freedom now to do fun things with your friends.... the story.... the 
 graphics when loaded... the freedom that a GTA game brings and this 1 brings a little bit more... it's 
 also pretty funny... but overall if you like GTA... you should get this game.... you're either gonna 
 love it a whole lot or like it.... but either way around... this game will keep you busy and it's 
 a fun game that you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  GTA was very looked forward to by most every gamer, and I must say I was one of them. Now after 
 waiting and waiting for it I was sadly disappointed with it. The graphics on it were great, but 
 the content of the game just didn't suit the GTA game type. Many many weaponswere dropped out, 
 and many cheats such as inf. health and ammo. The biggest let down to me was there was no tank. 
 I know thats silly but I loved it :) . The story was of course good. The characters in it were decent, 
 voice acting was also good. Graphics of all the people and cars was very well done. 
  
  Alright, now for this game I would have to say it was the biggest let down of a game ever. I mean 
 nothing really great in it, and I would never buy it again unless I really needed something to 
 play. If you like being killed a lot and running out of ammo you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lrdchs3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying GTA IV is the best in the series. 
  It has the best storyline for starters, instead of rags to riches it is rags to slightly less dirty 
 rags. The game has good characters, some likable and some less so (Manny and Vlad for starters) .
 
  The graphics engine is very good and GTA IV is a very good looking game in comparison to the others 
 in the series and to games in general.
  Liberty city is very large and very dense, it'll take you a long time to penetrate the deeper areas 
 of the city, but the looking in some cases is well worth it.
  Missions in the game are a mix of easy and hard, depending on what your good at, some are fun, 
 but like some missions of past games, some are extremely tedious and boring, especially if you 
 have to repeat.
  IV introduces some cool new game aspects, the cell phone being the main one. But a lot of the new 
 additions don't really affect the core gameplay that was created in GTA III. Take the cab for instance, 
 it can take much time off your traveling and can offer a scenic view of your surroundings, but 
 then the fun of jacking cars and driving drunk is taken away. Sure they don't force you to go taxi 
 but still for players who don't use the taxis they are just a waste. The new cover tool is very 
 helpful especially in large gunfights and on long missions that involve shooting and require for 
 you to stay alive. The new and improved locking on method is also helpful and more refined, but 
 again it takes some of the fun out of the game.
  This installment of GTA offers far more to do in the city, go bowling, darts, get drunk, deliver 
 packages for Little Jacob and Badman. Got to a strip club, see some comedy, go on a date, see some 
 magic or a cabaret. Hire a hooker, steal some cars for Stevie or Brucie, race cars with Brucie, 
 watch some t. v. Kill the most wanted, meet some new characters, play in the various online and 
 so on. Just saying what you can do doesn't give the sheer amount of stuff justice.
  Now for the bad parts. The game ,in my opinion, is in a couple of words, less fun. Some of the 
 sheer insanity of games past has gone. Sure some new stuff has been added, but it seems sought 
 of a hollow victory, the old stuff we so sorely missed is gone. Some of the things you do are hollow, 
 they don; t really advance you in the game, they are just there to add to your end of game statistics, 
 just there to make getting 100% that little bit harder. Another thing, just a little niggling thing 
 has me annoyed, the pointless Subway system. The stations aren't marked on the map, so finding 
 them is a pain. They don't go as far as you can in your car or taxi and finding out where they 
 go is also very annoying for those who can't bother to look at the paper map you get with your 
 game.
  That all said this is one hell of a game. I urge you to buy it and then play it. Either console, 
 I'm not fussed. If you don't play it you are depriving yourself of one of the greatest gaming joys 
 the world has ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_T
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar North have enjoyed allot of success with Grand Theft Auto since bringing it to the PlayStation 
 2 in 2001, selling 14.5 million copies worldwide. Then in 2002 Vice City came into our hands, showing 
 how diverse the games series could be. And in 2004 San Andreas came, and wiped the floor with a 
 world size and a story length. Over the past 8 years Rockstar North have shown us that gaming has 
 the chance to reach the peaks of technology.
  
  In April 2008 Grand Theft Auto was released, and a storm hit the gaming shops all over the World. 
 Men, woman, children, dogs, cats, everyone wanted this game (thought the children do not because 
 they are too young ;) ) And in its first week its sales are at a huge $500 Million in one week, 
 and becoming top of the most sales, and the top on line numbers as well. This is truly a success 
 for a game which as mostly unknown before the new Millennium.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  The graphics are superb, that's all there really is to say. People look like people, their movements 
 are very realistic and some of the cars are beautiful. The new damage that appears on your car 
 now is amazing. In epic car chases you watch as your slowly is taken away for you. If it had not 
 exploded I was sure it was going to be Nico, a steering wheel and the seat.
  
  The best place to be is Star Junction, the Liberty City Times Square. Their is so much graphically 
 going on, it dazzles at night. If you cannot get to New York, then play this game for Star Junction!
 
  
  The one downfall is on the two Internet girlfriends, Carmel and Kiki, is they are not graphically 
 inspiring up close in a taxi, but that can be forgiven for the simple fact of the size. And no 
 load times!
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Where do I start? There is so much to go into I think I should write a two parter, but still, are 
 you ready? Good!
  
  Pedestrians:
  Pedestrians have been vastly improved, so much so they will remember you if you find them again 
 after shooting like a maniac. They are also chased by the place, and try and escape from them.
 
  
  They will fight back if you smash into their car, or well get out and stare when they knock you 
 down.
  
  If they see you committing a crime they will phone the police, meaning you are safe almost nowhere.
 
  
  Cops:
  They will search for you if you hide from them, meaning the only way is to drive or run as fast 
 as you can. 
  
  Cops will crouch behind cars during gun fights, and will use different weapons depending on how 
 high your wanted level. I have been taken down many times by a physco cop with a shotgun.
  
  Their AI has been buffed up, causing them to act differently to each action.
  
  They will 
 be dotted on your map, and will corner of areas such as the Pay 'n' Spray, so your on your own. 
 Epic highway chases, side street crashes, and any carjacks later and your home free.
  
  When the police are after you, the back room gun shops are shut until you lose your wanted level.
 
  
  Friends:
  Their is a new friend feature in this game, where people like your cousin Roman, your rasta man 
 Little Jacob and your Irish friend Packie will communicate with you through and go out drinking 
 and such together. Nothing is funnier than controlling yourself drunk for the first time.
  
  Pool returns, along with bowling, in GTA 4. You can go their with your friends or your girlfriends 
 to compete for top prize.
  
  Girlfriends return, this time some are linked to the story whilst others will be met online via 
 the internet cafe's Tw@.
  
  Depending on how much the friends like you can unlock special gifts from them, such as Little Jacobs 
 gun selling at a discount travel merchant business. Friends + GTA 4 = GOOD!!!!
  
  Machines:
  The mobile phone is back and this time you can call your friends to go out, pick up 
 missions via the phone and call yourself a cop car or ambulance.
  
  It is fully customisable with background changes, ringtone changes and the ability to receive texts.
 
  
  The internet is now placed into the game, and online you can find yourself girlfriends, complete 
 missions, answer emails, and find all the Easter Egg famous sites. It is fully implicated into 
 the game, and always say hello to the only girl worker in Tw@.
  
  The news, on the radio and internet, updates after missions involving death or such big enough 
 attention catchers. You can read it on Weazel (coughFOXcough) News online.
  
  Missions:
  
  Smaller than San Andreas, GTA 4 has only 94 missions, yet there are a few 
  choice unique 
 missions. Some of them dip in departments, but it picks up eventually. 
  A few missions are split up, such as you do part one one day, and then the next day part two comes, 
 and then on the third day you complete it. The missions blend well into the overall storyline, 
 nothing really feels out of touch in the world. 
  
  If you fail a mission for a friend, they will lose some respect in you.
  
  The City:
  
 
  The city is living at all times, just its mood changes depending on the time of day. During the 
 day it is safe but at night it can be a hostile place.
  
  You can enjoy comedy shows, clubbing and sports over the city.
  
  Gun shops are back door.
 
  
  Bricks and trash can be picked up and throw at people or cars.
  
  Sound 9.5/10
  
  The music in this game is okay, but the previous two, San Andreas and Vice City, had better music.
 
  
  The sounds of cars as they are shot at, and in fact gunfire aswell, have been both improved.
 
  
  The sounds of shot off police sirens is a good laugh when in a chase.
  
  Personally, when not doing the storyline, my own music is better.
  
  The Voice Acting was brilliant 
 in the game, especially the unknown voice for Niko, which was a believable voice for someone in 
 the situations.
  
  Repeatability 8/10
  
  The game is a great game with lots of additional factors, but they only seem to be interesting 
 when your doing it along with the story, because your so involved in Niko, it seems pointless after 
 having completed the game. Now I haven't played Live yet, because I cannot at the moment, but that 
 may give me something to go back on, but the game overall is good to muck about with friend on, 
 but apart from that, once the storyline is over the game pretty much stops becoming fun but a chore.
 
  
  The multiple ending structure is a new feature for GTA and it works well, because there are some 
 choice decisions to make involving certain characters, and evantually one choice results in the 
 ending, both of which make you feel for the characters.
  
  Total Score: 37.5/40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the next instalment in the GTA series on the next-gen consoles. GTA 4 is set in Liberty 
 City and Rockstar have made it look like New York City with the Statue of Liberty, Empire State 
 Building, Brooklyn Bridge and more. You are Niko Bellic in this game who came all the way from 
 Russia to see his Cousin and he notices that his Cousin wasn't rich. So you do missions to get 
 money like the other GTA games but this game doesn't get reptitive like the other GTA games. There 
 are all sorts of missions like robbing a bank, stealing cars and a lot more. Also you can go on 
 dates with girls who you meet later in the game or on the internet which you can use on this game 
 (I don't mean, going on google or something like that) . It is like checking your emails and going 
 on dating sites. This game has a lot of things to do and it is one of the best. The Multiplayer 
 in this game is good but not as good like Call of Duty 4 or other games but it is really fun with 
 friends like you can drive around the whole city and blow things up. There is a lot to do in multiplayer 
 and you can create your own player in multiplayer too which is cool. There are vehicles like today's 
 cars but with different names like a Corvette, Lambourigini and more. There are no planes in this 
 game but there are helicopters which are fun too. GTA 4 is the best GTA game there is and it is 
 a game that is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV has been in development for years and it has been the most anticipated game 
 of 2008 yet. Luckily waiting has been worth it for the most part: the king of open world games 
 is here again.
  
  Story and especially the main character in GTAIV are interesting and the plot as a whole is well 
 written. You play as Nico Bellic, a guy from Eastern Europe, who comes to America to start again 
 from the beginning and in order to seek vengeance to someone from his past. A man's got to eat, 
 so he offers his services to highest bidder, which usually means extortion, robbery, murder, car 
 theft and so on. The game is filled with great characters and the dialog is top notch quality. 
 For the first in series history in some spots you can make a choice whether to kill your target 
 or to let him live. Your choices will have at least some effect on the overall story.
  
  Graphics are of course the best in series, but since the world is so big and moving the graphical 
 quality is not as high as in Gears of War for example. There is some texture popping from time 
 to time and the frame takes a hit occasionally, but still this is a great achievement. The draw 
 distance especially is just staggering to look at and you need to fly high with a helicopter in 
 night time to really appreciate it. Weather effects change as you play giving a sense that time 
 is moving forward.
  
  For some unknown reason the use of Xbox360's Dashboard slows down significantly when playing GTAIV. 
 Also the game does not pause itself when popping up Dashboard so be sure to first pause the game 
 and only after that start to read a message or send a chat invite to your friend.
  
  Music has always played a big part in creating the right atmosphere and general mood in GTA games. 
 This is also true in GTAIV. I believe the year is now 2005 so the music in over a dozen different 
 radio stations doesn't sound that old (and it shouldn't) . Sound effects are plenty and Rockstar 
 North has made some serious effort to create a living and breathing Liberty City in terms of its 
 sounds and voices. They have succeeded. Rockstar Games' audio presentation has always been in high 
 standards and it applies to GTAIV as well.
  
  Maybe surprisingly the controls are not as good as they should be. It takes some time to get used 
 to different buttons and in time you will grow to tolerate that Nico doesn't always act as smooth 
 and fast as you might want. Cover system is an important new feature and it works just fine most 
 of the time, but especially in tight narrow corridors the camera can come in a way which is always 
 irritating.
  
  Combat system gives you a choice whether to use an auto aim feature or to aim yourself just like 
 in Gears of War or Resident Evil 4 for example. I tried both of them but in the end I decided that 
 using auto aim is a better choice. The stiffness of controlling Nico comes apparent in adrenalin 
 driven fire fights when it can feel like your controlling a tank and not a human being.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as it has always been in GTA games. You 1) watch a cutscene, 2) 
 someone in the cutscene says that someone has done something wrong to him, you 3) take the guilty 
 one out and after that you 4) watch another cutscene. Formula works once again just fine and there 
 are about 100 missions to do in GTAIV. This time it's impossible to tell the difference between 
 side missions and the main quest, because that same care has been taken in both of them. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is a long game, since it will take anywhere around 30 to 60 hours to play it through 
 depending on how much you wish to complete different side missions.
  
  Grand Theft Auto has always been more than just completing missions. This time you can do vigilante 
 missions by hijacking a police car, watch performances in a cabaret, visit a strip club, go bowling, 
 throw darts, play some pool, take girls to a date, byu some services from a hooker, surf the internet 
 by using an internet caf, go to a bar to drink, eat in a restaurant or take some fast food and 
 the list goes on. There's always something to do in Liberty City and this brings us to social aspect 
 of the game. 
  
  There's no working out regularly like in San Andreas, but this time you need to keep your personal 
 relationships in a good shape by spending some time with different characters. By doing this you'll 
 gain different kinds of assistance, for example more health or a free taxi ride to your next destination. 
 These things can divert you from your main quest regularly, but with a right gaming attitude it 
 is fun to maintain relationships in Grand theft Auto IV.
  
  Finally in a GTA game there's an auto save feature. This means that every time after a successful 
 mission the game saves automatically so there's no need to visit in a safe house at all if you 
 wish to do so. Luckily the missions are usually reasonable in their length, but for some reason 
 there are no checkpoints in them. You may need to 1) drive to a location, 2) take some pictures, 
 3) kill everyone in the house and 4) escape the police. If you die while escaping the police you 
 will need to do all 4 steps again. Where are checkpoints between these 4 steps? 
  
  Map is much easier to use than in previous games and you can choose a waypoint in your GPS and 
 this feature (borrowed from Saints Row) makes navigating Liberty City much easier. Driving again 
 plays a big part in GTAIV and luckily it's now easier to avoid car crashes, which tried your patience 
 regularly in San Andreas. You will also gain full health when eating just one burger and this saves 
 some time.
  
  Liberty City is a big place and you can take a one man crime spree while crashing cars and killing 
 police that will come after you. This time it's a lot easier to escape from cops, because you only 
 need to drive outside the alert circle and stay there for about 5 seconds. In my opinion this is 
 very nice improvement.
  
  For the first time ever in series history there's also a multiplayer component in GTAIV. You can 
 enter multiplayer at any time when playing the single player game by using Nico's cell phone and 
 from there choose the desired mode from over a dozen different game modes. When you wish to leave 
 your single player game will continue seamlessly.
  
  You can create your own appearance to be used as a multiplayer skin, but sadly there are not that 
 many options to choose from. Game of course supports voice chat, but for some reason you can't 
 see on the screen who's talking at any given time like you can in Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 for 
 example. When playing with not-so-familiar people online it would be nice to be aware who's talking. 
 It's also worth mentioning that, when you can have the whole Liberty City as playground, deathmatches 
 can often turn into hide and seek games when trying to find someone to kill.
  
  As I already said there are lots of different multiplayer modes to choose from, but why do you 
 have to make ALL the different settings again after every match? When finding a match why can't 
 you set the terms about what kind of game to join in (for example NO 30 minutes long deathmatches) ? 
 Why there is no easy and fast way to mute players you don't want to listen? Why can't you invite 
 friends in the middle of a match when you can see that there are for example only 10 players in 
 a 16 player match?
  
  All of these different problems together are bad things and when combined to my personal experience 
 that the multiplayer in GTAIV is just boring I simply can't recommend it. It is worth to take a 
 look at, but it's nowhere near as good and rewarding as it could be.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is not perfect, but it's still a masterpiece among open world games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV purely and truly is the best game I have ever played. With that said, I can 
 now write a review in pure amazement. Before GTA4, one thing that was seriously lacking in all 
 Grand Theft Auto games was a captivating story in which the player felt as if the game was real 
 life, however fictional it might have been. But now that has changed. Niko Bellic, GTA4's protagonist, 
 is a character that grows on you, and chances are you will deeply fall in love with him, no matter 
 what your sexual orientation is. The graphics are astounding, and the gameplay, featuring a new 
 aim system and many other innovations, is better than ever. The game is bloody, gritty and infinitely 
 satisfying. The campaign mode lasts around 30-40 hours, which is plenty to keep you gaming for 
 at least 3 to 4 days in a row. The new multiplayer function is one of GTA4's greatest new asset 
 that allows you to keep on playing even if you have beaten the game. Indeed this is the best game 
 to have come out this year, and it will probably remain so, even with MGS4 and Haze coming soon. 
 Definitely worth 60 dollars. GTA4 is a game you must own, no doubt about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Some First Impressions:
  
  The long awaited Grand Theft Auto IV has arrived, and now on next gen graphics.
  
  You start 
 off as Niko, who enters America in search of opportunity for a better life. Niko will stay with 
 his cousin Roman, who claimed to have a mansion with pretty woman... pretty much a successful life 
 . Instead, Roman lives in a dump of a small apartment, and the only pretty woman you see are the 
 ones on the walls. Your cousin makes low wages, and is often in need of your assistance. The only 
 problem with the story is that you'll be viewing a lot of cut scenes and little action at the beginning 
 of the game.
  
  GTA IV is a game of choices, it's pretty much the life of a criminal. You will face choices like 
 going out on that date, or saving your cousin from getting the pulp beaten out of him... again. 
 You really have to use your time to find things that you want to do, but if you like the girl... 
 sorry cousin.
  
  The controls are a bit of a hassle to get used to. Driving is nothing like you've ever played in 
 a GTA game, in this game, driving is realistic, you have to brake and if you don't do so soon enough, 
 you'll be wrecking cars and slaughtering pedestrians. The camera angle is placed pretty uniquely, 
 it seems like it's just off-centered and almost at a horizontal position, making it hard to see 
 in front of you if your car's hood gets in the way. The walking seems a little bit of a hassle 
 too. It is pretty easy go not make those sharp turns that you would want to make in key moments... 
 like falling off a 2 story building... whoops.
  
  Graphics are phenomenal, you just don't get such details in other games. This game really makes 
 you think you're in a real world, it's easy to lose yourself in the game. One unique feature is 
 that you can go anywhere you please in the game. You can enter most buildings, and experience most 
 landmarks like the Brooklyn Bridge. Sure the map is not as big as it has been in the past GTA games, 
 but the detail inside the map is tremendous.
  
  Like all GTA games, you'll have a radio while in the car. You'll be listening to some songs that 
 you'd hear on today's radio. Like Flashing Lights - Kanye West. or even some Ne-yo. The great thing 
 about GTA is that it's almost like a time line, you hear music that you would hear today. Other 
 than the car radio, the game has a really great soundtrack, in high speed moments, you'll be urged 
 on by the music, and in calm moments you'll feel relaxed. The sound effects are also nice, you'll 
 find them to be realistic, like the sound of bowling pins being knocked down, or your car crashing 
 into a wall... don't ask how I know that's realistic. Point is sound in GTA is great.
  
  A unique feature that I have not touched yet is the online. It seems great, and should add some 
 great longevity to the game.
  
  I would recommend GTA IV to most gamers, although it does have it's annoyances, you'll get used 
 to them, in the end it all works out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The other GTAs dont even compare to how fun this game is. New aspects such 
 as hanging out with your in-game friends, an interactive cellphone, internet access, new pass-times 
 such as bowling and darts, and you can even drink and drive! The graphics are incredible and more 
 realistic than ever for a GTA. Fighting is new and improved and well as gun fights. Stealing cars 
 could never be more fun, and running from the law is more intense than ever. Traveling is fun in 
 GTA V, as you call your contacts for a free ride, you see a taxi and decide to take that instead, 
 but then you see a nice Banshee parked across the street and decide you would rather drive yourself! 
 The setting is Liberty City and your a "Yokel" from Russia who comes to America on false pretences 
 from your coulsin. Once in America, you start to get into wars while protecting your cousin. Folks, 
 GTA V is a must have game, simple as that. You wont regret buying this game one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great main protagonist. Ability to make RPG style decisions to kill or spare significant characters 
 in the game a step forward for the franchise. Good compromise on graphics between looking too real 
 vs. too cartoonish. Cast of characters in the game very lifelike. Usual GTA series humor still 
 fresh. Plenty of side-activities to do like play on the Internet or watch TV. Promise of additional 
 downloadable content in the future with the 360 version. Few bugs and glitches for a game of this 
 size and scope. The Bad:
  Numerous things included in previous GTA games stripped out of this one. City can be a little monotonous. 
 Not enough mission variety. In-game radio music pretty bad on average. Not enough checkpoints in 
 long missions.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV has been the most anticipated game since Halo 3, and has already shattered 
 sales records for the industry. But does it fully deserve the hype and critical acclaim that it 
 has gotten so far? Let's go to the score cards and see how the latest entry in one of gaming's 
 most beloved franchises fairs with its first sojourn onto current generation platforms.
  
  The first thing that a person is likely to notice with the game is the innovative way that the 
 game starts. Unlike in every other game to come out in recent years, where you're taking to a menu 
 screen and presented with your standard set of options (New Game, Load Game, Options, etc.) GTAIV 
 just starts right into the main campaign after loading. This is a nice touch as it gets you right 
 into the action and sets the tone for full immersion to follow.
  
  Immersion is helped by just how developed the city is. Missing are the large amounts of empty countryside 
 featured in San Andreas, but in its place is a city that feels just like a true metropolis: crowded, 
 loud and dirty. The game sets a perfect balance between improving the graphics (a long-term knock 
 on the GTA franchise) without losing the cartoon-like feel that makes the games so funny. This 
 ability to strike just the right note between giving the game a darker, more realistic feel without 
 losing the over the top gratuitous violence, humor and parody of society that so many people love 
 about the series is perhaps the greatest achievement of the game.
  
  You play the role of Niko Bellic, an immigrant to the U. S. from Serbia. As Niko, you assume the 
 role of a war-veteran who has been horribly scarred by some of the things that you have seen and 
 done in your life. You're coming to the U. S. looking for a fresh start. Of course, it wouldn't 
 be much of a GTA game if you actually found one, settled in and got a legal job a wife, two kids 
 and a puppy. You quickly find yourself embroiled in your cousin's problems with the local organized 
 crime bosses.
  
  The storyline of the game features the usual escalating types of criminal activity that has been 
 in previous games. You start out working for a really small-time crime boss and gradually work 
 your way up the food chain as your rep spreads. Missing from the usual GTA progression, however, 
 is you becoming your own boss.
  
  Throughout the game you never really start becoming a crime boss in your own right. You're always 
 working for someone else. Some people will find this a bit disappointing because at times it can 
 feel like you're never really getting anywhere. This feeling is accentuated by your inability to 
 either buy up businesses and invest in them, or to capture enemy turf as you were able to do in 
 previous GTA games like Vice City and San Andreas. This inability feels like a step backwards for 
 the franchise. It is partially explained by Niko's personality. Niko portrays himself as a mercenary 
 for hire, willing to do any job if the pay is right. Towards this end, he's certainly a much more 
 impressive combatant than previous GTA protagonists. He can take cover behind objects. If you're 
 running in a direction and press the cover button, he'll dive towards the nearest safe spot. He 
 handles smoothly and fluidly and his shooting skills, which include the ability to lock onto a 
 target and fire with extreme accuracy sometimes feel just a bit unfair to the enemy. So while he 
 is well suited to being a mercenary, it would be nice if he had a bit more ambition of his own. 
 Certainly, being able to gradually take over the criminal underworld like you have been able to 
 do in previous games would have helped with mission variety. While there are several exotic type 
 of missions, such as when you rob a bank or steal a helicopter to later use in another mission, 
 the vast majority of missions fall into a limited type of categories: chase/follow someone, or 
 hunt and kill someone.
  
  Breaking up the monotony is the usual side-quests available in most GTA games. You can do racing 
 missions, vigilante missions and go on dates just like in a couple of the previous games. While 
 these are starting to feel a bit stale to a long time fan of the series like myself who is ready 
 for something new, they are by now means mandatory and their inclusion does add a bit of much needed 
 variety if you do one from time to time.
  
  In the case of the dating, there are real and tangible benefits to keeping and maintaining girlfriends 
 or other relationships. One girlfriend is a lawyer who will clear your wanted level if you call 
 her on your cell phone. Another is a nurse who can give you a health boost. One of your other friends 
 is a gun dealer who can get you discounted firearms if you keep him happy. These bonuses make the 
 game easier, but you don't have to do them if you don't want to. Their absence after being included 
 in previous games would have been noticed though.
  
  Another of the things that was present in previous titles but was noticeably absent from this one 
 is the ability to import your own music into the game and play it on the radio. This was particularly 
 aggravating for me personally because with a couple of rare exceptions, I didn't like any of the 
 radio music that was included. After the first few hours trying to find a radio station I liked, 
 the first thing I did whenever I got into a car was to make sure that the radio station was turned 
 off. The music was distracting and often glaringly at odds with the feel of the rest of the game.
 
  
  Other features left out that were in San Andreas are the ability to change your physical conditioning 
 by getting either fatter or more muscular, to learn new combat moves at your local dojo or to really 
 customize your look with new haircuts or facial hair. Each of these missing elements, by itself, 
 is very minor. However when you add them all together it sometimes feels like the series took a 
 step backwards.
  
  Despite some of the faults however, the game managed to hit plenty of high notes and include some 
 new things that modernize the franchise. Among the tools now at your disposal that were not there 
 before are an expanded use of your cell phone and the Internet. Both of these tools are incorporated 
 seamlessly into the game. Rockstar has done a particularly good job in this area. Just as in modern 
 offline life it is practically impossible to live without these devices, the game makes them a 
 mandatory part of many missions and the storyline in a very believable way.
  
  Summary:
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a good enough game that anyone who buys it looking to enjoy a Grand 
 Theft Auto title will not be disappointed. The series has not yet reached the cash-in stage as 
 this title shows a great deal of polish, attention to detail and vibrancy. The storyline and characters 
 will keep you hooked. The setting is immersive and the action every bit as over the top as you'd 
 hope for.
  
  While the game is missing a few things that it really would have benefited from having, it is an 
 impressive enough achievement that it will be a valuable and extensively played addition to nearly 
 every 360 or PS3 library.
  
  True Score: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto! This is the game that all other games strive to be. Ever since the first GTA 
 on the PS one, there has been nothing less then fun. The best part about the series is the environment 
 is so open to explore, and that there is always something new everyday. One day you can do missions, 
 another you can take out a personnel war on the local 5.0. I enjoy games of this nature, it keeps 
 the game fresh and you never get bored. 
  
  About the game; well the graphics are much better then any other previous version of the GTA series. 
 The sound is immersive, there are so many radio stations you will be entertained for hours. The 
 game play takes a little to get use to, but once you have the controls down all hell will break 
 loose. This is the best game out for the XBOX 360. If you love adventure and action then this is 
 a must have game. DO NOT RENT, BUY IT.
  
  After beating the game I lowered my score for the game, because it is missing some things that 
 made Grand Theft Auto fun in the past. Where is the military when you get 6 stars? No Rhino tank, 
 that really blows. The military Helios in this version sucks so badly, in the past the Helios was 
 the funniest part of the game. Now the Helios is plain horrible. Where are the rampages for destroying 
 things with guns in a certain amount of time? Come on why change the good things in a game. I just 
 don't get it. The ending was not what I was looking for either. In past games the drama would build 
 and you could feel the excitement. Instead this one fizzed out. My favorite will be vice city that 
 is the best they have ever made. This is still good, but it is not what I expected especially since 
 they kept pushing the date back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Prince-
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I've played all the GTA games, but this one really stands out. It's the best one of the series. 
 GTA IV is realistic, which makes it better than the rest of the games in the GTA series. Unlike 
 San Andreas, if you're walking and a car is driving, it will run you over, it won't stop after 
 going at 100 mph. If you're driving too fast, don't expect to make sharp turns, and if you crash, 
 you will fly out of the windshield. Another great aspect of this game, is the atmostphere of New 
 York (Liberty City) . There's every detail of New York, such as the Empire State Building, the Statue 
 of Liberty and even Central Park. The missions are a lot funner than previous GTA titles, although 
 they are quite easy. The multiplayer provides countless hours of fun with friends, and the different 
 game modes are all fun to play with, and they all provide a good time. You might not be able to 
 customize your character as much, or drive planes, but this game makes up for it in numerous ways. 
 Now go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinkieguitars
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I am a huge, HUGE fan of the GTA series. I remember playing GTA3 with my friends all night, and 
 having Vice City and San Andreas wrecking my grades because I couldn't stop playing it. This is 
 not the case now.
  
  First I will say that I applaud Rockstar for making such a great environment. The game has excellent 
 graphics, which is suprising since the environment is so very huge. The voice acting is very superb 
 also. Characters are great, and full of life as well.
  
  But not even that could save the game.
  
  For one, the missions are extremely boring. They 
 are incredibly repetitive. Other games are repetitive, but this game just seems to stand out for 
 some reason. The game is also very slow, in a lot of ways. The pacing in the story mode is atrocious, 
 and the missions are stale. Niko is slow, and feels very fat when running. His fighting combat 
 is also slow and silly looking, and Niko can't jump to save his life. The cellphone is the most 
 important thing in the game, but it feels so useless since you can't see ANYTHING of what's on 
 it. Why can't Rockstar put in a backlight in their phone?? It is also really clunky to manage. 
 
  
  I hate the gun combat in GTA4. The over the shoulder is not as smooth as Gears of War for example. 
 Locking-on is a chore because it nearly always locks on the wrong person. The gun sounds are horrendous 
 as well. The pistol sounds like a Warthog crashing into a wall. To be honest, I'm not even sure 
 if headshots work in GTAIV. I always aim for the head, but it always seems to take more than one 
 shot to make the kill, which is a bummer. 
  
  Driving mechanics are also terrible. They aren't realistic at all, its faker than the other games. 
 It feels like the Dukes of Hazzard, where everyone is drifting for every turn. The smallest turn 
 I take in full speed will leave me facing the wrong way. The smallest turns I take driving at medium 
 speed will leave me driving on people and lamp posts. Driving like all the other cars in the games 
 is the way Rockstar wants you to go. But even that is bizzarely unrealistic, because all the cars 
 seemingly go like 10 miles an hour. It's slow and boring.
  
  Possibly the only good thing to come to GTAIV is online play. Playing with other friends is an 
 excellent thing to do, but something I can't really do. For one, they really need to close the 
 maps into different levels. I'm tired of spawning in the other side of the map when i'm free roaming. 
 Closing the maps could also allow for split-screen, which the game desperately needs. Some game 
 types are pretty cool, and some aren't. Some of them need a lot of fixing to make them better. 
 
  
  To sum it all up, GTAIV is (to me) the worst game in the series. Story is boring and repetitive, 
 and even when free roaming, the game mechanics just don't work right. The game, although its beautiful, 
 is a chore to play. The only real upgrade that is worth mentioning is online play, but even that 
 has its issues that makes me question if I really want to play it again. If this game weren't my 
 brother's, it would already be sold. 
  
  Feel free to write me back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunkerboy619
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  LOL, i said, yes LOL. wow what a wierd way to start a review, yeah well if this game was a person 
 it would be the one who got drunk, kissed the girl, woke up at 3:00 and was sick on the dog. Not 
 only is this game fun but i think the 360 motherboard actually enjoys workin its butt off just 
 so u can play this game. Any way lets start.
  
  Your Niko Bellic. immigrant. simple as. but rockstar, have really put there time and effort into 
 this one, biggest improvement is the driving, no longer can you go swervin round corners at 150 
 MPH, oh no, this is real driving. you acually have to slow down to then use the handbrake and turn 
 that sharp corner, most realistic driving ever, and when you ram someone to the ground, you get 
 blod on the hood and it stays there!!!!
  
  then youve got the free roaming, something rockstar are specialists on. You can use your badger 
 (mobile) to phone roman, michelle or brucie and then you can take them bowling, darts, bar, to see 
 a show, burger shot or even (my fav) a strip club!!! (i spent $1000 dollars once at a strip club 
 LOL)
  
  like in it previous siblings, you could get a car and then take it to your safehouse garage for 
 safe keeping, and in the mission "No.1" you get a immense car that i only use when takin friends 
 out, then youve got an internet browser, go to love-meet. com to find your perfect match, youve got 
 an email account that you can reply to your emails,.
  
  then youve got the story, the free roaming gets better when you have completed some missions.
 
  
  999.9 out of 1000
  
  get vice city though, good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majin-Ryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting a long time for this game ever since it was announced, it was the only game 
 I pre-ordered (I normally wait a day or two after it comes out so I know I don't waste money) because 
 it looked like it was going to be the best GTA to date. I can tell you it is an amazing achievement 
 in gaming but it lacked something that made me want to go back to it after I had completed it. 
 To me it lacked endgame content. With SA I could go back to it and there would be so much more 
 to do but with this it just didn't have much to do (Flying rats, Jumps, random peds and text cars.)
 
  
  GTA's have been known for not having a good story but this one has the best one so far, you play 
 as Niko Bellic an imigrant coming to Liberty City to live out the American Dream with his cousin 
 Roman who tells him he is living a life of luxory, unfortunately this luxory is working at a taxi 
 company and living in a run-down appartment with no money, and as the story progresses you have 
 to make choices that affects the game in general such as choosing who lives or dies and adds some 
 replay value to the game with two endings for you to see.
  
  Now it may seem like i'm bashing the game but thats far from it, there was some very neat touches 
 and features added to this game that made Liberty City look and feel real (There are a lot of pedestrian 
 models so you don't get ten of the same people walking the same street) . The car mechanics have 
 changed a bit, they handle differently depending on what car you have and also the camera is shifted 
 a bit to the right which looks cool (Kind of like a spin off to the over the shoulder view in some 
 games) .
  
  The combat in the game has made the biggest leap for me, with an added cover system and blind fire 
 it makes the game more exciting when having gunfights as opposed to going into a bunch of enemies 
 blasting anything in sight. They have taken a lot of weapons from past games but I guess with DLC 
 they will add more weapons (I hope) .
  
  Now I was guessing that the reason why they took quite a bit out of the game was because of the 
 multiplayer added to it (Which you have to access with the mobile phone which is a very nice touch) . 
 I was glad they finally added it to the game because it works really well, the best mode in it 
 for me is Cops N' Crooks and deathmatch, the freemode is great because you can do a lot than just 
 causing mayhem on your own.
  
  So is the game worth getting? Definately, if you don't like not having much endgame content or 
 multiplayer it is still worth getting for the simple fact that the story and gameplay mechanics 
 are so much more improved over the other installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pro_310
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  I have played and completed 100% (apart from GTA 3 but was close to 100%, can't remember if I did 
 complete it 100%) and loved every console (not hand held) GTA game up to this one, so of course 
 I was pretty excited about GTA IV. The last big open ended game I played on the 360 before this 
 was beautiful Oblivion, so it had alot to live up to in my games collection - But it just about 
 didn't deliver.
  Firstly I'll talk about the game world and characters. I like the city layout. The map is smaller 
 than San Andreas, but more compact so there are lots of roads. Good detail too, like seeing 3 wires 
 on the bottom of a lampost after knocking it off. But even better details are all the little things 
 that you should expect, and to add to that, when you explore you'll find all sorts of stuff. There's 
 plenty of catwalks and old construction around south Alderney which could take a good while to 
 properly explore. It's fun going around the city in slow motion as well by pressing L3/ left stick 
 with in the cinematic camera angle. A few things like being able to use the crane weight at San 
 Ferrio docks in SA in and out of missions was great, but in IV you can't use those things and there's 
 also platforms (IV) which you can use to scale certain buildings in missions, however after completing 
 a mission I actually wasn't able to operate it. However after completing it 100% you get an update 
 about that whatheydontwantyoutoknow website showing you the loactions of these platforms, so maybe 
 they'll work now.
  
  There are also 200 Hidden packages/ sick pigeons to find which gives you a fancy helicopter (but 
 which is extremely easy to find and use before you get all them so which is a bit stupid... and 
 also the 50 unique stunts. After completing the story you get a map sent to your email showing 
 you the locations of things. Probably to make it easier for those people to get the Key to the 
 city prize. Also another flaw is that after getting 100% completion, the unlimited ammo limit only 
 works until you load the game...
  As for the characters, I like them all. The bad ones make you want to kill them and the good ones 
 make me want to spend time with them. Getting good relationships with some give you handy perks.
 
  The missions are good, but a get a little bit repetitive because this game is supposed to be realistic, 
 . HA HA HA what a stupid idea. Yet Realistic should mean 100% realistic, which isn't the case. 
 Infact there are some even more unrealistic things here than in other GTA games which I'm pleased 
 about but which questions Rockstar. That's what takes away the fun. Just like all GTA games, things 
 get more explosive and bigger as the game goes on. The missions aren't very hard either but one 
 camping enemy combined with the slow and sluggish actions can make you die and have to wait 10 
 seconds before you can load your game again.
  
  That then leads me to say about one of the bigger flaws, the slow movement. If Niko falls of a 
 bike or flies through a car windscreen, fair enought he lays on the ground for 5 seconds. That's 
 just annoying. He then gets up and takes more time than CJ and Big Smoke put together to get into 
 a car. The cover system is OK, but I don't see the need for it when I can just run behind cover 
 and crouch. Also, flying through car windscreens. I flew through one after crashing into a structure 
 at 30 mph, yet I didn't when I crashed my sports car at 220 mph into a pile of taxis.
  San Andreas had more features than this, which surprise surprise made it funner, but there are 
 some good things here which make up for that, car crashes are great but to avoid ruining the fun 
 you'll have to go sideways into them or you'll just spend a while trying to slow motion run back 
 over to a car.
  Also there's two handbrakes (when using the phone in car there's one) but we should have been able 
 to use vehicle actions like in SA, eg which the tow truck lever. But here, those actions can only 
 be found in missions, therefore reducing replay value - something that GTA needs. However it does 
 have another source of replay value which is the online.
  
  It's not too bad, but all the game needed was the free run mode. Instead of those other modes the 
 single player (don't forget GTA is a game which pleased single player players) could have been 
 made better. Therefore the could have spent 5 times less time on the MP but still make it just 
 as good. GTA is a game which I have been playing for years without the use of online. Out of all 
 GTA online games I've played here, I haven't really liked any to a huge extent. If you want to 
 kill someone with the glock, you have to keep shooting their head a few times. Racing could have 
 been better. With the amount of players you can have, it just turns into a laggy destruction derby.
 
  
  There are loads of things I could go on about... Cars disappearing from my safehouse, no garages, 
 watching TV, not being able to walk around while in a train, good songs etc etc but I'll leave 
 it there. This is a good game, but has made me think less of Rockstar now. Oblivion is the best 
 game I've played since San Andreas came out, and will be for a long time.
  
  
  ---
  
  After thoughts.
  
  I played through the story first time in quite a rush, then played it again 
 to get some unique cars. I missed on a few so I then started over another time, and got all of 
 them. BUT. By completing the story, 2 had disappeared and after doing some car delivery missions, 
 another one had disappeared. This has lead me to believe that this game just isn't for car collecting 
 - ie the car save system is rubbish or the game just can't remember them.
  That sounded like the same thing, and pretty much is. Maybe if the cars were stored in a garage 
 away from the mean streets they wouldn't disappear. Maybe not. Who knows.
  
  But, forgetting that, after completing the boresome story missions, just driving around doing Brucie's 
 races while listening to the suiting Electro Choc songs, it really brought the fun back to GTA. 
 After all, that's what I would/will be doing in this game after getting 100% - just driving about 
 raising my stats. Besides, I can't think of any other games I want to get now. There's no need. 
 Because what's the point of a racing game when this game nearly beats Forza at fun driving?
  
  However, because the game has tried to be realistic (but failed) killing people isn't as fun. 
 Shoot them a few times with the combat pistol and they'll still stagger around crawling and blabbering, 
 making you wonder if they are dead already. It happens sometimes, but you should then use the autoaim 
 and change the aiming to complex to show their health. This isn't Hitman, it's GTA. But, after 
 getting 100% and unlocking the zero ammo limit ability, why not just use the RPG?
  
  Very good game. We just have to learn this new style of GTA. It grows on you. 
  
  PS if this 
 was Gamespot's old review system, I'd give it a 9.4. And yeah, forget about rounding up. But maybe 
 a 9.5 could be in order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game about a month before the game came out due to all of the hype about it. 
 When the game arrived at my house i turned my xbox straight on and played the game. For the first 
 few hours the game fealt spectacular but as the game plays on it seems to repeat itself constantly. 
 I think the reason for this is that I have played every single GTA game and completed them all, 
 so when i played GTA IV it was excatly the same as them. Im not saying the game is bad however, 
 it still plays well, has great graphics, has extremely entertaining xbox live matches but there 
 is still something missing. Getting girlfriends and going out with friends is very entertaining 
 as well, especially when you get drunk (Niko is all over the place) its very funny.
  
  
  
  I do recommend it to gamers who have never played GTA before or hardcore GTA fans but nothing 
 really in between, its your choice! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortexwx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered the special edition for the 360 on Feb. 11, 2008. They messed up my shipping, so 
 I found myself waiting outside the store on April 29th to grab a copy so I could play that day. 
 I was so incredibly excited, I could barely contain myself.
  
  First off, I must say the new engine is phenomenal. The physics are fantastic, and the graphics 
 are superb. Please note that I am comparing to previous GTA games, which is the only place it counts 
 as far as I am concerned.
  
  The story is very good. Not exceptional, but quite good. There is one exception on one mission 
 where the dialogue gets very generic. I have no idea what happened there, but it *really* made 
 me wish that one feature of GTA: San Andreas was available, and that is the trip skip. You can 
 do it with taxis, which is great. However, there are some missions that require the use of a specific 
 vehicle, and they all seem to have painfully long drives from the mission initiation point to the 
 actual mission. The lack of trip skip in these instances makes the replay feature completely useless. 
 That knocks out a decent percentage of the missions.
  
  While not really important for some, I miss the ability to modify cars. I would even be happy just 
 being able to choose the color. Not happening. Real estate would have been a great addition as 
 well, and that is sorely missed.
  
  Overall gameplay is fun. Really fun! Fun enough that I sunk well over 100 hours into the game in 
 the first two weeks. I am still avidly playing, though I did actually throw in Lost Odyssey for 
 about 30 minutes today. Right back to GTA IV, of course.
  
  Driving: The triggers being used for accelerate and brake really messed me up as I was used to 
 PS2 and a gamepad on my pc for San Andreas. Solution? Switched to classic controls. What I thought 
 was horrible car handling was simply more realistic with a slight exaggeration on a couple of vehicles. 
 After a week, I was driving just as well as I was in San Andreas after two years of play. I daresay, 
 I like it better.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  A lot of fun, especially if you are playing with friends. Free roaming in such a huge place (and 
 I must say that the map is MUCH larger than I thought it would be) with a lot of people is a blast. 
 The different games available are great, and I have to say that it really changed my mind about 
 multiplayer online type-things. Before this, I avoided them like the plague.
  
  All in all, it lives up to the hype, with the few exceptions I mentioned. Those exceptions are 
 why I gave it a 9.5 instead of a 10. Either way, I highly recommend it, as it is absolutely worth 
 the money. There is replay value as it has two endings, and also there are many choices and paths 
 you can take throughout the game. And don't forget, it is GTA, so there is always something to 
 do - even after you beat the game.
  
  All I can say is, if you like GTA, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duchin
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I found the game play in GTA IV to be at most an 8. The graphics were at most a 9. It was a very 
 big disapointment and I really don't understand how it got so many 10's. The game is mostly a driving 
 game and the driving was very difficult as it was very hard to control the cars. Also, the controls 
 were not that good overall and found I would hit the wrong button and spend the next 10 minutes 
 to undo the damage I caused. It was a nice universe to roam around in but that does not make a 
 game to me; it just wastes a lot of time. I also wasted a lot of time to trigger the next mission 
 once even though I contacted the correct individual but had the wrong place. I sold mine after 
 a week of play and had no interest in finishing it. I think I will stick with the adventure action 
 games; I found Halo 3, BioShock, and Ninja Gaiden much more fun and much better in all aspects. 
 Seems like some palms were greased with the high scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyant
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the legendary GTA series awaited the release of 'IV' for well, 4 years. That's not to say 
 Rockstar games went immediately from San Andreas, to IV (considering next-gen wasn't officially 
 introduced until early-mid 2005) , but ever since we completed the storymode in SA, we've wondered 
 what was in store for the next installment. Millions of questions lingered, all the hype and rumors. 
 The 'big secret' in SA, and everything we thought about the awesomeness of GTA and how it made 
 billions come together and play. Most wondered if it would be in London, due to all the '69's' 
 all over the map in SA, and the rest doubted another release at all. The way I look at it is quite 
 simple. In the original GTA we received all three islands in one game, in GTA 2 it was the same. 
 In GTA III we got Liberty, and then 'mysteriously' the numbers stopped, until that generation of 
 games was over, suspiciously around the time that all three islands were released separately. Now 
 we have GTA IV. Could this be the dawn of a new Liberty City, Vice City, and San Andreas redone? 
 Who knows. Pehaps the DLC content is London. After all, GTA 2 had it, right?
  
  The series has certainly undergone a facelift, not only that but the core has been shifted around 
 too. The story is fantastic, and the gameplay design and function fits the rest of the game perfectly. 
 By the end you be screaming for more, luckily you still have the stunt jumps, flying rats, easter 
 eggs, and a giant city to explore. Not to mention the 2 episodic DLC's coming later for 360, and 
 some other special content for PS3 as well.
  
  Without spoiling the story, there's little to tell. New features such as the backbone cellphone 
 makes things very handy and intuitive. Calling up your buddies and asking if you want to hang out, 
 go drinking or anything else humanly possible. Girlfriends are back in IV, and are actually quite 
 important to the main plot, which makes them even cooler. The shear amount of side stories that 
 branch off the main storyline are amazing. Keeping track of this stuff in production much have 
 been the hardest job ever. I bet it was fun as hell too.
  
  If you haven't played GTA yet, you have something wrong with you, seriously. GTA IV from my standpoint 
 in such an improvement on itself, and we finally have a game that's not 'gangsta this' and 'gangsta 
 that'. Niko is the best GTA character. Very, very likable. Great personal development, and characteristics, 
 and his history is quite cool as well. GTA IV is the best game ever, and until they find a way 
 to some how top this, it will remain the best. Until of course, the next GTA installment arrives, 
 hopefully within the next few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darwin-Jay
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I have followed the GTA series since the PlayStation versions and hate to say I am a little disappointed 
 with this one. It lacks so many of the cool features that San Andreas had. What happened to the 
 ability to BUY houses, FLY jets, DRIVE tanks, ENGAGE in turf wars, or the little stuff like CUTTING 
 your hair, or WORKING out? For a game that touts its realism i have this to say: Why is it that 
 none of the cars have GAS TANKS? I'll admit, I loved shooting at gas tanks which in turn would 
 cause spectacular explosions like in the previous games. Especially during high speed chases :) . 
 The pigeon mission in GTA 4 is a lot better than finding packages (San Andreas) , but I would trade 
 in the Killer chopper you get for nailing all pigeons for incrementally unlocking weapons at the 
 safe house like you received in San Andreas any day. The missions are pretty generic GTA material, 
 and some of the characters are a little annoying.
  
  On a more positive note I will say that the graphics are pretty good, and the physics engine has 
 been nicely improved. I like the maps too. Jumps are fun as well. Other than that..... I wish I 
 had more to say. 
  
  Though it's hard for me to say it, I feel that Gamespot overated this game just a little bit. As 
 harsh as they are on games, I find it to be a bit of a surprise they gave it a 10. hmmm.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlaw-X13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto, no other game has ever gotten as much attention as this one.. so far. GTA-4 was 
 a magnificent game and it had an amazing story line, the game-play worked great and the graphics 
 were at times breath-taking, but this isn't what makes a perfect game in my opinion.. not all of 
 it, but how long you'll want to play it for and finding new things and being able to improvise 
 while your playing with different game mechanics.. and while there's Euphoria (which is the alternative 
 for rag-
  doll now) can be hilarious. 
  
  Grand-Theft-Auto-4 has a nice Online feature which lets your take to the streets of Liberty City 
 and battle it out with your friends or your enemy's, get in cars run players over, team up with 
 a buddy and have team-death matches. It's up to you but the Game-play online just doesn't feel 
 solid, it feels quite shallow most the time for me and I didn't really enjoy it as much as my single-player 
 experience. 
  
  Everyone is different, I liked GTA-4 but I didn't love it. Maybe things will be different for you, 
 have fun.
  
  -Grak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is even better than I expected it to be even after reading all of the 10/10 reviews it was 
 given. It is truly a masterpiece that will be near impossible to match in quality. The storyline 
 is incredible. It seems as if you are playing along with a movie and after a scene is showed you 
 get to play out the following, and then afterwards you can go and do whatever you want in the city. 
 Not only is the story amazing, but so is the city itself. It is massive, not as big as TES: Oblivion, 
 but its still very big, and the detail to all of the little things like what the pedestrians are 
 doing, signs on vender's with the prices of their food, or whenever you are hanging out with one 
 of the people within Liberty City, they notice when you get new clothes, and notice whenever you 
 were the same clothes multiple times in a row. Also, there are so many things you can do it is 
 almost impossible to get bored. You can do the main missions, bowl, play pool, throw darts, race, 
 do hitman missions, go to a bar, watch a show at a comedy club, go to a strip club, hang with people 
 you've met in the city, steal a cop car and catch all of the people on the most wanted list, listen 
 to the cop radio and go stop current crimes that are going on, take pictures of people or type 
 their names in the cop car to see if they have criminal records, and if so you can go and kill 
 them, look for easter eggs, go on helicopter tours of liberty city, deliver packages, and more... 
 Also, the multi-player is excellent. You can go wherever you want within all of Liberty City with 
 up to 15 other players, and from the games I have played I have only experience minor lag whenever 
 playing with 15 other people. Team games are very fun, but the free-for-all aren't so much fun... 
 All-in-All Grand Theft Auto IV is a must buy. There is absolutely no reason you should not go out 
 and pay $60.00 for Grand Theft Auto IV. It is the best game I have played since Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnyfinestx
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying i was mad when it was pushed back until April. But now i understand 
 why they did it, it was because they wanted this game to be perfect on all systems, and its beyond 
 perfect, its superb! Now on with the review, you play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant 
 who's fresh off the boat from Liberty City. You live with youre famouse lying cousin Roman Bellic, 
 who promised you with Big boobs woman, fast cars, and a mansion. But in reality its just a studio 
 with a bed and kitchen, and the fourtunes is nothing but depts up the ass from lone sharks. so 
 once you get youre self sedle in, you have to do alot of running around for people. If its dropping 
 off a package Niko will do it, if its killing someone Niko will do it, if its running an old lady 
 down he will do it. the missions kind of get repetitive but there still fun to do, and there challenging. 
 Game play is this same like in all GTA games but the gun play is outstanding its more in the line 
 with Gears of war kind of play with the whole cover and blind fire mechanics. Graphics are good 
 but there are still minor pop ups like the Buildings. Voice Acting is Awsome, Driving is a little 
 harder this time around, and The story is Best in the series. All in all its an amazing game, that 
 everyone who's "mature" enough should play and enjoy it, now stop reading this and go buy it while 
 i go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kairisha102706
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  iVE been waiting for this game when they first announce back in May of 2006 let me tell you it 
 was worth the long 2 year wait i bought the game when it first came out and BOY i was so excited 
 i felt like a little kid on Christmas and this what i think of this awesome game. Let me make it 
 short and sweet... First of all the best game in the GTA series and i must say controls are perfect 
 the drivng controls seems more realistic when you drive a the patriot at full speed and you hit 
 a tight turn its going to flip... graphics of course is the best... also the firing controls is 
 the S@#@$ way better than the other GTA ... a must buy. P. S I hate it when people rate this game 
 and give it 1.0 and they haven't even played so for all you monkeys out there who is doing this 
 quit and go buy it and try it before you go ruining the review score... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkedup8484
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out and played it every day until I beat it. I think it's a very 
 good game, but a little overrated especially on Gamespot because it's not perfect. First I will 
 mention the things I like about the game: The graphics of the game look very good. They aren't 
 amazing they are still kind of grainy and blurry sometimes but still look good like I would expect 
 them to on a high definition console. The sound is also good, as is the selection of tracks on 
 the radio and throughout the game in general. The radio stations are cool as usual in GTA games, 
 and the commentary and comical commercials are funny. There is a ton of comical content throughout 
 the game, including many websites and even standup comedy acts you can see if you go to a comedy 
 club. The story isn't spectacular, it's decent but kind of bland at times and doesn't offer many 
 surprises, although there are some which was nice.
  
  The missions aren't really new overall, it's basically the same thing as previous versions of GTA 
 aside from a few slight changes which were fun. There is a lot of new content that previous versions 
 didn't have, like the cell-phone you have which is a very nice addition, as is all the things you 
 can do with friends/girlfriends and even after you have finished the main storyline there is still 
 a lot to do. There are many activities and mini games like shows, strip clubs, bowling, playing 
 pool, darts, etc. and there is a whole "fake" internet you can access which is very amusing. One 
 of my favorite additions in this version of GTA is the ability to take taxis anywhere, which makes 
 driving around extremely easy, you just have to find a taxi and you can skip through the trip which 
 was great especially if you don't feel like spending several minutes going to area to area.
  
  The addition of multiplayer games is also a very nice addition in Liberty City. There are many 
 games to choose from, and it's nice to be able to basically roam free in the city with up to 16 
 other players, although it often gets laggy with a full 16 player game. The multiplayer offers 
 a lot of freedom during the games and has many options so you can control many aspects of the game. 
 I feel like they created pretty much every kind of game you could want to play in multiplayer, 
 and it is fun especially after you finish the single player, there is still an endless amont of 
 fun you can have online. The multiplayer addition was great since there was none in previous GTA's, 
 but the main thing I buy GTA for is it's great single player game which was very still very much 
 worth it for that alone.
  
  Although I thought the game was very good, there were a few things I didn't like about the game. 
 First off there are 3 different areas, the one you start in and then 2 which you unlock as you 
 progress. My problem was that they all look very much alike and there was hardly any difference 
 between them aside from the buildings. This was a big disappointment to me after playing San Andreas 
 where the areas you unlock were all completely different, and I think it took a lot away from enjoyment 
 of the game. One of the things I really liked about San Andreas was how you woke up one day and 
 you were suddenly in the country totally away from the city which seemed far away. Nothing really 
 seems far away in this game since the whole game is just Liberty City which Is rather small, and 
 this seems kind of a waste with you being able to go everywhere in a taxi. I believe they are releasing 
 purchasable add-ons for the game later on so hopefully they will offer completely different areas, 
 but in this initial game I was disappointed everything looked exactly the same.
  
  Another thing I didn't like was that they only have helicopters in this game, no other aircraft. 
 I really liked in San Andreas how you could fly airplanes and jets and basically anything flyable 
 you could enter and fly. There is an airport with these types of aircraft in this version of GTA 
 but you are not able to steal/fly them which I did not like The overall size of the world in this 
 game is very tiny compared to San Andreas as I mentioned, so that may be the reason you can't fly 
 things like jets but still it would be nice especially since you could in the last version which 
 was on a less technologically advanced console.
  
  Also there were a few bugs with the game which were frustrating. First, one of the most annoying 
 things is that if you are talking to someone on your cell-phone or even just have your phone out, 
 and you get bumped by a car (which as we know happens a lot in GTA) or hit by someone shooting 
 at you it makes your phone shut off and it cuts off any call/conversation you were in the middle 
 of. This really annoyed me because I would be talking to someone about a mission or a mission I 
 had just completed and I would get slightly bumped by a car and the call would cut off, and I would 
 usually have to wait for the person to call me again or if it was after completing a mission I 
 would not be able to hear that conversation unless I wanted to completely restart the mission and 
 do it all over again.
  
  Another bug I didn't like was when you try to get into taxis to ride in them, which you do by holding 
 the same button you use to carjack a car, it often would make me carjack the taxi instead of getting 
 into it, even though I held the button instead of pressing it just once. That was very annoying 
 because it is often difficult to find a taxi, and when one finally came along and I wanted a ride, 
 I would end up stealing the car and frightening the driver away so I had to wait or drive around 
 until another one came by.
  
  Another issue that was very annoying to me was that in the game there are certain "helpful" things 
 that your friends/girlfriends are supposed to be able to do for you. The problem is many times 
 they are not available through their phones, or sometimes the abilities will simply not work even 
 though they say they will. For example, Roman is supposed to be able to send you a taxi any time 
 you need it, but often he says there are none available. If you get on the good side of a certain 
 police officer guy he is supposed to be able to take away your wanted level if the cops are chasing 
 you, but he hardly ever answers his phone when you call him to do that for you. If you date a woman 
 named Carmen and get her to like you enough she is supposed to be able to heal you through the 
 phone by giving you medical advice since she is a nurse. However, most of the times I called Carmen 
 she would give me medical advice and I was expecting my health to increase, but nothing happened 
 even though I was at very low health. It's the same with some of the other characters- they will 
 just not answer their phones even though it is the middle of the day. So that was very annoying 
 to me.
  
  Overall I thought It was a very good game, but honestly I think San Andreas was a better overall 
 single-player game just because the overall game map was so different and exciting and the missions 
 were better and fresher at the time. If you look at the whole game, including all the extra content 
 and the multiplayer, Liberty City is a better overall game and a better value but as far as the 
 excitement and freshness of the single player, I was disappointed because the missions and gameplay 
 for the most part seemed a little too similar to previous versions of GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komattias
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the best game I've ever played it's an open world game where there are no limits. First 
 of all grand theft auto 4 has amazing graphics and sound effects better than any older grand theft 
 auto game. The game takes place in Liberty City which is actually New York, there are many missions 
 to do in GTA 4 but, If the missions aren't enough for you, you can spend your time by go shopping 
 or do different jobs for extra money, the police chase is also a way to spend your time in the 
 huge open world of liberty city. In the game there are bars, clubs, internet cafes, clothes shops 
 and more. In liberty city you have a girl called Michelle you also have many friends, you can do 
 many different things with your friends like go bowling, play pool, eating, drinking and more. 
 
  Now in the game you are a man from Europe called Niko Bellic who wants to escape his past, by making 
 a new beginning in his life searching for the American dream, before Niko reached liberty city 
 he thought that his cousin Roman was rich with sport cars and a good life, but when he gets to 
 liberty city he discovers that his cousin is a poor man who owns money. By doing missions you earn 
 money and respect, as you go through the story you'll discover that in liberty city all that matters 
 is money and power those who have them can fortune in liberty city, but Liberty city can be a living 
 nightmare for those who don't. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffcub
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this since finishing GTA: SA on the PS2 a while back, and it was partly the 
 reason I bought an XBOX360 last year. Boy, was it worth the wait!
  
  I've loved the GTA series since the beginning - each new title has added something different, and 
 each game has been innovative in its own way. This is in a different league. On first play, it 
 seemed like a scaled down San Andreas - nothing seemed to be too different, graphics aside. But 
 as you play, you just notice life going on around you - street sweepers, shoppers, parking attendants; 
 people just living. It's this level of depth that just makes GTA: IV so damn brilliant.
  
  There are some great touches - the addition of the mobile phone is fantastic, and allows you to 
 play the game in a much more non-linear fashion than otherwise would have been the case. The car 
 physics is amazing, and makes learning how to drive the different vehicles much more rewarding. 
 There are some quirks - it's far to easy to roll your car, or send it flying skywards to impossible 
 heights, but this just makes it seem more fun. I do dislike the way the car you just parked outside 
 can disappear when you come back outside from a building - but I supposed you could put this down 
 to other car thieves!
  
  The radio is up to its usual standards, and provides endless amusement across the various stations. 
 The sat-nav is also brillianlty realised, and just as annoying/useful as the real thing. I still 
 find the fact that retrying missions takes you right back to the start, which, if this involves 
 a long drive across the city, can quickly become frustrating - but this is a minor quibble.
  
  The worst thing about the game (tongue firmly in cheek, here!) is that the main plot will end 
 soon, so I'm deliberately taking my time over playing, but it's soooo hard not just to have a quick 
 go!
  
  I love this game, and hope to be playing it for many months to come! I think it might take that 
 long to get rid of all those pigeons! Can't give it 10/10 because I just don't think any game can 
 be perfect, but I can't give it 9.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3-C1
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Look, I am a HUGE fan of GTA, But I gotta say that SA is the most realistic.
  Seriously, NO BIkes? No Planes to fly? No Tanks? 
  
  In SA, You get all of that, You can even 
 change your F-ing hair for god sakes, Sometimes I think niko needs to gain a few pounds or lose 
 some, what if I need him to toughen up? Nope, Cant do that, Which REALLY stinks.
  This is not realistic at all, The only thing thats so realistic is the Graphics.
  Another thing 
 thats annoying that people NEVER stop when your on the street, They just knock you down and get 
 out of the car, then get back in like a R-Tard.
  You walk and Run SO SLOW..... Thats Definally not realistic. And Have you ever JUMPED before? You 
 jump so low, and SLOW. And its annoying.
  The girlfriends are SOOOO UGLY, Except maybe, Alex, and Kiki, But man... the rest are HIDEOUS. 
 The Multiplayer isnt that much of a deal. People keep complaining about the game saying, "Ohhhh 
 make it 10 mins not 30" and Guess what, Don't listen they will just Leave.
  The cellphone thing is not that great, They just call immediately when your doing something then 
 I accidently pressed B, and they dont even get the chance to call back!
  
  The friend abilitys are really stupid and useless if ask me, the only usefull ones i find usefull 
 is Romans and Little Jacobs, Thoose are the only ones who will help.
  
  Dwayne-His friends immediatly freak out after a while.
  Packie- We NEED a BOMB?
  Brucie-Now 
 why do I need to fly around the city when i can drive anywhere with a taxi?
  
  See?
  
  And The game should've come with FREE GAMERPICTURES like my friend's did, HE dint even RESERVED 
 it, Thats not even fair, "Lucky" boxes just with like 3 GPs on it.... Thats NOT cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tucker1677
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a powerful game. After blazing through the core story line, having made 
 certain decisions that affected how the narrative played out, I longed to return to the world to 
 experience what I had missed. I recall watching every one of the game's trailers after completing 
 it, reminiscing about GTA IV's tragic, colorful yarn. It's a hell of an accomplishment on many 
 levels. Graphically, it's not as pretty as some other PS3 or 360 offerings-to which it will be 
 unfairly compared-but what it may lack in pixel pushing performance, it makes up for in visual 
 design. Using the cell phone as an interface for maintaining relationships, seemingly a minor thing, 
 is brilliant.
  
  Sandbox-style, ultra-violent games like Grand Theft Auto aren't typically my thing, but GTA IV 
 has made me a fan. A fanboy. Rockstar North has addressed virtually every single one of my personal 
 hang ups about the series, crafting one of the most memorable experiences in gaming. We hate to 
 gush, but it's just that good. Flawless? No. But it's about as close to a game can come to being 
 perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has met almost all of my expectations. First the few bad things. The game was a little 
 too easy for me. Most of the missions were just chase missions and they weren't hard at all. The 
 customization was kind of plain. You don't really get a lot of clothes to choose from. The safe 
 houses were boring. You don't actually get a full house for yourself. Just about everything else 
 about this game is amazing. It looks incredible. The gameplay is smooth. Sounds are spot on. But 
 my favorite part of the games is the driving. I am so glad that Rockstar actually made a realistic 
 driving system. The story had a great ending. The game is long enough for me. Also the online is 
 actually very fun. Even though I didn't play it a lot. The free roam is my favorite feature. You 
 can do whatever you want with friends. Overall, I think this is a must have game for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred144
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  i think that they hav to do more with just roaming around, i like the story but why cant u buy 
 houses and the last GTA had a lot more clothes options. there are a lot of fun moments, but i wishi 
 could work out and customize my character instead of just following the plan that the game people 
 set up, its like watching a movie cause all u can really do offline is tha missions and random 
 killing. this is a good game and is definetly one of the best on 360 so far but it is not a ten 
 and it is hard to do the little things like EAT A HOTDOG. i do not think they need to really make 
 the maps any bigger even though that looks like what they r going to do by adding a new map, they 
 have to add more stuff, i mean they had to take out so much just to make the graphics so real. 
 i mean what happen to putting out fires with the fire truck, or ambulence missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games i have played in a long time most real, most fun Rockstar has made one of 
 the best games they have made if you have not played any of the others i recommend you get this 
 one if you are thinking about it. the game is mixed with saints row2 and maybe army of two (aiming 
 systems are the same) if you have played you will agree if you have not because your mother or 
 father wont let u get it, beg it might work or go over to a friends house and walk to the store 
 and buy it like i did. The aiming system for this game is perfect for single player its off a bit 
 on the MP but who cares the game is great (to me maybe you) if youve hated the others u might like 
 this one i love them all dont get me wrong just ya know.
  
  sk24
  have a good one
  (rates em and beats em) 
  dont rate if you have not played i hate people that do that crap just 
 wine because they cant get it and give it a 1.0 stupid as crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skasuperhero
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is Rockstar North's latest addition to the storied Grand theft Auto series 
 and the most ambitious to date. The opening sequence introduces you to the main character in Nico 
 Belic as he arrives to Liberty City on a freighter in search of a new life of luxury and glamor 
 that his cousin Roman has dazzled him with in sensational letters and emails.
  
  The story unfolds in a the simulated New York City known as Liberty City (the site for three previous 
 games in the Grand Theft Auto Universe) , which spans four unique districts that are microcosms 
 of their real life counterparts. Rockstar's attention to detail in the design of Liberty City easily 
 takes hold of you as you explore the islands little by little as the story unfolds. The visuals 
 in Grand Theft Auto have improved exponentially in the four years since the last game in the aeries 
 San Andreas hit the shelves. The characters are greatly detailed and the addition of bloody clothing 
 after meting the business end of flying bullets adds a real feel of losing health when shot. A 
 major element to this new and improved Liberty City is the inhabitants that can all pass for everyday 
 people because they have a very organic feel to them. If you try to slowly run them over, they're 
 going to put their hands out in front of them to protect themselves and they're going to realistically 
 react to a someone being killed unlike previous games where the NPCs would gather around a fresh 
 corpse to catch a glimpse. You're also going to get subtle details like people's cell phones ringing 
 and being answered, people reacting to you bumping into them and dropping what they're holding 
 in reaction to your interactions with them. The NPCs seem almost real at times, one time in particular 
 I was impressed on a trip to Happiness Island (Ellis Island in the real world) when a man took 
 out a camera to snap a picture of the statue of Happiness (Statue of Liberty) . Small details like 
 that really make the whole experience of being a Liberty City surreal.
  
  The Controls in Grand Theft Auto IV have been modified from previous offerings to offer more realistic 
 driving and a better targeting system. The new driving controls make driving like a madman through 
 the streets of Liberty city more difficult and adds great disparity between types of cars and trucks 
 you drive. I found driving to be difficult at first, but after a couple of hours into my first 
 play session I was able to master the driving and was was drifting around corners away from the 
 police with ease.
  
  Speaking of the police, the wanted system has been changed for to accompany a seemingly more realistic 
 fleeing system. Gone are the star icons that lower your wanted level and with that, a new radius 
 system system has been implemented in which your goal is to escape the police line of sight; the 
 more wanted stars you have, the bigger the radius the police have to spot you in. This new system 
 seems to punish you if you try to flee on a straight path as police units will be dispatched to 
 intercept you outside of their line of sight by predicting your path, and if the spot you, the 
 police radius will reset to center on where you were last spotted. Making quick turns and using 
 a less predictable path will provide better results for fleeing the police.
  
  Another new implementation is the use of a Cell phone that will act as a mission initiator and 
 allow you to call your in-game friends, do bonus missions and acts as the launchpad for the Multiplayer 
 game modes, which are new to the series. The phone can be great because it allows you to call for 
 a cab when you don't feel like physically driving to your next location, you can call your lawyer 
 girlfriend (who you can meet online) when you're in a spot of trouble to eliminate your wanted 
 level and it genuinely adds to the story as characters will call you; likewise you will call people 
 you're doing jobs for to inform them that your task has been completed. The phone also can be your 
 biggest source aggravation. There are times when you're just about to start a mission you might 
 get a call from a friend asking if you want to go out to drink or maybe hit up a strip club, or 
 you may get an angry call from a girlfriend that you have neglected guilt tripping you into going 
 out with them again. The phone is a cool concept, but it can act as a ball and chain because your 
 relationships you establish affect the story and will provide you with benefits if they are well 
 maintained.
  
  Of everything I mentioned, the most important, improved, compelling and interesting, the story 
 being told stands out far above the rest. After a few missions Niko will begin to divulge information 
 about his past and at that point I began to grow attached to him as a character and began to pay 
 more attention to what I was doing as I played. When I first started jacking cars I would shoot 
 people in cars in the face to steal their cars because it ensured no resistance. Later I began 
 to believe that even though Niko kills for a living, he was better than killing random strangers 
 for their cars. Sure, he would steal at the drop of a hat, but I began to feel bad for making him 
 kill innocents for no reason. It's a strange effect that I haven't felt in past iterations of the 
 series. The story is a standalone story as GTA typically goes, so there is no need to play any 
 of the previous games before jumping into Liberty City.
  
  Grand Theft Atuo IV is a strong title that can be picked up and played for hours on end. I personally 
 took about 42 hours of play to beat the main story and select side missions. The joy of playing 
 the first current generation title of the GTA series will keep me coming back to Liberty city and 
 I feel it's a must play for anyone who is interested in open-world games, fast-paced driving and 
 shooting and anyone who has enjoyed a previous GTA title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy111
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I have spendt the last days playing GTA IV and fail to see the greatness everyone is talking about? 
 I have played all the GTA games and i'm a fan of the series and whats always stood out with the 
 other games is the originality. And the innovative differences from game to game. but this game 
 is just like san andreas, only on "next gen"
  
  The radio is boring, stealing cars can only take the fun level that far, and we have seen the cliche 
 gangster rising to the top before. So wheres the inovation? except from the "next gen quality"?
 
  
  Im really disappointed, and i wes expecting alot more inovation and ingenuity. 
  Sure it's fun to play online, but online gaming is not inovative thinking! it's a common thing 
 these days.
  I think gamespot missed big time on the 10 score and i think it's a REAL biast rating, beacause 
 we all know how much the staff loves GTA.
  
  Finaly, don't get me wrong, it's an entertaining game and i have had alot of fun these hours, but 
 as to living up to the GTA name, Sorry, no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyeto3
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  great graphics, great gameplay, a better targeting system (THANK YOU) makes this game one of the 
 best ive ever played. but there are some things i wish you couldve changed about it. first, you 
 could have made it bigger. i know it was based on nyc but still... second, you could have made 
 the story longer, but it was a great story btw. one last thing. the multiplayer. the multiplayer 
 is great but the connections could be better. sometimes i join the game just to be kicked off somehow 
 (and no its not my connection) and there were moments where i would stop in my tracks for ten or 
 more seconds and end up dead or crashing or falling off a cliff. but other than those three things, 
 it was a great game and all the people that worked on that game should be proud cause i cant wait 
 for the next one! peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormape
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to start off this review by saying i admit this game is HIGHLY overrated everywhere as possibly 
 the greatest game ever and is the best in the series as whole. NO!!! In my opinion this game will 
 never stack up to the might San Andreas possessed. The reason being is that San Andreas had way 
 to much **** stuff you could do. Although im not exactly sure on the measurement of the sizes of 
 both games, im gonna say that San Andreas has a slight edge. But the point is their was so many 
 different atmospheres you could experience in San Andreas. You could run around in the desert, 
 forest, countryside or you could climb a mountain, or go gambling in one city, go driving through 
 inclined streets at high speeds (San Fierro) or go into gang wars in the other. That is why GTA 
 4 could never stack up to San Andreas... there is just too many different cities and themes all 
 placed in one game for one lone city to fight back against. And with that there are still overwhelming 
 features in San Andreas that GTA 4 doesnt have like PLANES, robbing buildings, parachutes (i mean 
 who didnt like jumping off the highest buildings) , buying homes, the gangs, car customization, 
 gambling, character customizations, etc. If Rockstar really wanted to make the greatest game possible 
 they would have carried over most things from the original game. If you were to look for a moment 
 what makes a sequel good or even better than its original is it has to carry over concepts from 
 the original. GTA 4 did a poor job of doing that. Granted, they added other things, but left too 
 much out. And just for one more side note, they made it either too short or too easy. For my final 
 thing of anger towards this game, it would have to be its soundtrack. To me San Andreas had one 
 of the greatest soundtracks for a game ever which had songs for people of every liking of genre. 
 In this game, their is ONE goddamn song i like on it. They repeat songs up the ass, and the DJ's 
 have no personality. BUT NOW, the good things about GTA 4. First off, ITS **** GORGEOUS! For as 
 big as the game is, Rockstar did a fabulous job of making it look realistic as possible which gave 
 it a feel of actually NYC. It is by far one of the most realistic games i have ever seen with you 
 hardly ever seeing the same character model twice and the new shooting system (which takes some 
 getting used to, but i find much better.. it kinda reminded me of Rainbow 6) . Another thing that 
 they did was make the driving more realistic for better or worse, its very lifelike. The gameplay 
 is still very good even with all the features that have been removed and still having some fun 
 additions. The story now lets you make choices of your own such as you can choice which person 
 to kill or which way to go. Their is also the addition of a cell phone (which i see as a copy off 
 Saints Row) which is a fun way to set up plans with people you meet in story mode so you can take 
 them drinking, to a strip club, darts, etc. which can have you unlock cool abilities they will 
 unlock for you once you become better friends with them. Also, i find the main character (Niko) 
 one of the better ones in my opinion. Unlike some characters, he actually has on conscious and 
 is intelligent. So overall it is still a great game, but not better than San Andreas. It is largely 
 overrated but is still worth a buy. I thank you for taking the time to read my review since ive 
 been thinking about my true feeling of the game since it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mafketel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing GTA 4 and it's a great game. I liked it much better than most hollywood 
 films, cause it actually feels like one. LC is great en getting to know it took some time really. 
 So the story is great but after that, there's a lot of fun on-line modes. And just driving around 
 LC of course, which can be great, and you might get the chance to kill a pidgeon, which is the 
 replacement of the hidden package, just great. But it does not come without errors. I would have 
 liked to see some checkpoints during boring car scenes, cause if you srcew up long after the race, 
 still you will have to to it again, which can be very irritating. Besides, some of my NPC- "friends" 
 were pretty stupid from time to times. And third, but not really an issue, though necessary to 
 own a 10, are the graphics. GTA is enormous en very well detailed, but i have played a lot of better 
 looking games. But due to your freedom and the awesomeness of LC it's not that bad =P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasperQST
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  10/10 ? 100/100 ? Are you even being serious... don't get me wrong, Grand Theft Auto 4 is an awesome 
 game and filled with tons of fun, however, lets call a spade a spade. Having 5+ years to develop 
 this, Rockstar had the chance to make an amazing game, one that ISN'T filled with in game glitches, 
 freeze points or even a terribly glitched/lagged multiplayer... I see video games for what they 
 are and have no problem calling out this so-called "juggernaut" of the video world and knocking 
 it down a couple of notches. The hype, my friends, I'm sorry to say, has diluted this franchise 
 down to what it is; merely another game in the series that brought nothing new to mind or gameplay.
 
  Now, this isn't all bad news folks... they did fix the aiming problems from previous game as well 
 as making it possible to take cover against walls and objects like such games as Rainbow Six Vegas 
 which is a nice feature. They also beefed up the driving making it tougher and more realistic. 
 It is easier to evade the police as well as giving you the GPS to mark your current way points 
 and directions.
  All in all, I can not bring myself to give this game more than an 8.0 for the simple fact that 
 it is the same game we have seen since the original GTA. The soundtrack is mediocre at best and 
 I think lacks the comedic points valid in a lot of the other GTA installments. Filled with glitches 
 as well as a sketchy multiplayer, it is simply just another game in the fabled series. Sorry folks, 
 just being honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genie2476
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is finally here!
  When i got my copy i did not expect it to be this good.
  
  I've played almost all GTA's and this one is (IMO) the best so far!
  
  
  The graphics are 
 much better then any Xbox360 game i've seen so far, especially seeing it has no load times as you 
 go around Liberty City
  only when starting missions (duh! ;) .
  
  As for the game play, its also way improved, the new cover system,
  -as game spot stated-, makes 
 gunfights allot easier, and much more realistic.
  Some things were taken away from the game, such as Fighter Planes, but it all makes up for it with 
 a strong, solid, game experience.
  
  As for the AI, they are a little bit improved, mostly in gunfights, but they are not much smarter 
 when it comes to driving around the city and the likes.
  
  Altough you are not SUPPOSED to drive like the law states, its still pretty stupid to see someone 
 bashing their car against your's, just because your stopping for a red light!! xD.
  
  Also, if im not mistaken, this GTA is allot easier than the other ones, in the other's (San Andreas, Vice 
 city, GTA 3) i had allot of trouble with the missions.... (NOOB!, yeah, yeah, i know ^_^) but in this 
 one i had no problems at all!
  
  Another new thing would be multiplayer, its been a long time since i had so much fun playing something 
 on line against (and with) others.
  
  -
  So, to make a long story short, its a game worth playing.
  if you liked the previous GTA's this 
 one will certainly not let you down!!
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoHead
Rating: 6
Date: May 15, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  GTA4 Review
  
  Hype, like many four letter words, carries a lot of negative connotations. Hype suggests that a 
 product might not be as good as we have been lead to believe. Hype suggests that we are being [i] lied [/i] 
 to. Hype puts games on pedestals, creating fantasies that the reality often struggles to live up 
 to. This was never going to bode well for Grand Theft Auto 4, as it is possibly the most hyped 
 game in existence. In the eyes of many gamers, Grand Theft Auto 4 is some sort of holy treasure, 
 like the Grail or the knucklebone of a saint. Most gamers seem to be asking themselves what they 
 love most about GTA4 when the real question they should be asking is whether the game deserves 
 such adulation. A worrying number of reviewers have thrown perfect scores at the game and if I 
 hadn't been honest with myself, I suppose I might have joined them.
  
  I'm not immune to hype and it's a horrible feeling to have excitement turn to disappointment. I 
 wanted to love this game; I queued up at midnight with my pre-order ticket in my hand hoping it 
 would be everything people claimed it would. In the cold light of day, however, I only [i] like [/i] 
 this game, and after such high expectations, I'm not sure that that's enough.
  
  It's hard to put your finger on exactly what's wrong with the game; it's certainly nothing overt, 
 but as they say, the devil's in the details. Rockstar North have created a sandbox without equal. 
 Liberty City is a living, breathing place with sweeping urban vistas, glass monoliths that touch 
 the clouds and quick flowing rivers of traffic, but the populous is jarringly low-res and driving 
 isn't as much fun as it used to be; the cars don't handle well and are too eager to throw you through 
 the windscreen at the slightest bump. The combat is much more sophisticated and deadly but now 
 every shoot-out is a major engagement with a laboured and tedious pace and it's all too easy to 
 be gunned down by some nameless 'gangsta' before you have a chance to react, forcing you to do 
 the whole thing again. The characters are vibrant and rounded and the writing, freed from the constraints 
 of the movie tributes of past games, has a depth and personality unprecedented in the Grand Theft 
 Auto series; but each set of missions feels isolated and disjointed; the gameplay too nebulous 
 and unfocused for the writing to really shine.
  
  Like many things, the myth is often much more attractive than the reality. The myth of Grand Theft 
 Auto 4 is that it is a flawless, peerless piece of video game art, a thing to be revered and venerated, 
 the pinnacle of gaming to date. The truth is that GTA4 is a well made, if flawed, game that has 
 strayed away from the gleeful escapism I enjoyed most about the series, and replaced it with something 
 I don't recognise anymore.
  
  
  if yoy=u liked this, find more at www. pickledunicorn. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 keeps to its roots. The game play is similar to previous GTA releases they have had in the 
 last few years. You drive various vehicles in GTA 4 (boats, helicopters, cars, motorcycles) and 
 perform missions that progress the story line. The multiplayer modes are pretty fun, one of them 
 being the races. Overall, I give this game a 9.5. Most people into games have played GTA or are 
 familiar with it. If you have enjoyed other GTA games, or like "sandbox" games that give you freedom 
 to roam.
  
  In regards to my GTA 4 experience there are many details that really give polish to this game. 
 There have been moments that have really surprised me. My one beef with this game is not actually 
 with the game itself, but with the Xbox 360 architecture that we have, and Microsoft's position 
 that a harddrive isn't required, the game streams everything off the harddrive real-time and my 
 360 is so loud and the disc spins so fast, that it makes my 360 really loud. By far the loudest 
 when I have this game is being played. Also, as people have noticed, there is a little lag in the 
 graphics being loaded, so textures do not always appear until they are loaded (1-2 seconds) . Microsoft, 
 can you please realize that developers are pushing your hardware?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigMcGil
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The shooting in this GTA game is better than some of the previous ones but it is still really clumsy. 
 The game features an auto-aim system which I recommend turning off. It is always shooting at the 
 wrong enemy and it reduces the satisfaction of killing enemies. Also the game doesn't have a proper 
 camera angle for shooting. Frequently you will have the target on an enemy and it will shoot the 
 corner between you and them instead. 
  
  The cover system doesn't allow you to lean around cover separately from firing your gun. As a result 
 firing multiple pistol rounds can only be done by holding the trigger down like it was an automatic 
 weapon. Also the target reticle moves when your character leans around cover which makes hitting 
 your target difficult. Also the animation for leaning around cover takes to long. 
  
  Another thing that is annoying about the shooting is that several missions require you to keep 
 friendly AI characters alive. Meanwhile the AI characters do there best to make this difficult 
 by running into rooms with enemies on all sides. 
  
  Finally the game has some very long missions that desperately need a checkpoint or two in the middle. 
 Often times you will drive across town, then get in a gun fight and then an enemy will make a run 
 for it. If you don't catch him then you start at the beginning. This wouldn't be as bad, but gunfights 
 are slow and very scripted so they become very tedious.
  
  GTA has a lot of great qualities, which everyone always talks about, but its flaws should not be 
 papered over. I don't expect it to have better shooting than Gears of War or Halo, but Mass Effect 
 and Saints Row had much better combat that GTA. It isn't like shooting isn't half of every mission 
 in GTA. It should have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the first GTA game I've played and it is one of the best game I've ever played. I would 
 give it a 9.9 if i could. 
  There are so many good things about this game that I will probably leave some stuff out. First, 
 this game is the most real life looking game for the Xbox 360. Every thing that you do is realistic 
 (except the cheats) . The phone, the collisions, the shoot outs, the A. I. of the computer, the look 
 of everything. If you look around you can tell that every single thing has been worked on to look 
 real looking. Also the story is very good.
  You can pretty much do anything you want in this game. You can watch T. V. shows, hack a police 
 computer, choose your ring tone, and even surf the internet. The internet isn't real life, but 
 there many sites you can look at. You can go to shows (which look very real) , a car wash, the strip 
 club, restaurants, the Internet Cafe, bowling, play pool, go buy clothes or a car, go to a bar, 
 and a lot more. You can also ride in a boat, motorcycle, and helicopter. 
  When driving, it feels very realistic. In racing games I've played, if your driving slowly and 
 you softly hit something else, you'll go swerving. But driving in GTA IV is very fun. If you see 
 you're about to make a deadly crash, you can choose to dive out of the vehicle.
  I haven't played online multiplayer yet, but I will soon.
  There aren't many bad things about 
 the game, but there are some. Sometimes you'll have some clipping, but it's not too bad. Also for 
 some reason it's really hard to make a 180 degree turn to run up stairs. And it takes me about 
 10 seconds to jump on a ladder. l 
  Overall this game is very good but not quite perfect and it's worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game two days ago, but I'm loving it already.
  
  The story thus far seems great and in-depth. The multiplyer, even though I haven't played it yet, 
 looks and sounds amazing.
  
  The characters have wonderful facial expressions and voices and couldn't look better. The movements 
 look life-like and character interactions in-game look and sound realistic. 
  
  The cellphone is a great new feature and allows tons of new stuff for you to do. 
  
  My only 
 problem with it is that the driving is TOO realistic and tight turns require slowing down, something 
 I don't really like, but will get used to. Also, it seems like it might be too easy to escape police, 
 but I am yet to commit a really serious crime
  
  Overall, great game and I'm lookin forward to a LOT more playtime. I would highly suggest getting 
 it for newcomers to GTA games like myself, but I'm not sure if it would be worth getting for the 
 GTA veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Write when you start playing this you should have high hopes and for the most part GTA 4 delivers. 
 Let's start out with the good. The games graphics are highly inproved but it still looks like it 
 has a little PS2 graphics in it which is actually good. It makes feel more classic. As you may 
 know it's a free roaming game. It is hard to get into the main part of the city. This is where 
 there is an exact model of the Empire State Building only the game calls it the Rotterdam Tower. 
 If you try to past the bridge into this part of the city the cops wills gun you down which isn't 
 fun and makes feel imprisoned. 
  Guns are great and of course fun to use. If you don't have a gun with you and are only using your 
 fists then it isn't the most fun ever. But with a gun or two it's awesome. Rockstar said the aiming 
 sytem this time around would be right on the mark but unfortuanately they were wrong. Although 
 it is improved from the last games it still doesn't give you full control on who your trying to 
 aim at and it might take you 8 seconds until you final are aiming at the right target and this 
 could easily cost you your life dealing with the police.
  Sound is great. It's voice acting is better than any other of the GTA games because of of Nikko. 
 If you were to ever listen to his lines then for many of them I think you would find them quite 
 funny although Nikko doesn't try to make them jokes. But I can tell Rockstar wanted them to be.
 
  This is a game reccomended to shooter, racing, hardcore GTA fans, or for people trying it out 
 for the first time which should be a blast. Most 360 owners that can by M games probabaly already 
 have the game so if you don't then what the hell are you waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Gamers have long since come to know a great game title from expansive series and characters. Mario, 
 Sonic, Link, Master Chief, and many more run the gauntlet, but the Grand Theft Auto series has 
 become the poster-child of mature-rated shenanigans of interactive entertainment. It's come a long 
 way since the top-down, free-roaming Playstation series to its widely-recognized rebirth on the 
 Playstation 2. Grand Theft Auto III was a beast of a game. The widely-regarded "sandbox" title 
 became commonplace in many other games. After two new adventures under Vice City and San Andreas, 
 gamers everywhere wished for a GTA game for next-generation consoles. GTA IV became a hot topic 
 in game stores everywhere, becoming incredibly anticipated. A bigger city and an interesting protagonist 
 teased fans and in April of 2008, the game to "redefine the sandbox series" hit stores. Does GTA 
 IV's car-stealing, pedestrian-beating, online-surfing brand of game design march its way to true 
 perfection?
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV takes place in a revamped, fully-realized Liberty City, the same burg from 
 Grand Theft Auto III for the Playstation 2. Off the boat from his homeland in Eastern Europe is 
 immigrant Niko Bellic, a war veteran who travels to America to obtain the long-sought-after "American 
 Dream." The struggling newcomer only has his cousin Roman on his side upon his arrival. To make 
 matters worse, Niko finds out that the so-called "American Dream" promised to him by his cousin 
 is currently unattainable. After settling into a home and learning the ropes of Liberty City, Niko 
 is set off in the city to get jobs, talk to women, and work his way up to fame and fortune. The 
 story is actually wonderfully presented, but the most interesting aspect of the story itself is 
 Niko himself. Compared to the devil-may-care attitudes of previous GTA protagonists, Niko is easily 
 the most conflicted. He actually feels bad about some of the crimes he commits and manages to blur 
 the gap between the good and bad in humanity today. Unlike other GTA protagonists, Niko is actually 
 a pretty interesting guy. His story is expansive and it mixes him into other situations beyond 
 those that his cousin originally intended. Despite my original questions of whether a GTA story 
 could really get off the ground as strong urban culture, GTA IV delivers thanks to a strong presentation 
 and an unforgettable main character.
  
  After settling into Liberty City, you take control of Niko. The controls are pretty simple, though 
 if you're like me, it may take you a little while to get used to the camera, which can be a small 
 bit sensitive. Hold A to run, B to attack, X to jump, Y to interact with objects. R-Trigger to 
 shoot weapons (which can be cycled through with right and left on the D-Pad) . Fortunately, the 
 game isn't too difficult and there's plenty of breathing room between the battles, so you aren't 
 rushed to learn the controls too much. New to the controls is a cover system, where Niko can sidle 
 up against a wall with the right bumper. This does make the combat smoother, and although it doesn't 
 reach the cover-happy insanity of Gears of War, is pretty fun to implement.
  
  But you don't play Grand Theft Auto games for the controls. Well, you do, butnever mind. The point 
 is that Grand Theft Auto IV is the latest installment in the long-running sandbox series, the select 
 video game title that let you go where you want, do what you want at your own pace, and quite frankly, 
 there's a lot of stuff to do in Liberty City this time around. Many of the similar missions are 
 here: killing a thug who robbed a crime boss, tracking drug dealers, racing missions, and many, 
 MANY more are all here. There's a slew of minor tweaks to gameplay like surfing the internet, talking 
 with many different clients and their occupations, and simply exploring the city, gun or baseball 
 bat in-hand. The missions are plentiful and tend to crossover frequently. Different missions trigger 
 different cutscenes and the player will frequently be forced to choose which client to talk to 
 first. This ambiguity of the main story makes playing through Niko's narrative a blast and even 
 allows for multiple endings. Rockstar still has mastered the sandbox title, and though offering 
 different missions and objectives at once can be a bit overwhelming, there's still a remarkable 
 amount of things to do in Liberty City. But it doesn't stop there.
  
  Niko keeps in contact with his friends and acquaintances with his cell phone, which can be accessed 
 by pressing up on the D-pad. The cell phone can be used in a variety of ways: to set up a date, 
 call the cops on some random thug on the street, or to immediately replay a mission you failed. 
 Another new addition is avoiding the cops. Now in GTA IV, when Niko breaks the law (which can be 
 something as simple as nudging a cop car to the more complex gunning down of pedestrians) a radius 
 appears. Niko must travel outside the radius while not meeting up or being seen by the cops, otherwise 
 the chase continues. When you reach a safe distance (or in selective areas of the city) Grand Theft 
 Auto IV has plenty of things to do and generally is greater than the sum of its parts, but while 
 these different activities in-game are fun, they never seem to push the envelope that way that 
 the original did. The city is huge and exploration-based, but like many other big-name games, doesn't 
 quite deliver the innovation and mostly relies on content and minor compliments to gameplay.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas had a slim multiplayer, but IV trumps it in absolutely every 
 way. You can access multiplayer using the cell phone anytime and you can select different game 
 types from an easy-to-navigate menu. Once you enter the battle, nearly all of the fun gameplay 
 elements of the series are in full-effect. Hopping fences, gunning down pedestrians, and the ever 
 popular hijacking element let you take on your friends and rivals with just enough pizzazz and 
 skill as in the single-player. The different weapons are balanced and the ability to navigate the 
 city with such seamlessness makes the multiplayer easy to jump into and darn near impossible to 
 put down. Although I had many doubts as to the series' power in the online multiplayer ring, GTA 
 IV is living proof of a successful and balanced sandbox multiplayer setup. Rockstar would be foolish 
 to forget the multiplayer in future installments, because in GTA IV, it's one of the most enjoyable 
 moments in the entire franchise.
  
  Graphically, Grand Theft Auto IV hits a few snags along the way. Though the series has made progressions 
 since its departure from the Playstation 2 to the Xbox 360, the game still doesn't manage to look 
 as great as other Xbox 360 games. Landmarks fade in regularly, but every now and then, you'll see 
 a landmark pop into view. This isn't a serious problem, but it goes to show that there's still 
 some improvement left. However, the lip-synching is well done, and considering that all of Liberty 
 City is fully realized on a single disc, it's easy to note that Rockstar was going for quantity 
 over quality. That isn't a bad thing, considering that the game manages to trump any other sandbox 
 title on the console technically. But if you compare Grand Theft Auto IV with a more graphically-advanced 
 game like Gears of War, you'll see that there is still a ways to go till Liberty City reaches the 
 presentation-pushing monstrousness of the Xbox 360's full potential.
  
  One of the most impressive and resultantly entertaining aspects of GTA IV is the sound design. 
 The voice acting specifically is phenomenal. Niko, Roman, Michelle, and practically every character 
 in the game, from criminal to pedestrian will have something incredibly entertaining to say. The 
 actors put some serious emphasis in each character's role in-game, and the writing is actually 
 pretty funny. Niko's personality is fully fleshed out when he talks it up with his friends and 
 enemies, and compliments the excellent story with some characters with plenty of moxie. The music 
 is also a tremendous step above the previous games in the series, with a huge collection of radio 
 stations with plenty of music choices. If talk radio isn't your thing, listen to reggae, rock, 
 rap, R&B, and a bunch of other stations. I personally found myself listening to the licensed rock 
 of R. E. M. and Smashing Pumpkins on Liberty Rock, but surely everyone will find something to love 
 on the airwaves of Liberty City. You don't find sound design as comprehensive and cared for as 
 the kind in GTA IV, so it's a real treat to see how much sound design can be packed into a single 
 disc. Excellent.
  
  Pros
  + Huge city to explore
  + Plenty of objectives, both storyline and optional
  + Game lets you literally play your way
 
  + Multiplayer is massive, balanced, and fun
  + Soundtrack and voice acting is stellar
  
  Cons
  - Graphics don't match up to games like Gears of War
  - Liberty City can be pretty staggering 
 at first
  - Controls, though accessible, feel a bit clumsy during combat
  - Just doesn't feel next-gen, gameplay wise
  
  Grand Theft Auto has been a series that grabs 
 attention and holds it, and the congratulated series proves that it still has plenty of tricks 
 left to explore, even if it is getting a bit stale. The city is tremendous and is filled with objectives 
 that can be chosen at will; there are practically hundreds of ways to go about your journey in 
 Liberty City. Once you get bored of simple missions and objectives, there's the attacking of computer-generated 
 civilians, hijacking of cop cars, and even the occasionalahemdate. However, the game just doesn't 
 reach the Pantheon pedestal, mostly because it doesn't revolutionize the gameplay enough. There's 
 a ton of things to do, and nearly all of them have some degree of fun and finesse, but just making 
 the city bigger doesn't deliver what I had originally expected in Grand Theft Auto IV. Regardless 
 of these issues, it's a must-play for any serious gamer of age. The lengthy storyline is filled 
 to the brim with strong presentation values and fun missions, and even once you finish Niko's journey 
 towards the "American Dream," extra missions with a strong completion percentage score and a balanced 
 and competitive multiplayer component will round out a game with more than enough options. Though 
 GTA IV has long since become the hotly-anticipated title of 2008, it isn't the best. Its minor 
 problems and rather conservative design doesn't break down many doors, but it's extremely difficult 
 to ignore the content and functional new additions. If you're of appropriate age, GTA IV is an 
 absolute must-play. Opportunity and amazement abound in Liberty City, and it waits for no one.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  gta4 is an amazing game. that city is incredible, the voice acting is second to none and the gameplay 
 has greatly improved. what sets this game apart the most though is its attention to detail. u bump 
 into someone, they drop their coffee. you get a call in a car, it interfers with the radio. you 
 can choose ur phones background and ringtone. you can literally surf the web and there arent just 
 a couple sites but a ton of them. you can go on a police computer and track down criminals. you 
 can watch tv shows.
  
  as you can see rockstar really put a lot into this game. 
  
  the story starts off when niko belic steps off teh boat into liberty city, which is based off new 
 york. the game is around 30 hours and it is amazing. most missions are similar and get repetitive 
 but they never get old. driving is fun and if you do get bored you can do street races or just 
 freestyle. the story is also brilliant, and is up there with games like bioshock and mass effect. 
 in fact gtas single player is basically as long as bioshock and mass effect put together and just 
 as fun.
  
  gta4 is also the first gta to have multiplayer and they didnt throw something together in ten minutes. 
 there are plenty of modes including cops vs. crooks and the deathmatches. what makes these truly 
 unique is the fact that the city can be on. so you have cops, peds and cars rolling around while 
 ur trying to take ur friends head off. sweeeet...
  
  like i said b4 the sound, graphics are both amazing. the people dont look as crisp but the game 
 is just huge and it really holds up. the sound is just fantastic, prbly the best sound in any game. 
 the gameplay has improved a lot w/ a cover system but it can be sketchy as its not as smooth as 
 a gears of war type system.
  
  overall you gotta buy this game. its got one of the best single player campaings as well as one 
 of teh best multiplayer options you can find. ign gave this game a ten. the xbox, ps2, and gamecube 
 went by without a single ten. same with gamespot. this is the best game ull play prbly this year 
 and its prbly the best value ull get all year as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lockeyness
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  At this point, saying anything good about Grand Theft Auto IV would be akin to sounding like a 
 broken record. On the other hand, it's very difficult to find any lengthy complaints about the 
 game. Be that as it may, I've just completed the main storyline and I'm about to throw some words 
 onto paper. Or, rather, text onto a screen. The former sounds far more poetic.
  
  Speaking of poetry, there's been a lot of positive criticism concerning Grand Theft Auto IV's story, 
 comparing it to such Oscar winning films as The Godfather. Crazy excerpts aside, I really dug into 
 the storyline after the first few hours. While it's certainly one of the most engrossing tales 
 to tell in video game history, it left me feeling whether or not the game would be "Oscar-worthy" 
 as it were. Granted, a lot of the plot points are derivative and sometimes even predictable, but 
 so were plenty of Oscar winning scripts. The storyline this time around revolves around morality 
 and loyalty. In that regards, it's far less lighthearted and takes a darker tone that I felt only 
 a few hours in. There's a realistic focus on real life issues like drugs, violence and family. 
 It's all something that I'm not completely used to in the franchise, much less any video game to 
 date. What really brought it together was the talent behind the words and the amazing character 
 development. Niko Bellic is easily one of my favorite characters in video games today. He's transformed 
 from a "fresh-off-the-boat immigrant" to a veritable powerhouse. Niko is actually the first character 
 in the Grand Theft Auto franchise that I actually cared about and eventually cheered for. The delivery 
 of his dialogue is intense and focused. Honestly, it couldn't have been better. If anything about 
 this game is perfect, it's the progression of Niko Bellic's character. Absolutely brilliant. I 
 think that's why Rockstar didn't go so far as to include all of the customization options from 
 San Andreas into this title. Niko is an interactive character in the grand storyline, whereas CJ 
 was geared more towards the player to create their own persona.
  
  In fact, I'm more than happy that a lot of features from San Andreas (along with previous entries) 
 were left out. GTA IV focuses solely on what it did well and expanded upon that rather than throwing 
 the kitchen sink at players. Once I accessed the jetpack in San Andreas, I knew that things had 
 gone too far. Granted, the jetpack is awesome. Tattoos, airplanes, gang warfare, and working out 
 are all pretty damn fun, but there comes a point where it could become too much. GTA IV is like 
 a condensed, polished and perfected version of the previous three titles in the franchise. I felt 
 the polished sheen right off the bat with the driving. Cars have a ton more weight and feel much 
 more loose while driving around. The emergency brake button is used a lot less often, replaced 
 with the brake pedal to make those sharp turns. It makes the driving a bit slower, but it feels 
 right. Later on, I went into the new combat system that Rockstar had set up, which incorporates 
 an excellent cover and targeting system. Without getting into the specifics, it feels pretty amazing 
 to pull up to a group of enemies, yank on the e-brake to line up the broadside of my car with them 
 before popping out and taking cover immediately behind it before blasting dudes away.
  
  Then there's the inclusion of Niko's cell phone, which is a great in-game interface, but ends up 
 striking a line between the regular GTA mission structure and a friend simulator. At first, I didn't 
 mind my buddies calling me up to see if I wanted to do something. This is a nice touch, giving 
 me the sense of feeling that my cousin misses hanging out and wants to shoot some pool. Even when 
 Brucie calls up asking if I want to catch some naked girls at the local strip club, I can easily 
 squeeze out a giggle. It's even better when someone calls mid-mission and Niko automatically turns 
 them down with some snappy, clever dialogue. Unfortunately, someone always calls when I'm not really 
 in the mood. It ends with a lot of disheartened friends and potential lovers.
  
  I've dabbled in the multiplayer as well, but none of the options seem to even matter except Free 
 Mode. This is everything I've ever wanted in multiplayer. While I was playing GTA 3, I immediately 
 wanted to grab a friend and cause immense amounts of chaos around Liberty City. That's all I ever 
 want to do in GTA IV online. Cops n' Crooks is fun for a while, but it doesn't get much better 
 than Free Mode with a handful of friends.
  
  Is Grand Theft Auto IV the amazing experience that everyone's been talking about? Absolutely. My 
 expectations were blown away and there's still stuff to do around the city. This is a game that 
 will set the bar higher for every game like Saint's Row 2, This is Vegas, and every other sandbox 
 action game including whatever Rockstar has planned for a follow-up. Sure, Vice City would be a 
 good option. I wouldn't complain about that. Personally, I wouldn't mind seeing a new city or culture. 
 Surprise me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman_2049
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  
  First of all i'd like to point out an error in gamespot's Review of GTA IV. Given that they've 
 given this game a 10/10, something that to the best of my knowledge they've never done before, 
 Leads me to believe that cash was exchanged under a table in a seedy little bar somewhere, Between 
 The people who gave this game a perfect rating, and Rockstar games. If you read/watch gamespot's 
 review, it Clearly picks out a good few flaws in the game, such as problems with the Driving mechanic, 
 Choppy Gameplay in area's Ect. Call me synical, but i thought in order for a game to be perfect 
 it had to be free from any kind of flaw, Glitch, plot hole, And/or Problem with any Mechanic used 
 in the game. Gamespot, We're not having a difference of oppinion. Either i'm right in my previous 
 statement, or you're all no longer fit to write review's and i should take my Browsing Elsewhere.
 
  
  Thus far this may sound like i'm having a good old Rant at the game, and hate it to dust. But nothing 
 could be farther from the truth. As a long standing Fan of the GTA series, i have to say that i'm 
 impressed with the game as a whole. The choppy game play can be an issue. But considering the lack 
 of Loading times, and the Sheer size of this new take on Liberty City, Frankly i'd be gobsmacked 
 if there wasn't an issue with Framerate. 
  
  The City is Porbably a little bit smaller than San-Andreas, but is far prettier to look at. Anyone 
 that has played GTA 3 will be Shocked to see how different Liberty City has been made. In a way 
 this dissapointed me. I mean when you think about it, Rockstar took the time to change the name 
 of all the major portions of the city, Completely remoddeled the entire place, Even Added Extra 
 islands, and a Mock Statue of Liberty. Do you honestly think after all that change, they couldn't 
 have just called it something other than liberty city? I mean it kind of makes GTA3 and Liberty 
 city stories Storyline's completely Pointless. I mean they thought up new names for the maor portions 
 of the city, How hard would it have been for them to come up with an extra one to unify them? Here's 
 one, "New Yorkshire" In keeping with the spoof "Statue of Happiness" asthetic. See? simple.
  
  Other then that, there are only Two things about the game that Seriously made me Question wether 
 or not it was even worth Getting. 
  
  First up, Any fan of the series will know that in Vice city, Rockstar came up with the tycoon-ish 
 idea of buying Property. GTA: Monopoly if you will. It added a sense of purpose to the game. But 
 for some reason this system was taken out of GTA4, Which removes alot of fun from the game. I mean 
 the amount of money you make from the game is rediculously High. At one point, you Rob a Bank, 
 and gain $250,000 as a reward. If you take about $50,000 of that you've got enough to buy every 
 article of clothing in the game, so that $200,000 you're left with, sits there doing Nothing. Because 
 the only thing other then clothes you can buy in the game, Is guns (If you don't count Cab Fares, 
 Food, Sex, Lapdances, And other activities which Rarely cost more then a few Dollars at a time)
 
  
  Secondly, Lack of Weapons/Vehicles. the weapons you get in GTA4 are strikingly simular to the Arsenal 
 of GTA3. Meaning no Flamethrowers, No Minigun, No Heatseeking rockets, No Sachel charges, no Chainsaw/Katana. 
 Vehicle wise, No Planes of any kind, no Tanks, no 4x4's, no go karts, No push bikes. Alot like 
 GTA 3 was, but with the added comfort of Motorbikes.
  
  I'd like to cap this Review off with a simple Prediction. Rockstar, i Believe, Have entered a cycle 
 for this current Generation. You see, if you look back to the First GTA on PC and PS, There was 
 Liberty City, Vice City, And San Andreas... Common knowledge i know. but then there was GTA2 Set 
 in a City known Only as "Anywhere City" That one breaks the Cycle. then there was Gta3 (Set in Liberty 
 City) , Then vice City, Then San Andreas. The Cycle began again, but was swiftly Broken by Liberty 
 and Vice city stories. now we Have GTA4.... Set in Liberty City. If history's Anything to go by, 
 the next game will be set in Vice city, And will have a few things added to it that this game didn't. 
 Just like how GTA3 had no motorbikes, but Vice city did. GTA4 has no Planes, the next GTA in vice 
 city will most likely have Them, and New weapons. Then San andreas will complete the cycle for 
 this generation with an incredible amount of Weapons and vehicles. But I bet you a tenner that 
 Gamespot will review both of them and not even shake their Perfect 10 at them. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godbyeo
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  It is a great game. I just think that the reviewer had a conflict of interest. He was either bribed 
 or influenced to give the game a perfect score. The is awesome and deserves a ten i think its odd 
 that they actually did. There were so many other games that deserve tens dont get them. But they 
 dont give them to the games. The review is a hoax and it is retarded. But they probly got some 
 credit from retards who think they were honest. It is a total and utter fabrication. It is untrue 
 and should be reviewed with the same cruelty they usually give. The other games that deserve ten 
 and dont get them is the reason im typing this retarded one hundred word  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tittan7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  They thought of everything. All the details such as been able to call a # to find out what song 
 is playing, having girlfriends, greatly improved aiming, storyline, cell phone features, able to 
 call 911 etc. They also allow you to play pool, bowling, darts and a videogame. Those mini games 
 themselves are actually pretty fun. The car selection is also very good anywhere from Lamborghini's 
 to old clunkers and motorcycles. The 'street' ladies now offer different levels of services and 
 it is actually more graphic than previous releases. The different neighborhoods look ever more 
 real than before. I had to turn on the subtitles since it was hard to understand the different 
 accents specially the Jamaican one. I particularly enjoyed hearing 'Little Jacob' the Rasta man 
 speak. It wqas like a different language and pretty fun to hear. I'm not done playing it yet but 
 is totally addicting... Can't go wrong with this one. I am even thinking of buying it for the PS3 
 and doing it all over again Yeah I know Crazy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schlozz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  As GTA IV is the highest scored video game of all time I think its fair to say that this review 
 is basically just saying go buy it now. It's worth every penny.
  
  My reviews go like this, I write out good, mediocre and bad things about the game. Some of the 
 bad might not annoy you as much as they do to me and may only be minor but some people hate low 
 frame rates for example and I prefer to tell everyone about everything that is in the game.
  
  Good:
  Great immersive story that will take you about 30 - 40 hours to complete. Fantastic 
 characters and dialogue both in cutscenes and on the radio stations. Brilliant soundtrack with 
 something everyone can like. Amazing visuals and details around Liberty City. Liberty City in general. 
 Same classic GTA humour covered sweetly under a serious tone. Cover system works. Great driving 
 and flying. New wanted system is a lot more fun. Still loads of things to do after you've finished 
 the game.
  
  Mediocre:
  Various texture issues like pop in and such. Friendly AI is difficult sometimes. Friends like to 
 be taken out a little too frequently. Lock on is annoying at times. Occasionally low frame rate.
 
  
  There is nothing Bad about GTA IV at all.
  
  Overall GTA IV is a must have on either PS3 or 360. For me the game is by no means perfect but 
 it does come very close, some technical difficulties mar the overall package but are so easily 
 overlooked when you look at the bigger picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofhalo117
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Well by now I'm sure we've all played or seen GTA IV in one way or another.
  If not then come out of that damn rock... does anyone care that I'm writing this? Guess not.... eh 
 back to the review.
  
  When you first look at GTA IV you'll see that it's visually stunning. In the previous games R* 
 was restricted to the generation. Now it's onto the next gen and the sky's the limit... basically.
 
  
  Game play is very good. Feels like gears of war a bit with the weapon and cover system. The weapon 
 fighting system has been completely re-written and it is a lot better.
  
  As for vehicles, yes lots of cars. There are some new bikes around and cars. You can only ride 
 trains and you cannot drive them or de-rail them. Boats... PURE WIN. Well if you know when to drive 
 them. Afternoons are good because the reflection in the water is awesome. One HUGE disappointment 
 for me was the planes. You can't fly them. There's not even a dodo which has been in all the previous 
 GTA games AFAIK.
  
  WATER is awesome.. Much like the halo 3 one but a bit better in some ways. We can't make a real 
 comparison since halo 3's water isn't in a huge place like the one we see in GTA IV. Ok.. Water 
 is amazingbetter than halo 3's. 
  
  Story is Amazing. There are some RPG elements like choosing a character to kill. Eg:
  *Not actual 
 Characters in game* Tom and Larry. Who would you kill...? There's also the ability to choose if 
 someone dies. Like close to the beginning, there's that 
  Guy who's hanging off the hand rail and you can choose to save him or kill him. Near the ending 
 of the game you get to choose either deal or revenge. Won't go into detail about that though. I 
 chose Deal.
  
  Buildings are a lot more realistic as you can go into most of the buildings. One example is the 
 safe houses. You go inside and you save by sleeping. 6 hours goes past. The airport is a lot more 
 realistic? Note that this game is set in 2008 so if you go onto the runway you instantly get a 
 4 star wanted level. Post 9/11 anyone?
  Other than that there are Boeing 747s parked in the terminals and 2 that are taxing on and off 
 the runway. There are planes that fly above you but no planes take-off or land in this game.
  
  Anyway this was just a quick review. I rate it 9.8 out of 10. 10 in GS's bar since theres no 
 9.8 The ending could have been better and planes!?!?!! 
  Thanks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteraan
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me state that this is my first experience with the GTA series, as the 360 is the first console 
 I have owned since a Sega Genesis. In between those two, I built and upgraded my own PC's, and 
 still feel that the PC's higher capabilities during that span allowed for much more complex (and 
 better) games.
  
  But back to GTA IV, I was all prepared to buy this based upon the numerous perfect ratings (including 
 here on GS) , but I decided to rent it first, and boy am I glad I did. 
  
  By no means is this game bad, but simply put: Everything I do in this game I've done before in 
 other games. The single player campaign is essentially Crackdown without all the ridiculous jumping. 
 Then again, it does have an endless number of FedEx quests (Test Drive Unlimited, anyone? Maybe 
 you prefer WoW or DAoC) some ridiculously easy police chases (NFS series) , and a cinematic storyline 
 that is nowhere near as compelling as Mass Effect, Bioshock, or The Elder Scrolls series.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, one of my co-workers was telling me how cool it was to get a few 
 guys and jump in a car, all blasting away. I looked at him and said, "So you never filled a Warthog 
 in Halo and did the same thing, or used an APC in Battlefield 2?"
  
  In short, I've been gaming since Pong (I was really young then, but that still makes me old - fine) , 
 but this game brings absolutely NOTHING new to the table, unless you count the cell phone interface, 
 which is slick. Does that rate a 10? No chance. I consider Bioshock and Mass Effect to be far, 
 FAR superior games for single player, and there are scads of better multiplayer shooters.
  
  I expected better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabutt
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Well i have had the game now 2 weeks and played the crap out of it thats why i'm finally writing 
 my review, its kinda retarded some people had reviews made 12 hours after the game came out. Well 
 first off this game is a typical GTA game, Violence, Sex , swearing, Ect,. That said you know what 
 to expect. Personaly i found this to be the best in the series because i found myself not getting 
 bored as easy as the last couple games. The overall story mode is by far the best in the series 
 and has great characters. The city is SOOOO SOOO much better than SA was. The best feature is you 
 didnt find your self wanting to get the next island as fast as you did in the past. And it seemed 
 the first island has more to do than the others do. the final island is kinda lame personally, 
 only having handful of things to do. The covering system is kind broken, it could be a start to 
 a good thing in the future. The graphics are pretty amazing for how large the city is and its amazing 
 how different everybody looks. And the AI around you is alot better , The music is not as well 
 as SA or VC but its all bad. Overall this is a Better game on a better system, For any GTA fan 
 its a must. Lets hope The nest couple games build from this as VC and SA did for gta3. we could 
 have some great games in the near future, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkory
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a game that tries very hard to be many different things at once. It tries 
 to be a somewhat realistic driving simulator, an action adventure, a third person shooter with 
 cover mechanic, and great cinematic experience. Unfortunately, it only really gets to 'pretty good' 
 on many of these categories, or simply falls into a state of being underwhelming.
  
  I won't focus on many of the good things about this game in this review, since I feel they have 
 been done to death by hundreds of others. I will then just focus on the problems that forced me 
 to reconsider my anticipation that I had for this title.
  
  One problem is that the game feels at times more like a movie. I can sit on the couch in my house 
 and watch the entertaining plot and characters interacting together in the many cinematics with 
 the usual comedy that Rockstar North has given before. However, when the dialog and character interaction 
 end, I'm left with the realization that the game is trying harder to be more like a movie than 
 an actual game.
  
  The actual meat of the game consists of driving from one location to another to either collect 
 something, pickup a person, deliver a person, to drive to a specific mission, or to escape the 
 LC Police. The last you will be doing quite often, since the police are more likely to come after 
 you in this version than they did in previous versions. (Unfortunately, the police are laughably 
 easy to escape from a wanted level of 4 or less.)
  
  Driving is not that bad in GTA4, but it is a remarkable departure from the previous versions. In 
 Vice City or San Andreas, I could drive at top speed and pull the e-brake to slide around a corner 
 and continue on my merry way. It wasn't realistic one bit, but it was pretty darn fun. Now the 
 game has a more realistic angle on the driving, and pulling the e-brake kills your control and 
 makes you slide easily out of control if you're not careful, and it seems like a large majority 
 of the cars drive like awkward and very large boats, forcing you to slow down remarkably for any 
 turn if you want to even think about making it without crashing. While this change is not bad, 
 the different type of driving takes a good deal of practice to get used to, especially if you were 
 well practiced at driving in the previous titles.
  
  The other part of the game consists of gun fights and the newly added cover system. Target is easy 
 enough on characters, requiring just a pull on the left trigger, then either punch people or shooting 
 people with the other appropriate buttons. I can understand that they were trying to make the title 
 more realistic again, but the cover mechanic seems a little clunky and akward to use at times. 
 There have been moments when I need to get out of cover to approach an enemy location, press the 
 right shoulder button get out, and would find my character diving for a different piece of cover 
 in another location. While this issue can largely be blamed on user error, the frantic action sometimes 
 causes you to fight against the controls in order to do what you intend. However, the system is 
 not totally ruined or useless. After getting used to all its foibles and problems, you can start 
 to look forward to some of the enemy engagements. (As long as you have body armor)
  
  The final issue that bugged me in this title is the player camera. The driving camera is just fine 
  although I wish it was angled up a bit higher to give you a better view of the traffic ahead 
  but the camera while you are on foot is terribly frustrating to work with in narrow areas, or 
 even in some wide open spaces. When walking or moving around in any way, the camera will automatically 
 snap to face the direction you are walking. While this doesn't sound too bad, it can be incredibly 
 frustrating to use while trying to maneuver around in small spaces when engaging multiple enemy 
 targets coming at you from one or two directions. A simple nudge in your movement and your careful 
 camera orientated camera that you just set up is now snapping to the back of your character and 
 gives you a prime view of the area that you don't care about. This usually ends with me cursing 
 a lot while getting shot from something that I now cannot see.
  
  Some of those complaints may seem nitpicky, and taken as a whole, GTA4 is a pretty good game. It's 
 not a great game, nor a perfect game, but just simply good. I think many people may have let some 
 of the hype get to them, and most reviewers are trying to overlook some of the glaring flaws in 
 the game play to justify their rigorous attention to the game before its release. But the rich 
 detail and sandbox feel of the entire world allows you to overlook some of the problems for a short 
 while. If anything, GTA4 is a decent driving / shooting / adventure / whatever game that is almost 
 worth every cent of its cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T070Y
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Well to start with this review, this game has an awesome gameplay, awesome multiplayer, and a long, 
 exiting story, with deep characters, and funny jokes.
  Well this game is very fun because it has many options of playing, like killing people, cops, or 
 just following the storyline, but you' ll got for sure you will not get bored in a short period 
 of gameplay, this game will take between 2 and 4 months till it gets you bored. 
  Well, the bad things or the things its missing are the variety of food in the restaurants, the 
 bicycles, the option to pimp your ride, the option to steal an airplane, the tanks, the variety 
 of clothes, the gang territories, etc.
  Well independently of that there are many new things, such as riding on a cab, the option to look 
 for criminals in a police car, the internet, the TV programs, the radio stations, the new graphics 
 , etc.
  In my opinion, this game is a you-must have it game, because it has so many types of gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the latest entry in Rockstar Games' "Grand Theft Auto" franchise and is also the biggest 
 game ever released in-terms of hype and sales. While it is truly stunning and much improved over 
 it's predecessor, GTA: San Andreas, it's not perfect, but damn is it ever good.
  
  In the story you play Niko Bellic, an East European illegal immigrant to the fictional Liberty 
 City in the USA. Niko's cousin, Roman, promises him wealth and women but when he arrives he finds 
 his cousin running a second-rate taxi firm and up to his eyeballs in gambling debts with Russian 
 mobsters. The story unfolds as Niko does whatever he can for he and his brother to get by in LC.
 
  
  Compared to San Andreas the story and characters are vastly more interesting and engaging. You 
 really begin to empathise with them, Niko especially, and the occasional choice event will really 
 drag players in different directions depending on how they are influenced by the many varied and 
 colourful characters throughout the story.
  
  One of the first things though that will stun you when you begin playing is the visual improvement 
 over previous entries in the series. GTA IV is the first open-world game on the new generation 
 of systems (360 & PS3) that looks like a next-gen game. Games like Saints Row suffered from below-par 
 graphics engines, but in Liberty City the lighting, buildings, people and even open-water areas 
 look superb. Not only that, but the number of pedestrians and volume of traffic has been ramped 
 up to a spectacular level, really creating a living, breathing city for the first time. You'll 
 see people packing groceries into their car, visiting shows and restaurants and can distract them 
 just by brushing past them on the side-walk. 
  
  As always mission structure involves meeting with mobsters and friends in designated locations 
 to be given instructions on what task awaits you. The missions themselves have changed very little 
 from previous GTA games. Most involve delivering items by vehicle, chasing someone in a car-chase, 
 or gunning down every goon in a given area. They have though, become much more realistic than in 
 San Andreas. You certainly won't find jet-packs in Liberty City! There are also one or two amazing 
 set-piece missions, including a bank heist very reminiscent of the Michael Mann movie, Heat.
  
  Along side the main missions you are required to keep friends happy by entertaining them with 
 activities like visiting strip-joints, going for meals and going drinking. The last of which results 
 in some brilliant drunken effects making it difficult to balance when walking and reducing reaction 
 times when driving. Learning different friends' preferred activities is down to you and improving 
 friend ratings with each character can unlock special abilities, such as the ability to purchase 
 weapons cheaper from one friend. The problem with the friend activities is that you constantly 
 receive phone calls from people asking to be wined and dined which can really intrude on your progress 
 through the main missions.
  
  You also have the option to date a variety of women, including some accessed via a dating-website 
 if you visit an internet cafe. This works in exactly the same way as San Andreas. Take them to 
 places they hint at interest in, wear nice clothes and drive an expensive car and it's hard to 
 go wrong. Like friend activities though, these can also intrude on mission progress.
  
  Side-missions this time around include the usual GTA traditions; car thefts, hidden packages (now 
 "Flying Rats") , vigilante missions (now accessed by hacking a computer in a police car) and stunt 
 jumps. You also get new "random character missions" accessed simply by bumping into certain people 
 on the street who appear as blue icons on your radar when you're near them. Then there's assassination 
 missions, involving finding and taking down specific targets, and also drug deliveries. However, 
 taxi fares, paramedic services and fire dept. missions have all been left out of GTA IV. That said, 
 there's more than enough side-content to go around.
  
  Perhaps the best new additions to the single-player are the little things which enhance the experience. 
 You can now hail cabs and ride them to anywhere in the city you choose, skipping the cab-ride by 
 pressing A if you don't want to watch the whole ride, which vastly speeds up long-distance travelling. 
 The in-game cell phone allows you to contact friends and mission contacts as well as take photos 
 and choose multiplayer modes and options. Even car-jacking has become more detailed requiring you 
 to break windows of locked cars and hot-wire some (by quickly pressing both triggers) before they 
 will start. Finally, there's the new cover system, which works very similarly to Gears of War, 
 but with much more cinematic animations. Thanks to this and a revised lock-on mode, gun-combat 
 has improved 100%.
  
  On the other hand, this being a GTA game, it certainly isn't bug free. Pop-up is less frequent 
 than in San Andreas but it hasn't gone away completely. Character customisation is also dramatically 
 reduced in comparison with San Andreas, with far fewer options. The rag-doll physics are triggered 
 by the slightest brush with an object, leaving you a sitting duck sometimes in combat, or forcing 
 you to flop pathetically to the floor in the middle of the road just because you nudged a passing 
 pedestrian.
  
  Then there's the multiplayer. The co-op missions work well with friends and can be great fun, but 
 there's only 3 of them. Making up your own games with friends in free-mode is great and the races 
 aren't too bad, but the more traditional game-types (deathmatch etc.) are very poor. For the most 
 part the map is just too big, even if you limit it to certain islands. Using vehicles is pointless 
 too because you're guaranteed to be on the receiving end of an RPG as soon as you get near an enemy. 
 GTA has always been about the story driven immersive experience and competitive mulitplayer just 
 feels a little out of place.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a truly outstanding achievement and a great example to the rest of the industry, 
 showing what this generation of hardware is really capable of. The core story is the best since 
 Vice City, despite it's niggling distractions, and the wealth of side-missions will keep you going 
 for sometime. However, it stops short of perfect because of the tacked-on multiplayer and usual 
 GTA bugs. But then, it's still GTA and millions of people can't be wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  i've never actually owned a gta game before now, but i've played enough at my friends' houses in 
 middle school to know what to expect and for the most part its the same. go whack this guy, go 
 bomb this building, etc. but its the way its done that raises gta4 so far above a game like saints 
 row (which i thought was actually pretty good) . theres so much stuff in the gta world it can be 
 pretty overwhelming, but after calming down a bit and realizing its not going anywhere you can 
 enjoy it all much more leisurely. when i first got it i wanted to do everything all the time and 
 i never got anything done... i'm definitely having more fun now just doing street races for brucie 
 and cleanin up the streets like a loose cannon cop on the edge. by the way did you know you can 
 call 911 in the game? i was quite delighted when i discovered this, but why wouldn't i be able 
 to? thats just the kinda thing that rockstar did so well, they made every small detail come together... but 
 Joe, if you love it so much why isn't it a 10? well because there are some things that just bug 
 me about it. the game really is basically a couple of different types of missions repeated with 
 many slight variations, i dont have a garage... what the hell is that about? sometimes i wanna get 
 on a crotch rocket and fly down the freeway without searching around for half an hour. multiplayer 
 is good mindless fun but its just not meant for competitive playing. regardless of my mini gripes 
 i love this game and you probably do too... now in the words of Wayne Brady "I'm gonna have to choke 
 a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancgn68
Rating: 5
Date: May 13, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am a pretty big GTA fan, so there are no sour grapes here. That said, 
 I am completely amazed that so many people think this game is perfect. It is far from it. It isn't 
 a terrible game, but it has the same gameplay problems that have plagued the series from the beginning. 
 Chiefly: Poor controls, terrible camera, and jerky character movement. I swear all of these things 
 are even worse in this installment. When not running, Nico moves ridiculously slow; and walking 
 or running on steps is horrendous. Lets not even talk about meele or shooting. Rock Star could 
 take some tips from Gears of War. Now that is how a third person character should move and aim. 
 I realize this isn't a clear third person shooter, but there is no reason they couldn't make that 
 piece smooth enough to be one. Combat is not fun in this game... it is down right annoying. The 
 cell phone drives me insane. It is almost impossible to see depending on the background at the 
 time. I have played with all of the video settings, and I still can't see the freakin' thing 90% 
 of the time. There also isn't anything new here that is fun... unless you think watching TV, playing 
 darts or pool, or going to a strip club inside a video game is fun. I personally don't. Yes the 
 graphics are breath taking, but at this point in the next gen game market, I expect this. It should 
 be a given. Like I said, it isn't a bad game, but there isn't enough innovation for the first next 
 gen game in the series for my money. Save you $60 and rent it for a day instead. Better yet, play 
 ot for free at a friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thm93
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Ok, i've been playing GTA IV now for about 5 days, and to be honest I have already got frustrated 
 and annoyed with it. 
  
  I'll start with the good.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in GTA IV are amazing, theres no other word for it. Everything in Liberty City looks 
 photo realistic, the cars, the buildings, even the people. The lighting it perfect, and the water 
 effects are second to none. Rockstar have really out done themselves, but I guess they already 
 had the basis, I mean GTA IV uses the same engine as Rockstar Table Tennis! There can be some very 
 minor frame rate problems but apart from that, it's flawless.
  
  Location:
  Not only does Liberty City look stunning, but also very well layed out. Theres places all over 
 too visit, landmarks dotted all around and an array of buildings that you can access and jump off 
 of, just for the fun of it. I would have liked to be able to enter more buildings, but theres no 
 doubt how great Liberty City looks.
  
  Niko:
  Now I know for a fact that Rockstar have always had a path for your main character in the GTA series. 
 He may always be a killer, but you can't have GTA without it. The one thing they do is steer your 
 character away from drugs, which is a big thing in all the GTA games. The same goes for Niko, he 
 isnt one of the drug fuelled gang members who beat old people to death, the only reason it commits 
 the crimes is because he needs money. I am not condoling his actions however, they're still wrong.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Great is the word that first comes to mind. Its so fun to just muck around with 15 other mates 
 in a coach while being tracked by the police. You can't beat GTA IV for the experience it gives, 
 well not until APB comes out of course : ) .
  
  Okay, so thats the good, at least what i can think of good thats in this game, now i would like 
 to talk about the things that aren't so great, the bad.
  
  Driving:
  Now i can see where Rockstar was going with with driving, make it more realistic, right? Well too 
 a certain degree yes, breaking before corners. However theres two main things i dislike greatly. 
 First of all the default camera, why be set off to the left, i dont see why you would do that, 
 makes no sense. Secondly the body roll. Now i know that many old cars have a hell of alot of body 
 roll, but not near as much as ALL the cars in GTA IV. Modern day cars definately do not roll near 
 as much as that, it's totally unrealistic.
  
  Extras:
  We're here, the big thing that really annoys be about GTA IV. In games of old you were not pushed 
 towards doing missions. Lets take San Andreas for example. There was so much extra you could do, 
 whether it is going to the gym, taking flying lessons, modifying your car or even buying your own 
 house. So wheres all of these things gone in GTA IV. I mean they've added an achievement to the 
 Xbox 360 version for completing the game in less than 30 hours. WHY!?!? GTA's distinctive feature 
 is that you can just piss about without caring about doing missions and stuff, but it's trying 
 to make us rush through it as quickly as possible, big error Rockstar. As I mentioned before all 
 the extra stuff you could do in San Andreas. I wanna be able to steal cars, stick them in a garage 
 of a house that i have bought, modify them perhaps, and get my skill up. But thats all gone, all 
 you get is a stupid parking space outside a tramp den called "home".
  
  Well thats all I can be bothered to say in my rant, oh apart from why have they taken quads away!?!?!? 
 I have given it an 8 for 2 main reasons. Firstly because the hype that it has been and still is 
 being given is FAR too much. I mean its the highest rated game on average in HISTORY with an average 
 of 99/100, now I havent played that many games, but that's DEFINATELY stretching too far. My second 
 reason is that why take stuff out that was so great about the first one, i feel they could have 
 done soooooooooo much more, but they havent, I have to say i am very dissapointed with GTA IV. 
 I'll be finishing this up now, I am sure i'll be getting loads of neg ratings bout this review, 
 but I don't care, my opinion is my own, and i'll respect yours if you respect mine.
  
  Au Revoir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Never have I been more dissapointed with a game. The bothersome controls really make the enjoyment 
 level drop. Swearing every second word will get really annoying, and don't even get me started 
 on saving the game. Okay, so the graphics are not the greatest, but they are more than good. I 
 think the story so far for me is interesting, but lacking structure. I want to make it clear that 
 online play is where I will probably spend most of my time because single player, is just a bit 
 to repetive for my taste. GTA race, now THAT is more like it! Any vehicle, to get you from A to 
 B, and you can take out your competition. It's basically no rules racing, and you can shoot your 
 oponents from your car, so it's quite satisfying. I wont go into every game mode but I can say 
 I think cops and robbers has potential. It requires practice, and so decent driving skills, as 
 well as an strong ability to read the locator, but other than that it's tactical as you try to 
 help the boss escape, or you try to stop the boss from escaping. It's quite fun, but most of the 
 online community can't drive, so maybe BE the driver and not the gunner. Okay those are the basics 
 of the game. Not by any means a perfect game. It's very repetive, and can be annoying with the 
 control setting. Changing them around will accomplish very little. Essentially you want to avoid 
 moving the left stick up or down while driving, so you aren't blided by the bumper of your car. 
 Bikes! Another thing worth trying out! Even better is a Bike GTA race! Now be warned, it's easy 
 to over shoot turns with them, and if you do miss a turn, DON'T try to find another way. You will 
 get lost, and you will be lucky to ever get back on the track. Just reverse, and go right back 
 to where you missed. Okay that's about it for now. Decent game, but the controls really do blow 
 .For now, it's a 7.5, but once I play a bit more, I may change it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corb77
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  So grand theft auto 4 is here, we've all been waiting along time to play it and is it worth is... well 
 here's what i thought :)
  
  Story: The story is very good to tell the truth i got into it really quickly, but at one pont in 
 the game i stopped playing for a few days (work) and when i came back to play it i lost intrest 
 abit.... but still its a solid story.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good on GTA4 but there still not amazing it all feels alittle like you've 
 seen it before. But it dose its job :)
  
  Sound: the sound is awsome all the guns sound great and the voice acting is excelent! Very good
 
  
  Gameplay: The gmeplay is fun as all the GTA game's have been fun but apart from the story and running 
 from the cops there's not alot here other than that... you turn it on after finishing the main story 
 and you what.... shoot someone, steal a car, pick up a hocker lol.... its all fun but dose get old.
 
  
  Final thoughts: So a great game but nothing new.... its worth a buy because the storys long and 
 the muiltplayers fun with friends but if your looking for the world beating game you hoped for..... this 
 isnt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dredlockz
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I loved the new feel and gamplay, the cover mechanic, and multiplayer mode. But I'm still hoping 
 they add downloadable content that enables some of the cool features that San Andreas had.
  I can't imagine why they took property buying away from this title. Not being able to buy safehouses, 
 warehouses for cars, buildings that generate money (like stripclubs) , is a huge flaw.
  My character has a lot of money, but nothing to spend it on. So now I have no motivation to do 
 side-missions (hunt most-wanted, do weed runs for little jacob, drive taxi, etc) because the reward 
 is money, and I dont need any. 
  I only play the game because of the story now, which is still incredibly awesome. Script and voice 
 acting is top of the line. 
  I think the game is superb, but it does not deserve the 10 gamestop gave it, since it could still 
 be improved greatly, and I hope they do improve it with some online content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto in my eyes is one of the best game series of all time and is destined to be a 
 classic remembered twenty years down the road and beyond. It was to my great joy that Grand Theft 
 Auto IV was hinted at some three years ago and what a journey has it been. Thankfully on Tuesday, 
 April 29th 2008 the game I waited oh so long for finally came out after a couple of mind numbingly 
 annoying delays. I had huge expectations from this game as it garnered the first 10 from Gamespot 
 and IGN in a decade and had critical acclaim from media outlets that had previously bashed it. 
 Let me just say that my expectations of an amazing game were not just met but were shattered. This 
 truly is the best Grand Theft Auto game of all time and it truly earns the first perfect review 
 I have given. 
  Let's start off with one of the highlights of GTA IV, the wonderful graphics. I have never been 
 so amazed by a games graphics in all my life. This game literally was the first game to make me 
 say, "Wow" when I first feasted my eyes upon it. The game has some very technologically proficient 
 graphics courtesy of the RAGE engine upon which it is based. For the first time in GTA history 
 the characters function as life like humans, each finger has its own motions, the characters express 
 a variety of facial expressions, and the world is living and breathing. The water has also become 
 beautiful in its own right and of course Liberty City is one of the most beautiful landscapes ever 
 rendered into a game. The sheer amount of detail that was put into cars and civilians simply is 
 amazing. The cars look in my opinion near life like and look as good as the cars in any racing 
 game, and that's not even the main focus of the game. The car damage has been vastly improved as 
 well to make it more realistic. The civilians and other people in the environment look just as 
 great as Niko and I have yet to see the exact same person twice. The city is a living and breathing 
 metropolis. Perhaps the most amazing graphical achievement I have seen in this game is the explosions 
 and gunplay. Every bullet hole is seen on a wall and gunfights just look great. Shooting up cars 
 now displays to you cracked window shields with blood in the cracks and it just looks good. The 
 explosions are the highlight of the graphics in my opinion, each one is amazing and the smoke bellows 
 and the fire send an inferno within a large radius. These truly are mind shattering explosions. 
 The physics engine is really put to use, for instance blowing up a police car with five officers 
 around it will send all the police flying in different directions flailing and screaming for their 
 lives. It's just satisfying and brings a new sense of realism and is an amazing achievement in 
 the game. 
  As far as game play goes Grand Theft Auto IV has fixed and changed many things about the game, 
 despite these changes though the game still has the unique feel of a Grand Theft Auto game and 
 not something totally different. Perhaps the most important game play change to mention is the 
 new and redone combat system. Apart from improved aiming Rockstar has also added in a cover system. 
 All of this works very well and it's a blast to get into gunfights knowing the combat will be seamless 
 and easy to get the hang of. I have never had a problem with combat though I understand some people 
 have. I don't blame them for having these problems but I think what they complain about is trivial. 
 The combat system still has slight room for improvement but it is much better this time around 
 and I really had a lot of fun. The melee combat is also a lot different now as it is far more complex 
 and deep but still a lot of fun. It has made the melee combat a lot more fun and a lot more brutal. 
 Another excellent game play element is the cell phone which is probably the best new feature in 
 the game. I absolutely love this thing; you can arrange dates with your friends, take pictures, 
 play multiplayer, and take calls from mission givers. It's just a great feature and feels seamlessly 
 integrated into the game. It doesn't feel tacked on but rather it feels as if it's always been 
 apart of GTA. In a sense it has as cell-phones were used in the past in Vice City and San Andreas 
 but never to this level of depth. The other new features in the game play are all great but somewhat 
 negligible to mention as they don't add a lot to change the experience but certainly if you access 
 them they make the game a blast. Some of these include being able to go to comedy clubs and cabaret 
 clubs which are amazingly funny and entertaining. 
  The sound of Grand theft Auto IV is top notch. The soundtrack in my opinion is amazing and Rockstar 
 really did a good job of using licensed music in the cut scenes and to set mood. The radio stations 
 are all great and I was happy to see Rockstar taking risks with the types of music they chose to 
 put in. This soundtrack is my favorite yet as it didn't distract me like it did in previous Grand 
 Theft Auto games but rather made me feel more into the game. It was also great to hear plenty of 
 new music I never heard before. Unlike San Andreas or Vice City where I heard it all before Grand 
 Theft Auto IV allowed me to hear plenty of new stuff that I surely enjoyed. The script is also 
 top notch; the dialogue is snappy, smart, and funny. Niko is the most real character yet thanks 
 to his dialogue and the other characters are brought to life through excellent writing and excellent 
 voice work. One notable change in the voice work was no celebrities were brought in this time around 
 unlike in other Grand Theft Auto games. This is a welcome change and I didn't miss them one bit, 
 the voice actors in the game were amazing and I thought they did a better job then any of the Hollywood 
 actors did in the past. The sound in the game is of the highest quality and should be a bar that 
 all games should shoot for. 
  Grand Theft Auto IV is in my opinion simply the best game ever made. Previous to it my favorite 
 game of all time was Grand Theft Auto San Andreas but this game easily tops it. It highly deserves 
 a ten score and all the critical acclaim it has garnered from various publications. Its value is 
 excellent, the single player clocks in at around 50-60 hours with all the side missions you can 
 do and the multiplayer lasts forever with 15 modes to play around with. This is a game I will have 
 fun with for a long time and I am glad I bought it opening day. Paying 60 dollars for this game 
 is a steal of a price as it is worth a ton more. Buying this game isn't a choice but rather an 
 obligation at this point as this is quite possible the best game I have ever played, hears waiting 
 for Rockstar's next entry into the Grand Theft Auto series. In the meantime I'll be playing Grand 
 Theft Auto IV until my eyes fall out, simply outstanding from start to end. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow what can I say other than Wow. This game is freakin awesome. From begining to end this game 
 doesn't disapoint if your a GTA fan. The main story is 30 hours long and if you play side mission 
 you can easily make it 60 hours . The graphics look amazing and the city literally comes to life 
 and is breath taking There's tons of stuff to do like go boating with friends or take a tour of 
 the city on a helio. The new cover system is a relief and works well like the GoW. The driving 
 takes a little getting use to but once your use to it it works fine. The city is humungous. At 
 first you'll probably drive the first part but once you have some money you'll just get a cab and 
 have them take you wherever you need to go. Everthing about this game is nearly perfect and is 
 a must own for any GTA fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_bandit
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  http://www. gamespot. com/users/gta_bandit/video_player? id=JnMwxDGr5b0PujTd 
  Here is my video review as well.
  
  When gta3 was released for the next gen console Ps2 it 
 took the top down sand-box, crime franchise to a whole new level making the game entirely 3d. Gta3 
 set the standard for the gta franchise and laid the foundation for the next gta's to come. 7 years 
 later gta 4 has finally been released for on the next gen pS3 and Xbox360. Liberty city has had 
 a epic makeover from the liberty city you knew in gta 3. It defiantly is way more detailed I has 
 grown quite a bit and Every building in gta feels like it should be there and not just filler for 
 the city. there is also many different pedestrians models and it is hard to see the same person 
 twice on the same block. This has made gta4 feel like a real thriving city. The control of the 
 main character Niko belic has changed somewhat in to a more realistic feel as well. Niko can also 
 climb up many more things. The cars in gta also have a more realistic feel, but still have some 
 arcade like moments. you can also get helicopters in the game and whether your taking a tour or 
 just flying one around yourself they are a great way to see the city. Niko belic has got to be 
 one of the greatest characters in any gta game. He is very likable and tends to be sarcastic all 
 the time. there are other characters that are likable in the game as well In the game you will 
 gain friends and to progress in the story line of gta4 you will have to do tasks for these people 
 just like in any other gta game. You also have a cell phone which you can use to contact people 
 to see if they have work for you or receive invitations for a night out on the town with one of 
 your friends. some activates you can do are pool darts bar strip club or eating out. going out 
 top the bar a getting drunk is actually very fun because niko will have a very hard time walking 
 and driving. This time around there is no fire truck or ambulance but there is still vigilante 
 and taxi missions. You yourself can also take a cab ride to anywhere in the city and this proves 
 handy when want to get somewhere fast. Gta 4 also has online modes. 16 players can go head to had 
 in games such as deathwatch racing types free mode and tons more. These matches can be very entertaining 
 and was defiantly a great bonus to the amazing single player mode. Every time a new gta is released 
 there are tons of new features included in the game and that is true with gta4, but the formula 
 has stayed the same, but that is defiantly not a bad thing. Grand theft auto 4 altogether with 
 the epic film-like single player story and crazy fun multiplayer it is a phenomenal package and 
 is almost complete gaming perfection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Graphically and aurally outstanding.
  * Engaging story and characters that you'll actually care about.
  * Improved combat and driving.
 
  * Still as funny as ever.
  * Terrific multiplayer.
  
  Cons
  
  * More radio stations, but what feels like less music in them.
  * Customization buffs will feel 
 disapointed given the decrease in options from San Andreas to GTA 4.
  * Minigames (Drinking, Darts etc) aren't available in multiplayer freeroam.
  * No System Link
 
  
  
  It's been around seven years since GTA3 came out and spawned two successful pseudo-sequels in the 
 form of Vice City and San Andreas. And of course after GTA3 and Vice City spawned further spin 
 offs in the form of Liberty City and Vice City stories.
  
  GTA3 represents a high point in gaming that many have attempted to emulate and clone.
  Some with 
 a good amount of success (Saints Row) and a tonne of others we'd probably rather forget. (True 
 Crime series)
  
  And now GTA4 is out the door and the cycle starts anew.
  GTA4 isn't the revolution that GTA3 was, but an evolution.
  And it improves on all the right 
 things and from that we can no doubt see a new wave of imitators.
  
  
  
  The game stars Niko Bellic, a Serbian Veteran of the Bosnian War who moves to America after hearing 
 from his cousin, Roman, how great it is there. In his letters, e-mails etc Roman speaks of his 
 mansion, gorgeous women and loads of cash. When Niko arrives he finds the truth to be severely 
 stretched. But he makes do being that there are other reasons he decided to leave his homeland.
 
  
  The game takes place in a re-imagined Liberty City, the city most will be familiar with due to 
 GTA3. And Liberty City has never looked so good.
  Pretty much everything in the game looks good, really.
  With the possible exception of some of 
 the plant life, which can still look a little bit cardboard cutout but it's less noticeable this 
 time around.
  Theres a lot of details that'll catch your eye.
  
  When it rains, the road will noticeably wetten - become slick.
  Walk through the rain and your 
 heels will kick up tiny splashes wherever you go.
  
  Car damage seems better modelled then ever.
  Not quite to Burnout extremes or anything like that, 
 but it's a tonne more noticeable.
  Tires burst after being shot a bit.
  Headlines smash, possibly leaving you in the dark.
  
  Neon Lights have never looked so good 
 as they have in this game.
  
  Thats not all.
  
  Random passers by on the street seem more full of life then ever.
  Pulling out umbrellas or running 
 to shelter if it's raining.
  Sweeping up the sidewalk.
  You've got buskers playing for money.
  Hobos going on insane rants.
  Everyone has something 
 to say.
  
  Offline and off.
  
  GTA4 adds an interesting Internet component which works as a driving force behind some missions. 
 Some of the news sites also add something of a followup to some of the missions you might've done, 
 commentating on whoever you might've killed - whatever you might've blown up and so on and so forth.
 
  
  A good amount of the sites there are only there to serve as humor fodder, which is great too.
 
  It wouldn't be GTA without a healthy dose of satire - most of which is found via Internet, radio 
 or TV. While the humors still there, this iteration of GTA is somewhat darker and more serious, 
 probably to go with the fact that it's the most realistic GTA yet, I s'pose.
  Some will like it, some will hate it. I'm all for it.
  Theres enough humor in the game that it 
 isn't constantly depressing and there will be parts in this game you find depressing.
  
  The game forces a lot of tough choices on you and whilst the changes that come from the choices 
 are - usually - subtle, you'll care a great deal regardless when you have to make them - because 
 they'll effect characters you'll care about.
  Not many games have characters you'll care about, but with GTA4 it's hard not too.
  Pretty much 
 all the characters have a certain charm, which'll make some decisions harder then most. But be 
 assured that no matter what decisions you make and who it effects - the games ending is fundamentally 
 the same.
  
  Lets talk about game play.
  
  GTA4's gunplay has been vastly improved.
  It adopts a kind of Gears of War cover system where you can slide too and stick behind most objects, 
 allowing you to peek out and take shots or just blindly fire.
  And contrary to what some reviews have said, cover is something you'll want to use.
  Body armor 
 or no, I've personally found that being in the open with a sufficient amount of folk taking shots 
 at you is a pretty good way to die - I've read quite a few reviews that have said you could go 
 Rambo on every ones ass, but it seldom works out that way.
  
  
  
  The game still uses a lock on system and as such you'll still occasionally lock on to someone you 
 didn't mean to lock on too, but the games better now at picking the most immediate threat.
  You can free aim by just holding the L-trigger down slightly as opposed to all the way, but I personally 
 don't find it to be especially accurate. Good for shooting out tires - vehicles in general - larger 
 targets, not so great against individuals.
  
  It also has an improved melee combat system, but honestly aside from the tutorial where it teaches 
 you, well you'll probably never use it.
  As neat as it is it's generally just easier to shoot dudes in the head, even when in close range.
 
  It's why god invented the shotgun, right? Heh.
  
  Vehicles feel heavier then they used too, which I guess is more realistic, but it'll probably take 
 some getting used too. I had to play a few hours before I came to terms with it, but it ought not 
 be too much of a hassle.
  I've heard a lot of commentary on the vehicles supposedly lack of speed and I just gotta ask if 
 they're playing some alternate version of GTA4 that I'm not, because whilst the cars are heavier 
 as I said and probably feel somewhat slower then they used too they can still go pretty damn fast 
 and render pretty much everything around you a literal blur.
  
  So GTA4's the first game in the series to have a proper multi player component.
  Obviously I'm 
 not including the mods applied to the PC version or that cruddy same-screen schtick they pulled 
 in San Andreas.
  
  And the multi player works pretty well.
  Theres a good variety of game modes, though it's often equally fun to simply tear up Liberty City 
 in free roam.
  With my shocking connection I'm quite surprised I can play the damn thing and suffer very minimal 
 amounts of lag.
  I don't get how i can play a deliberately paced game like Rainbow Six Vegas, with nowhere near 
 as much going on in a game and lag like hell but GTA4 - with it's numerous car chases, explosions, 
 shootouts - all happening within a huge city, well I can have no noticeable lag sometimes.
  But I digress.
  
  In multi player you get to customize your character, but no a terrific deal.
 
  You choose your gender, pick from a small pool of a few different faces and clothing and thats 
 it.
  Playing in ranked matches unlocks more clothing, but thats the extent of character customization.
 
  
  Speaking of which theres a small amount within the single player game too.
  Theres around three different clothing stores you can go too, but theres not an awful lot that 
 in my opinion actually looks good so I oft find myself alternating between the default clothing 
 with the addition of an army hat and a classy suit.
  If you were looking forward to San Andreas amounts of customization you'll be disappointed, unless 
 you're waiting on the inevitable PC version in which no doubt extra clothing will be modded in.
 
  
  Well lets get to wrapping this up.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty superb.
  The environments look great, with the exception of some plant life.
  Even the citizens of liberty 
 city look like more fully realized characters.
  Explosions are also immensely satisfying to look at.
  Best explosions I've seen in a while.
 
  
  Aurally the game holds up well, largely thanks to it's terrific voice acting cast.
  If any character annoys you, it won't be because of voice acting for once.
  The sounds of city 
 life are faithfully recreated.
  Theres 18 radio stations, I think the most in a GTA game yet.
  Though to be frank, whilst the 
 music in said stations are good I think you'll find the music looping more noticeably then before 
 because I don't think theres quite as much in each station as there used to be. I think I'd have 
 preferred fewer stations with more music as opposed to more stations that have less music, but 
 all the same what music is there is good and if nothing else the extra stations offer a little 
 bit of variety.
  
  I've pretty much already been over the game play.
  It's fantastic.
  Combats improved, drivings improved, the mini-games have improved, the dating component has been 
 improved. Improvements across the board.
  And the action translates well into a multi player environment.
  
  If you're a GTA fan this 
 game is a no-brainer but I think theres enough overhauled that if previous GTA games weren't up 
 your alley then you should still try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that everyone should have known was going to get shown great love from the mass 
 amount of gaming critics wordwide. It has an average score of 9.8 out of 10; and Gamespot gave 
 the very rare score of 10. I can't remember all the games they have given a ten, but one of the 
 Tony Hawk games, and Zelda: Ocarina of Time were two of them. I never played Tony Hawk, but I played 
 the Zelda game. Back in the day, no game could match it's depth, fun, looks, and overall quality. 
 I can't remember running into one bug in that game. That's the standard I use when trying to see 
 if a game is worth a perfect 10. 
  
  I was expecting a 9.0 or higher, and was blown away when I saw GTA IV got a perfect 10. That was 
 before playing it though. I always expect game critics to be very liberal with their scores, but 
 to give a game a 10 when they had to list some areas in the bad is completely absurd. Guess what, 
 the game isn't perfect and there is nothing wrong with giving the game a slightly lower score.
 
  
  There will be some spoilers, but I will label them so you can skip them if you want.
  
  Graphics: (7/10)
  Heads and toes above every other GTA game, and better than Saints Row in 
 that regard. It should be better than the other GTA because they were last generation games. Saints 
 Row is the only similar game for which you could compare graphics to, because they are the same 
 type of game and on the same system. With that said, the graphics look top of the line for XBox, 
 and not the 360. I understand that for the scale of the environment that the graphics couldn't 
 be as crisp as people would expect. I didn't expect to see Gears of War when I played. We all know 
 that graphics don't make the game, but they are still a vital part to the game. Oblivion was made 
 on a large scale, kind of like this, but their graphics and player models were so much better. 
 So when I give my score, I will use that game for comparison. My biggest issue was with character 
 models, sometimes the faces were just too distorted. Especially Kate's. She looked like she was 
 hit in the face with a flapjack iron. With the weather effects, it would have been nice to see 
 puddles forming and have it effect drivability. I didn't even notice the ground get wet. The game's 
 weather effects were better than Oblivion or just about any other game aside from GoW. I won't 
 dock points for it, but I expect the sequel to attempt to have streets get wet and puddles form 
 to affect the driving. I did like how you can sometimes shoot apart pillars that bad guys were 
 covering behind.
  
  Gameplay: (8/10)
  I like the new targeting system, but it is a bit clunky. IT doesn't always switch to the person 
 you are trying to switch to, and sometimes it won't let you target at all. Combine that with the 
 new cover system, which is even more clunky (but a good start and addition nonetheless) , and guys 
 creeping with shotguns can give you nightmares. The second you get off wall to blast them they 
 can take a huge chunk of life with a single blast. They are extremely dangerous if they come around 
 a corner of a wall right in front of you. 
  
  The lack of weapons might turn some people off. You got your choice between: knife vs. bat; 9mm 
 vs. combat pistol; micro SMG vs. SMG; AK-47 vs. Carbine rifle; sniper rifle vs. combat sniper rifle; 
 grenades vs. molotov cocktails; and a straight shooting rocket launcher. There was a much larger 
 variety in the other games, and there is no reason why the selection should be trimmed like it 
 was. Worst of all, there is little to no difference between brand A and Brand B of the same type 
 of weapon. On the most part. At least they let you keep the weapons after you died; altough you 
 lose them for being busted.
  
  Multiplayer seems like it's cool, but most of it seems to still be under development and I have 
 been kicked out of every game I attempted to play. Multiplayer needs a lot of work, because the 
 frequent game drops is an issue.
  
  Some people complain about random game crashes. I only had this happen once. It was the second 
 I finished the Assassination missions and it crashed right before the autosave; but not before 
 giving me the achievement. It hasn't been a huge problem. 
  
  Car control seems to be worse in this version than in previous installments. I think this mostly 
 has to do with my being used to driving the Mako in ME and Vehicles in Halo 3. That's why I said 
 seems worse. 
  
  Friendship comes with benefits, but those benefits rarely ever work. Kik can never seem to get 
 the cops off me when I have a wanted level of two stars, when it's supposed to work up to 3 stars. 
 This occurs outside of missions, and I've gotten it to work in missions. Carmen is supposed to 
 heal you. I think she successfully healed me twice out 30 attempts. Absolutely bugged is her friendship 
 benefit. Alex gives you a store discount (whoopidy doo) ; DeWayne gives you gansta back up (which 
 is pretty worthless since they can't seem to hit the broadside of the barn and are only good for 
 taking on fire from you) ; Packie gives you the ability to use car bombs (haven't found a situation 
 that really calls for it now or at anytime) ; Little Jacob will sell you discount weapons if you 
 meet him in an alleyway out of his trunk (and he doesn't carry RPGs) ; Brucie gives you free Helicopter 
 rides and he can only drop you in certain areas and can't come pick you up (lame) ; and Roman will 
 send a cab to you and travel will always be free (the best friendship perk there is and the most 
 used) . What makes me mad is how needy these friends are. They always want you hanging with them, 
 which will make it hard for you to progress through the game because you will be spending so much 
 time trying to keep them happy. They call you during missions, other dates. Worst of all, you can 
 only call them at certain times or you lose friendship points for waking them up. You also lose 
 points for denying their request to hang out.
  
  I'm extremely happy that they took out the skill upgrades that were a part of GTA: SA. I also hated 
 having to eat to maintain my health. I do wish I could have bought more properties and maybe some 
 businesses to earn extra money. Outside of the main story missions, there is no real money to be 
 made. Except for Stevie's missions, Little Jacob dope runs, and Brucie vehicle thefts.
  
  Plot/Story: (9/10) (Spoilers in this section)
  As far as the script and voice acting goes, this 
 game is better than ME. It's absolutely hilarious and extremely believeable. What ME had that this 
 game didn't, was variety. You could choose what you wanted to say or do in ME; not in this game. 
 You only have 3 times where the story gives you an option (major spoilers ahead) : 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  1. Kill A or B - Kill Playboy to get his crib and get DeWayne as a friend; or kill DeWayne, get 
 $25,000, and never speak to Playboy again. 
  2. Kill A or B - Kill Francis or Derrick McReary. I killed Derrick, so I don't know what happens 
 when you kill Francis. Killing Derrick, Francis gives you the option to have him clear your wanted 
 level. He's Kiki without the baggage and neediness. Unfortunately, his number somhow disappears 
 off your phone after a bit. Don't know why, but probably another bug in this game.
  3. Revenge or Deal - You decide to deal with Dimitri and Kate doesn't go to Roman's wedding, which 
 he sends an assassin to kill you but he kills Roman instead. There goes the most useful benefit 
 in the game. You decide revenge, kill Dimitri, and Kate will come to the wedding. Pegerino orders 
 a drive-by and Kate gets killed instead of Roman. Kate was worthless anyway in this game.
  
  Those are the three ways the game splits and how it will affect your game.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  End Spoilers
  
  I feel like I have to say this, because people complain about it, but unlike the other GTA games 
 Niko has a different objective. He doesn't want to be the head of a criminal organization or run 
 the town. All he wants is answers, revenge and to start a new peaceful life in America. In order 
 to do that, he must do what he's good at, which is killing people. So he may seem like a lackey 
 the whole game, but you got to understand that everything he does is to meet an end. That end is 
 to get answers, save someone, or make some money.
  
  Replay Value: 7/10
  Until they fix the problems with multiplayer that most people are having it won't be a 10. The 
 single player mode is good for 100-150 hours worth of bonus stuff, maybe more. When multiplayer 
 is fully functional, this should be re-visited and be given a 10. Now, it's broke and severly hampers 
 this score because that was one of the major selling points to this game.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Gun fire sounds seemed too poppy and bangy. Not very realistic there. All in all sound was great, 
 especially with the voice acting. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10)
  I loved this game. I felt that this was the most engaging GTA yet. This isn't my favorite type 
 of game though, and because of that without a multiplayer and a story to drive me, replay for me 
 can get painful. That's why it isn't a perfect 10 here. I also felt this was heads and toes better 
 than the other GTA games when it came to story and gameplay. If you love GTA games, you should 
 love this game. 
  
  You'll really appreciate the shows too. It felt like I was almost there watching Katt Williams 
 and Ricky Gervais perform their sets. They did so, even with the maneurisms you'd expect to see 
 from a comedian. You get the whole show, and not just the lines. 
  
  This game was over-hyped because the major selling points weren't ready at go time. Just because 
 of that you shouldn't crap all over it. Nothing ever meets expectations anymore, and this game 
 is still fun. If you were expecting them to reinvent GTA, you are just dumb. They weren't going 
 to break what wasn't broken just to appease the people who say "If you played one GTA, you've played 
 them all". 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dartagnan-
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Before This 4th installment, I was never really a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series, the only 
 times I would play, would be when my friend brought it over. After GTAIV's release, and the huge 
 amount of praise it was getting, I decided to give in, and finally see what all the fuss was about. 
 I came into this game, expecting exactly what the others gave me, mindless violence and destruction, 
 but boy was I surprised. The story immediately sucked me in, the characters didn't seem fake, and 
 the dialogue is the best I've heard throughout my entire life. My expectations coming into this 
 game were completely blown away. As I moved along story-wise, the sheer scope and attention to 
 detail Rockstar has put into this game made my jaw drop. Creating a virtual New-York is one thing, 
 but letting me choose what radio station I want to listen to, and letting me watch t. v is amazing! 
 Most of the game-play mechanics are solid, especially the shooting-while-driving, which is perfectly 
 executed.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game is ridiculously good, and anyone who can should go buy it now, but 
 it still comes with it's faults. The thing that hit me the fastest and the hardest, was the combat. 
 The cover system is a cool feature, but there have been a few times when I got stuck up against 
 something, as a gang member continuously shot me in the face. Another thing I noticed whilst shooting 
 others, is Niko's awkward movement, especially regarding sprinting in the middle of fire-fights. 
 The idea of pressing the A button rapidly for running is fine in normal situations, but in the 
 heat of battle, it can become quite a nuisance. It can be hard to keep sprinting, and at the same 
 time, trying to find where someone is shooting you from. Other than the combat, there really isn't 
 much in the way of faults, there are occasional problems with the AI (mainly people you are escorting, 
 getting stuck on/in objects) , but nothing major. Overall, this game surprised me as a newcomer 
 to the series, with it's deep story, and cool features, it'll keep me going for quite a while now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twobyfour2
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  When driving vehicles, I find it really difficult to control the car when turning from breaking 
 at high speeds. It takes more time to slow down and turn then in previous GTA games. This gets 
 annoying when trying to catch someone or getting away from the cops. It seems to me you need to 
 break sooner and barely tap the e-brake and turn the wheel slightly to achieve a good high speed 
 turn and if your lucky you will not miss your turn, oversteer and slide and crash or understeer 
 and crash in to buildings. I also noticed the cops are more difficult to get away from, which I 
 do like a challenge. However, I wish the military was still involved because I loved the ability 
 to steal tanks and cause a bunch of chaos. The helicopters is a nice feature they added. I find 
 it some what difficult to fly with precision. Overall, I think GTA 4 has better graphics, enhanced 
 detail, more realistic and highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay so to start things off, this game is a god of all games. It is only the second game ever given 
 a perfect 10.0. This game has it all. It has only a couple disappointments but not many. The only 
 two that I can think of is there is no gym and you cant train your guy. Everything else about this 
 game is amazing. You can take Michelle/your girlfriend who loves you so much out whenever you want.
 
  You can take her bowling, pool, bar, out to eat. Not only can you take her out but you can participate 
 in all of the activites you take her out to do. You are a guy named Niko. He is one bad-ass dude 
 who loves violence, blood, and girls. He has a cousin who brought him to the United States whose 
 name is Ramon. He gets you through the game.
  Single player is one hell of an option to do. You can have so much fun in single player. Which 
 is great for people who dont have online. You still get the full 10.0 action and everything you 
 need to have fun and play non-stop.
  Xbox Live, just makes this game so much better. It was an amazing thing to have in this game and 
 it brought people to love the game just a little more than they would have. 
  So go out there and get this action packed, full out game!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is a good addition to anyones collection. the visual effects juimp right off the sceen 
 and thats before you realized that it is backed up with one great story. it's more like a movie 
 and your the main character. it is great that they made a new series instead of trying to recapture 
 the old storys. my only beef is that you are not allowed to customize your character and are stuck 
 useing this character with the game. there are a few things that would have made it a perfect 10. 
 this game is over rated but still a good buy. after playing this game i will be getting saints 
 row 2 as soon as it drops... hell i might sell this and get it. for those who love GTA series this 
 is probably the best one to date and a drastic improvment but not a 10 as indecated by score. hell 
 they gave god of war for psp a pathetic score and that my friend is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Yeah, truly, this game is very good. When you go into a shop, there's a big chance of picking a 
 game, that isn't as good as this. But really, the giving it a 10, is an absolute lie. The game 
 is great, but many things don't give it a ten. 
  
  First, when you play the game, then later play San Andreas or Vice City, you might notice, that, 
 there's nothing so much of an improvement. Sure, there is the internet, graphics, mobile etc but 
 that's all. Niko Bellic is a cool character, and the story is great, and the features I talked 
 earlier. That's what gives this game a great rating of 9.
  
  Missions - The missions are pretty dull, always, go there, kill that, or the typical, go there, 
 bring that, endure an ambush, kill the ambushers, come back, and bring me the stash, dope or whatever 
 back. There is a little of variance too, when you have to choose to kill Playboy X or Dwayne. Except 
 the missions you get achievements for, "Roman's Sorrow", "Uncle Vlad" etc the others are pretty 
 boring. Maybe you might get hooked by the way the characters talk in the missions, but that's another 
 thing.
  
  Story - The story is basically about an immigrant called Niko Bellic, who comes to Liberty City 
 on a ship, and gets greeted by his cousin, Roman. Roman owns a small cab company, but is in deep 
 debts. As you do tasks for various people, there comes a main-mission. Like the one, where you 
 meet Dmitri. And where Dmitri betrays you a. k. a "Roman's Sorrow" Pretty much Niko does tasks for 
 Roman, and revokes Roman's debts.
  
  Game play - The game play is the typical GTA, over-the-head, from a distance of approximately 1.5 
 meters default. You can also change it, and the views in the car. One sad thing is, you don't have 
 a replay editor. If you would imagine what crazy stuff I've ran into, but damn, if I press the 
 Start button, and remember with sadness, there is nothing to save it with. So yeah, that's definitely 
 a down-grade from San Andreas. The mobile is a rip-off from Saint's Row. Basically, it's used to 
 restart missions, call to go out bowling, darts, drinking etc, receiving and sending messages, 
 picturing, and, also for cheats. Yes, I'll admit it, I cheated. I spawned the car Super GT. I don't 
 consider it a "cheat-cheat" but I just got tired from the old Volgas, that were there. When you 
 hold the Left Stick, even as hard as you want, Niko walks, when you hold A down while walking, 
 he starts to jog, when you constantly mash the A button, he sprints. Guns can be found from killed 
 persons, also from beaches, hidden places etc. The car isn't the same as in San Andreas. When you 
 drive, especially with a Super GT, to a turn, even at a low speed. Hold LT, then at the turn press 
 LB or A. Boom, into the wall you go, and might even fall out of the car's window, and if you have 
 low health, then die. Gaining health is done through eating. Anyway, the game really is realistic, 
 the detail is breath-taking. After a bit of playing, the taking the fling down before a turn feels 
 so right, so, not illegal. So pure, so, graceful. Maybe I'm acting over, but it just feels right. 
 
  
  I don't know what to say about the radio, I don't listen to it, because the car's voice is louder 
 than it, and I mostly concentrate to doing fun things while driving, but as much as I've heard 
 it, it's fun.
  
  If you missed the first hype, the first massive purchasing, then definitely go buy this game as 
 soon as you can, because this is probably the best game after Oblivion, in the last 2 years, and 
 will be the best game until SR2, Mercenaries 2 or something, but there is only a slight chance 
 of them being better, or winning in the sales. I, as the master of this review, command you to 
 go buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinwebby
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I brought this game thinking that it would be the best game that ever came out and it wasnt far 
 off. This game has by far the best graphics in game ( some of the cutscenes need to be worked on) 
 and the multiplayer is superb but i think team deathmatch should be left for FPS`s. The games single 
 player seems a bit shorter than the rest of the gta series but still it is amazing to play as the 
 russian niko belic. the way that you can choose whether tobe bad or good is a nice touch and the 
 way whatever you choose effects the story line. The multiplayer seems to great at races and other 
 objective based games apart from the deathmatches which become very annoying as your killeng someone 
 with a pistol and some one does one bullet and steals your kill and then another person shoots 
 you and you have no chance of coming back to kill them. the ranks are a great idea as you can change 
 the person you play as and his clothes. i recently completed campaign and i thought the whole experience 
 was amazing and funny. 
  
  This game is definatly worth buying and woth buying and if you expect it to be better than cod 
 4 and halo 3 and gears of war you will not get it but if you expect grand theft auto then you will 
 get by far the best in the series and eventually an overall better game than cod 4 halo 3 and gears 
 of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  There are not enough words to express the greatness that is Grand Theft Auto 4. Stepping off the 
 boat as an illegal immigrant you can right off the bat sense that there is something special about 
 this game. Like in the previous Grand Theft Auto's, you will spend a bulk of time stealing cars, 
 and gunning down cops and criminals. It is however much, much more than that.
  
  To start off, just like in every Grand Theft Auto game, there is a compelling story. You play as 
 Serbian immigrant Niko Bellic, the most human and likable protagonist in any game so far. You arrive 
 in Liberty City, which can be scarcely resembled to 2001's Grand Theft Auto 3. This new and improved 
 Liberty City is absolutely incredible. Liberty City is massive; it feels like a living, breathing 
 city. Even more so than the superb achievement that was in Assassin's Creed. Niko Bellic arrives 
 here, and is greeted by his cousin Roman, whom has a sizable gambling debt. Niko's military background 
 aids him in the freelance work he pursues. You see more of Niko's humane character as his reluctance 
 to carry out certain missions is apparent. He doesn't need to do everything he's told however, 
 as often you are given a choice upon how to complete a task, each with their own consequences. 
 
  
  This wonderfully told story carries into the 30 hour territory. However, with all the enjoyable 
 side-plots and missions, it can be easily doubled. Many of these missions you do are similar than 
 in the older GTA's. However, the fourth installment of the Grand Theft Auto universe brings with 
 it a great new combat system, similar to that of Gears of War, where cover is essential. It adds 
 a realistic element to the gameplay, as well as making the combat much more fun. There are some 
 more imaginitive missions to accomplish, such as pulling a back heist, kidnapping, or hacking into 
 a police squad car computer to find a criminal. 
  
  The shear scope of Liberty City is more than enough of a reason to forgive any visual glitches 
 that may occur. In this world is an incredible amount of people, and of course all the vehicles 
 you could ever need. The vehicle controls has certainly improved. Gone are the arcade-like flimsy 
 automobiles, replaced by excellently designed and controlled vehicles. This new system adds a lot 
 of fun to the gameplay, as well as difficulty. 
  
  One of the greatest additions to this new GTA is the cell phone. It goes hand in hand with many 
 of your missions. With it, you can call up your employers, friends and even girlfriends to enhance 
 their liking towards you, as well as progress through missions. The cell phone can be used it very 
 unique ways. If you need a police car, you can dial 9-1-1 to your location, giving you an easy 
 opportunity to steal the car. On top of the intuitive cell phone, there is also an internet service 
 you can use, allowing you to access your e-mails, find dates, or to progress in missions. 
  
  Arguably the greatest of the great in Grand Theft Auto is the new multiplayer. Complete with 
 over a dozen modes, the scope of Liberty City and the freedom that is Grand Theft Auto makes the 
 multiplayer soar. A number of these game modes are: street races, cops versus robbers, taking down 
 a drug deal, protecting an employer, or free roam. Every type of mission is fun, and intuitive, 
 with up to sixteen players in these matches. 
  
  Rockstar's highly anticipated Grand Theft Auto 4 is more than worthy of its hype. With an emotional 
 singleplayer full of impact, and a highly entertaining multiplayer GTA IV lives up to its high 
 expectation. It everything the previous Grand Theft Auto's were, but so much more. It's not only 
 one of the greatest games to come out this year, but its also one the of the greatest games of 
 all time. Rockstar hit this on out of the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonkavu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I actually bought a 360 because i realized this game was going to be released. I am really satisfied 
 with the game although there were some things i disliked about the game. They didnt add the 2 player 
 mode that the san andreas had. Other than that i highly recommend this game. There arent many loading 
 screens and there has been mass improvement from their previous GTA.
  I actually bought a 360 because i realized this game was going to be released. I am really satisfied 
 with the game although there were some things i disliked about the game. They didnt add the 2 player 
 mode that the san andreas had. Other than that i highly recommend this game. There arent many loading 
 screens and there has been mass improvement from their previous GTA.
  I actually bought a 360 because i realized this game was going to be released. I am really satisfied 
 with the game although there were some things i disliked about the game. They didnt add the 2 player 
 mode that the san andreas had. Other than that i highly recommend this game. There arent many loading 
 screens and there has been mass improvement from their previous GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millsymills
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  It's been close to 4 years since the last installment of the Grand Theft Auto series. While San 
 Andreas provided many more improvements on an outstanding franchise, the newest offering by Rock 
 Star outshines the efforts on GTA III, Vice City, and San Andreas. The world itself seems to have 
 a buzz to it that non of the past games really had. Everything from simple pedestrians to cops 
 seem to move with a greater feeling of authenticity than ever before.
  
  The single player "campaign" of GTA IV is much more of the same. Missions will take you from having 
 to kill a rival to chasing down dope dealers to picking up women and taking them out on a date. 
 The greatest addition to the game has been the cell phone you receive at the beginning. Sometimes 
 I really wonder how I got on without it in Vice City and San Andreas. The cell phone's use in the 
 game is completely seamless. The cellphone adds to GTA's attempt at giving the user as many choices 
 as you would in real life. The process the protagonist goes through to incorporate himself in the 
 city and to gain more power and money makes the campaign extremely engaging.
  
  I'm not entirely pleased with the handling or acceleration of the cars in GTA, and I doubt they'll 
 ever get it right. It would be great to be able to drive manual, tell how fast your going, etc, 
 etc, but unfortunately that still hasn't come. The combat part of the game works just as flawlessly 
 as the previous ones, except now you have the options and different animations depending on where 
 you shoot the enemy (or victim in some cases) . 
  
  Overall, I could not be more pleased with this release. Not only is it a great game, but the radio 
 stations are some of the best yet, especially the Jazz Nation Radio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnbuBlackOpD
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the greatest GTA made. Good use of todays modern hardware it has stunning visuals 
 and great gameplay it makes the other freerome games out there look like a joke. The storyline 
 is great and brings you to a more real world perspective. The game deals with what people really 
 go through in real life. The storyline will bring you in and allow you to feel as if you were Niko 
 Bellic himself. Rockstar has put a game together that people will remember for ages to come. The 
 only multiplayer is also great with 8 or so playable game types from deathmatches to races you 
 are bond to have a good time. Though the game could use a multiplayer co-op I am sure that will 
 be added if there will be a GTA5. If you are new to the series this would be a great place to start. 
 So what are you wanting for go pick up your copy of GTA4 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV has been eagerly awaited by fans for a very long time. The controversial franchise 
 has now brought itself into the next generation. GTA IV is by all mean one of the most amazing 
 games on the market. From it's beautiful graphics which include one of the most amazingly detailed 
 game world, to it's fun and interesting storyline, this game is virtually flawless. The first thing 
 you'll notice is how Liberty City looks. One word: astonishing. I thought I would never see a more 
 realistic city after seeing New York in Spider-Man 3 but Liberty City, in all of it's New York 
 look-a-like glory, looks great. You have 4 islands to roam about including a New York City style 
 island which has the Empire State and Chrysler Building look-a-like complete with Ellis Island, 
 or this case, Happiness Island with the Statue of Happiness. There is so much to do in this city, 
 almost too much. Now, the story is great. You're Niko Bellic. An immigrant from eastern Europe 
 who's out looking for someone who wronged him in wartime. He meets up and works with his cousin 
 Roman, who described his life in America as being a rich man living in a mansion instead of really 
 being a lowlife who owes many people money. From there, it's all fun and games. The game has it's 
 usual missions: taxi runs, murdering people, chasing people down, delivering goods, etc, etc. While 
 they are fun, a lot of them are really annoying, such as chasing people down on speed bikes (trust 
 me, you'll repeat these... A LOT) . The cars this time around require better driving skills. They 
 possess more realistic physics so driving isn't so easy anymore. But the rag doll physics are fun 
 to witness when running down people and blowing them up. A new game-play mechanic is your cellphone. 
 You use the phone to get missions, chat with people, receives calls and texts, and hang out with 
 people ( I'll discuss that in a minute) . Early in the game, your cousin gives you a bare-bones phone 
 but later you get upgraded to a camera phone which you can download ringtones and wallpapers via 
 the internet. Yes, you can use the internet in the game. On the internet, you can receive emails 
 pertaining to missions and you can surf the site of the GTA universe including match-making site 
 to find girls to date. Now socializing with people in this game is advanced. Now, some of the people 
 you meet want to hang out with you. You can bowl, play darts, go to the bar, fast food restaurants, 
 strip clubs and cabaret clubs with your buddies. You can also take your dates there. You are at 
 least 2 main girlfriends you get through the story but you can get more via the internet. In case 
 you're wondering, hookers make a comeback in a graphic way. Now, when you pick up a prostitute, 
 you can choose a payment plan ($20, $50, $70- I'll let you wait and see what you get for your money) 
 and then witness exactly what is going on. There is no nudity, but it's definitely something that 
 your kids, or your mom, doesn't need to see. Which brings me to the vulgar nature of the game. 
 There is more profanity in this game than anything I know of. I've heard the f-bomb said more in 
 one sentence in this game than a Kid Rock album. Yes, profanity, hookers, and the overall nature 
 of the game makes this game severely unsuitable for people under 17 years of age. This game should 
 be considered by every parent wishing to get this for their kids who are under the age limit. BUT, 
 the game is also, in some ways, softer than the previous games. Many characters in the game have 
 a heart. Many of them including a man named Manny and a cop named Francis McReary were once corrupt 
 and now they want to rid the streets of crime and make a better environment for the kids. Many 
 characters in the game are seeking redemption and a change from their previous ways, including 
 the game's protagonist and anti-hero, Niko. One of the best things about the GTA series is how 
 it satirizes American society, And nowhere else will you find the parodies and jokes on Americans 
 as GTA does them. We all know America's obsession with coffee. So, almost every citizen of Liberty 
 City walks the streets with a Starbucks-looking coffee cup in their hands. The Statue of Happiness 
 holds a coffee cup instead of a torch. And the game's use of the cellphone and the internet ( internet-dating 
 is mocked here) mock at how we can't live without them. If you listen to the radio talk-shows, 
 they describe how bad the American health care system is, they mock the emo kid frenzy, they mock 
 t. v. and radio psychics, and a plethora of other things. If you turn on the t. v. (yes, you can 
 also watch television in this game) , there are shows they future satirize America. There's a cartoon 
 called Republican Space Rangers, which involves space rangers ridding the universe of anti-American 
 alien planets (it's hilarious, watch it. The rangers are totally wearing Master Chief suits) . Speaking 
 of radio, the stations are nice. Not as good as the stations in Vice City, but they're a fun listen. 
 Now, the newest addition to the series is online multiplayer. San Andreas introduced co-op, but 
 this is better. You can have to 16 players online in most game types which include team-based games, 
 races and even a free mode where you and your buddies have Liberty City all to yourselves and you 
 can do whatever you want. Online is very fun. Soon, the downloadable content will come out (probably 
 in the late summer-fall season) on Live and it's said to include entire cities and San Andreas 
 to rumored to be a DLC. Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV delivers the game that we have all been waiting 
 for. Despite it's flaws and the many missions that will drive you mad crazy, they don't overshadow 
 the game itself and it's new message. On a personal level, I give this game a 9/10 but as a game/film 
 critic, I grade the game itself and what it delivers and I can't award anything less than a 10/10. 
 Congratulations Rockstar, you have a delivered your 9th Symphony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXKingDingoXXX
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV, Another AMAZING game added to the series. In Grand Theft Auto IV you play 
 as Niko Bellic a immigrant to Liberty City. Niko came from Russia to Liberty City looking to start 
 a new life. Niko's cousin Roman told him stories (Lies) about his life in Liberty City. Roman told 
 him all sort of things (Lies) ; Riches, Woman, Cars, Houses, ect. Niko believed Roman and packed 
 up and went off to Liberty City. When you Arrive in Liberty City you are picked you by your Cousin 
 Roman. Roman is drunk at the time and ask for you to drive him home. When you arrive you notice 
 that LIFE in Liberty City is ALOT DIFFERENT than Roman Explained. Roman gives you a House, Cellphone, 
 and a JOB. When you Start Grand Theft Auto IV, you are at the bottom of the bottom. You first Job 
 (Mission) is for Roman. Roman starts you out as a Taxi Driver for his Transportation Buisness. 
 Through the game you meet ALL TYPES of new people. These people ask you for your help and pay well 
 for it. The More people you Meet the more Money and Popular you get. Lets not forget this is Grand 
 Theft Auto so there is; Cheating, Betraying, Killing, Stealing, Drug Trafficing, Prostitution, 
 ect to get to where-ever you are going. There are tones of things to do in the world of Liberty 
 City (But im not Going to Spoil them) so go out there and explore them. Moving on.... In most of 
 the Grand Theft Auto's that would be all. But in This Grand Theft Auto there is not only a Single 
 Player but a Multiplayer as well. In Multiplayer there are TONES of things to do. Im going to list 
 a Few ; DeathMatch, Team Deathmatch, Hangman's NOOSE, Cops N Crooks, GTA Race, Race, Freemode and 
 lots more. With these mode are Player and Ranked Matches. In these you can go alone Or try out 
 the Party Mode. Party Mode allows you to Take your friends into battle with you in any game mode 
 and size. So this is Grand Theft Auto IV and at its best. 
  
  If You have any Questions Message Me with them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  You're probably thinking "9.5 is disappointing?" Well yes it is. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 is my favourite game of all time and this was hyped up to be a far better game than it. It isn't. 
 Not even close. Its still an outstanding game and easily the best game this generation so far, 
 but when compared to San Andreas its lacking quite alot,
  
  Lets start off with what GTA IV improved on the series. The graphics are fantastic. The combat 
 is much improved and the cover system is great. The ability to set a waypoint is a much welcomed 
 addition because you no longer have to keep checking your map to see which way to go. The ability 
 to use a taxi to go where you want quickly is great. Its much quicker and easier to get to the 
 other side of the map because of this. You can now shoot 360 degrees out of your car, instead of 
 just drive by shootings like the old games. The TV is really, really funny. You haven't lived until 
 you've seen republican space rangers. There's a few new minigames such as pool, bowling and darts, 
 although once you've played these once you never really want to play them again. The phone feature 
 is really good and the multiplayer is great as well.
  
  With all these improvements were significant changes and lots of things were taken away. First 
 of all the driving is alot more awkward The handling is alot harder and you do get used to it but 
 the classic GTA handling was much better and more fun. The weapons are not as good as the previous 
 games had. The chainsaw is gone, the sword is gone, the flamethrower is gone and no new weapons 
 are added to make up for this. The map is much smaller and there's much less variety in the map. 
 Its all one city whereas SA was 3 different cities plus countryside and desert. The jetpack from 
 SA is gone and so is the parachute. Planes have also been taken out. If that wasn't bad enough 
 they also took out the beloved Rhino tank. Why? Realism? Realism should never get in the way of 
 fun, especially in a GTA game. Unfortunately that's whats happened here.
  
  GTA IV also took out alot of the character customisation from SA and you cant customise your car 
 at all. You can no longer get fat, strong or weak. San Andreas had so many things to do outside 
 of the main story but GTA IV is a massive step backwards in that respect. In SA you had lots of 
 races to do, driving, flying, bike and boat schools to do as well as gang territories to take over. 
 It also had quarry missions, trucking missions, valet missions etc. There's also the vigilante, 
 ambulance, firetruck and taxi missions to do. Several years on and I'm still having fun with SA 
 and still discovering new things. Just a few weeks on with GTA IV and I've already seen just about 
 everything there is to see. The only side missions I have left to do are the vigilante missions 
 and brucies street races. 
  
  This may seem like a very negative review, but I still think GTA IV is the best game this generation 
 so far. Its well worth owning, but if you loved San Andreas you will probably be disappointed. 
 I'm thinking the reason it got 10/10 here and loads of other places is because of the multiplayer. 
 The MP is fantastic and I think if there wasn't any multiplayer that reviewers would have had alot 
 more things to say about the things wrong about the singleplayer game and the massive step backwards 
 from San Andreas. Still, this game is a must have game though. Hopefully future GTAs will bring 
 back the awesomeness that San Andreas had whilst keeping the improvements GTA IV made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qeq
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  The visuals, which don't always hold up to close scrutiny but are impressive during typical gameplay, 
 are comparable and feature the same quirks (shadows that flicker, for example) on both consoles. 
 Likewise, the audio, which can take a lot of the credit for why Liberty City feels so alive, is 
 exceptional regardless of which console you have and how many speakers it's hooked up to. True 
 to form, GTAIV's soundtrack has plenty of great licensed songs and, unlike other games we could 
 mention, it doesn't force the artist and track information down your throat with pop-up windows 
 that detract from gameplay. However, if you want that information, you can simply dial up a song-recognition 
 service on your cell phone and, after a few seconds, receive it in a text message. Genius.
  
  In case you haven't guessed already, Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that you simply have to 
 play. The single-player game, which you can still play long after you complete the story, is the 
 series' best by far, and the multiplayer features are good enough that you'll likely have no problem 
 finding people to play with for many months to come. The minor flaws that you'll experience are 
 no more difficult to overlook than those in previous GTA games, and they're greatly outnumbered 
 by the features that will impress and surprise you anytime you think you've already seen everything 
 that the game has to offer. There's lots to see in Liberty City, so you'd best get started. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danyal123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I'll just state the problems with the game making this review short and more direct. First of all, 
 GTA 4 lacks the "wow-factor" of experiencing San Andreas for the first time. The scale and epic, 
 branching story of San Andreas still, for me, proves to be the best GTA. 
  
  Though, one must review a game on its own terms, so I'll say that GTA 4 is by no means bad. It's 
 story is ambitious and unique, but it's gameplay seems just a bit scaled back to match the theme 
 of "realism" throughout. Which is fine, i guess. Lastly, where San Andreas also triumphed over 
 GTA 4 is with its money system. Niko seems to be blood-thirsty for money and yet all he does with 
 his acquired wealth is purchase new weapons. Niko purchases weapons to do missions in order to 
 get money to purchase weapons .... it becomes a cycle that seems weirdly unrealized. 
  
  Though, as said above, aside from those two minor quibbles I do, for the most part, agree with 
 the scores GTA 4 is receiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  The Story is just awesome, you can really get in the characters, its just right where it will keep 
 you playing for hours and hours. I love the detail in the game its so realistic you will hardly 
 see the same person in the game twice!.
  The way its based off of New York is just awesome, so big, this game will go down in gaming history 
 as one of the great games of 08. The fact that its on the next gen consouls makes it even better, 
 the RAGE ENGINE makes it run so smoothely and can use so much more detail than any other GTA game, 
 makes it one of a kind.
  with GTA IV you will hardly get bored, theres so much to do, missions, dating, bowling, darts, racing, pool, 
 and just causing hell!!. For some this game will get beat in a week or so ( like me ) , thats when 
 i played the online play, theres over 15 online game modes from you to choose from its insane!!, 
 my favorite mode is Team Deathmath with Rockets its insane, my score Perfect 10/10 just buy this 
 game dont rent it, if you like any of the other gta games, you will love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boskung_Pup
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of the GTA games since they first came out and have played all of them on 
 various platforms.
  
  Unfortunately, GTA IV does not live up to all the hype and I am baffled at how so many industry 
 game reviewers have given this game a perfect score.
  
  First off the good things. The story is excellent, it actually makes you interested in Nico and 
 what will happen next. The graphics are great, something you come to expect from a next-gen release. 
 The online multiplayer is a great addition and the various modes offered are entertaining.
  
  Now the not so good things. Driving controls are weak. For a game that relies heavily on driving 
 vehicles, this is a huge miss, especially compared to previous GTA games. Making turns at any speeds 
 over 20 mph results in slamming into walls, etc. And there is no sensation of speed when you do 
 accelerate hard in a straightaway.
  
  Player controls are also weak. Nico moves as though his shoes are made with concrete. It's frustratingly 
 slow, and clumsy when it comes to melee combat.
  
  But I think the biggest gap in this version compared to the previous ones, is the lack of anything 
 meaningful to do when not completing the main missions. The lack of options, side quests, etc., 
 make the game very linear in nature because there is no reason for free roaming, or at least the 
 things you can do are not compeling enough when compared to what you could do in the past.
  
  I do enjoy certain aspects of the game, but with the numerous oversights in controls and features, 
 I am left a little disappointed and bored. I don't know how GTA IV could receive so many perfect 
 ratings, or even how it would receive any better of a rating than what Mass Effect (another stellar 
 game IMO) received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_GAMER
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game would have been a "10"...6 years ago. This is the same game me, along with millions of 
 other GTA fans, have been playing for YEARS. Somehow, there's actually stuff MISSING from this 
 installment... which makes it feel more "empty" than SA... which is still the champion end-all/be-all 
 GTA game. They should remaster SA for the next GTA... Also, the Online-Multi is HORENDOUSLY set-up... I 
 honestly haven't been able to get into one Ranked game since launch day!
  
  xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
 
  xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  When I heard about GTAIV coming out, I thought, "Wow, maybe I can put away Call of Duty and Gears 
 of War for a while." Well, as it turns out, Gamestop thought I was crazy when I took it back not 
 2 days later. While GTA has some great graphics, barely anything has changed gameplay-wise. I honestly 
 felt like I was playing GTA3 again for a second. Multiplayer is kind of fun, and the "Cops and 
 Robbers' type mode is interesting, but the aiming can make you miss a game-changing move, and your 
 team may think you are terrible. Unfortunately, GTAIV has gone the way of Halo. I can wait another 
 few years, if Rockstar promises something fun. If you only like realistic games, this one isn't 
 for you. The concept is something a 3-year old could understand. If you want something fun and 
 addictive, play Crackdown. The fact is, GTAIV is an innovation, but it's same thing we played 2 
 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  First off I want to say that GTA IV is a great game, it has really nice graphics and the enviroments 
 looks awesome. The story is also well told, and you will be spending a great deal of time playing 
 it through.
  
  Driving is also good, it's alot harder than in the previous games. But in my book it is an improvement. 
 The choppers are also alot of fun to fly around with, even if the controls are quite tricky. Can't 
 say alot about the boats cause I haven't really found a reason to use them, other than those two 
 missions... they weren't alot of fun. Bikes are as usual the suicidal option of transportation, 
 and crashing into something at high speeds make you fly and bounce about for a long long time, 
 my favorite transportation option!
  
  There are however some flaws with this game, and that is that you do not have a reason as a player 
 to gather all the money you get from doing missions, because Rockstar simply haven't added any 
 content that cost lots of it, unless you want to buy 100'000 burgers or drive around in a cab for 
 a few years. Yet Nico: s main driveforce is gathering money and revenge, and the revenge-part does 
 not take enough space to make you believe it's that important.
  
  And this is what really makes GTA IV worse than it's predecessors. The old games had alot of extra 
 content, you could unlock weapons at your safehouses, you could buy property, new safehouses and 
 clubs and what not. You had driving schools, bicycles, gyms, barber shops, tatoo shops. I'm not 
 sure but I think you had more clothes to buy in GTA: SA as well.
  
  You also had the dirtbike races, robbery-missions, carpimpin, gangwars for territory. Race-track 
 bettings, casino-games. Firing-range mini-game.
  
  GTA IV replaced all of these with bowling, darts and pool, and you get to partake in these quite 
 alot if you want to keep your friends happy and liking you. Which is a submission in itself since 
 you have to call them up, drive over to them and pick them up, then go to a place "they might enjoy" 
 play a minigame and then drive them home. It gets tiresome real fast, and getting people to like 
 you feels like a The Sims-thing to do.
  
  GTA IV also has internet cafs where you can surf for extra ringtones and get to date people through 
 a website, and these people you get to, that's right, call up, and then go through mini-games with, 
 and / or eat with.
  
  GTA IV is still a good game, it just really lacks innovation and is just and improvement in gameplay 
 at the cost of removal of content, when you compare it to the old ones. I do not get why it gets 
 the perfect tens from reviews, maybe it's corruption at the gamesites, or maybe it's just that 
 reviewers don't get to spend enough hours with the game in order to notice the lacking content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobotFreshPies
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 the most anticipated game of 2008 why? Because it provides everything it promised and maybe 
 a bit more!! It's got all the blood, cars, chicks, humor and charisma you could hope for in any 
 game!
  
  The Good
  - Much improved graphics, fantastic for the next gen console. The car and building models look 
 great. Well done Rockstar, keep it up
  - Detail: The amount of detail Rockstar put into this game is amazing, def worth ditching the story 
 to explore
  - The Story is very in depth and interesting. You really want to know what happens next after a 
 mission
  - The City is all re-done and for right reason. The GTA 3 LC was great, but was lacking depth and 
 interest. The new LC is basically New York but with a different name. However every ally, dock, 
 road and path way is worth exploring.
  - The online multiplayer feature is outstanding. Really addictive and worth your money if you aren't 
 really into single player
  - The Little things: Everything from steadily climbing down stairs to going through the wind-shield. 
 The minor additions are fantastic
  - The Protagonist: Niko Bellic is a perfect example of a GTA main character. He shows interest, 
 smarts and conscience. Plus his troubled past makes a perfect example of a lunatic.
  
  The Bad
  - Sometimes the frames are delayed, but not often. So it's not Bad, but it isnt good
 
  - The first impression. This is regarding 360 owners. Those who owned and played the other 3-D 
 GTAs on PS2, will find a bit of difficulty adjusting to the new controls. But after a few goes, 
 it becomes simple
  
  The Lowdown
  Great game, get it, if you dont, your silly!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Well okay its a 10 for a next gen version if that's what they really base it on. I my self feel 
 its not a perfect game. Yes I am having just as much fun with it as the next guy but it falls short 
 in its story mode. Let me start off with how annoying Roman is, this guy is like a 5 year old that 
 won't stop nagging you. I just don't care for the fact that I have to pacify every character in 
 the game, you just don't have time to hang out with all these people let alone the dating part 
 plus main mission and sub-missions, sometimes I wounder if Niko is a under cover gay. The other 
 thing that bugs me is driving, yes driving every car in this game bounces all over the place like 
 they were made with cheap part from China. The next thing is I'll be cruising along see another 
 car that I want to jack drive by me I'll hit the e-brake and do a 180 and to my surprise "ITS FREAKING 
 GONE!" Poof into thin air. Its unbelievable the things that change when you turn your back. Next 
 the walking around is so slow, he walks as slow as an old man with a walker the running is just 
 awful to run hold in the A button he trots, beat the A button he jogs about a 100 feet and then 
 he's just to tired to run anymore. He's no marathon man that's for sure. Then there's the weapons 
 and armor where the hell are they all! Hidden that's where.
  Enough of the complaining now, the game is well worth the buy alone for the 15 multiplayers games 
 you can do. The game runs really good on line the only thing Ive found is when in free mode a pause 
 occurs when a newbie comes in. Over all the game mode has a great story line the graphics are outstanding 
 for what its evolved from. I will say a guide is a must for the story mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guddu15
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Now Rockstar takes on next part of the legendary series. After GTA III, Vice City, San Andreas- Now 
 GTA IV.
  It is rebuild on the Liberty City and New York city. the main character is Niko Belic (the player) 
 who comes to his cousin Roman Belic in Liberty City for fortune and money. But his path went into 
 the underworld. He come in contact with different poeples.
  GTA IV has a lot of new features. The use of cellphone-I can call anyone and they also calls me 
 and I can take picture and can send pictures and sms.
  8-ball- Niko can also play bowling, Inside a bowling club you have to purchase ticket for $10. you 
 can play and enjoy it.
  Taxis- Niko can ride taixs, he can get ride in a taxi. In taxi Niko gives the destination and you 
 can skip the trip.
  Dirt- Niko can play dirt with other friends and persons.
  Billyard- Niko can play billyard with other friends and persons.
  Cop missins- Niko can activate 
 police missions, there is computer and you can search it for crimes and cases for can start a police 
 mission.
  The graphics is extremely good, the characters are fabolous. The story is too good. The story can 
 be beaten under 30 hours, but don't think it's a small game, there a so destruction. The gameplay 
 is very real. Fighting it damm real like street fighting. Firing weapons is very real and so nice 
 like first person shooter game. The bursts, and fire are just like the incident is going on in the 
 real world. ypu can change clothes, use of ATM, strip club and strip dance, Accidents and damages are 
 ausumn, getting rid of police is easy. Car and bike handling is very real and good. GTA IV is the 
 game you should buy. There are also a lot of features in the game. So if anyone having desire to 
 buy the game, go for it and reach the game store near you. But fans in india should get difficult 
 to get GTA IV. GTA IV has released on 29th April worldwide. But due to global shortages it didn't 
 went to many places. It will reach India in about 15 to 17th April. But there are only few bundles 
 coming in India. Only 30 copies are coming to Kolkata. Give your order and pre-order today. I hope 
 all the GTA fans like me can get a GTA IV copy. BYE its HitmanGuddu. mail me at hitmanguddu@rediffmail. com 
 for further news. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorch3
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Nobody does sandbox games like Rockstar, and they have managed to top themselves yet again with 
 Grand Theft Auto IV. This time around they have taken the time to work on the little things, and 
 created an amazingly detailed world that still manages to run quite well on the Xbox 360. As soon 
 as you turn it on you'll notice greatly improved graphics and physics engine, the combination of 
 which allows for many life like things to happen. All the cars bikes and boats handle the way you 
 would expect them to in real life. The combat is greatly improved as you and your enemies are forced 
 to take cover in order to live for any length of time. The cover system is quite similar to that 
 of Gears of War and means that the shooting missions are a pure joy to play. When all the gun play 
 leaves you wanted you will get to see the new wanted system in which you escape by leaving the 
 circle which the police are looking for you within, each time they see you though the circle will 
 center on your position. As you receive a higher wanted level the circle gets bigger and bigger, 
 the further from the center of which you are the less likely you are too run into the cops. The 
 games story is put together quite amazingly as we experience it through various cut scenes, its 
 done so well you end up feeling like you really know the main character and you may find your self 
 burning through the missions to experience it. Finally the game includes various multi player game 
 types which serve to make a great game even better. The various modes including ones where you 
 work for the mafia, steal cars, fight for turf, and try to escape other players playing as the 
 cops are put together excellently and are a joy to play. The deathmatch mode also is quite fun, 
 and just free roaming with friends will provide you hours of entertainment. All in all the game 
 is a ten out of ten what more is there to say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing story, memorable characters, subtle details really stand out, superb graphics, 
 fun online play
  
  The Bad: Crappy car handling, minor control issues, online lags more than it should, nothing earth 
 shattering but perfected
  
  I remember playing GTA III when it first came out. I didn't have a PS2 yet and I went over to a 
 friend's house and played it for hours every single day. While we mostly just messed around it 
 was something I never played before and was just so addictive. Thankfully GTA IV goes back to it's 
 roots and brings us to good ol' Liberty City. You play as none other than Niko Bellic who is a 
 Russian immigrant who came to LC with his cousin Roman to start a new life. The game's main attractions 
 are it's story for once. GTA IV has a superb story that makes you want to keep playing. Gone are 
 the lukewarm stories from previous GTAs where only the main character is the main attraction with 
 just OK side characters. In previous GTAs you never really got a good feeling of the employers 
 due to the lack built up story. You were just in and out of the short cut scenes only knowing what 
 to really do. This kind of was solved in San Andreas, but even then only a select few were really 
 fleshed out. In IV you feel every character in the game and there are tons of plot twists and it 
 really keeps the game fresh through every single mission. On another note, the graphics are amazing. 
 While not Assassin's Creed or BioShock amazing they're really good. It's mainly the subtle details 
 though such as people now put their blinkers on, cars are damaged in real time now with realistic 
 physics so half broken fenders and bumpers sway as you turn the car, the paint can get scraped 
 up, crowd AI is more efficient (yet not by much) , better enemy AI (still not by much) , further 
 draw distance, everything has high-res textures, bump mapping and the whole next-gen works. There 
 are a few things that they stripped away such as the whole working out system, swimming underwater 
 (you can still swim though!) , and territories. There are other subtle details such as the internet 
 you can now use. It's a virtual made up internet, but it's still as funny as hell and has a dating 
 system (yes it's still here) implemented on the dating website. You can get emails for side missions 
 from employers as well. You can now take taxis around the city and either watch them drive your 
 skip it if you want. This really helps a lot if you are tired of driving everywhere. There is also 
 a new route system where the game will plot the safest and most legal course to your destination. 
 Red is a target, blue is a friendly, green is a waypoint you made on your map, and yellow is an 
 objective. This is probably one of the better additions because it keeps your from getting lost 
 during time sensitive missions. Another thing is the revamped wanted system. You now have flashing 
 "zones" for every star. The more stars the bigger the circle will get on your radar that you have 
 to escape. Cops are now showed as flashing blue and red blips and copters are now flashing X's. 
 While we're talking about characters again the voice acting is amazing. I really felt like I was 
 watching bits of a movie every time there was a cut scene. The characters are really fleshed out 
 here every... single... one. You'll remember every character in the 60+ hour game and that's a really 
 hard thing to achieve. Rockstar really went the extra 20 miles with this game and you can just 
 feel it. The game is huge as well, while not as huge as San Andreas it's about as big as GTA III 
 yet it's also big as in taller as well. You can fly planes, and copters again in here and while 
 it's a lot easier than San Andreas it's still not very fun. Speaking of controls they are more 
 refined this time and the auto aim is a lot better yet there's still that stupid camera! Switching 
 targets is NOT very easy. You have to press the right stick EXACTLY left or right or you won't 
 switch targets. Whenever you do lock on Niko always aims for the wrong persons and ends with cheap 
 deaths and what have you. The cars are also a big pain because they just don't feel right. They 
 all feel really heavy and they slide way too much no matter what car you use. You try to put the 
 brakes on and your car will slide and slide and you'll miss your turn, and the same goes for the 
 handbrake. You hit it and your car spins out a few times no matter how good you are with the handling. 
 I found this very annoying with the driving missions because it would lead to cheap and frustrating 
 failures. Apart from all this the game as 16 player Xbox LIVE support. You have tons of game modes 
 from deathmatch, to cops and robbers. In cops and robbers it's pretty self explanatory. You all 
 get in a car and try to kill each other. This is also very fun yet annoying because the game can 
 lag a lot especially with people who have crappy connections. It also may take awhile to start 
 a game due to everyone wanting 16 players and they just won't start the game. Aside from the minor 
 issues GTA IV is probably game of the year worthy, but it doesn't do anything as ground breaking 
 as GTA III did. It just perfects it 100% this time and gives us what we've always wanted. The perfect 
 GTA game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealKilla_789
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series have always been done very well and have sold millions Grand Theft Auto makes its 
 transition to the new-gen of consoles. Let me say that this is the best Grand Theft Auto game in 
 the series and one of the best games ever. It takes the fun of the previous GTA games and has improved 
 on everything (except melee) Improved controls, improved aiming, better story and much more. This 
 game will blow most gamers away. Gamers return to Liberty City in GTA IV. This is one of the realest 
 cities ever created. Just walk through the streets and see all the activity of the citizens. I 
 won't ever forget the time I was driving and saw a police officer pull over someone, get out the 
 car and asked him for his registration. That never happens in games. The protagonist Niko Bellic 
 is the best character I have ever had the liberty to play as. With the addition of online multiplayer 
 this is a must-play for anyone that has a brain. YOU HAVE TO EXPERIENCE GRAND THEFT AUTO IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenolords
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  the latest in gangster shootouts this gta is probably the best good fighting good shooting good 
 driving good flying overall very very very good and thats just offline when you go online it gets 
 alot better because you can meet up with friends on party mode and have a gang war between friends 
 or just go on free mode to face of against anyone who dares to shoot at you. 
  
  thtas not all you can work together or all against each other. or theres other games like racing 
 choose your car and race aswell as try to kill your opponentswhich is fun and i should know or 
 you can play turf war two diffrent gangs fighting for turk or cops n crooks one team cops other 
 crooks trying to escape while the cops try to kill or stop ou to win and you can do ranked or player 
 both are brilliant this is all round shooting and killing and good achievments but ive played this 
 game and it's the bets ive palyed this year and probably next year two. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperFatty3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game touches up on most parts that the other GTAs missed, it has a lot of realistic features, 
 ragdoll, more cars than any of the games before it, a perfected aiming system, great texture and 
 graphics, along with damage that is better than perfect. What is great about about the aiming is 
 you can shoot from the drivers seat. In all of the other GTA games you could not do that. You can 
 also perfect your aim by arranging the crosshair while using auto aim. The graphics are just beautiful, 
 when something explodes it is like you were there. The texture is at the same level, as it appears 
 Rockstar games cut no corners. I highly recommend playing on an HDTV. As far as damge goes, I could 
 count at least 1500 different damage effects per part per car. If you dont like this game you cannot 
 be pleased and should think about actually playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2393
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I was hyped up for this game, and obviously I think I expected a little too much. However, that 
 is not to say this isn't a great game, but its just about on par with San Andreas.
  
  Although I knew there wouldn't be those quirky customization options from SA, I figured they weren't 
 important and I hoped the game would somehow find other ways to add anemities to the game.
  
  Well, truth be told, there is not much else. Sure, you can go to a bowling alley with Roman, 
 or go get drunk with Little Jacob, but they get shoved down your throat so much that after the 
 first few times, you are dreading these calls. For example, after every time you finish a mission, 
 and want to continue to the next one, one of your friends will call. This becomes extremely annoying, 
 and declining loses your reputation with them.
  
  Certain things that made San Andreas fun, like driving off of Mount Chiliad, sky diving off of 
 sky scrapers, doing stunts with your plane, going to numerous clothes stores, or even just gambling, 
 are absent from this game.
  
  The major flaw of the miniscule flaws I find, however, is the city. I hate to say this, but it 
 is rather uninteresting. There is no certain culture that you can sense like in San Andreas, like 
 the desert feeling from Las Venturas, the ghetto feeling from Los Santos, the white collar feeling 
 of San Fierro, to the blue collar feeling from the many rural villages. Liberty City is by no means 
 as large as San Andreas. It is the largest city in any game, yes, but it is a lot smaller and a 
 lot less varied. 
  
  One last problem I find is that I don't feel connected to many characters. In San Andreas, you 
 used to be with your Grove Street friends like Big Smoke, Sweet, and Ryder. You would drive around 
 with them and cause commotion, and you felt connected to these characters. In this game, you do 
 about 4 missions for each character then move on to the next one. There is no real feeling that 
 Niko belongs, as with every person, he tries to prove himself worthy, and then when he finally 
 does, he gets their name in a cell phone for them to call and annoy every time you finish a mission.
 
  
  Even those these sound like a huge issue, I will only minus .5 because of this: Even though it 
 doesn't have what San Andreas had, it makes its own.
  
  The gunplay is a lot more fun. You can now shoot down dozens of people without dieing. The AI enemies 
 are a lot smarter, and take cover when you are shooting. In San Andreas, it felt like you were 
 doing target practice, the AI were so stupid. 
  
  The game pays a lot more attention to detail, and it has a more serious tone to it. It doesn't 
 feel like some cartoony third-rate world, it seems a lot more realistic. Things like watching TV 
 can have hours of programs on multiple channels. You can see the individual speckles from the car 
 paint. One major thing: each pedestrian is unique. You will rarely, ever see the same one walking 
 down the street. They all have detailed faces, and do thigns like sweeping the street, to drinking 
 coffee, to having backpacks for school work. (And when you kill them, you almost feel guilty) .
 
  
  The cell phone implements well in the game, its hard to describe how it does, but it just makes 
 the game that much less frustrating. You can get calls for doing missions, and like the Gamespot 
 reviewer said, you won't imagine playing without it.
  
  The game is a little easier than previous GTA games, but it is not too easy. You will still find 
 yourself failing a mission, losing money from the hospital, and flipping out when your car rolls 
 over in a chase. It is still classic GTA frustration, and, likewise, satisfaction when it is completed.
 
  
  And, ofcourse, the multiplayer mode. Each mode is very fun and things like racing game be very 
 exciting when you are ramming other players off the road or vice versa. You can explore the entire 
 city with your friends, and the shooting is worked out so that you all spawn in a certain area 
 once you are killed. Just picture yourself and your friends in an open ended world to explore, 
 shooting eachother, stealing cars, avoiding the cops, etc., it is something that is to be experienced. 
 Hopefully, though, they will work on the servers as almost every game I try to join gives me the 
 message "Disconnected from server, returning to single player".
  
  Overall, buy this game. It beats any other video game by a mile. It offers more than any other 
 game can give you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madisonsuicide
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Lets see though,
  
  if you are new to the GTA series, guess what, you have a 9 game probably, something truly great. 
 play, enjoy, be thrilled, laugh until you cry.
  
  if you have like myself followed this game up from its top down view glory, well... it's like playing 
 GTA3 on steroids at best. So you are left looking at the progression from GTA3 to Vice City to 
 San Andreas and now playing GTA4 and going WTF! happened! Where is the rest of it!
  
  Lets see what we get.... the internet.. ok that is kind of cool. TV... ok that sucks and is a waste. 
 more "dates" ok yeah that gets old real quick. new targeting system, nothing to write home about. 
 less cars... this one isn't bothering me that much and it still feels like enough. toll gates... interesting 
 but really was the best you could do? the new cop evasion system... feels kind of beta-ish if you 
 ask me.
  multi-player... ok great and i don't care that much about it really.
  
  and what have we lost... Way Too Much... where is the car customization, the properties, the player 
 customization? did we trade it in for some more bad words and extra marketing hype? the planes? 
 the parachuting? the garages? I don't think I was alone in getting this game and expecting more, 
 more and more of these things.
  
  the GPS is kind of nice but makes the game far more forgiving and friendly and I can't help but 
 think this along with a few other tweaks are in there mostly to make the game a bit more accessible 
 to new players and easier for them. 
  
  no wasted/empty space my a$$, more than half the city is wasted space.
  
  Why is it as systems 
 get more powerful we are loosing options in games instead of gaining them? Why are we declaring 
 overwhelming success to games that have actually removed content? Sadly as long as sales continue 
 as they are for games like this companies will look at the bottom line and the great reviews rubber 
 stamped on them as justification and proof they made the right choices in cutting features. Come 
 on Rock Star you could do better than this, you did do better than this. SA set a new level and 
 instead of going forward you went back and supped up GTA3. Game series should give us a hint of 
 things to come, not make sudden U-turns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stirud
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, kinda disapointed here. Tried to surf on a car here the other day, with no luck... and had 
 the same problem with the subway. Wheres the reality? On top of that they have managed to remove 
 the most fun part in any gta game ... the parachute! When it comes to "reality" im pretty sure 
 that one of the choppers at helitour would have one stuffed in its back seat. And yes, basejumpers 
 really like New York. And what about RC planes ,helicopters, motocross tracks etc etc? 
  My final words to the producers AND reviewers is that i hope they dive a little deeper the next 
 time.
  Looking forward to the unreleased material thou.
  All in all its still a very good game. Compared to other games such as Tomb raider and Assasins 
 creed (10-15 hours) this will keep you busy for at least 40! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiedean
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin..... by telling you how much i LOVE the GTA series. I have logged hundreds of hours 
 on each of the last 3 entries. I was with all of you, true GTA fans, waiting anxiously for 4 to 
 finally come. Gobbling up each new screenshot or tidbit of gameplay info like a starving man. I 
 quit buying into the corporate hype machine after so many dissapointments..... but this was GRAND 
 THEFT AUTO!! ROCKSTAR, for pete`s sake!!
  So.... yes, i set myself up once again. I mean, how could they go wrong, right??
  Rockstar cares 
 so much for the quality of their games..... and this is their baby..... there was just NO WAY that 
 they were going to release anything less than a phenomenal game.
  Wrong.
  
  I have been in denial for the last week. I continued to play the game, waiting.... just waiting 
 for the brilliance to show itself, and to lift me up, set my gamer`s heart soaring, and confirm 
 my belief that gaming, at least a dedicated corner of it, had not been completely ruined by the 
 likes of Electronic Arts and the corporate juggernaut. 
  
  Sigh. But i can shield my eyes from the truth no longer. GTA 4 is simply a mediocre entry into 
 the series, taking steps BACK in so many areas........
   masses are so deluded with the 
 media input TELLING them how great the game is, TELLING them how much fun they`re having...... that 
 they are buying it. Hook ,line, and sinker.
  
  I am one rarely to post negative reviews of anything. I just leave that to someone else, and move 
 on to the next game that really does it for me.
  But i just can`t stay silent on this. Let me state once more, for all you kiddies who will rant 
 and rave about this review, because it goes against their own ill-informed opinion, that I WANTED 
 SO BADLY TO LOVE THIS GAME!!
  And....... don`t take it that i hate this game, no no no. There are alot of things right about this 
 entry, just...... so much left behind.
  
  Let me begin with the pros: Graphics....... Sweet. No problems there.
  Story, presentation....... excellent. 
 
  Pyshics.......... right on.
  Mutilplayer........ haven`t got there yet. I`m old-school, i *GASP* buy games mainly for the thrill 
 of single-player campaign. And that`s what GTA has allways delivered on.
  
  Now..... let me begin to rain on this mega-hyped parade:
  
  First off.............. Niko..... oh 
 niko....... do you have a flaming case of hemmoroids?? Why, for crap`s sake, do you move like a 
 sleepy turtle?? 
  Why do you hobble down stairs sideways?? 
  I was truly hoping that, as in the last 2 games, you would become faster as you progressed in the 
 game........ but noooooo. I have serious issues with the clunky handling of my avatar..... especially 
 when taking into account the exploration aspect of a GTA game. The earlier games sported a fluidity 
 of movement that apparently got lost in the transition to next-gen.
  
  The cars. 
  The staple of movement, and the basis of 75% of the game.
  I have mixed emotions here. The physics........ very 
 nice. The cars have weight, and when you slam into something at 100 mph, now it feels right. There 
 are consequences.
  But....... unless you want to spend half your time recovering from a freaking 180 spin around every 
 corner, even while cruising at low speeds, you have to drive with a gentle touch..... and it greatly 
 slows you down in most cases. I truly believe that they dummied down the cops (which you have to 
 admit, are pretty much worthless at their jobs) Because if they came at you with the ferocity of 
 past games, you simply would rarely get away, because of the seeming fact that most of the cars 
 in the game are running on bald tires.
  
  The missions: 
  Waaaaay too much of the freaking "go here, pick this up, drive backvariety. Dont get me wrong, 
 some are brilliant.... once you get the cover/combat mechanic mastered....... (which is very nice, 
 IMO) Waaay too much "hey niko, let`s go bowling/eating/drinking/etc. etc." For no reward whtsoever. 
 Except they respect and like you more. Whoopie.
  The "drunk" feature....... is fairly amusing. The most realistic in a game by far. I wont go into 
 the issues of it trivializing drivng while drunk. I hope everybody understands the difference between 
 the game world, and the real one.
  
  Let me just generally rant here.....
  Where has the customization gone? Did the pretty graphics take up all the memory allotments on 
 the disc, leaving no room for all the neat little bells and whistles we`ve come to expect from 
 a GTA game?
  Why no character growth, in terms of speed, strength, jumping height, etc. etc.??
  An issue which 
 truly hacks me off about this title... the removal of two of my favorite fun things in the last 
 game: The bicycles, and the Freaking aircraft.
  The heli is there...... i looked forward to jumping in one so much... and then....... gack. Too much 
 realism isn`t allways a good thing in a game world. Waaay too touchy to have a good time flying 
 around exploring the city. The planes....... just missing. 
  
  I never thought i`d be saying this, but after about 15 hours, when i started realizing all that 
 fun stuff i was looking for JUST WASN`T THERE, and when it seemed that all i was doing was driving 
 back and forth between missions, and holding the hands of my friends/ladies, i came to the realization 
 that i was just PLAIN BORED.
  
  I`m sorry....... it`s just the plain truth. I truly miss the bizarre, hilarious things that would 
 happen on a regular basis in GTA 3. Getting the cops hot after you, and leading them off cliffs 
 to splash in the drink. The insane chases. 
  Vice city was great, but they never truly captured that quirky wackiness that had us rolling on 
 the floor with 3. San Andreas, a phenomenal game.... i love it still........ GTA 4............... sigh.
 
  All great things must come to and end, i suppose.
  
  All in the name of "next-gen graphics" It`s a shame... a dirty shame.... that the youth of today 
 are being sold short , and worse still, that they accept what they are offered as the height of 
 entertainment. Some of us remember differently. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enisguy
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Very good game. Many people have already explored what's good about it, I'll try and pick apart 
 the things that I didn't like as much.
  
  The only problems I really had were with the targeting system. On occassion, the auto-lock would 
 lock onto somebody far away, or a pedestrian, while there was somebody right next to me attacking 
 me. Kind of annoying, but easily fixed by letting the trigger a bit looser and using the manual 
 aim. Still, it's a bit frustrating dying this way.
  
  Another problem was with the map. On some missions it would dictate that I go to a certain point, 
 but the point would be above or below where the map led me. I had a particular problem with the 
 10th delivery mission for Jacob where I had to arrive at a tunnel at a certain time, but the map 
 constantly led me to a point above the tunnel on a street. Very frustrating.
  
  Other than that, this game is far an away better than every other GTA I've ever played. This rendition 
 of Liberty City might be a bit smaller than San Andreas, but it's a lot more fun, a lot more alive, 
 and there are many more things to do.
  
  All in all, this game is an absolute must play with a few minor problems with combat. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willthegamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  this game rules it should be given a reward for being so good. the gameplay is amazing although 
 sometimes the graphics can be choppy it doesnt matter because it hasnt happened to often. the games 
 vast improvement in driving is amazing, its almost like driving a real car. if you own this game 
 youll see the differences from san andreas and this new gta. the big problem is that when someone 
 gets behind u n a fire fight u might just get killed. other than that theres nothing to complain 
 about. if u can play onine then ull be amazed of these games because they are amazing they have 
 added some new games like cops and robbers and mafia work. ull really enjoy multi player games. 
 most of the games and its functions are very amusing. there are some things that could happen if 
 u were blown up by someguy walking right by u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard_Prime
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  What I was expecting with GTA4 was simply an old-type GTA game but with next gen graphics. Suffice 
 it to say these expectations were shattered, as GTA4 is much, much more than that. Sure the core 
 gameplay is pretty much the same, but the extra amount in detail and all the new things you can 
 do is simply astounding. And as far as the graphics go, I find them amazing. The city never looked 
 better. The music is awesome. And the story... superb... I just wish there was a theater mode where 
 you could view previous cut scenes, as these are movie-caliber make no mistake about it. 
  
  While playing the game, I found myself being constantly impressed, mainly by the grand scope 
 of the city. Huge, and I often get lost. Driving on the bridge the other day, and I could see so 
 far away across the water to high rise buildings, spectacular scene. 
  
  'nough said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  GTA IV takes some time to get rolling, a bit slow out of the gate storywise, but it becomes necessary 
 to flesh out the main character.... something GTA hasn't really ever done before. Thats the biggest 
 improvement to me.... the fact that it's more like guiding your character through his actual life 
 rather than being a wise cracking dude that rund funny in a hawaiin shirt. It's like Sims on criminal 
 sterroids. You make and have to maintain friendships, which can be tedious but can also be entertaining.
 
  
  
  Graphically, it is stylized to look as it does. some have said it should be sharper looking, some 
 have said it's blotchy looking, but all in all, the gameplay doesnt suffer one bit and it still 
 looks pretty fantastic anyway, so I'd say visually this game measures up, especially knowing how 
 big and how much detail the devs had to work in. 
  
  I havent yet been in multiplayer, but plan to. I'm just too into the story right now. Knowing that 
 I have that much content yet to play gives this game an A+, and I'd rate it higher if I could. 
 Not for kids, though. It's raw, violent, and nasty, just like GTA should be. Buy this game immediately 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a flawed masterpiece. There's oh so much that still wrong - despite massive improvements 
 over previous iterations - that it falls just short of a shining gift from God. Instead what we 
 get is a fantastic game that has quite a bit of quirks that range from the instantly dismissable 
 to the outright frustrating.
  
  Great things about GTA IV include the absolutely incredible graphics that - whilst they don't hold 
 up to intense scrutiny - still look absolutely incredible when you're rocketing through the streets 
 at 100mph, chasing down that last scumbag who thought he could get away! The gameplay is still 
 just as entertaining as ever - with the multiplayer allowing you to share the experience!
  
  However, the bad things do rear their ugly heads. The on-foot combat controls - whilst significantly 
 improved - are still incredibly clunky; the inclusion of a 'free-aim' system being the culprit 
 here, as the attempt to combine both a free-aim mechanic with a lock-on one just means that sometimes 
 you're left shooting at thin air when you actually wanted to lock on. 
  
  Another quirk is that you're still forced to hold a freaking button to run, which is highly annoying 
 when trying to manoeuvre through tight spaces. The analogue stick exists for a reason! Tilt it 
 forward a wee bit for walk, fully forward for run, and then the good old fashioned tapping of A/X 
 to sprint! 
  
  Finally, the AI is just as dodgy as ever - going into 'shoot Niko and only Niko!' mode, despite 
 the fact that not only did you not start the fight you're in, you're also heavily outnumbered! 
 Needs a bit of work, to say the least.
  
  Still, what's left is still as addictive, violent and fun as ever. Still not quite a masterpiece, 
 but bloody close.
  
  Unrelated addendum: considering this is a gaming website, you'd think they'd have 'gameplay' and 
 'multiplayer' in their freaking dictionary. Those're apparently my only two spelling mistakes.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maj911
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  As i said it is a must have even in multiplayer its good. if you are a fan of Grand theft auto games 
 and ps3 and/or xbox 360 then its a must have.
  finaly a more realistic game talking about the Amarican dream!
  its addictave and fun. Now theres 
 a chaling when driving, going into
  places without loading, realistic phone, and more waiting for you!
  its waaaaayyyyyyyyyy better 
 than other games tust me it is it got 10s on its reviewes and gamplay a bit tooo gooood. Its multiplayer 
 doesent lag at all. thanfully they made cool clothes for multiplayer and cool
  stuff like like: racing, cops n crooks, deathmacth and thats all i know about
  multiplayer! well 
 hopfully you will like it too the phone is greate and of cource
  there are cheates! theyre are way more more raidioe stationes such as
  Raidio choc, L. C. H. C and 
 more its fun more fun and waaaaaaaaaay
  to cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Projekt_Zeer-O
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Well, another great game from Rockstar and Take2. This game throws the player right into action 
 and adventure. I just LOVE the graphics. This game will be remembered for years to come as the 
 first next-gen Grand Theft Auto. It's just so amazing! The graphics, gameplay, combat, all of it 
 and how they managed to get all of the things going on at once in GTA IV just stuns me!
  
  After the first 5 minutes, I was instantly hooked. I admit, Grand Theft Auto IV IS the new crack. 
 I just can't believe how amazing this game is. And Niko Bellic's personality is well-portrayed.
 
  
  The voice acting is also well played. Just how the emotions are so real and put together. For example, 
 when Niko is mad and how he yells, it's so real. The best way to describe Niko's personality is 
 this: If it doesn't pay, he doesn't do it. 
  
  That should explain a lot.
  
  So, go out, get GTA IV and have fun!
  
  Definantly a must-get!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpool_r_gd
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  The Good
  A vast and massive city. Tonnes of detail. You feel like youre in a real, living, breathing city. Niko 
 is very customisable. A great story mode. A great multiplayer with up to 16 players competing. If 
 you complete the story theres still lots to do. You sculpt the story line. A wide variety of veichles. A 
 much better wanted system. The phone playes a big part including making phone calls, taking pictures, recieving 
 texts and calls, calling for emercancy service and lots more. The water is a graphical phenomenon. The 
 voice acting is brilliant. Great soundtrack. Taxies play a big part getting you from a to b in seconds. Mini 
 games including 8 ball, darts, drinking, eating and lots mroe are included. Challenging missions but 
 not too hard. Good sense of gta humour
  The Bad
  A few graphical problems sometimes. some glitches sometimes.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Gameplay 10/10
 
  Soundtrack/music 10/10
  Story 10/10
  the rest 10/10
  
  A truly great game and if you dont have it your and idiot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  The release of "Grand Theft Auto 4" has been handled like an epochal event in world history: there 
 have been queues outside games stores at midnight on the release day, a welter of 100% scores, 
 and this new iteration in the series has even made news headlines due to its violence and subversive 
 humour. You could be forgiven for thinking that "GTA 4" is the greatest achievement of Western 
 Civilisation. All this hype could quite easily obscure a lesser game. Luckily, GTA 4 is not a lesser 
 game. 
  Developers Rockstar have wisely chosen to ramp down the insane size of San Andreas and in return 
 greatly increase the detail of Liberty City (New York in all but name) . And the detail is amazing. 
 One of the first things I noticed were how non-playing characters react believably to stimuli, 
 talk amongst themselves, and even natter on their mobile 'phones. Hot dog vendors shout out double 
 entendre spiel. The porcine policemen strut around, asking their buddies to buy them doughnuts. 
 In other words, as a character you are just one among millions making their way in the violent, 
 hedonistic world of Liberty.
  This attention to detail is emblematic of the whole game environment: just walking through Liberty 
 as main character Niko Bellic you have the eerie impression that the game is living and breathing 
 without knowledge of your existence either as a character or as a gamer. The already cliched take 
 on the game, that Liberty City is the true star of the revamped GTA, is true insofar as you could 
 almost imagine its continued and thriving existence outside the focus of the main character's story. 
 Critics of the game's smaller scale in relation to San Andreas tend to miss the extraordinary detail 
 that makes the smaller world somehow seem so much bigger than its PlayStation 2 predecessor. You 
 can watch TV, go online (and the brilliant online modes are a whole new review) , and date women; 
 in a word live in a city which is so much more than a simple background to story missions, car 
 chases, and shootouts. 
  The main character's moves have had a welcome overhaul; the targeting and cover system is really 
 on a par with most dedicated shooting games -an impressive achievement in itself. Again, Rockstar 
 have cut back on trinkets such as customisable costumes for Niko and trips to the gym to buff up 
 in favour of a more believable and rounded appearance for someone who is, after all, someone you 
 are meant to sympathise with. This cutting back from myriad different paths of appearance and choice 
 of tasks has again been answered with a story mode which makes Niko a tangible and emotive human 
 being whose decisions are actually of consequence.
  Of course, the game does have its faults. I own both the XBOX360 and PS3 versions, and find that 
 pop-up is more pronounced on the former console, while jagged lines tend to be worse on the latter. 
 It may take the appearance of the PC version (rumoured to be coming in November) to iron out these 
 technical issues and do justice to the magnificent game engine. The lack of 'planes to fly, things 
 like gang wars, along with the restrictive customisation options, are certainly not to everyone's 
 taste, as is the more conservative choice of music on the (still excellent) radio stations.
  Someone once said of "Citizen Kane" that if films could do this, they could anything. GTA 4 is 
 the equivalent in video games. It's that good. There are moments when the game approaches the grace 
 and sadness of Shakespeare (if only to snap back into its preferred modus operandi of admittedly 
 very funny black humour and smutty jokes) . There are even moments where even the whole "greatest 
 achievement in Western Civilisation" bit doesn't seem so far-fetched. Game developers that are 
 not Rockstar are probably very, very worried about how they are ever going to follow this: that 
 is, after they've stopped playing the thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belly0fdesire
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  What is a sandbox game? An open, non-linear storyline in an open world, where you decide what you 
 do and when you do it. A good sandbox game needs to provide enough options that you aren't restricted 
 to the ultimate goal, and can keep entertained for as long as necessary while playing in your own 
 'pile of sand'. In addition, the ultimate goal should be adequate enough to whet your appetite 
 and make you strive for it's achievement.
  
  The the term 'sandbox game' was coined, GTAIV wasn't even a sparkle in a developers eye, nor was 
 it's extensive detail even conceivable. However, the latest venture into the franchise IS the epitome 
 of everything a sandbox game should be.
  
  First, let's entirely disregard the entire sandbox. Let's focus on the primary storyline and gameplay. 
 Never have I been so drawn into a story, cast and drama than I have before this game. Sure, games 
 have grabbed my attention and even inspired me before... maybe even made me stand back in a state 
 of awe... but the drama presented by the animated cut-scenes in this game is incredibly gripping.
 
  
  Every character you meet in the game actually has character and personality. And although they 
 aren't represented by Hollywood famous names, the voice acting portraying the characters is absolutely 
 spot on. When a character dies, you actually emotionally react to it, because you have an attached 
 feeling to the character, even if slight, good or bad.
  
  The cutscenes are intense. There's no other way to put it... the writing, camera angles, elevation 
 in tone, even the uncomfortable silences are like something you would see from a hollywood production. 
 Astounding direction makes this one of, if not THE, most gripping games in the business.
  
  Okay, now that you have a taste of what the storyline is like, let's re-introduce the sandbox.
 
  
  GTAIV has the multiple island setting that we've grown accustomed to from the franchise, however 
 each island is incredibly detailed.... There are trashcans with actual trash in them... every NPC 
 in the game is actually doing something, as opposed the mindless wandering we saw in the GTA3 series 
 of games... people are reading, sweeping, mopping, eating and going about their daily lives. Yesterday, 
 I picked up a hooker, but before I did, a cop cut off traffic, got out with his pistol drawn and 
 arrested a drug dealer.... entirely randomly and non-related to anything I was doing at all.... 
 when he did, the drug dealer said "what... i'm just trying to sell some drugs"... the cop made 
 him get in the back of the car and drove off with him. And the list of details like this seem to 
 go on endlessly.
  
  You can watch tv, go to comedy shows, go to a strip club, play pool, play darts, go bowling, go 
 drinking, call up any number of sluts you met at an online dating service at an internet cafe, 
 go buy hotdogs, go to restaurants, and the list just goes on and on and on...... seriously.... 
 it's f*cking amazing.
  
  Every car you jack has it's own personality as well... different weight, acceleration, torque, 
 etc. adds to the realism involved with driving, as does the radiostations you can tune to. The 
 music is phenomenally perfect for the game and even awe-inspiring at times. When I was speeding 
 past "Middle Park" in a thunderstorm in my Banshee listening to Journey (one of the stations) , 
 it felt absolutely incredible... there's really no way to describe it, unless you've played.
  
  Oh yeah, I said thunderstorm... the weather effects in this game are absolutely perfect and 
 at times set the tone for missions in a way that will make your experience entirely unique. It 
 may be foggy or raining when you experience a mission and it will set the tone in a way for you 
 that it may not do for someone who completes the mission during a sunny day. Every experience is 
 unique.
  
  Also, I mentioned "Middle Park", which would be the equivalent of New York's Central Park........ 
 and there are MANY parts of New York re-imagined in this masterpiece............ Times Square is 
 absofrigginlutely amazing... you need to see it for yourself to know, as is the Statue of Happiness.
 
  
  This is one of the few absolutely must play games of our generation. If you don't have it, buy 
 it. If you can't afford to buy it, rent it and pay of the late fees for the rest of your life.... 
 you need this game.
  
  I have well over 30 hours in my sandbox, and I may put in another 20 or so......... who knows. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  wow, this game is outstanding, good graphics, great gameplay, amazing storyline, fun missions, 
 fun side-missions, youll never get bored of this game. rockstar has missed some things, but lets 
 not get greedy. the first thing i wonna talk about is the gameplay. it doesnt matter if you go 
 bowling with your girlfriend or go racing with your bud, youll have fun, because you have the option 
 to do whatever you want. next thing is graphics, theyre good, but not great, ive seen better on 
 next gens, the thing i liked about these graphics is the blood out of that person you just shot 
 in the head spewing out is cool, and when your driving really fast the sides get blurry, which 
 is cool. next thing is the storyline. like the other gtas, the story is one of the main elements 
 of the game. i think maybe m night shamalamayamamanalalan may have wrote it because theres lots 
 of twists. its very well writen. last thing is mini-games, you have racing, pool, bowling, helicopter 
 tours, power-boating, dates, hijacking, and lots more that are fun and some of them promise a crap 
 load of money. thanks for reading because you probably hate me if you reading this. its the worst 
 review ever writen i know, just buy the game already, you seen the good ratings, buy it, and if 
 you own it, why the hell are you reading reviews? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGamer5
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  All you people have to worry about is you dont get to buy safehouses but u still have them and 
 no customizing your car..... but once you play it you wont care because everything else is so great. 
 The city is large size and looks like no city you have ever seen in a game.... the graphics are 
 detailed and it is still as action packed as past gta's with the occasional "different" missions 
 that are not all about shooting but still are entertaining. And since its gta and shattered the 
 previous record of units sold in one week previously held by galo 3... i mean halo 3, wat other 
 reaon do you guys need to buy it................. A TRUE OPEN WORLD-MULTIPLAYER MASTERPIECE..... until 
 GTA5 of course 
  It gets a perfect score because it stood up to the hype and showed why grand theft auto is still 
 KING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 (GTA 4) is the highly anticipated debut of Rockstar Game's Grand Theft Auto 
 series onto the next generation consoles. The GTA series is one of the biggest, most well known 
 franchises in the gaming industry, if not the multi-media industry as a whole. 
  
  The GTA series has always been famous for its sandbox game play that allows you to explore large 
 cities and do just about whatever you want. GTA 4 takes this sandbox game play to a whole new level 
 with the living and breathing city that is Liberty City, along with various game play improvements 
 from previous installations in the series. 
  
  The game is not without its minor frustrations, but GTA 4 is unquestionably a grand experience 
 that is a blast to play.
  
  In GTA 4, you play as Niko Bellic, an illegal immigrant who arrives at in America hoping to start 
 a new life. Unfortunately, Bellic does not find what he expects to find and has no choice but to 
 live a life of crime in Liberty City. The main storyline follows Bellic and his life in Liberty 
 City, along with his interactions with the various criminal factions and contacts you meet in the 
 city.
  
  GTA 4 follows the same formula that was used by GTA 3 back in 2001. You get to explore Liberty 
 City and do just about anything you want to. Along with the main storyline's missions and side 
 missions, you can steal cars, start a brawl in the bar with a friend, get drunk, and much more.
 
  
  One of the main reasons that just exploring Liberty City is so satisfying is that the city itself 
 is truly alive in GTA 4. The roads of the city are always bustling with activity as pedestrians 
 and drivers alike go about their business. Just exploring Liberty City and causing some havoc proves 
 to be a very nice diversion from GTA 4's missions, which can get a bit repetitive after a while.
 
  
  Along with a vastly improved city, GTA 4 makes a number of notable improvements to the basic game 
 play. The combat is much easier and more satisfying thanks to a new targeting system, which is 
 quite intuitive and makes it easy to shoot enemies and their different body parts.
  
  The combat system also benefits from a cover system, which allows you to take cover behind walls, 
 cars, trees, and more. These new elements added to GTA 4's combat are not entirely original, but 
 GTA 4 makes great use of these improvements.
  
  Just like previous entries of the series, you of course have to worry about the cops chasing you 
 down. Whenever the cops start chasing you, the game displays a bar that ranges from one to six 
 stars. This bar represents your wanted level. The higher the level, the more equipment, such as 
 better weapons or helicopters, the cops will bring in to arrest you. 
  
  Due to the navigation system provided for you, however, escaping the cops is very easy unless your 
 wanted level goes very high. It is still very entertaining when the cops get involved, though, 
 as it is a very tense experience when they start hunting for you with helicopters.
  
  Perhaps the most amusing new element in GTA 4 is the cell phone. The cell phone allows you to call 
 your contacts for various reasons, either for the main storyline, to take up side missions, or 
 go out with someone. But you are not the only one capable of making calls; your contacts can also 
 call you at any time, even when you're in combat.
  
  GTA 4 is unfortunately not flawless, as there are a number of problems within the game.
  
  
 The enemy artificial intelligence (AI) in GTA 4 is decent enough in that it uses cover against 
 you and has a pretty good aim. Unfortunately, when on the defensive against you, the enemy AI is 
 noticeably inflexible as it foolishly sticks to the cover it is scripted to use, no matter what 
 position you are in.
  
  The friendly AI in GTA 4 also has problems, as it suffers from occasional pathfinding glitches. 
 These glitches are rare, but they are common enough to be noticeable and they can bring consequences 
 upon the player that could have otherwise easily been avoided.
  
  GTA 4's replay system also has its setbacks. If you ever fail a mission, the replay system in GTA 
 4 lets you replay that mission immediately. While it is quite a generous system, it can induce 
 frustration in players when a mission starts with a very long drive. So if you failed such a mission 
 you have to take that long drive again in its entirety. This annoyance is relatively infrequent, 
 but it can hamper the pace of the game at times.
  
  When you are done with the single player, or just simply can't stand to be alone in the big city, 
 you can leap into GTA 4's multiplayer modes. The main attraction here is undoubtedly the ability 
 to just cause havoc throughout the city with up to 15 other players. If you want however, there 
 are also more classic modes such as death matches and races.
  
  Graphically, GTA 4 is not the most detailed game on the market from a technical standpoint. Fortunately, 
 the game still looks great with excellent character and car models. The game also has some great 
 lighting and impressive water effects, especially when it rains.
  
  GTA 4 has a lot of music for you to listen to while your exploring the city, as the game has a 
 rather large licensed soundtrack, most of which is played on the various radio stations you can 
 listen to in a car. There is also tons of outstanding voice acting for both the main characters 
 and the civilians you run into.
  
  The GTA series is not just famous for its high-quality game play, but is also well-known for its 
 mature content. GTA 4 has plenty of this type of content just like previous entries in the series. 
 For example, GTA 4 lets you go to a strip club where you can admire girls in thongs. The game even 
 lets you drive drunk. In short, this is of course not a game you want your kids playing, but older 
 gamers will probably enjoy GTA 4's mature aspects.
  
  All matters considered, GTA 4 is an excellent game that anyone with an Xbox 360 or Playstation 
 3 must have. Despite some minor setbacks, you owe it to yourself to check out the amazing experience 
 that is GTA 4.
  
  Pros: Liberty City truely lives and breaths. Combat is entertaining thanks to well implemented 
 targeting and cover systems. Excellent graphics. Enjoyable main storyline. Great multiplayer modes.
 
  
  Cons: Enemy AI can be inflexible in combat at times, especially during scripted story missions. 
 Replay system can force players to replay very long drives- which can get annoying.
  
  Recommendable for: Anyone with a PS3 or 360 should play GTA 4. Its a masterpiece that shouldn't 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icefrogger1313
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are impressive, especially the work with reflections, water, and the incredibly massive 
 draw distance. The controls are responsive and intuitive (minus a few snags in the cover system) . 
 The story is compelling, well written, and well told. The scope and detail of the city often distract 
 from the story and lead to long periods of time spent driving about the city just looking at the 
 scenery.
  
  Niko Bellic is probably the most compelling pro/antagonist to date. After the psychotic characters 
 of Claude from GTAIII , and Tommy from GTA: VA and goody two shoes from the hood CJ from GTA San 
 Andreas; playing as Niko Bellic is an absolute pleasure. After reading his cousin's emails about 
 the wonderful america Nika comes to America to escape his past and live that American dream. Only 
 to find himself stuck working for the darker residents of the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperknight9
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying this game is really great and definatly worth a play but there are some problems 
 that could have been avoided like the new aim system, sometimes its fun, but in the real heat of 
 the moment fighting off hordes of enemies is just plain impossible . also the story is kinda all 
 right breaking into people's houses and getting into a shootout is fun but 90% of the story is 
 car chases which get very repetitive and sometimes really frusterating probably because handling 
 the car is just a bit to hard and usually ends up in a crash also in the story there is no checkpoint 
 so if you get really far in a really long mission and make a small mistake you are forced to start 
 all over. But the worst problem of all and this pretty much ruined the game for me is that the 
 cops are the most annoying thing I have ever had to deal with so much as a push to any civilian 
 will make the cops chase you and its not very fun to run from the cops every time you want to start 
 something fun. other than that its pretty good. and the new euphoria program makes the world really 
 feel alive which makes the game really attracting. DONT belive what you hear about the game freezing 
 its not the game I can play it for over 20 hours strait and not have a problem anyone who cant 
 get your xbox checked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bicigo
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever. No comparison, best in series, graphics amazing, and it is AWESOME.
  The graphics are so close to being realistic that you can barely tell the difference.
  The in-game 
 cell phone is so simple but adds so much to the game. You can call and set a date up with your 
 friends cancel stuff going on and a whole bunch of other stuff. They also have internet where you 
 get e-mails of what to do with some missions and an online dating site.
  The cars still have that wierd feeling but are better handling than other games.
  I have not 
 played online yet but the story which I am about ten percent complete is already amazing. You start 
 out as an immagrant and gradually work your way up becoming friends with new people. Each friend 
 allows you to do something different like get cab rides, helicopter tours, illegal guns, and other 
 things.
  I have heard about the online which is supposed to be awesome. they have many different game types 
 including a free-for-all team deathmatch, and many others.
  This is probably one of the best games out there and if your thinking about getting Saints Row 
 2 and you don't have this your f***ed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverbullet198
Rating: 5
Date: May 9, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  as with most people, i have bought the game at full retail price which is a complete rip off but 
 i suppose its either pay now or in 2 years time when it drops in price.
  
  I started playing the game, and litrally smacked my gob at the visuals when i turned the corner 
 and saw the city from across the river. Went streight into the missions. Started the first one 
 and crash..... hmmm, did it again, crash, again crash, again .......... crash....  
 saved game. Did next mission, crash, restarted, completed that mission, next one, crash, restarted.. complete 
 
  
  i am sure by now you can see a pattturn emerging.... what the hell is wrong with rock star? release 
 a completly bugged out game like that and yes i am fullly aware that not everyone has this problem, 
 but look on the internet! forums have lit up with people having the same problems, my god didnt 
 rock star test it before they released it or where they to busy deciding how much to charge for 
 a tea coaster? HURRY UP AND PULL YA FINGERS OUT AND PATCH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpstock
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the release for a long time and couldn't wait for it to get to the shelves. 
 But, I was a little disappointed the first few times I played it. I found the graphics to be fantastic, 
 the content to be fun, and a great deal of immersion the moment you fire up the game. What was 
 killing the experience for me was the camera angles and controls. I simply could not get used to 
 it enough to drive effectively, which was causing me a lot of problems. I also noticed that it's 
 incredibly difficult to get some of the classic car models and some of the cheaper quality cars 
 to turn or power slide effectively.
  
  If you're feeling this way, give it a chance. Things really start to change once you adapt to the 
 camera angles/controls and you start gaining access to better, more expensive cars. I still don't 
 care for the camera angles and control, but it's not a show stopper any more after a few hours 
 of driving. All in all, I think they did a fantastic job with this game despite the awkwardness 
 of the camera. 9/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillupM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of the best role play game ever. The graphics are smooth, Liberty City is huge and 
 there is no loading while you drive around. The driving experience could be a little more realistic 
 but they put it at a level that makes it absolutely fun to thrash around the city speeding through 
 traffic while destroying the enviorment around you. Everything you hit show damage that relates 
 to the impact from light scratches to major damage. The storyline is excellent, much like a Guy 
 Richie gangster movie where several different groups of criminals are out to get each other and 
 you are right in the middle of all of them. If your favorite games are first person shooters like 
 COD4 & RB6V2 the shooting and foot pursuit portion of the game will take some time to get used 
 to but for a role play game it is excellent. GTAIV is one of the most exciting role play games 
 I have ever played. If you liked the other GTA games you will love this game. I was not much of 
 a GTA fan but this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunao2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 is game that everybody wants, stores sold out the game all over the world and people are 
 still crazy about it.
  
  So GTA 4 starts you off with a boat arriving to Liberty city, you are interpreting a guy named 
 Niko Bellic apparently he comes to America because his cousin Roman told him that he has a mansion, 
 sports cars and many girls. But soon you realized that the mansion is a crappy apartment, the sports 
 cars are cheap cabs and the women are slim to none.
  Then you'll start to meet people and do lots of GTA type missions for them, for example killing 
 a guy because he doesn't pay but mostly you are going to save your cousin from his debts. An interesting 
 feature in game is about you "calling the shots", you can simply follow orders or just do what 
 you think is right.
  The new addictions of GTA 4 are the cover system and the cell phone. The cell phone lets you call 
 anyone in-game for a talk or even an invitation to see a cabaret. The cover system is also unique 
 you can get cover behind every object in the environment.
  The graphics are just wonderful the city looks amazing with all those texture and it really loks 
 like New York but it has some GTA touches.
  
  GTA 4 is what you would expect from the beginning, you can steal cars, date with girls and lots 
 and lots of mayhem.
  The addition of multiplayer just makes this game spectacular it's up to 16 people with the city 
 all open to do whatever you want.
  
  The differences between the two versions are almost none with some exceptions:
  In the PS3 it 
 makes an install before launching the game (5 min.) and it looks like it runs a lot better and 
 smoother. On the other hand the Xbox 360 runs depending on your DVD player hardware because at 
 some points it has some streaming issues.
  
  To sum up GTA 4 is game that you must play no matter what kind of gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lash540
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is my review for Grand Theft Auto 4 , first I would like to point out a few things before 
 I start the review. 
  
  1. Gamespot rates this game as a 10 or meaning perfect or near perfect. This game is in no way 
 a 10. If this is a 10 then Saints Row should have been a 10 because they are almost exactly identical. 
 Now remember I like this game it's not bad, however, it's nowhere near perfect and if Gamespot 
 says they review games the way they say they do, then they wouldn't have put a 10 plain and simple.
 
  
  Here is a link to the Official Gamespot Grand Theft Auto 4 Review.
  http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/grandtheftauto4/review. html? om_act=convert&om_clk=tabs&tag=tabs; reviews 
 
  
  Here is the Official Gamespot Saint Row Review.
  http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/saintsrow/review. html? om_act=convert&om_clk=tabs&tag=tabs; reviews 
 
  
  In case you wanted to see their rating system here is the link.
  http://www. gamespot. com/misc/reviewguidelines. html
  
  Now that is out of the way let's review 
 Grand Theft Auto 4. Right off the bat this game is very pretty, it looks decent for it doing what 
 it does. (ex having so many moving cars and people on screen at once and still performing great 
 ) if you want to see them for yourself just look at the screen shoots here on Gamespot here is 
 a link.
  http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/action/grandtheftauto4/images. html? tag=tabs; images
  
  Note: 
 Make sure you look at the latest screen shots not the oldest.
  This game also sounds very good and all the voice acting and dialogue in my opinion is done extremely 
 well, let's not forget all the explosions and gunfire. The missions in this game are very  well 
 simple, plain, and frustrating. Take this guy here, kill that guy there, and drive for so long. 
 I got really bored with many of the missions because it felt like I was doing the same things over 
 and over. No change in pace, no real original missions and the driving  (I will get to 
 the driving momentarily) .
  Driving in this game is very messed up. You car spins wildly out of control and you're not even 
 going more than 2 mph, it's just plain stupid. Any car in General doesn't turn like a real car 
 of that size would. If you look at the tires and you turn your left thumb stick you will see what 
 I'm getting at. The wheels don't turn like a car in real life, granted I know cars turning axis 
 isn't shaped like a 90 degree angle to go straight left or right, but you can turn more than what 
 it will let you in Grand Theft Auto 4. This aspect alone makes many of the driving missions difficult. 
 I can't tell you how many times I lost a mission cause I keep crashing cause the car just didn't 
 want to turn, or I wrecked because Rockstar (the creators of the Grand Theft Auto Series/ http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Grand_Theft_Auto_4) 
 puts these people that come out of nowhere in the middle of the mission and try to wreck you. Many 
 times you can just recover and catch up but sometimes one wreck is all it takes and they escape 
 your sight and its mission failed.
  Another thing I didn't like was how you would start a mission, be chasing someone or trying to 
 get through a warehouse full of armed to the teeth drug dealers, and right when you get to the 
 end of the mission, after this it could have taken 10-30 minutes depending on how you went about 
 it, you die and you have to start the whole thing from scratch, No Checkpoint system what so ever. 
 The game will auto save if you complete a mission but it won't checkpoint you in the middle of 
 one so that if you die towards the end like I just explained. You don't have to be driving to the 
 mission to restart it from the beginning again cause you died or something. Not to mention you 
 have to hear the mission dialogue the characters talk about mid-mission over and over and over 
 and over and over You get the Idea. The last thing I didn't like was that they took out a lot 
 of stuff like the Rhino tank , jetpack , parachute, etc. All that stuff came out in Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas so why not in Grand Theft Auto 4? I will tell you why cause in a few months they 
 will make another, Grand Theft Auto 4 San Something and put all that stuff in there just so everyone 
 will have to buy that Grand Theft Auto 4 again to get those things I know I won't. I like my games 
 completed so I think from now on I will rent Grand Theft Auto titles and just stick the people 
 who make complete games and don't leave stuff out so they can make a new game thats almost exactly 
 the same as the last except they added something. I don't want to play recycled games.
  
  ! IMPORTANT PLEASE READ BEFORE YOU PLAY THE GAME OR BUY IT ! Don't Get me wrong this game is great 
 and the main story line is also great, but it is funny how they force you to play the main story 
 line quick and then do all the side missions. One of the achievements is to beat the game in 30 
 hours or less (Here is a list of the achievements and how do get them/ http://www. xbox360achievements. org/game/grand-theft-auto-iv/achievements/) . 
 Granted this is easy but it doesn't give you that feeling of oh I can just finish the story line 
 later, right now I want to drive this guy around or do side missions for this guy. I beat the game 
 and it took me almost 22 hours, to me that is too close to 30 hours.
  
  HELPFUL TIP: Get Roman and Little Jacob to like and respect you 100% it will greatly reduce the 
 time it takes to get around and how much money you will waste on weapons. Roman at 100% = Free 
 Cab Service/ Little Jacob at 100% = Sell you guns out of his truck for dirty Cheap. Just take them 
 both drinking a lot (Do whatever you want but driving drunk in this game is really funny) , until 
 you get 100% like and respect from them both.
  
  HELPFUL TIP: ALSO ALWAYS USE BODY ARMOR IT WILL HELP YOU A LOT TRUST ME, SO BEFORE EVERY MISSION 
 MAKE SURE BODY ARMOR IS MAXED OUT THEN GO DO THE MISSION, Trust me you will thank me. Multiplayer 
 is really fun they have all sorts of game types to choose from death match, team death match, cops 
 and robbers. Not to mention you can just make a room and you and a few other buddies can just mess 
 around driving around the whole city like if you were playing single player. That feature pertains 
 to all game types. Yes I know what you're saying AWESOME! Well that's cause it is. 
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone, if you're still skeptical Rent it trust me you won't be 
 disappointed. Want a cool play to rent games? http://www. gamefly. com/products/detail. asp? pid=124550&t=0&fcTrack=Xbox%20360%20Page? Most%20Popular?- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothSolo
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Grand Theft Auto since the second game in the series, GTA II, and it continues 
 to amaze, inspire, and give me hope. This time though, Rockstar has outdone itself. The game is 
 beyond simply anything simply describable as ground-breaking, innovative, or amazing. There are 
 no real words to describe the intense psychosis of being a poor immigrant who gets to take control 
 of a huge city like Liberty City.
  
  If I were to sum up the game in a single word, it would be awe-inspiring. Right from the intro 
 movie, you are introduced into a strange, exciting world of powerful graphics, physics, voice-acting, 
 music, particles, water reflections, etc..
  
  But it doesn't stop there... once you're given control, the world is living and breathing with amazing 
 amounts of pulse and livelihood. The people react to you in so many ways that makes San Andreas 
 look like a puppet show with a stupid robot controlling them as he only has the capacity for 1,000 
 words. There are more elements to a single street in this version of Liberty City than ever before, 
 making it more difficult to destroy what you see and when you do finally destroy things, it makes 
 it that much more exciting and fun seeing debris flying everywhere. The only issue I had was that 
 the plant life looked.... dull and still fake despite all the amazing upgrades and additions to 
 the world. The people's reactions, words, simulation of life are all very realistic and diverse, 
 although, as with all games, it could eventually become repetitive. Luckily enough, it should take 
 quite some time for that to happen compared to San Andreas.
  
  The driving in the game is a bit difficult to get used to as it's very sensitive and realistic, 
 similar to the Gran Turismo driving system and physics. Bikes, my favorite vehicle, are very hard 
 to turn, despite the fact that they are quite fast. Personally, I think the driving system could 
 use tweaking, but as I have yet to try out vehicle modification, I can't really complain too much. 
 I'm hoping for chassis design, transmissions, wheelbases, axles, wheels, brakes, steering, etc. 
 to help with the lack of control or abundance of too much control in the vehicles.
  
  The missions are relatively easy to understand and command with little need of thought process 
 towards understanding. The cellphone system they use in the game is amazingly intuitive and piercingly 
 clear to view. Even on a Standard TV, it looks pretty damn good and you can always see it. The 
 input of numbers is very nice and the auto-memory is very handy. Having all your options in-game 
 by means of a cellphone menu, is actually very nice.
  
  The controls are indeed much more compatible and much easier to work with. Everything seems more... comprehensible 
 and easy. Although, I do have an issue that R3 is to look back, but ya know, it's just more realistic.
 
  
  The biggest and most noticeable difference in gameplay besides graphics and world interaction is 
 the civil services. LCPD, LCFD, and LCMD are all much more intense and responsive. They also will 
 get you now for almost every conceivable RL crime except perhaps jaywalking or something really, 
 really petty that doesn't involve theft. I haven't tried vandalism yet, so we'll see. The cops 
 get on you within seconds and their response time is quite realistic. Their response and the wanted 
 level system is much more realistic. I haven't been able to get higher than lvl4, so we'll see 
 on what they bring in, but so far it remains localized even at 4, which is realistic.
  
  I remember accidentally hitting a telephone pole and I got a wanted level. No, there were no pedestrians 
 that I hit or cars that I hit, just a pole. The pole then fell down and almost killed three people 
 by the time I drove away to get from the cops.
  
  The music selection is so huge and so massive that I can't imagine using the custom soundtrack 
 capabilities of the Xbox 360 for this game. It just would ruin what is already an amazing lineup. 
 Almost every major music genre is represented in this game except maybe... Asian folk music?
  
  One interesting quirk is that all of the voice-acting is done almost entirely by unknown actors 
 or little-known actors. Even though they do an amazing job.. it seems.. interesting that Rockstar 
 choose an unknown cast when every game from GTAIII to San Andreas has had at least 10 stars cast 
 to play the main antagonists and protagonists in the games.
  
  The character customization has also had a huge overhaul with expanded libraries and options giving 
 you a much more unique look and a unique system for giving the character and his girlfriends excitement. 
 The dating system is also MUCH more realistic and exciting honestly. I also like that she doesn't 
 get clingy like in San Andreas with the stupid meters telling you she's getting unhappy. I spent 
 a week away and she didn't go down in desire, so... I like that. Another great addition is that 
 you can watch TV, play video games, listen to the radio, go to a Ferris Wheel and actually EXPERIENCE 
 it, ride a roller coaster, go bowling, play pool, play darts, FINALLY get drunk as hell, which 
 is really hard driving, and even eat whatever you want. Overall, the character options are much, 
 much larger than in San Andreas and it really adds to the value of gameplay, re-playability, and 
 longevity of the game.
  
  The new aiming system is actually more intuitive and easy, giving the player a lot of control over 
 his/her character's actions involving weapons. The hand-to-hand combat system is a bit more evolved, 
 but not a lot.
  
  One huge noticeable difference in gameplay is the physics and particle systems. Explosions are 
 much more intense and responsive to the environment. I shot a rocket at a building, by a busy intersection 
 and the pedestrians and the cars reacted to the huge explosion. One guy fell over and held his 
 body in pain from the shockwave, not the actual explosion, that rippled from the explosion itself. 
 The flame changes color, tone, hue, and smoke value throughout the explosion as does the lighting 
 and intensity of the blast. They are also REALLY loud, even from a simple grenade or molotov cocktail, 
 which, they probably would be in reality. It gives a nice feeling to the world.
  
  One big problem I do have is the lack of "GTA fun" that the game seems to move away from. No more 
 Ammo-Nations, no more visible, easy to use Pay-N-Sprays, no more awesome driving system that was 
 easy to master after a few hours of trial and error, and the same old MALE characters to play with. 
 I mean, yes, the game is more realistic, but this is GTA, not SOCOM or Rainbow Six. It's supposed 
 to be violent, unusual, quirky, and unrealistic, however, it is the designers that came up with 
 it and thought it would be great and that's just fine with me. It's just a little curious and crazy 
 to me. I'd also would've liked to see the option of a female or male character with full body design 
 customization in this game finally, but I guess we'll just have to wait.
  
  All in All, I love this game and I think it deserves the best ratings and awards for it's incredible 
 depth, diversity, and design. I give the game a 9.98 out of 10 and five stars. I also would say 
 that this game EASILY has 300+ hours of gameplay to it now compared to the 170+ hours when doing 
 all the sidejobs and such of San Andreas. This game is worth buying every penny and worth spending 
 every moment playing.
  
  So, Thank You Rockstar for making another "blow-your-mind, holy-****ing **** Batman" kind of game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antimat0r
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Before reading this, know that i havent played through that much of the game and only had a go 
 around a friends house.
  
  GTA4 looks like a really good game, but 10/10??? This should be a very hard achievement to get, 
 which shows as Gamespot last gave 1 around 7 years ago.
  
  - For a modern game, the graphics and above average but not brilliant.
  - Driving controls are 
 oversensitive and ever brake results in nearly 360 degree spins
  - I hit a wall on a moped at walking speed which made it ride up the wall and on top of me
  - 
 Script writing seems terrible, quote 'You do seem like the kind of person i would like to get to 
 know' (said by someone i hadnt said 1 word to yet)
  
  This being said, it must have an awesome story line for such a good review and hope that if i rent 
 the game it gets better as it goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langway
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  Why have some rated this game low, excusing it as a way to balance out all of the high ratings? 
 Rate it the way you see it. No one asking you to be the rating police.
  
  That said, I rated this game high for one reason. Fun factor! Yes, it's a rehash of everything 
 GTA, but isn't that why people buy the game. No different than Madden (even though I hate Madden) .
 
  
  The storied missions are well done, and the voice acting varies from clunky, to exceptionally well 
 done. I wouldn't expect more from a video game. The streets of Liberty City are alive and vibrant, 
 with more NPC types on the streets than ever before.
  
  Like every GTA game, the driving mechanics take a bit getting used to. But once you have the breaks, 
 and hand break mastered, you'll be zipping through the streets like a pro.
  
  The new targeting and cover system is much improved over previous versions, but nothing reveloutionary. 
 It, like the driving mechanics have a learning curve. It doesn't take that long to get the hang 
 of, and you'll soon find yourself using weapons and cover efficiently.
  
  In the end, it comes down to personal taste. If you're tired of the series, don't complain about 
 buying something you've already set yourself up to hate. If you can't get enough of GTA, this version 
 will not disappoint, and keep you entertained for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballpimp13
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Go ahead fan boys, flame this review up. ok GTA4 was a solid game. Not ground breaking, not innovative, 
 just fun. I had FUN with it but I defiantly feel that it does not deserve a 10. Maybe a 7.5 to 
 an 8. The multiplayer for one is not competitive at all, and is only fun for about 30 minutes at 
 a time. I can only run some body over with a car so many times before it gets old. The shooting 
 in this game is horrible. You would think this game would have this mastered but it just feels 
 wrong. Also what happened to offline co-op???? An xbox has 4 controller slots but all the games 
 are only 1 player and have multiplayer ONLY onine. I have xbox live but I like to play with my 
 buddies in person everyone and a while. You know some people LIKE to hang out with people and no 
 be anti social. The biggest flaw to me is it's lack of gore. You can have **** drugs, and sex, 
 but when I shoot a person with a shotgun a little blood just sprays off of thier body. In the old 
 GTAs you could blow limbs off. Also the blood doesn't even puddle up anymore when you kill somebody. 
 The new weapons are boring to boot. Hell why would you add 2 types of the same gun???? You could 
 have added a lot of different guns and weapons like in previous GTAs. It seems like they took away 
 stuff to add new stuff and that is why the game is lacking. This honestly sold from pure hype. 
 I am a game designer, thats what i spent 80 thousand dollars to do, and I could point out soooo 
 many things that could have been improved. For one... WHERE IS THE DANG TANK!!!!! the stupid helicopter 
 is retarted. They should have added a limited amout of missles that have splash damage than a stupid 
 machine gun which you will NEVER kill anyone with, due to the helicopters poor controls. There 
 are good aspects of the game. It is fun, and the story is good. The vehicles drive well and I think 
 the bailing out and being ejected is quite funny. The game to me is just easy. I have played games 
 since I was 2 years old and this is basically the same game as before. It is just like madden. 
 Same game, new price tag. Honestly this game is just a graphical upgrade of the old GTAs, and the 
 others are better on most other levels. Like I said before. If you like GTA then I know you are 
 saying that I am stupid and that I don't know what I am talking about but when I see people flip 
 out over this game and madden it burns me up. Especially when madden outsells hit games due to 
 the retarted football fans who only play these two games. Madden should just be UPDATED yearly 
 with rosters because you basically pay 60 for a new set of players, same goes for GTA4 you pay 
 for new story and better graphics. All in all, as much as I just destroyed this game, it was a 
 good game, not great, but good. Don't listen to all of these reviews unless you are a stupid fanboy 
 who owns madden and GTA only. RENT IT! I will be turning my copy in monday more gamestop store 
 credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  It was easy for me in the days leading up to the release of Grand Theft Auto IV to look at the 
 game with an air of cynicism and doubt. "How could the game actually live up to these (seemingly) 
 hyperbolic statements?" was a question that I asked myself constantly. For someone like myself, 
 who has never dug my teeth into the story or missions of past GTA games and did not especially 
 care for the series in general, it goes without saying that I did not expect much from this newest 
 entry.
  
  What I received was the best story to be ever told in a video game.
  
  In Grand Theft Auto IV you are Niko Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant coming to Liberty City 
 to live out the "American Dream" with your cousin, Roman. Prior to your trip across the Atlantic, 
 Roman talked of mansions, sports cars and beautiful womenwhen you reach him, you realize that 
 it was all a farce and he lives in a dump, just scrapping by in the city. With no real skills other 
 than dealing in death, Niko is forced into the seedy underground of filling jobs for crooked cops, 
 mafia thugs, and gangsters to get by, all the while searching for demons in his past.
  
  Saying anything else past that would be unfair to anyone out there that hasn't played the game. 
 What I will say, however, is that GTAIV tasks you with deciding on complex moral decisions throughout 
 the game that will force you to put down the controller and weigh the pros and cons of the decisions 
 you will have to make. By the end of the storyline it will feel like all the things happened to 
 you, not Niko. The decisions you make are things you have to live with after you've completed the 
 game. I was constantly thinking "what-if I did this instead of that, what would have happened?" 
 There is a trend in gaming that have you making these moral choices (BioShock, Mass Effect) and 
 Grand Theft Auto IV easily takes the top spot in that regard. I was shaken to my core by the choices 
 I was forced to make. 
  
  This is thanks to terrific character development, character design and how the story is impressed 
 upon the player. If you wanted to, you could purely play the missions in the game and still be 
 thoroughly enamored with the storyline. However, throughout the game you'll have the opportunity 
 to cultivate the relationships you have forged with the characters you meet along the way, allowing 
 you to take these friends out to eat, bowl, bars, strip clubs, among other things. It is not the 
 actual act of going to these events that make them worthwhile, it is on the way to the bar or bowling 
 alley and on the way back that their true value is unlocked. While you are in the car with these 
 characters, the conversations you have with them will unlock tiny nuggets of information; back 
 story that you would not receive otherwise. Also, if you get these characters to like you well 
 enough, it will unlock perks in the game that prove useful: Helicopter rides, free cab service, 
 buying guns and armor for reduced prices, and more.
  
  One of the reasons the game's story succeeds is because of some sharply written dialogue and unbelievable 
 voice acting. Bruce Kronenberg, the voice of Niko, stole the show in a game full of extremely well-voiced 
 actors. He captured the emotion of the moment on every occasion, without fail. Dan Houser, the 
 writer for the game, deserves all the praise that could be showered upon him for this landmark 
 accomplishment in video game writing. He managed to write human characters in a video game, something 
 that is a rarity in our industry.
  
  Gameplay wise, things seems somewhat similar to past Grand Theft games. There are some new additions 
 to make things a bit easier to progress through the game and a lot less unwieldy. Shooting has 
 been over-hauled from past games, allowing you to take cover behind walls, cement blocks, etc., 
 as well as blind fire. There is a free-aim option to shooting as well as an auto-lock on feature, 
 and I primarily stuck to the auto-lock on. It was fairly easy to take down the enemies with it 
 and there is no need to complicate things. The addition of the cell phone was key to the design 
 and helped things from getting too frustrating. If you fail a mission, you will receive a text 
 message that allows you to quickly jump back into the mission, without having to drive back to 
 the person that gave you the job. 
  
  The game still has its moments of challenge though, mostly with missions where you had to chase 
 targets. I would take a wrong turn or crash into something, allowing them to get away. The shoot-out 
 sections had their moments early on, but as you get deeper in the game, you'll grow more and more 
 accustomed to how things work in those situations, negating most of the challenge.
  
  The mission structure can, at times, illicit a "here we go again" feeling, as the variety is lacking 
 at certain points in the game. Yet, whenever you get these thoughts, the game will throw you an 
 amazing mission that will grab you with either its story significance or its enthralling setting/premise.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks phenomenal when measured in scale and in scope. Getting in a helicopter 
 and flying around the city, you can't help but marvel at the sheer size. You'll note the glistening 
 water in the sunset and the lights of cars and bridges at night. To be sure, you can find better 
 looking games out there when it comes to very finite details, but nothing else matches GTAIV's 
 size and scope.
  
  There are so many other things to say about the game, but there is no reason to drone on about 
 every single little thing that GTAIV offers. I've put 42 hours into the game, completing just one 
 of the two endings. I have achievements to get, more side missions to do, and a lot of multiplayer 
 to dig my teeth into. Even if those extras weren't included, this still would be a phenomenal, 
 once in a lifetime experience. One that every fan of video games, every fan of video game storytellinghell, 
 a fan of a good storytelling in generalowes themselves the privilege of checking out for themselves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenbittle
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Simply said this must be the best game I have ever played. The attention to detail is fantastic 
 you will see joggers jogging through central park, you will see saxophone players in the subway 
 and you will just meet random people on the street and end up doing a mission for them. The graphics 
 are superb for a game this size, the lock on and overall shooting system is great the driving has 
 been vastly improved although it does get some getting used to. My only gripe has to be that it 
 is difficult to get in to a multiplayer game you prefer as there is only a quick match feature 
 and no custom search yet. But if you do get into a multiplayer game it just might be the most fun 
 you have ever had on an xbox 360. Definitely a ten out of ten even if you have never played a GTA 
 game in your life this is like a whole new game that both fans of previous games and newbies can 
 enjoy and with DLC coming in august, things just keep getting better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydiamond
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  After three years of build-up we finally have the next installment in one of the longest running 
 franchises in the business. It is a shame then, that considering the power and efficiency of the 
 seventh generation gaming consoles we've actually been given a game which cuts out several features 
 - some small, some large - that have been delighting gamers since the top down frolics of the original 
 PC version of GTA1. On with the review.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Grand Theft Auto has never been noted for having top-notch graphics, even at release time. However, 
 leaps and bounds with Rockstar's new game engine make this something of a visual treat. Things 
 look photorealistic, animation is smoother, colours more vibrant when the saturation is maxed out. 
 Draw distance and other minor glitches that have been hanging around since 2001's GTA3 have all 
 but disappeared. The city really does look and feel alive, even though it appears to be smaller 
 than San Andreas. Explosions are a little weak looking but still an improvement.
  
  For some reason we still have the glitch where whatever car you are in will spawn repeatedly. This 
 makes getting certain sports cars next to impossible, until you find one, steal it and find the 
 streets crawling with them. Something else to note is slowdown. These graphics don't feel optimised. 
 I suppose this is a drawback of multi-platform release - they want to make it run reasonably on 
 all systems and make the later PC release easier to port, I would guess. It lags every so often, 
 even when running in standard definition. Probably a least a handful of times every ten minutes.
 
  
  Apart from these minor setbacks, this is a good effort.
  
  (SIDENOTE: Some minor features have been ripped from Bully by Rockstar Vancouver - note the health 
 bar on the side of the radar and the fist icon to name two.)
  
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Another GTA release, another mediocre soundtrack. The only two I've loved so far have been the 
 original game featuring little known-artists and Vice City's flawless 1980s rendering. All the 
 others either get switched off or turned to custom soundtrack mode within a mere few hours of play. 
 This one is no different.
  
  Everything else is up to the high watermark. Gun shots, tires popping, most of the voice acting, 
 everything in between - unfaultable. Where the graphics might let you down, the sound effects allow 
 more immersion in the game world.
  
  
  Gameplay: 6
  
  Seriously underwhelming. It became so obvious when I was trying out some of the cheat codes to 
 get the alleged 'killer' vechicles and modes. There was a range of underwhelming sports cars, a 
 couple of crappy boats, NO TANKS, NO APACHE 'HUNTER' and definately NO 'HYDRA' JUMP JET. I can 
 see no good reasons why these can't be cheated in even if they're not in the game. This way Rockstar 
 avoids controversy on the media surface level but leaves in the fun vehicles for later.
  
  What else is missing? VIgilante missions, Taxi missions, Paramedic missions, Firetruck missions, 
 Pizza boy missions, general store robberies, hidden packages or horseshoes/oysters/tags (replaced 
 by pigeon shooting - no thanks) and several other things that have been important non-linear aspects 
 of the games ever since the series went 3D seven years ago.
  
  This is a problem made much worse by a repetitive story mode. I've noticed that as the years go 
 by the amount of 'hand-holding' you are given in the form of camera-pan clues and on screen instructions 
 have increased. Where there used to be several ways to complete goals (ie, unlocking the Apache 
 and using excessive firepower with hilarious results) it feels less like a sandbox, less like glossy 
 arcade fun and more like a simulator.
  
  The quiant RPG aspects of the series have been detrimentally altered. All the mundane things like 
 dating and going dancing have been expanded and the amusing things like eating and buying clothes 
 have been scaled down. Really big mistake that becomes apparent early on.
  
  The online mode is about the only part of this experience that brings some flair to the proceedings 
 and since I don't really care for online play most of the time it's a mere fringe benefit. About 
 the only gameplay improvement here is the fact you can aim when you do drive-by shootings - a feature 
 that the game sorely underuses.
  
  
  Control: 5
  
  Oh my God, what have they DONE?! I was never a hotshot driver but I always loved the fact you could 
 pull of the kind of crazy John-McClane-In-A-Taxi unrealistic but amazingly fun driving with ease. 
 The spongy turning that allowed for unlimited amusement has been severely neutered here, to the 
 point where even the sports cars handle like battered old Yugos. Forget pulling handbrake turns 
 at high speed unless you like crashing hard into walls or flipping the car all the way round.
 
  
  For a game with such heavy emphasis on driving, they've really dropped it here. I expected the 
 car control to be a tad more realistic but what they seem to have done is taken the worst aspects 
 of arcade handling and combined them with the worst aspects of simulator handling. Everything you 
 hated about Burnout meets everything you hated about Project Gotham and Gran Turismo, basically. 
 They had the balance near perfect and now it's atrocious.
  
  On foot control fares a little better. They've ripped the duck and cover aspect of Gears of War 
 and it works well enough most of the time, though it tends to glitch up more than it should. It 
 doesn't feel as natural as the target system in the GTAIII games, but with a little practice you 
 can get headshots well enough. I wonder how well the control system will translate over to the 
 PC.
  
  
  Overall: 6.5
  
  I expected to be floored by this game. I expected to be able to do everything - from largest to 
 most insignificant - and so much more besides. I believed this would be the first true 'killer 
 app' of the seventh console generation. But they've stripped all that away. Even something as simple 
 as jumping onto the hood of someone's car and plunging a chainsaw into the engine to see them jump 
 out at high speeds while you laugh like a loon. No, you can't do that any more. You can't get chased 
 by the Army either. All those one-man waves of destruction pall quicker than ever before.
  
  By removing so many great bonus features they reduce this iteration to a game with even less 
 originality than the two handfuls of games before it, a game much less than the sum of it's parts. 
 If they'd really ramped up the mission side of things they might have fared better, but there are 
 no thrilling set pieces like the great bank heist of Vice City or the military jet theft of San 
 Andreas. And going back to Liberty City - very uninspired. Why don't they go back to London instead? 
 Certainly would have made things more interesting.
  
  Rockstar didn't invent the sandbox genre, but they were once the undisputed kings of it. Unlike 
 most people not giving this a glowing review, I'm not a huge Saints Row fan either. For most gamers 
 who don't really go for depth - which sadly appears to be a lot of people - good graphics and sound 
 will do the trick. I expect most people bestowing a 10 on this blowout never played the other versions 
 as deeply as I did, never spent hours looking for hidden rampages and packages to unlock things.
 
  
  GTA IV will appeal to the casual gamer whereas in the past GTA appealed to gamers; no sub-catagory 
 required. Removing some core features and radically changing other core features for the worse 
 while adding mere minor upgrades has happened to some of my other favourite franchises - WWE and 
 Fight Night to name two - and it is very sad to see it happen here.
  
  I wasn't overly impressed with the setting and mission structure of GTAIII - the first game to 
 be released on the sixth generation consoles and the first to go 3D - but I was bowled over by 
 Vice City and spent many hours in my dorm blasting pedestrians when I should have been studying. 
 I hope Rockstar will rectify all these problems, move back to Vice City and create a sequel just 
 as good as Vice City.
  
  If not, maybe that Saint's Row sequel will stand up better, after all. I just hope I won't have 
 to wait until XBMC is ported to X360, because if the only killer app I buy one for is homebrew 
 software, I think I'm going to be sorely disappointed with everything else the seventh generation 
 has to offer. So far this is - games that are superficially great in terms of look and sound but 
 completely shallow in the one most important aspect, the one I started playing for - GAMEPLAY. 
 Chalk Rockstar's latest up as one of those, buy it and play it for a few weeks and sell it on while 
 the resale value is still high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  
  The American Dream something two foolish gangsters, Niko his cousin Roman, come to Liberty City 
 to chase. With aspirations of wealth, Niko and Roman embark on a journey to rise to the top, and, 
 in true GTA fashion, must perform a variety of illegal activities in order to do so.
  
  Now, usually the stories in GTA games are 50% movie ripoffs and 50% afterthought. But such is not 
 the case in Grand Theft Auto IV. The game has a story of its own, and damn, is it good. In short 
 it's a story that stacks up to those of the best crime flicks.
  
  First off, let's start with Niko. Unlike Claude, Tommy Vercetti, and to a bit of a lesser degree, 
 CJ, Niko is a real three dimensional character. Unlike the three previous protagonists, you know 
 what's going through his head, and he's generally a better-written character. When you were controlling 
 Tommy and CJ, and were able to do all sorts of horrible things, it made them come off as douchebags 
 above all else, but Niko's writing solidifies him as an individual who's tossed into a horrible 
 world, and must fight to survive.
  
  The story of IV represents a pretty big departure from the previous games. Instead of building 
 a new criminal empire themselves, Niko and Roman enter one just as it is about to collapse, but 
 struggle to make it big anyway. The types deals with follow that basic structure, they're not all 
 successful crooks that you'd see in past GTA games, but instead are worn-out, burnt-out sociopaths. 
 This is story telling at it's very best, both in video games and otherwise. Niko's adventures (well, 
 more misadventures) are entertaining, and the characters and writing are as great as ever. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV's story is as epic as it should be, and maybe a little bit more.
  
  Liberty City is no longer the place from GTA III and Liberty City Stories you know and love. But, 
 you'll probably love it even more than the original. The city is a very realistic model of New 
 York City, complete with a Time Square equivalent, and the Statue of Liberty-esque Statue of Happiness. 
 
  
  I'll admit I was a bit skeptical when I first heard that Grand Theft Auto IV would only feature 
 one city. Given that the game is on a next-gen platform, and especially because of the monstrous 
 world that San Andreas gave me, I was expecting a bit more. But my fears were extinguished, the 
 new Liberty City is bigger than the old one, and even Vice City, and it's filled with detail, and 
 there are lots of interiors you can access (with no loading times whatsoever.)
  
  The new world built for GTA IV is the most real city ever featured in a video game. The people 
 seem like they're actually out on the street doing things, and not just there to be your cannon 
 fodder, or sit and wait for you to use them as your new hood ornament. And since the people are 
 more real, the cops, for better or worse, are also more real. They'll go after you for the smallest 
 crime, and if you want to go on a 3 star plus rampage, I dare you to last more than a minute or 
 two. I personally enjoyed the fact that the cops were more realistic in their pursuit of you, since 
 it adds an extra layer of cautiousness; you have to think before you act. But those who enjoy going 
 on mindless killing sprees might be bothered by it, but it's a new world; adapt or die.
  
  Driving a car became a nigh-mundane experience by San Andreas, but thanks to the new car mechanics 
 in GTA IV, driving cars offers an entirely new experience. Instead of handling perfectly, the car 
 will often perform in just the opposite manner (especially with the crappy cars you'll be driving 
 around the beginning of the game.) Instead of feeling arcade-y, the simple act of driving a car 
 in GTA IV feels more like how it would in an actual racing game.
  
  Of course, since driving a car has become more complex, jacking one will do the same. Instead of 
 simply hopping into anyone's car, parked or not, things are a bit more difficult. Most people will 
 go after you after you jack their car, and when a car is parked, you'll usually have to break through 
 the window and hotwire it. Little things like this actually serve to add quite a lot to the game's 
 tension. Often when you're hotwiring a car, you'll find yourself looking around to see if any cops 
 are on their way, and in case you're in the middle of hotwiring a car while the 5-0 are already 
 after you, that's a whole different story.
  
  But not just cars are at your disposal. You'll get boats and helicopters. While boats feel a little 
 under-utilized as usual, helicopters are quite awesome, especially in the new Liberty City. Seeing 
 the city from above is something I truly can't describe, you really must check it out for yourself. 
 Exploring the city from above gives you a really different perspective on it, as it should.
  
  When Rockstar could've just slapped in the old vehicle mechanics, and be done with it, they 
 really went the extra mile by completely changing things up. And the way these changes have ended 
 up definitely make them changes for the better.
  
  In previous GTA games, when it came to getting down and dirty with your fists, you're skill-set 
 was limited to punches, and well just punches, actually. But, this time around, the game has 
 a very fleshed-out fighting mechanic. You can punch, kick, block, grab, and even disarm enemies. 
 In the end, melee brawls are intense, and brutal.
  
  Of course, you have to be able to pop some caps. And when it comes to doing this, Grand Theft Auto 
 IV goes above and beyond the call of duty. Not only is targeting, and switching between targets 
 made much less aggravating, but you get a full-fledged cover system to work with. You can slide 
 behind cover, and blind-fire, target your enemies, or put some fine-aim on your shots. 
  
  In the previous three GTA games, it was easy to forgive the weak combat system, just due to how 
 much other stuff you could do. Frankly, I would've forgiven GTA IV if it kept the same old combat 
 systems, but the fact that the developers went and created a great fighting mechanic, and a shooting 
 mechanic that is on par with games that are strictly shooters is thoroughly awesome. 
  
  It's good to be connected. It's pretty astounding to be connected in a video game. The additions 
 of a cell phone and an internet complete with dozens of fake websites truly add another layer to 
 this game.
  
  The cell phone plays a pretty major role in GTA IV's gameplay. Instead of walking into your contact's 
 homes, where they will always be and have work for you like in the previous games of the series, 
 you'll usually set up meets with your trust cellular. The cell phone can also be used for a number 
 of other things; you can call your friends/girlfriends up to hang out, and you can even screw around 
 with it and do things like prank call 911. 
  
  The addition of the internet may seem fairly minor, but it just serves to have an even deeper experience. 
 You can surf tons of fake sites with some really funny content, and you can even get things like 
 pop-up ads. But, the internet isn't just for kicks, sometimes you have to use the internet for 
 missions, or you can use a web dating service to find some new dates.
  
  Being connected adds a greater sense of realism to the game. In previous games, the characters 
 used their cells minimally, which seemed a bit ridiculous as the protagonists across all the GTA 
 games are constantly meeting with "associates". Not only does it add realism, and depth to the 
 game, but cell phones and the internet can provide a good amount of entertainment.
  
  One of the biggest leaps forward in taking the Grand Theft Auto series to the next-gen consoles 
 is the inclusion of online multiplayer. Players can take part in 15 different modes that range 
 from free-for-alls, to team-based modes, co-op, and Free Mode.
  
  The competitive multiplayer modes are all great. FFA's a relentlessly thrilling, and intense, and 
 the team based modes are great too. The team based modes, such as Cops 'n Crooks will often have 
 some pretty complicated objectives, but fortunately, they're spelled out very clearly. Having deathmatches 
 raging all across the city is epic, to say the least.
  
  The co-op falls a bit short. There are four co-op levels that are fairly fun, but are ultimately 
 too complicated, and too difficult to offer a level of entertainment on par with that of the competitive 
 modes.
  
  Free Mode, though, is absolutely astounding. Basically, you can get up to 15 of your buds, and 
 cruise around the city doing whatever you damn well please. Want to go on a massive rampage? Fine. 
 Want to explore? Sure. Want to just screw around? You can. It's an experience that I truly can't 
 describe, you really must check it out for yourself; the days of venturing, and rampage throughout 
 the city alone are at an end with Free Mode.
  
  All in all, the multiplayer component of GTA IV is great. While the co-op modes aren't too great, 
 the competitive modes are awesome, and Free Mode is one of the most fun things to ever be included 
 in a video game. Remember: two (or more) carjackers, murderers, and thieves are always better than 
 one.
  
  Past GTA games weren't pretty. But you could forgive their graphical shortcomings because of how 
 massive the game worlds were. Grand Theft Auto IV is, in fact, quite pretty. No, it doesn't have 
 the best graphics around, there are some issues with clipping, and some textures don't look too 
 great. It is worth being said, though, that the animations are really amazing, and help bring the 
 characters to life.
  
  But, really, the best new addition is the RAGE physics engine. Hitting pedestrians is far more 
 satisfying due to the ragdoll, and there are a few funny uses, when you're speeding along, and 
 hit something, Niko will occasionally go flying through the windshield. The RAGE engine is just 
 another one of the many ways that Grand Theft Auto IV has created a very real atmosphere.
  
  No GTA game has ever been considered to have outstanding engines. This hasn't really changed 
 here, but the series' fourth entry still looks damn good considering it's size.
  
  The story mode itself will take players quite a long time to beat, and is definitely a good few 
 hours longer than the campaign in San Andreas. But, of course, it's GTA, you can spend hours just 
 messing around, doing side missions, or looking for odds and ends that'll boost your completion 
 percentage. But, the lifespan of GTA IV really skyrockets thanks to the multiplayer, which you 
 can easily sink dozens of hours into. The bang for your buck that you get with Grand Theft Auto 
 IV makes it one of the best uses of $60 dollars on a video game possible.
  
  I said at one point that Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was the "most free, and most epic game available". 
 Well, I take back that statement, you can replace "San Andreas" in the sentence above with "IV". 
 
  
  I thought at one point that I could bail out of giving Grand Theft Auto IV this score, since I 
 really don't like handing out these scores easily, but it's become apparent to me that I just can't 
 avoid it. Every console generation has one defining game, the PS/N64 generation had Ocarina of 
 Time, the XBOX/PS2/GameCube era had San Andreas, and now, it's becoming clear that when looking 
 back at this PS3/Wii/360 generation, it's a strong possibility that Grand Theft Auto IV will be 
 that one defining game. So, Grand Theft Auto IV is rightfully deserving of my 4th ever 10/10.
 
  
  If you like action/adventure games, you like Grand Theft Auto IV, simple as that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth456
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played such a game for years. It is amazing. Rockstar has managed to do what it couldn't 
 do in the previous games. They compined quantity with quality, something that the other games didn't 
 have. It has great graphics and a big live city to explore. 
  
  As I mentioned the graphics are great. Nothing compared to GTA SanAndreas. Every time I play this 
 game I fill like I am in the Liberty City. It's not only the graphics that do that. You must be 
 very observant to see the same person twice or more. Also the NPC's actions are variable. You will 
 see them drinking, eating, reading, talking to the cell phone and many other things. The sound 
 is perfect, too. There are so many sounds out there that compined with all those you will certainly 
 fill that the city is alive.
  
  There are also other things that after you play the game you will think that details truly make 
 the difference. Remember that shoe-thing called cell phone in SanAndreas? Forget it. In GTA IV 
 you will have a nice cell phone with many abilities. As you progress through the game you will 
 get many cell phones which will be improved every time you get one. Your cell phone will have a 
 phone book with any friend in there. It will have camera, ringtones, themes and other options like 
 switching the game to Multiplayer. There will also be Internet. Yes, you read it right. There will 
 be a well made in-game Internet with many realistic sites like a site where you can manage your 
 in-game e-mails, a site where you can download themes and ringtones for your cell phone and a meeting 
 site where you can find women and date them. You will also be able to watch television and as in 
 the other GTA games you can hear the radio. You can notice many other details like when you get 
 off your car and you where listening to the radio you will then barely hear the music in your ears 
 like in reality.
  
  This game is almost what a gamer wants. Nevertheless, there are some disadvantages. In the beginning, 
 while I was playing I didn't notice anything but when I went half through the game I thought that 
 something was missing and I found what it was.
  
  1 The map is smaller and it hasn't got countryside.
  2 They removed the planes (but not the choppers)
 
  3 They removed the parachute.
  4 They removed the jetpack.
  5 They removed the tanks.
  
  But this minuses are not so noticeable. You will only find them after hours of playing (or 
 by surfing in the internet :) ) . After you realised what is missing it is very annoying thinking 
 that you can't go and fly like a crazy terrorist with a hydra above the countryside. After all 
 you can't have everything. Overall it is a great game which you will enjoy very much even if it 
 is a little bit overrated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_rudis
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is a very good game. I like this game, even though I am not a huge fan of previous GTA games, 
 but its very far from the best game I've ever played and definately not deserving of a 10.
  
  The controls, story, missions, and general interactions with the game world are much improved 
 over the previous versions of GTA. Specifically how you call and interact with all the various 
 characters seperately in the story is excellent. However it still falls way short of the critical 
 acclaim it receives.
  
  One of the biggest gripes I have with the game is how easy it is. They made it easier to lose the 
 cops. In a car chase, the car you are chasing actually slows down to let you keep up if you do 
 poorly.
  
  A general thing I don't like about GTA games is that the interaction with the environment is not 
 even close to semi-realistic. The idea of a sandbox game really thrills me, but I need some sort 
 of realism in it. For instance... if you hit a cop car, he'll chase you and arrest you. If you 
 speed by him and hit a guy (but not kill him) , the cop will ignore you. I know it sounds minor, 
 but it really affects the game for me... a game rated a 10 should be better.
  
  Definately the best in the series and an excellent game, but listen to the average user reviewer 
 scores, not the critics (who are all apparently on the take from Take-Two) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  As a gamer, you will undoubtedly read non-stop about how GTA4 is the best GTA in the series by 
 far. This is mostly true. It looks great, sounds great, and plays... well... mostly the same.
  
  First of all Niko is by far the greatest lead in GTA history. His voice actor is charismatic 
 and his lines are extremely witty. You can't help liking the guy, and despite his willingness to 
 kill for cash, he is the first GTA character to express remorse over his lifestyle (only sometimes) .
 
  
  The game obviously looks great. There is nothing quite as awe-inspiring as looking from the first 
 city you start in across a river to see the sprawling landscapes of Liberty City's mainland. Quite 
 impressive.
  
  The story line is also easily the best in the series since it actually takes itself seriously. 
 Don't get me wrong, the game is filled with hilarious moments, but the overall plot is a dark one, 
 and this seemed like a very good turn in the series.
  
  The cell phone is an amazing addition to gameplay, letting you call anyone and everyone, and even 
 letting you take pictures later on in the game. This was a welcome addition.
  
  There are also scores of things to do in the game, such as see comedy shows, go to strip clubs, 
 go out drinking, and a lot more. The only issue here is that these places are few and far between, 
 which considering this is supposed to be similar to New York city, that's rather ridiculous.
  
  FINALLY, GTA has a quick transit system, where you can hop into any unoccupied Taxi and ride 
 through Liberty City, either watching as you go, or skipping entirely to your destination. All 
 I can say here is: It's about damn time. The single reason I dislike San Andreas is that it was 
 simply too big and too hard to get around.
  
  Now for the issues, of which there are many.
  
  For whatever reason, the game creators decided 
 to give the vehicles realistic physics. This means they turn and behave like a real car does. This 
 is very humorous when just driving around goofing off, but when you're chasing an opponent and 
 your car doesn't want to stop spinning due to the e-break... you WILL get angry. Trust me. Realism 
 is ok in a game as long as it doesn't detract from the games fun-factor, which in this case it 
 almost certainly does.
  
  The friend system is kind of a cool touch at first, but after awhile it feels like The Sims friendships, 
 where you are constantly pampering your friends to avoid losing them. This is particularly annoying 
 when you're seconds away from starting a mission and a friend calls you wanting to hang out. Of 
 course you can say no, but the friend will think less of you.
  
  The continue system, as always, is horrendous. They decided to make it so if you fail a mission 
 you use your new mobile phone to retry it.. sounds good, but all this does is take you back to the 
 missions start, leaving you to do all the frustrating parts over again. One example was when I 
 had to storm a warehouse to save a friend. I did all the hard work, painstakingly picking off every 
 bad guy, and as I was driving away, I ran over a propane tank and blew up my car... leaving me to 
 do everything all over again. This almost always results in a "turn the game off and walk away" 
 scenario. 
  
  My biggest qualm with the game was a huge shocker: The complete lack of customization. Now I didn't 
 expect to be able to pump iron or tat up Niko, that would be dumb, but I was hoping to customize 
 his attire a little more. There are a total of 4 clothing places, two of which are the same, leaving 
 3 different shops. There are 2 hats in the entire game, and 2 pairs of glasses. This just seems 
 like pure laziness. The clothing combinations are equally strange, considering I cannot decide 
 to not wear a jacket. I can buy another and wear that instead, but I can't simply take it off. 
 Given the vast customization of GTA's biggest competitor (Saint's Row) , I expected a lot more in 
 this area.
  
  Another thing is the lack of places/reasons to spend money. Besides very tiny expenditures on clubs 
 and dates, and the few clothing items you may buy, as well as a handful of guns... there is very 
 little to buy. My first play through I never found myself short on cash, and could easily afford 
 to buy the best of everything just by playing missions. What happened to buying businesses? Homes? 
 Where are they at?
  
  Another qualm is the lack of a lot of the cool things introduced in prior games, such as the jet 
 pack and parachute. This sounds very trivial, but it's weird considering this game has more high 
 points than any GTA, so you'd think you'd be able to base jump from them... but apparently, no dice. 
 Other small things like the bicycle, random farm equipment, etc. are also no longer here.
  
  Poor placement of weapon stores is a rather big problem. Considering any mission that has a 
 shoot out, you will almost certainly need body armor, it's quite frustrating to get a mission in 
 the far north of the island (s) , have to drive south to get armor, and then drive to wherever the 
 mission is. Quite frustrating.
  
  This issue will be blunt: Where are the tanks? GTA has always had tanks... how can you remove them?
 
  
  All in all, GTA is definitely a must buy. It may seem like I have issues with it, but it's simply 
 because I expect the best of the best with GTA, and while in some areas they certainly delivered, 
 in others they simply fell short. This game reminds me of a lot of games making the leap to Next-Gen: 
 worrying so much about appearances that they completely remove some of the tiny things that matter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsnowboardx33
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game I was amazed. It has by far the best graphics to date, the 
 depth of detail is amazing. Rockstar definitly set a tone for games of the future when it comes 
 to graphics and detail. I feel that Rockstar put to much time into the graphics and details and 
 forgot about everything else. I feel like the story line is the worst of any of the modern gta 
 games. It just drags on at times and seems to go no where. Then there is the cops which they really 
 dumbed down in this game. In previous games you never could see where the cops were, making it 
 much more difficult to run from them. In this game they decided to show you where the cops are 
 making it much easier to run, which is a good idea but it makes it to easy to escape stars. In 
 this game it makes it much harder to get up to 6 stars and even when you do it still isnt very 
 hard to evade them. There arent nearly as many cops that will come after you when running from 
 them, and when reaching 6 stars there is no military that comes after you, at least in my experience. 
 The cops just arent as strong as they used to be which makes just going around killing people and 
 running from the cops less fun. Personally I still think the best game of the series is Vice City 
 followed by San Andreas. While this game set high expectations for games to come, it still isnt 
 perfect. There are many things that rockstar did that were great, but somethings need to be improved 
 on in the future. Now that Rockstar has the basics of the game figured out for next gen consoles, 
 it will be amazing to see what they come up with next. I recommend this game to everyone, although 
 not perfect it is an amazing game that you can play for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritofheavN
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Huge devolopment over graphics, nice visualization, free roming system, Big cities with a license 
 to kill people without any real reason, great gameplay these are the features what we look towards 
 a GTA game and this one certainly has left its mark already. This is worth of the money. the gameplay 
 is great as usual, nice free roam, great bosses and missions-the game that hitted us with the story 
 of a street rat climb all the way up to a GODFATHER has certainly made a great move. SO DO NOT 
 WASTE UR TIME 2 READ MY REVIEW GO BUY IT & If u have already bought it then PLAY dah!!! But again 
 some guys will notice that its not perfect the aim sucks and it hasn't rise to the demand or expectations 
 of the true GTA fan this franchise is immersive but we certainly want some new features to make 
 the game unique and keep the players guessing whats gonna be new in the next sequel or so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  
  I wouldn't have expected this huge improvement since San Andreas, but the amount of content and 
 realism, details and so on, is a HUGE step forward, not to mention the much better graphic engine.
 
  
  Gameplay : You take the role of a immigrant Polish Guy named Niko Bellic,
  a likeable guy with a great personality, most people seem to like him. He arrives on a boat with 
 his cousin Roman to Liberty City (NYC) , he has made up a story about having the american dream, 
 when they arrive at his apartment it turns out its a dump and its all lies, but they go out and 
 try to rise to power.
  
  You do missions for different characters you are introduced to along the way, They usually involve 
 killing someone, but there are many original ideas, but mostly you know what to expect if you've 
 played the previous games.
  
  Eventually you get to make choices, since you sometimes work for two sides of someone who is enemy 
 of each other, and you get to choose who to get rid of, which makes an impact on the game story 
 later on, There is also usually benefits from killing someone who deserves it or sparing someone 
 who doesn't deserve to die, however the choice is up to the player.
  
  The story ranges from 25ish hours to 30 hours which can be doubled if you take time to sightsee, 
 do side missions, look for "hidden packages" or do stunts, or other stuff.
  
  You also recieve a cellphone shortly after the game starts which is a really useful tool. People 
 will call about missions and tips along the way, you'll also get friends which have their benefits 
 if they like you enough, Roman for example offers Free taxi service if you call him, a guy named 
 Brucie will pick you up in a chopper and fly you anywhere, Little Jakob will offer weapons at discount 
 prices from his car trunk, well you get the point, most friends have these bonuses so its worth 
 working for. These will also call you once in a while to do activities like bowling, drinking, 
 Pool, Darts or such. Which are all great mini games.
  
  
  Graphic : Well it was dissapointing that from GTA 3 to GTA: SA the graphic was mostly the same, 
 but not anymore the new graphic engine is a huge improvement from latter. Every character look 
 very realistic and much more real.
  
  Pedestrians rarely look the same and all have different personalities.
  they have very realistic 
 routines, they will sit on a bench and read a book, Eat, drink, call or be called and have long 
 conversations, maybe you'll see a bum playing an instrument. 
  
  Liberty City looks incridibly realistic and detailed, the amount of details there is it would take 
 forever to write.
  
  There is only one loading, and thats when you start the game, other than that you can roam the 
 city loadfree.
  
  Ultra realistic Ragdolls, when you fall, hit or shoot someone, real world rules are in effect it 
 all looks very impressive, they all fall according to the impact or what obstacles are in the way.
 
  
  Sound : The essence of GTA games have usually been the ability to free roam and do anything, but 
 the Atmosphere and sound play a big part of it, Rockstar has again picked a great soundtrack, for 
 their game, Also superb voice work, makes you feel like you're watching a movie. Ricky Gervais 
 even appears in The comedy club sometimes too, whom is one of my favorite Stand up comedians.
 
  
  The city has great Atmosphere if played on surround speakers, standing in the street and closing 
 your eyes you might feel like you're standing in the city yourself. 
  
  The Ads in GTA IV are hilarious, you can also watch TV in one of your Safe houses, Rockstar has 
 great taste.
  
  Multi-player : Up to 15 game modes, and great quality make the Multi-player alone stand out.
 
  
  The Bad : Well there are a few bugs but nothing you cant look past, except some missions can get 
 frustrating when sometimes the AI Partner you're supposed to be backing up decides to run into 
 the fight and die, or get stuck in a wall somewhere requiring you to restart, and other small glitches, 
 nothing too serious considering the massive city, there is very little wrong with it.
  
  
  
  Conclusion : I hope i haven't missed anything important but i think i covered the basics, 
 This is definitely the best game i've played in many years. Rockstar has set a high standard now, 
 and i can't WAIT to see what they have in store for the next GTA, I've learned from all the Rockstar 
 game i've played is, they believe in doing it right, and overall quality, aswell as massive content, 
 they have great taste and know what people like, i don't think i've met anyone who doesn't like 
 GTA games, Cheers!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  GTA IV Has to be the best game ever made. No question. This game surpassed what i ever would have 
 thought it would be. The story is intriguing, the characters are funny, and the action is addicting. 
 With so much in this game that is perfect, its hard to find a flaw in something done as well as 
 this. I havent even played fifty percent of it, and i already think that its the best GTA i have 
 ever had the fortune to play.
  Driving is a lot more fun, with cars obeying the laws of physics whe you want them to, and sometimes 
 when you dont.
  The gun battles are the best part of the game. The addition of a cover system makes this game the 
 ideal choice for a shooter as well as a free-roaming game. 
  With many small improvments and advancements, this GTA game is just perfect. And to all the people 
 who say this game sucks, stop trying to get attention by being different... you know its a fun 
 experience no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas was a revolutionary game. Pushing a DVD to the limit with one of the biggest open 
 areas ever seen in any game, tons of features including car customization, RPG elements, dating 
 games, and a slew of hidden features, GTA SA was by far the best GTA game. Now with GTA IV, you 
 would think you would get all the great features that came in the SA package because RockStar had 
 more to work with but, nope. Replacing alot of the minor little features we came to love in SA, 
 RockStar has created one of the best single player stories that I have played to this date. Topping 
 Bio Shock, SW KOTOR and RE4, in my opinion. Instead of all that extra stuff SA had, you get a believable 
 city to run around in with great AI and and tons of activities to keep you happy. The peds are 
 no longer zombies just walking around in areas that your located in, they live, shop, eat, and 
 talk on their cell phones. They also don't like to be pushed around and will put up a fight if 
 they need to. The main character, Niko Bellic, isn't no Tommy, going from rags to riches, he's 
 a very complex character and has to make moral decisions throughout the story. Deciding whether 
 to kill people, let them run away, or just beating them until they get the point. The story doesn't 
 follow like past GTAs. You won't keep climbing to the top until you're unstopable, you constantly 
 get knocked down. The new cover system is great, when it works, and the new hand to hand combat 
 is top notch. I love getting into fist fights with peds now. The weapon selection is pretty generic 
 but still fun. Everything has a more realistic feel to it now. No more with the army coming out 
 when you get 6 stars, no more heads popping off when you snipe someone. Everything feels real cinematic. 
 After you're done with the single player story, drop into multiplayer and check out all the cool 
 features. The interface for the multiplayer is pretty dull and how you have to set up matches with 
 friends could've been a bit better. When playing with 16 people, things tend to get a little laggy 
 but to be able to run around the whole city and do stupid stuff with a group of friends is priceless. 
 I don't think GTA IV should've got a perfect score, alot of people have had problems with the multiplayer 
 and the singleplayer freezing, and the lag on the multiplayer should've been taken care of by now 
 but for what I've gotten out of this game, it's up there. I no longer find myself running through 
 Oblivion killing innocent people, it's GTA IV now, and being able to do that with 15 other people 
 is one of the best game features ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themc_7
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game had everything I was looking for in a next gen title. Amazing graphics, great story with 
 lots of twists and turns, great gameplay mechanics, and huge sandbox world to explore.
  
  First off if you haven't picked this up yet, get it; PS3/360 whatever equally as amazing. The story 
 mode is 60% of the game, which depending on how you play can leave you lots more to do after the 
 story is done, or lots to do while the story is going on. Like in previous GTA games there are 
 things to do such as: vigilante missions, wanted car lists, hidden packages, races, girlfriends 
 to wine and dine, and much more.
  
  A few things that GTA 4 did differently from others:
  
  -The player is given choice in many of the missions. (ex. go and kill person a, or go help 
 person a and person b in a drug deal and get a cut of the money)
  
  -escaping wanted level has a new mechanic which works well and makes alot of sense
  
  -cover/blind 
 fire mode when in fire fights makes combat more realistic and intense
  
  -360 version obviously offers a variety of achievements to work for
  
  I really cannot say 
 enough good things about this game, throughout my 25 hours of play I only experienced a couple 
 of visual quirks, but nothing major. Everything feels right and works very well. GTA 4 is definitely 
 one for the record books and deserves the glorified 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I've spent a while thinking of what really should be said about GTA IV, especially as the huge 
 swathe of reviews seems to really already cover a lot of what the games about. It's also going 
 to be difficult to include everything i'd want to say about GTA IV, but i'll try anyway.
  
  When it comes to the game as a whole, I would point out a few things:
  
  - The driving is not 
 terrible/awful/bad/oh dear god no..... It is simply different. People are complaining because they 
 can't take right angled corners at high speed anymore, but seriously you should never have been 
 able to in the past anyway. Its also a great feature to see that all cars handle differently; SUVs, 
 Trucks, rear-wheel drive, front-wheel drive, etc.. each have their own characteristics to love or 
 hate. Rockstar has not broken driving, they have fixed driving. You just have to learn how to use 
 it.
  
  - When it comes to graphics, I have to mention a comment I read somewhere (i will leave names out, 
 to try and avoid beatings to mentioned individual) that said GTA IV looks no real different to 
 GTA III or Vice City. The truth (for those of us living in this dimension) is that GTA IV's graphics 
 are outstanding. Every building, pavement, road, individual, vehicle, weapon, is carefully modelled 
 and presented brillantly. There is little in the way of samey backdrops, the draw distance is fantastic.... and 
 well i could go on forever.
  
  - Combat is something that has also been 'fixed'. Previous GTA games combat was something that 
 was totally cringe worthy, running at people and hoping to hit them with random gunfire was so 
 not appealing. The cover system thats been implemented is nothing short of awesome, being able 
 to hide behind anything is such a great benefit to the whole flow of the gameplay. I no longer 
 feel like saying "oh great I have to get out my car and shoot people now", I actually want to get 
 out of the car and engage in a firefight.
  
  - Euphoria, how we love thee. Euphoria is the system behind most of the realistic animations of 
 characters and such, like the way people lean to one side when a car turns a corner, or jerks forward 
 when you run headlong into a wall (or fly through the windscreen) . It adds realism, and character 
 to individuals and it really makes me look forward to how it gets implemented into other games 
 like Star Wars: The Force Unleashed.
  
  - The social side of life. I think its a great little addition to the series to be able to go shoot 
 some pool or bowl a few games with your contacts/girlfriends. It gives them a more human side, 
 and builds your like/dislike of the various characters in Liberty City. You'll learn to get irritated 
 at certain people who keep pestering you (as you would in real life, can't that woman get enough 
 attention?) . It's also helped greatly by the fact that each mini-game is so well done, who needs 
 Wii Sports bowling when you can pop into your local bowling alley in Liberty City after killing 
 a load of people, stealing some cars and running from police? And Qub3D could well be an Xbox Live 
 Arcade game in its own right.
  
  - The Cellphone. Wonderful piece of kit, fits in perfectly with the game. Being able to dial 911 
 and call for one of the emergency services, simply so you can steal their vehicle when it arrives 
 can be very satisfying. The fact you can also change wallpapers and ringtones, is just a great 
 little touch. It is slightly annoying to have to log into singleplayer to actually access multiplayer, 
 but its something you get over fast.
  
  - Music. A great selection of tunes accompanied by all the weird DJs and commericals that you would 
 expect from the GTA franchise. It still fails to beat the awesome track lists that came out of 
 Vice City, but it definately comes a close second. Plus, being able to use ZiT to actually find 
 a song title is a useful feature, that you will most likely find yourself using.
  
  - Multiplayer. Some of the most fun you can have with your clothes on. Every mode is worth playing 
 (though i would always choose GTA Race over normal Races, simply because its like playing Mario 
 Kart with attitude) . You get a good team together, who enjoy a few laughs..... you will physically 
 be caught in fits of laughter yourself. Of course, there are those online who shouldnt even own 
 the game.... and their sole purpose seems to be to annoy the hell out of anyone, but hey.... every 
 online game suffers from 
  idiots.
  
  - Customization. I for one am so glad that the ideas of San Andreas were dumped. If you want heavy 
 character customization, then play an RPG... i felt that Rockstar went a little too far with SA, 
 and im glad that they turned away from that path. This is of course personal opinion, but thats 
 what a review is anyway.
  
  One last thing I feel should be mentioned are the little things.... things that so many people, 
 who just play games to finish them will miss out on. Things that so many other games just miss 
 out on because they deem them insignificant. Examples:
  
  - The way you can hear muffled radios from outside cars, then the sound level increases when the 
 door opens, and increase further still when you get in.
  - The way every road has its own look, with poorer areas having cracked and broken armac, while 
 richer areas have freshly tarmacked roads.
  - Every citizen lives and breathes their own lives: reading newspapers, talking to people on the 
 phone, drinking coffee, being chased by the cops even.
  - Little set pieces you see, like the cop car parked on one of the cities bridges.. pulling over 
 random motorists and checking out their trunks etc. 
  - The internet, use it to date, read news you were involved in, or just browse all the equally 
 comical sites. (i especially like the skit of myspace. com) .
  - Star Junction, see it to believe it.
  - The chit chat of cab drivers, which most people will 
 miss as they skip the journey.
  
  I could go on for a lot longer, but I think that a lot of it should be experienced first hand to 
 really appreciate it. Just play the game, you owe it to yourself to experience what Rockstar has 
 made for us all, and to Rockstar themselves I would say, keep doing what you're doing..... cause 
 it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeyjedi
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  gta 4 is probaly the best for 2008 so far. gta 4 can be a little frusterating at times but its 
 one of the most funest games that i have ever played not cuz u get to drive around in a humongese 
 city but the gameplay is so great that u cant even explain it. if there was no gliches and the 
 best grafics it would be the perfect game. i thought that gta 4 wasent evan gonna be better than 
 siants row but it beats it in so many ways. gta 4 is a must have and i heard that there gonna pull 
 it off the market so u better buy it fast if its sold out i would sugest ordering it on line or 
 ordering it this game is must have like i said before but only for ages 17+ it is not for anyone 
 under 17 enless u know your kid wont and go kill people and go and drink and drive so parents watch 
 out this is the first review i have done so please comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackadams1964
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's establish right now that I love playing games that make me feel like a hero. A knight 
 in shining armor, a soldier that stops the world from melting. This game makes me feel like the 
 dirtiest little life saver I've ever played as, and I love it.
  
  The mere free roam makes life so much easier, and the AI... the AI is very easily the best part 
 about the game. Hands down. The way you can shoot one of them 8 times, but their damned determination 
 gets them to try and get up to fire another shot makes life as Niko Bellic pretty damn satisfying. 
 There's simply too much to say about this game, so I'll just settle with:
  
  Amazing. You HAVE to play it. Don't like the fact that you can pick up a hooker? Ok, don't pick 
 one up. Don't like the drug references, steal a car. 
  
  This game is just way too liberating and satisfying to leave on the shelves. 
  
  BUY IT. Now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeOleRambler
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a big GTA fan... 
  
  I mean, I liked them, but killing people who all look the same got old and the fact that the I 
 never had any ambition to beat the games sucked. Nothing about them ever really made me want to 
 beat all the missions and get to the next island. Plus, after spawning jet packs and tanks gets 
 old theres no reason to continue. 
  -
  But in GTA4, the moment you step off the boat into Liberty City you imediatly feel (and know) that 
 this game is somemthing different. 
  Everything has impoved...
  In my opinion this is why GTA4 is the best game I've ever played. . .
  
  =PROS=
  
  +The 
 People, every single character in the game like Niko, Roman, Brucie... or just any random pedestrian, 
 They are the best characters any GTA game has ever featured. The new engine used to create emotions 
 is flawless, you will be amazed at how in depth it gets, and you will never know what a person 
 will do next. On one occasion A copcar was chasing me, and i led them into a gas pump, it exploded 
 and my car flipped over from the explosion. The policeman then climbed out of his twisted, mangled, 
 fried vehicle, staggered over to me and screamed something along the lines of "You F*ckin C*nt!" 
 he then fell over and died.
  On another occasion I threw a mustard bottle at a guys head, unexpectidly he then pulled out a 
 shotgun and blew me apart.
  +The graphics are greatly impoved, Liberty City is now beautiful and ugly at the same time. The 
 ugliness is obviously because its littered with garbage, garbage you can pick up and throw, TrashCans 
 you can push over, or hit with a car and all sorts of other neat stuff. The streets are loaded 
 with hotdog venders, and a colorful mix of people who talk on phones or to eachother while other 
 put groceries in the trunks of their cars. Nearly everything about the City looks beautiful.
  +The Gun fights are better, in fact I had more fun killing people with guns in GTA4 then in any 
 other 1st or 3rd person shooter game, and those games are made on the basis of killing with guns.
 
  +Melee killing is more realistic, you can chose to beat the person so bad that they can't get 
 up, and then while they are on the ground you can chose to loot them and let them live or stomp 
 them to death. It is also possible to beat the people up until they have had enough and then they 
 run away.
  +The driving is a lot more realistic, cars are harder to handle but at the same time more fun to 
 drive. And the accidents are amazing, your car recieves beautiful locational damage and if your 
 lucky, Niko might fly through the windshield causing a hilarious/sometimes fatal accident to occur. 
 One of my favoirte things about GTA4 is hitting people with the cars, and the way people react 
 to your driving. If you drive up onto the sidewalk, people wont always dive out of the way, but 
 instead they will realistically put their hands on the car's hood and try not to get the full brunt 
 of the impact, driving slow down a sidewalk can provide you with loads of entertainment. 
  +THE STORYLINE and immersive gamplay IS WORTH BUYING A 360 OR PS3 OVER!!!!!!
  +Its the most immersive 
 game ever made, you live in the city with hundreds of thousands of living breathing people. And 
 all the while you are involved with other peoples lives, going on dates, bowling, picking up hookers 
 mugging people with your cousin when he thinks you are going to a strip club, etc. You can do much 
 more obviously I just dont want to write it all, i mean, you can watch TV for hours and laugh your 
 A$$ off. 
  +The water... Is the coolest water i've seen in any game, Not on the beaches very much... But when 
 you crash a car into the water and see the water deform and actual waves are created its just so 
 cool.
  +The inclusion of friends is awesome, and the cellphone is the coolest thing ever... You can call 
 911 and have any emergency vehicle come to your aid, if you are being jumped... you can call 911 
 and the Pigs will come and defend you while you steal their car and drive away. 
  +The Blood decals are awesome, blood now drips with gravity and can get it all over you and your 
 car, and the enviornment. Also, when you crash into a building you crack the walls or make giant 
 marks all over everything.
  +I really feel a strong bond with my/your cousin Roman. Its a very deep relationship that you really 
 start to feel involved in. 
  
  =CONS=
  
  -The textures in this game are amazing, but every now and then you will come across a field of 
 grass, and you will notice how ugly it is, but the ugly repeating textures are a nessessity, if 
 RockStar had made all the textures in the game beautiful, it wouldn't be abled to run at all. Also... 
 The doorways to most of the buildings are ugly as hell. 
  -Melee combat is a lot of fun, but its hard to use at first and its impossible to do everything 
 you wish you could do with it, for example you can't take a baseball bat to the hood of someones 
 car, but you can smack the roof up pretty good. And in all the other GTA games you could run while 
 locked onto someone, but now you have to unlock from them if you want to chase them down.
  -Shooting is improved, but when you are in cover you are extremely prone to being flanked, and 
 if that happens your skrewed. and in the middle of an intense firefight, it is difficult to use 
 the free aim mode, since its triggered by a subtle push of the right trigger and while you are 
 trying not to get shot its hard to be gentle with your controller. 
  -Its really hard to stop playing... And after playing it for 15 hours straight you really feel 
 as if you can run down the street steal a car and drive it into a crowd, then make a hasty escape. 
 Not saying that it inspires that sort of behavior, it just feels so real, and you really start 
 to bond with Niko.
  - sometimes the blood will pool up where the body landed as opposed to where it actually is, and 
 its weird to see an expanding puddle of blood with no source. 
  
  Thats all I have to say about that, haha... Thats a long ass review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is simply the best game as of yet to come out on the XBox 360 or PS3. Though 
 in my opinion no game is 100% perfect this game as close as you can get.
  
  You play as Niko Belic, a russian immigrant with a past that gets revealed the more you play the 
 game. He meets up with his cousin Roman who with other characters will give him missions and help 
 him throughout the game.
  
  One of the new aspects of the game is your relationships with your friends, who not only give you 
 missions, they also can have special perks if you hang out with them outside of missions. This 
 includes discounted weapons, access to helicopters, and other things like that. Also the cell phone 
 is a nice addition to the game because it makes getting missions easier. 
  
  The major difference in gameplay is the addition of the cover system and the ability to blind fire. 
 The cover system while extremely helpful and life saving, sometimes can get stuck when your trying 
 to get out because if your moving the analouge stick in the direction of some other nearby cover 
 Niko will run and slide into that cover instead of exiting cover and running away. But thats not 
 to big of a deal. 
  
  The game is set in Liberty City and is slightly smaller than San Andreas but has no wasted space 
 which makes it a much better map than what GTA 3 was played on. 
  
  In my opinion GTA 4 has a very solid story, during which the game will occasionally force you to 
 make a decision between killing 1 of 2 people or executing a person that you were sent to kill 
 whivh is a nice addition to the game and keeps you more involved with the story and effects certain 
 missions that you can recieve. 
  
  GTA IV is also the most graphically good-looking and realistic game that I have played. The world 
 looks great and walking in and out of buildings has no load times. Pedestrians are very life-like, 
 tehy're not just walking around, they are always doing something like smoking, carrying groceries, 
 or running from cops. If you shoot someone in the leg they will fall to the ground and clutch their 
 leg, if your driving 150 mph and smash headfirst into a wall Niko will fly through the windshield, 
 if you hit someone with the car they will flip over the hood, smash the windshield, and fly over 
 the top of the car, fallen enemies who haven't had there head blown off will be squrming on the 
 ground pleading you to not kill them. 
  
  The Radio Stations/ Soundtrack is just as good as the other GTA's and the Talk Radio Stations and 
 commercials are as funny as ever (I recommend "Integrity 2.0 with Lazlow) . The Radio has a great 
 mix of music so everyone will have something they like to listen to.
  
  All in all GTA IV is a fantastic game, but its not perfect, no game is perfect. Its still one the 
 best games ever and even though some people gave it a 1 out of 10 just because they don't like 
 the series, the hypocrites still bought the gamefor some reason.
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Audio: 10 
  Value: 9.5
  Story: 9
  Overall: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKsnake
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable! $60 on the "best GTA game yet" but unable to play for more than 20 minutes without 
 freezing. Having to save after everything little thing you accomplish is a pain in the butt. Of 
 course there's no guarantee the game wont lock up as you're trying to save also. 
  I am truly disappointed and frustrated to the point of not wanting to play the game at all. I love 
 Rockstar and all top notch innovative games they've brought to the gaming community but with all 
 the hype GTA 4 received; I barely want to give it an 8 rating. Without a doubt if the freezing 
 issues weren't there I'd almost agree with a near perfect 10 but as it is no way. Not to mention 
 there has been no word from Rockstar when the issues will be resolved which worries me that they 
 have no idea what the problem is.
  Once again, absolute disappointment. Looking foward to the Saints Row sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamBenG
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  If you don't know WHAT GTA is yet, from commercials, hype, or talk for the last few years, it's 
 the lead and real start of "sandbox games" (games that allow you to do whatever you want, to play, 
 as in a sandbox) .
  
  The graphics look great, water especially. If you look in the credits for the game, there's got 
 to be like 250 people working on motion, and you notice it. Nico, other characters, and even pedestrians 
 have great motions.
  
  Like the other recent GTA games, when you get in a car you have a radio, being placed in recent 
 times, it has recent music. The tracks range from rap to R&B to country to indie to classic rock. 
 It's got amusing commercials and even talk shows that i can just listen to and laugh. Other minutia 
 are the comedy shows of real comedians that are quite humorous.
  
  The mechanics have also been much improved, the driving has noticeable suspensions on each car, 
 and works perfectly for the game. The aiming has been improved even more sense old games, an auto 
 aim that lets you select parts of people's bodies and a free aim if you don't want that help.
 
  
  I definitely think it's the best game out for any system right now, and highly suggest you buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Okay, don't get me wrong this game is great, it has an awesome storyline and great game play, I 
 like that it's a bit more realistic than previous games in the series.
  
  BUT there are some major flaws in this game, the customization of the game is HORRIBLE, to say 
 the least.
  There is almost nothing to spend your money on. Very low variety of clothing, no car customization 
 that i've found and i've played the game for a good 45 hours or so. Limited amount of weapons, 
 no tattoo artists or gyms.
  
  There's a great lack of clothing items. Only two hats. This is really bad for a game of this size. 
 At the end i had over $600,000, only having spend about $30,000 through the game, most of it on 
 medical bills. I never have to buy guns because you find enough ammo on the missions, never have 
 to buy anything for cars. and you only have to spend about $2000 on clothes you need in the game 
 for missions.
  
  I would never ever even be able to buy things for even $100,000. It would take forever.
  
  
 Even though the storyline and gameplay is awesome this game can only get an 8.5 from me because 
 of these flaws.
  
  Saints row beat this game by several miles in the customization-part of the game. Let's see if 
 Saints Row 2 has the storyline to fit this game, it might as well become a much better game if 
 the keep the large variety of customization 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEATW4D
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  On the surface, Grand Theft Auto 4 looks like it could compare to some of the greatest games of 
 all time.
  
  But after owning the game for a week now, it's beginning to show some chinks in the armor.
  
 
  The storyline starts out solid, which I'm not going into detail about (I'm sure you all know the 
 story) . I really thought this would be a game my friends and I would quote and adore for a long 
 time to come. However, other than Niko and his cousin, the characters are seemingly stale at best.
 
  
  When picking up your girlfriend, she will always give a predictable robotic comment about your 
 car and your clothing. This gets stale by the second time. Also, your first girlfriend will always 
 ask about what you do. You never learn anything about her. You go on a date with her, never find 
 out anything about her, get asked a series of mind numbing questions about your background, and 
 then have sex with her. Right, that's realistic.
  
  A character I really can't stand is Vlad. Their attempt at developing his character was a complete 
 and utter miserable failure. At first, I thought he was just supposed to be a mean guy, like most 
 characters in the GTA series. However, on the mission to steal a car for him and get it washed, 
 the game makes an attempt to show just how bad he is. Throughout the preceding scene, he constantly 
 annoys people, deliberately changes the direction he's walking in in order to walk between people, 
 cusses out some people, all on just a casual walk to the car. Then, before they get to the car, 
 a homeless guy asks for some change. Can you guess what he did? Yep, cussed out, pushed, blah blah 
 blah. This again brings up the huge flaw in gta 4 that is PREDICTABILITY. This attempt to show 
 how mean Vlad is was beyond overkill. WE GET IT, ALREADY. Oh, then he goes and snorts some drugs.... shocker....
 
  
  There's also a way to get drunk if you go to the bar with a buddy. When you get drunk, the game 
 tries to realistically make it hard to drive. You swerve back and forth just like a drunk in real 
 life would. This seems like a plus, until a cop tries to pull you over. I've driven on the sidewalks 
 for long periods of time, knocked over thousands of light poles which have fallen onto police cars, 
 crashed into cars, done donuts in the middle of streets, jumped cars, ran over cars with alarms 
 in them, none of these make a cop react. But suddenly, when your drunk, the slightest bit of swerving 
 drives em nuts. That is ridiculous.
  
  Finally, the thing I hate most with GTA 4 is they practically lied about the town being more realistic. 
 If this game were real life, 90% of the people in New York will try to cuss you out and threaten 
 you, as well as try to attack you at the drop of a hat (99% of men) . Also, you still cant talk to 
 people. You can run into them, punch them, anything violent, but you cannot talk to them, and they 
 NEVER have anything interesting about them. This is anything but realistic. However, they did make 
 one improvement in this respect: you can listen to people talk on their cell phones. I've never 
 heard a cell phone call so far on the game that wasn't interesting. Why? Because THAT is realistic. 
 Sometimes you want a break from your own storyline in a video game just to see what other people 
 are doing and talking about. Gta does not have that. This fact alone destroys any chance of it 
 being one of the greatest games of all time.
  
  When you think about it, all the people on the streets are for is killing or pissing off. They 
 serve NO OTHER PURPOSE. How immature and pointless.
  
  Now that we know how mean the streets are, need I mention about 75% of people you steal cars from 
 run away? Even when you don't have a gun this still holds true. This is incredibly inconsistent. 
 I'm pretty sure if the same people on the streets were in those cars, I'd have a fight for at least 
 every other car i try to steal.
  
  I have met about 3 nice people. Most notably a postman. Sadly, the only way to tell their nice 
 is to see how they react to you running into them. He responded with things like
  
  "Sorry about that!" "oops, scuse me!" "might wanna change to decaf!' "easy, sailor!" All in a nice 
 jolly voice.
  
  After about 7 run ins, he gets pissed and starts giving out the worst stupid puns imaginable.
 
  
  'Yeah, I got a package for you!" "I'll shove a letter up your ass!" "I'll shove this mailsack (sac?) 
 in your mouth!"
  
  Overall, the game is in no way anymore realistic than the previous ones, other than graphics (which 
 are insanely good) . I accuse the the creators of lying, because the interactiveness of the game 
 was in ABSOLUTELY NO WAY improved. Nothing is more realistic. 
  
  The reason this game gets this rating instead of something lower is because of the graphics, beatiful 
 level design, multiplayer capabilities, places to hang out, and overall small additions (an example 
 would be that you can watch tv) were great improvements for the game. The only reason I didn't 
 talk about those was because everyone already knows all of GTA's plusses.
  
  Feel free to pm me with thoughts, flames, comments, disagreements, and anything else regarding 
 my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nole512
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The story mode is okay but it is a lot like the rest of the Grand Theft Auto games. The online 
 multi-player mode is way overrated. There is no goal to the multiplayer mode and nothing to look 
 forward too. This game is definately a renter. I would not buy the Grand Theft Auto IV unless you 
 are just really interested in playing the story mode. I was disappointed after all the hype about 
 the online mode. You can only kill people a number of ways without anything further to play towards. 
 If it had goals such as opening weapon classes or something similiar, it could be a better online 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Pretty much anything you do in this game is fun. If you go along with the campaign or just run 
 the city like a maniac, you'll have a good time. 
  The campaign in this game is so filthy and distgusting, Im loving it. No other game dares to do 
 this but GTA. I wonly wonder how many teens have this and can only play it when there parents arnt 
 home. But anyway, the game is awesome. Its fun to do the campaign and to run the city and just 
 shoot people and try to get away fromt he cops. I have been playing the non stop campaign and it 
 says im only five percent done and im about five hours in so I know this is a very long story which 
 is great because the game will last longer.
  The only down side to this game is the new controls. I dont like how you have to press A for the 
 gas and X for the break. So many racing games now (I know its not racing) but car games use the 
 left and righr trigger that works so much bettter. 
  Also the campera while your making sharp turns in your car, its hard to see where your going some 
 time. I hate how YOU personally have to move the camera. The last thing is the car control. Its 
 so much easier now to lose control of your car. Good luck making sharp turns because it wont be 
 happening. You pretty much have to stop or slow down completley before you can turn or else you'll 
 tip or crash into a hooker or something. 
  By any means though its still awesome, and its still a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Though I loved GTA: San Andreas and Vice City. They never really felt like full games after GTA3. 
 RockStar games comes back into the fold with a wonderful addition to the series. Additions to gameplay 
 mechanics are easy to see. The thing I noticed right from the start is how they have improved on 
 the driving mechanics in the game. Each car, like games before it, handle differently and have 
 different speeds but the overall realism of driving period is what impressed me. You can just rip 
 around corners anymore and the cars don't blow up after you hit a couple vehicles or take a couple 
 pistol shots. Most of the vehicles are very durable. 
  
  Another impressive innovation is the cover and targeting systems. Its nice to be able to get behind 
 cover and pop out. It does make the game easier as the gamespot review says, but I think it gives 
 you more control and immerses you in the game more. 
  
  The storyline is great. It holds to a classic GTA feel, where you are an outrageous killer, but 
 Niko Bellic (the main character) is pretty charismatic. He doesn't put up with anybody's crap. 
 
  
  If you like GTA... or if you like games that are pretty freeform, you should pick this up. There 
 is more than enough to keep you busy for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  The more I play GTAIV the more I love it. The free roaming style gameplay, the insane ability to 
 complete missions "your way", the incredible characters, cut scene's and dialog. The music, the 
 TV!, the THEATER!, all in all this game is absolutely crammed to the brim with AAA content. The 
 game play is fantastic and the visuals will easily "shock and awe" the most satiated gamer.
  
  Multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer in GTA is incredible, REVOLUTIONARY and if I were to let 
 go many more adjectives that might get X rated. It delivers WAY above expectations. I remember 
 fantasizing about doing some free roam fun with my buddies back when GTA III shipped. Now this 
 is a reality in all it's splender. However, that's just the tip of the iceberg. You can do deathmatch, 
 teamdeathmatch, some co-op mission, there's even a battlefield capture and hold type game... However, 
 it goes even beyond this, with games that are totally GTA specific that would never work as well 
 in other franchises. In an attempt to keep this short... The MULTIPLAYER IS GTAIV... and it is 
 GOOD. SOOOOoooo GOOOOOD!
  
  Controls
  
  Like many great pieces of art... it takes a while to get the taste for new things. Getting the 
 hang of the physics of driving and the nuances of fighting in GTAIV take some time and practice... 
 However, once you've adjusted to the controls they are actually the best in series and genre... 
 If your a bit frustrated at first, relax, the pwning will come. After a few hours the controls 
 seem to melt away and you are simply transported into Niko's world.
  
  Content and Story
  
  Well this is no suprise as Rockstar once again proves they have one of the best oldskool gaming 
 senses of humor in the industry. The content in GTAIV takes GTA content to a whole new level. This 
 is not a statement to be made lightly as other GTA titles have had content on par with the best 
 of the best MMO's. The characters are hysterically engaging and even a bit loveable and the stories 
 go at your own pace is always dead on and engaging.
  
  Downside
  
  Hmmnnn the downsides I would throw at this title wouldn't really be fair for a standalone game. 
 GTAIV has crossed new territory and thus could start getting criticism as a weak MMO or a bad Movie, 
 TV series, radio station, theater performance, driving sim, FPS or helicopter sim, bowling darts 
 billiards video game... however it's a standalone game... lol... and even the things it's a bit 
 short on are close to if not better than most attempts at those things in stand alone media of 
 they're own... 
  
  I would have earlier complained a bit about the controls here but, after mastering them I now prefer 
 them to any other GTA game clone controls I've used before...
  
  I would have complained about Multiplayer connectivity here but after figuring out port forwarding 
 on my router I've since, never had 1 issue with connectivity or even lag...
  
  I would have complained about the lack of the overwhelming content that was San Andreas, but I've 
 come to enjoy high polish over stoopid amounts of cruddy quantity...
  
  My only real concern is how I will manage to play GTAV - XXV if I have kids ... yikes... time to 
 build a bunker. This is NOT KIDDIE CONTENT.. that however, is cool by me, but could make things 
 difficult for Dad Gamers!
  
  In conclusion
  
  GTAIV; It may be the best stand alone game ever, can't wait to get back to it... 
  
  :D
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that the graphics of this game are amazing. The game overall is addictive 
 and worth buying. The driving does take some getting ust to, but dosnt take too long to get ust 
 to.
  
  And ill tell you right now, the army IS NOT in this Grand Theft Auto. They were going for realism 
 with this one and in real life the entire army dosnt come after just one person, so dont expect 
 the army to come after you. Instead, expect police choppers and S. W. A. T to come after you when 
 you hit 5 or 6 star wanted level. 
  
  Now for the game. The begenning of the game starts off just like how a movie would, and in my opnion 
 was epic. Best opening to a game ive ever seen. The game has 94 missions, 95 if you count both 
 ending missions (yes, at the end there is 2 paths to take) but since you can only do one ending 
 (unless you reload another save) there's a total of 94 beatable missions. 
  
  If you take your time it can take you anywhere from 40+ hours to beat, i just beat the game last 
 night at around 40 hours. They do bring back the girlfriend system except this time around there 
 is much more to do any more girlfriends as well. You can go Bowling, play Darts, play Pool, go 
 to the Strip Club, go to the Carabet club, go to the Comedy Club, go Drinking, And go Eat. so as 
 you can see there are many things you can do with your friends/girlfriends in the game and ill 
 go into more detail with some of them later on. 
  
  They also have something new as well that I already mentioned, some of the people you do missions 
 for become your friends afterwards and you can do the game stuff with them that you do with your 
 girl friend. Best part is, they each have good ability's. 
  
  One lets you buy weapons from him at a discounted price, one makes bombs for you and will plant 
 them on cars making it to where you call that person again in game and chose "detonate" to blow 
 the car up, one will send a helicopter to your location, one will let you get free taxi rides from 
 him, one will send you backup if you request it (2 guys, and they do help alot, but this is a passable 
 friend, you can opt to kill him in the game but dont, kill the guy with "X" in his name instead 
 because the backup will help in missions later on) and so on. 
  
  The game will keep you busy for a long time, espically if your going for 100% in the game. 
  
 
  Now onto some of the activities you can do with your friends. Some of them are boring and arent 
 that good, take the Stripclub for instance, all you can do in there is get a lap dance, up to 3 
 times. The first lapdance costs $50 then second im not sure aobut, i only did 1 and 3, and the 
 3rd is two girls at the same time for $250 (to get the 3rd one you must do the other two dances 
 first, when it asks you if you want to leave press "A" to continue the lapdance) you cant lean 
 up against the stippers stations to gaze at them, you cant give them money, you cant sit down and 
 you cant get anything to drink. 
  
  Drinking Is ok, but you can only do that with friends and there's not even a cut scene to it, you 
 just go to the bar and instantly come out drunk. And you cant even do this by yourself, you can 
 only do this with a friend/girlfriend. 
  
  The comedy club i also have a gripe at, you can also only do this with friends, you cant just walk 
 into it and watch a show anytime you want you must be with someone. They do have two comedians 
 in the game, Katt Williams and Ricky Gervais (dont know if i spelt the second one right) both are 
 pretty funny in my opnion, ive been a fan of Katt Williams for a while now and the other guy i 
 dont think ive even herd of until this game but he is also hilarious. 
  
  The thing though is both comedians dont have much material in the game. Hopefully in the next Grand 
 Theft Auto if they keep this feature in (and i hope they do) you can go to it anytime you want 
 and that they will have more comedians in the game with alot more material then they do in IV.
 
  
  The Carabat club is also pretty stupid, the stuff in there isnt even remotely funny or enjoyable. 
 On the bright side though, Bowling, Darts, and Pool are all fun activities to do with friends and 
 are entertaining. 
  
  There also arent as many cheat codes or weapons for this game like in other games (the only cheats 
 are the standard health/armor, weapon tiers, and car cheats. No peds riot cheats or any of those) 
 and yes, there are NO katana's, chainsaw's, jetpacks, or planes in this game (thank god for no 
 planes, flying them in San Andreas was frustrating) 
  
  They do, how ever, have helicopters in the game (which is also frustrating to fly in my opnion) 
 so dont be looking for any of those either. They do have a baseball bad and a knife though (only 
 place ive seen the knife for sale at if from your friend who you can buy weapons off of) and just 
 a heads up, in order to unlock your friends special abilities, you must get there likeness up to 
 75% except the guy who sends back up, his likeness only needs to get up to 60% which isnt really 
 hard to do, it shouldnt take you long to get there likeness up once your able to do stuff with 
 them. 
  
  There also is motorcycle's in the game (which for me is still as frustrating to drive as they were 
 in Vice City) but no pedal bicycles like there was in San Andreas. They also do make references 
 to San Andreas and Vice City in IV as well which i thought was pretty neat. And most stuff that 
 you do happens through your cellphone (which you do get another one later in the game, so your 
 not stuck with the one you get at the begenning of the game throughout the entire game) meaning 
 no driving back after you complete a mission, instead you call them to let them know you completed 
 the mission. 
  
  The game also gives you more money then you need. When i complete the game, i had a total of $666,660 
 left over, there's just not enough to spend the money on. Maybe in the 2 episodic Xbox 360 exclusive 
 Downloadable content thats gonna be comming out, they will have stuff in them to blow the money 
 on, so you really shouldnt need to do any of the money exploits to get money (you can look in the 
 gamespot forums for Grand Theft Auto IV to ask or find what the exploits are) 
  
  And incaes your wondering, some of the cheats do deacrivate achievements (but not permanenately, 
 if you die then they are obtainable again and what not, and as long as you don't save the game 
 with the cheats enabled then you shouldnt have to worry. Also, incase your wondering, the achievements 
 that are disabled is Finish Him -Complete 10 melee counters in 4 minutes, Walk Free Lose a 4 star 
 wanted rating by outrunning the cops, One Man Army Survive 5 minutes on 6 star wanted level, Cleaned 
 The Mean Streets Capture 20 criminals through the police computer.) You can use the car cheats 
 and nothing will be disabled, just dont use the helicopter cheat otherwise you'll disable the two 
 wanted level achievements. 
  
  The game also has Multiplayer (not story line co-op, but it does have a free roam mode) the game 
 has 15 multiplayer modes in total, but im not really a big multiplayer person myself. So if your 
 wondering why im not talking about the multiplayer that much, its because i havent really even 
 played it, all I did was free roam and the 3 co-op missions (yes the game does have somewhat of 
 a co-op mode, except its just 3 missions and there not story related) and that was only as soon 
 as I got home from getting the game at the midnight release. 
  
  Overall your experience with this game will be absolutely great. Some stuff does need improvement, 
 but I had more fun then I didn't and because of that im going to give Grand Theft Auto IV a 9.0 
 out of 10. If you haven't already bought then game then please do yourself a favor and buy it, 
 you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV offers a lot of new features but fails to bring back some of the more exciting 
 old features.
  
  Positives:
  
  Accurate physics
  Realistic vehicle damage
  Good storyline
  You can get ejected from vehicles
  More controllable combat system
  
  
 
  Negatives:
  
  Lack of gun variety
  Lock on aiming can be frustrating
  No car customization
  No bicycles
  No planes
  No parachutes
  No barber
  No mission variety
 
  No skills (San Andreas had stamina, bike control, car control, that you could level up)
  No rural areas
  Sometimes nighttime can be too dark when in shootouts (flashlights or guns with 
 lights would help)
  Why is there no animals, teens, children in the city?
  No police on motorcycle (come on, this is New York)
  No pepper spray, smoke bombs
  Only two 
 melee weapons, knife/bat (San Andreas had about 10)
  Mini games have too much downtime between action
  Online play needs some tweaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  ---EDIT ---
  THIS REVIEW WAS BEEN REVIEWED! Below is my initial review. Feel free to read it. But scroll down 
 to the bottom part with the lines for my new added part and feeling about he game!
  ---EDIT ---
  
  Not sure where to begin. Or where to end.
  
  First GTA should be compared 
 to GTA. How has it improved? How has it gotten worse? It should not be compared to Saints Row. 
 I love SR. SR just happen to come out first for 360 and by all means was a good game but GTA 4 
 is way funner by all means and has less issues.
  
  The one reason GTA 4 is the best GTA is online. You can play LOTS of online modes from Deathmatch, 
 coop, carjacking to cop vs robbers (or a boos variant) . And they have two ways of doing this too. 
 Play player match for regular old worry free matches or do Ranked and earn money by winning or 
 killing people and rank up to unlock new stuff for your model. Yes if your going to compare player 
 models to Saints online models GTA 4's aren't very good. But if you think about it who really cares? 
 Your not alive long enough to even look at each other!
  
  Single player is really better then before but nothing so amazing that you think its astounding. 
 Story is pretty good and the missions are so-so. But some of the gameplay in general is pretty 
 cool now:
  
  -People can use ATMs and even be robbed at them! You can shoot robbers to steal that money!
  
 -While in cop cars you can use their computers to do hunt guys, call in backup or look up info!
 
  -You can hail taxis!
  -You can use a cell phone for ALOT of things like jobs, taxis, going places, calling people, online 
 chat (literally) .
  -You can now run away from cops when they haev you put your hands up.
  -You can jump onto trucks and boats... etc. Instead of hoping to hop into them and be stuck without 
 a ride.
  -Auto aim is there if you want but now you can free aim!
  -GPS is there and even a AUDIO GPS! (Turn left in 200yards)
  
  Thats just a few of the new 
 things you can do.
  
  Now this may be a short review and while what I am about to say may sound like I am trashing the 
 game or something I find that when it comes to what people dislike in this game it really is a 
 matter of opinion where as most games the problems are really obvious. Such as some people say 
 this games blurry, others say its not.
  
  My complaints?
  -Online boats need to be removed in cops vs robbers. Once they get to a boat which is way to easy 
 cops can't do anything and it kills the gameplay.
  -Why the cops have SMGS and robbers have pistols is beyond me.
  -Theres almost TO much to do. 
 I keep forgetting theres ramps to jump, pigeons to kill, people to find, vehicles.... wea.... ARGH!
 
  
  Overall GTA 4 is by far the best game. If for some reason you doubt what some call lies and hype 
 then rent it. What have you go to lose? I never cared for the 3D versions of GTA much but this 
 one really is the best. Maybe it just took this gen of systems to make it good.
  
  
  It appeared I judged the game to quick! I love the 
 original GTA games. I can play those any time. The 3D ones I can still play, they are fun. Like 
 wise I thought this would be. And it was at the time of this review. So it went.
  
  From the day I bought the game I played some story for about 2 days then did nothing but play the 
 game online for weeks on end.... NON STOP almost. I had nothing but praise for this game! But then 
 suddenly one day I just stopped playing the game, took a break but when I went to go put in this 
 disc I just didn't want to. Later I did and started a game online but didn't want to play. Needless 
 to say I have played maybe 4 times. 3 times offline and 1 time online.
  
  I CANNOT play it anymore. The game bores me to death now. Why? I am not sure. It just seems boring. 
 Alot of people and I mean ALOT have felt the same way suddenly. The fun was there but then it left. 
 I personally think the city was to small. I liked San Andreas's map. There was alot of stuff to 
 explore, land to ride through, planes to use.... stuff to do. This place is just unexplainably boring. 
 Not even really ant roofs to drive on... its just weird.
  
  So my new rating is a 6.0... a boring game now. Once you play it awhile you'll not have any urge 
 to play online anymore or even finish the single player. Hopefully whatever gave GTA its spark 
 before will be back next GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  We've all been waiting. The whole modern world has been eagerly anticipating the release of perhaps 
 one of the greatest games of all time. And with such immeasurable hype, there is bound to be let-down. 
 This is clearly the best game made so far this year, but in no way is it a perfect 10.
  
  I have never seen a game so widely received by critics. At least since Ocarina of Time, but that 
 was easily the best game ever made. Grand Theft Auto IV got better reviews then even the second 
 coming of Jesus could ever get, and you know that critics would find something wrong with the second 
 coming of Jesus. "I thought he didn't develop the story before descending from the heavens", or 
 "I liked the first one better".
  
  So since we are ALL aware of everything that makes this game great, (brilliant story line, great 
 character development, innovated game techniques, the best physics engine a game has ever seen, 
 atmosphere is captured perfectly, whistling for cabs and the ensuing singing of The Fresh Prince 
 of Bel'Air, TONS of vehicles some of which are absolutely gorgeous, internet and phone are perfect 
 editions, wide variety of activities, free storyline, etc) My review is going to be based solely 
 on the negatives. Now i'm still giving it a great score, but I don't doubt that fanboys will vote 
 this review in to Oblivion.. speaking of other disappointing sequels not as good as the previous 
 game...
  
  - No customization
  This is really stripped down. Even Vice City had more customizable options than GTA IV, and I was 
 extremely disappointed when I was informed by a friend that you could NOT trick out cars. Now I 
 know we aren't playing NFS, but the addition of customizing vehicles in San Andreas added quite 
 a bit of a unique element. I often found myself getting overprotective of my vehicles, and even 
 driving very cautiously so as not to destroy them. At least the unnecessary edition of food eating 
 and working out was taken out of the game, Clothing options are limited to about four outfits, 
 and I found myself dressing up like Tommy Vercetti anyways...
  
  - Only three kinds of missions. 
  Mission type 1: Drive halfway across the city to place, confront 
 random assailant, and chase down in car.
  
  Mission type 2: Go to apartment, hotel, law firm, bank, abandoned warehouse, abandoned hospital, 
 kill 50 people. Run from cops.
  
  Mission type 3: Be the support for a deal. Deal goes wrong. Characters yell and swear. Kill everyone 
 and retrieve drugs/money
  
  There certain are some unique missions, but they are few and far between. As the game progresses, 
 Rockstar takes these three different types and forces you to do more than one. And sometimes even 
 all three..
  
  - Story teases and nothing ever develops
  I spent about twenty hours playing wondering who the hell Niko was chasing, and why he was doing 
 so. Although it is revealed a few hours in to the game what happened, the rest of GTA IV simply 
 has Niko exclaiming to everyone he can possibly find that "he's looking for someone".
  
  - No dogfights. Tsk tsk.
  None. The extent of a dogfight in GTA IV is flying remotely close to 
 another chopper while your buddy shoots it down. *Yawn* Nothing compared to gunning down the army 
 in an F16 over the desolate wasteland of Bone County.
  
  - No skydiving.
  It was just another really cool addition to SA that they scrapped, what can I say?
  
  - Soundtrack 
 farrrrr weaker than SA or even Vice City
  Nobody. NOBODY. Can tell me that GTA IV has a better soundtrack than either of those two games. 
 Rick James, Kool and the Gang, Heart, CCR, Rod Stewart, Tom Petty, Cream, Lynyrd, Bowie, Eddie 
 Money, Billy Idol, Willie Nelson, Public Enemy, Ultramagnetic MC's, NWA, Easy E, Dre, 2-Pac, Ozzy, 
 Jane's Addiction, Depeche Mode, Alice in Chains, Soundgarden? GTA IV doesn't even come close to 
 that. Plus give Lazlow some more time, a ten minute show is not enough for the guy that single 
 handedly saved the radio stations in GTA III.
  
  - Taxi/Ambulance missions, assorted minigames
  These were removed completely. And I must say, 
 the assorted perks you got were worth it. These have been in every GTA game i've played, I can't 
 see why Rockstar would pull an EA and remove them.. maybe thats how hostile this Take Two takeover 
 has gotten..
  
  - Map is smaller than SA significantly
  I must admit that there was tons of wasted space in SA. I was just a sucker for the three different 
 cities. There certainly is a lot more detail in Liberty City, but it just feels.. cramped. This 
 is certainly an objective point, and I would never review a game falsely for this opinion.
  
  - Dating and taking friends out becomes a useless distraction, often getting in the way of 
 missions
  Niko decided to call a friend during the middle of a gun fight with the cops, nearly getting me 
 killed. Plus I don't care for getting badgered after every mission by someone watching to shoot 
 darts. Annoying.
  
  - Cover system is urghrrhg
  I really just wish Rockstar stole everything from Gears of War in terms of the cover system, because 
 honestly, it's extremely finicky. I died many times throughout the game simply because Niko wall-hugged 
 a wall completely in the line of fire, instead of going for my intended target. Not only that, 
 but I often couldn't even get behind cover in a frantic firefight despite clearly spending thirty 
 seconds attempting to duck down. Not only that, but it is extremely difficult to get OFF of cover. 
 Resulting in more frustrating gameplay in parts where the game should shine.
  
  - Grenade work could be better
  You have to compare the greatest games to other great games, 
 and tossing grenades is quite frustrating. Most of the time I would end up lobbing a grenade directly 
 at the car I was hiding behind, or locking on to someone only to throw the grenade thirty or forty 
 feet in front of them. The projectile calculator in Gears was flawless, and i'm not sure why Rockstar 
 is so hesitant to steal ideas when everybody already seems to steal theirs.
  
  - Claims to have choice, but little is seen
  Only in the last few missions do you actually get 
 a choice, really. Soon after the game begins, it introduces you to the idea of saving someone, 
 or letting them die. Unfortunately, twenty five hours later, there are only TWO missions that give 
 you this opportunity, And in BOTH cases it is extremely useless. Although the finale certainly 
 makes up for it, a little bit, I was under the impression that this game was supposed to play differently 
 every time. Unfortunately, that is completely far-fetched.
  
  - Same formula. EVERY character, EVERY SINGLE ONE is similar or nearly identical to a previous 
 one. Pegorino = Salvatore, Roman = Rosenberg, U L Paper = Toreno, Niko = CJ+Tommy, Francis = Ray 
 (crooked cop in III) Ray = Tony, Dwayne = Sweet, Tenpenny = Dimitri. Figure out a few yourself, 
 it's quite fun!
  
  - no bicycles
  C'monnnn, that was a total blast in SA
  
  - far too easy to evade police
  After brutally murdering 40-50 officers and civilians, simply 
 hiding in the shadows for 20 seconds suddenly makes them give up. Although I wasn't a fan of the 
 constant spawning that cops did in the previous titles, this formula isn't much better either. 
 At least they tried something new, but I still think this area needs a lot of work.
  
  - Multiplayer is atrocious
  I tried to write this review without mentioning Saints Row, but it's 
 impossible. Saints Row executed the multiplayer perfectly, when... well, GTA attempted to be completely 
 different. Every game seems to turn in to a camp fest, and often times it takes five minutes just 
 to drive and find someone. I am absolutely disgusted that top review sites wet themselves over 
 this, considering GTA IV's multiplayer is only fun for fooling around with friends. Only.
  
  - All this money, nothing to do with it
  Money is useless. You might as well get points instead. 
 The only thing you'll ever buy is guns, and chances are, you'll only do that once or twice in the 
 entire course of the game. What happened to buying houses and properties? Kinda hard to get the 
 impression that Niko and Roman are poor when i'm running around with 350,000 dollars for most of 
 the game.
  
  - Very frustrating
  Sometimes the game isn't very intuitive, and it took all my strength to not break my controller 
 on several occasions throughout the game.
  
  Don't get me wrong. GTA IV is a must own for everyone. But taking all of these points in to stride, 
 it is impossible to say that this game is a 10/10, or even a 9.9/10. 
  
  Do yourself a favor. Buy this game. Avoid the hype. Play it yourself, and make your own judgments. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkFloyd2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  So my last GTA review was San Andreas. San Andreas, like its predecessors, was a game that I wanted 
 to like and, like its predecessors, I just could not enjoy. The controls felt broken, the shooting 
 mechanics were atrocious, the story wasn't interesting, the characters weren't very likable, the 
 graphics were messy. I could go on, but I won't because it would only take away from the brilliance 
 of Grand Theft Auto IV.
  
  If it wasn't clear already I was not a fan of the series. I was not looking forward to this game 
 in the least despite all the hype surrounding it. On a whim I decided I'd give GTA IV a shot and 
 thankfully I did because it is without a doubt the most immersive game I have ever played. The 
 world is truly alive. Liberty City is booming with interesting people and the developers have managed 
 to capture the depth and approachability that I felt was strongly lacking the previous installments. 
 In fact you could spend hours doing some of the extra things that were placed in the city. Watching 
 Vaudeville acts, hilarious TV shows, and stand up comedians to playing bowling, darts, and pool, 
 I have actually caught myself spending time away from the story just to experience all there is 
 in the city. I have even spent hours surfing the virtual net in the internet cafes. GTA has so 
 much to experience.
  
  The game's story manages to pull you in in such a way I've never witnessed before. Most of the 
 characters, while deplorable, are the some of the most interesting and entertaining in videogame 
 history. Roman Bellic is not the main character's cousin; he is YOUR cousin. Your character doesn't 
 sympathize with him; YOU sympathize with him.
  
  Gameplay was raised a notch or two from the previous games as well. While hand to hand mechanics 
 aren't quite perfect, gunplay is finally fun. Bullet reaction animations are some of the the best 
 I have seen in any video game to date. I actually feel like there is finally some skill involved 
 in shooting. One of the biggest improvements is the fact that when stealing a car you can finally 
 smash the window to unlock it. This was one of the most annoying things in the old games. The newest 
 feature however is the implementation of the Cell Phone. It works seamlessly and only adds to Liberty 
 City's life. The ability to use your cell phone to arrange meetings, call for jobs, and request 
 Taxis represent only a fraction of the things you can accomplish. It is one of the handiest additions 
 to an open world game such as this.
  
  Sound was the only consistent positive for me in the entire series and it is no exception here. 
 The radio stations are back and if I'm not mistaken this game boasts the largest array of radio 
 stations to date. All of the DJs are entertaining to listen to. Most people will always find something 
 enjoyable whether it be tunes or the hilarity of the shock jocks. 
  
  The graphics have seen a tremendous boost thanks to the new generation of hardware. While game 
 is no Gears of War, it's nice to be able to admire the scenery in a GTA game. My favorite thing 
 about the game is all the subtle touches. Bullet impacts look perfectly accurate on cars and windshields. 
 Lighting and shadows have never looked as good. Weather effects look flawless. Scratches and nicks 
 on cars are believable. So much detail went in to this game that it is unfortunate that it is nearly 
 impossible for everyone to experience every nook and cranny of the entire city.
  
  As I said early on, there was little I liked about earlier GTA games. The last thing I would call 
 myself is a GTA fanboy so my appreciation for it surprises me more than it should anyone else. 
 This is truly the game I've wanted GTA to be each time a new version was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is not a game. Not really. It's an experience instead. You turn yourself over to the game 
 and set into some exploration of a surprisingly realistic and well-crafted world.
  
  I got into the game bracing for some sense of unnecessary violence courtesy of my countrymen in 
 scotland's rockstar office... but instead I discovered a matured incarnation of the series. 4 actually 
 managed to grow up after a fashion. 
  
  The game is everything we remember and love, but takes it so much further, as though cribbing from 
 the imagination of what gamer's hoped it could be. Crazy.
  
  The story in the game is beyond compare, and -by itself- is the number one reason to buy this. 
 It creates a journey, a life journey for Niko, and you'll be immediately drawn to see it through 
 to the end.
  
  Along the way, you'll occasionally remember "Holy crap! This is GTA! I need to go screw around!" 
 And the multiplayer is totally there for you man! I thoroughly enjoyed all the modes; outside some 
 of the street racing variants, that I think were done better in Crackdown.
  
  All told, the critics have all been right. We likely are already looking at 2008's game of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I am a little bit mixed about this game. I am debating on whether I should call this a good game 
 or a great game. It is by no means the perfect game or the best game since Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of Time as indicated in IGN's review of this game. There are some good things and there are also 
 some bad things about GTA IV, but let's start off with the positives in this game.
  
  Pros:
  -Same old style of going around beating people up, shooting people, driving around and 
 missions, but with a few tweaks that don't leave you disapointed.
  -Online multi-player
  -I personally like the controls better this time around compared to the previous GTA games (i only 
 played the previous ones on PS2) .
  -Aiming and auto-aiming is better
  -For GTA and Rockstar Games standards, the graphics look really good, but absolutely amazing on 
 HDTV
  -Use of technology (cellphones, TV's, Computers) was a nice addition to the game
  -New map and a lot more detail and less wasted space compared to San Andreas
  -Great single-player 
 story and great characters. Brucie and Little Jacob definitely have their moments.
  
  Cons:
  -Online multiplayer needs some working out. Depending on the game mode, the maps can be 
 too large for the type of game being played and may take longer to find people or objectives.
 
  -Side missions such as taking friends or girlfriends out can be annoying
  -No planes?
  
  I have not completed this game as of yet, but intend on doing so. I don't think I will be playing 
 much online. I would have to rate this game 8.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadenmoody
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Now many have a hunch on wether or not to by the next GTA game. Its a lot different now, Rockstar 
 Games have outdone them selves this time. Gameplay Has Never Been Sharper In The Grand Theft Auto 
 Series, And its deffinatly the Best Free Roam Game In The Market.
  
  Single Player: The Story follows Niko Bellic, a gun handleing Russian killer, with a clear mind. 
 He also has a accent that makes him understandable. Roman is his Cousin, he was supposed to be 
 a rich and all powerfull guy. Anyways, Roman is not, and Niko is not to happy about His Cousins 
 little fib. Any ways, The Story revolves mainly around niko trying to find a man named, DARKO BREVIC. 
 Amazing story 10 out of 10. I am not going to include the ending though. The cinamatics are more 
 lengthy and they seem to actually be going somewere this time. The combat system is great, the 
 duck in cover system is second nature now to the series.
  
  Multiplayer: All of the multiplayer modes seem like a little to much, at first, you will find them 
 fun. its something rockstar has nver done before. (except for GTA SA witch had multiplayer on the 
 pc version) Alot of fun and greatness is in multiplayer.
  
  To wrap it up, its a game that is compelling in every way! its a buyer, 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series was the first notable series to introduce open world gameplay outside 
 of the RPG genre back in 97 with the release of GTA 1, now fast forward 11 years to today, 
 GTA 4 has been released and the evolution and controversy of the series continues. Here in the 
 new Liberty city youll be taking the role of Niko Bellic, a Serbian whos come to 
 the city to meet up with his cousin and find that special someone. The same core gameplay is still 
 firmly in place, youll be going around a massive interactive city while completing missions 
 while you gain renown in the world of organized crime. One of the stand out features of the series 
 is how its just as much fun to ignore the main plot and just drive around filling out your 
 criminal fantasies and performing wanton destruction. Killing people on the street may not seem 
 like something you want to do, but given 5 minutes in Liberty city and most folk will soon be running 
 from the law and beating pimps with baseball bats, the way that GTA brings out the worst in people 
 is part of the beauty of the whole series.
  
  When you are first dropped into the world of GTA you may find yourself at a loss where to begin, 
 the world offers a whole lot of ways for a guy to make some easy cash and youll likely be 
 drawn towards the missions, which would be a good choice since theyll give you tutorials 
 and ease you into the action which will help get new players and GTA vets onto a level playing 
 field. These early missions give you very basic objectives and offer just a small taste of whats 
 to come, eventually youll find the story spinning out of control in various directions. 
 There will be many friends of yours all with their story to tell and things they want you to do, 
 despite the fact that you may have five different storylines running at once everything is held 
 together well, although with such a large cast of characters it can occasionally become confusing 
 if your bad at keeping track of peoples names, much like I am. A new feature brought to GTA 4 that 
 brings the main quest lines to a new level is that you can now make decisions on the lives of some 
 of the main characters. These decisions offer minor ethical dilemmas and introduce many shades 
 of grey in the storyline, when you have someone cowering before your gun and youre deciding 
 if this man will live or die, right and wrong arent as clear as they once were.
  
  Missions are now delivered to you a little differently, you can say goodbye to the old GTA pager 
 or the basic cell phone in San Andres, since GTA IV is set near the present day youll be 
 staying in contact through your new cell phone and email, fortunately both methods work extremely 
 well. Your cell functions just like one from the real world, you can scroll through the menus even 
 while driving, receive (not send) text messages and generally use it to keep in touch with your 
 friends throughout the game. Your cell is also customizable and you are also able to equip your 
 cell phone with $100 ring tones by using the Internet. Pimping out your cell is just one of the 
 uses for the internet, more importantly is the new feature of checking email, youll receive 
 your usual bucket of spam as well as messages from game characters and can reply with a preset 
 positive or negative response, you can later also use the email system to accept certain side missions 
 for some extra dollar. The actually web surfing behaves a lot like a real browser, you can buy 
 ring tones like I mentioned earlier but also arrange dates or simply sit and read some of the crazy 
 website and news available to you.
  
  With such a large selection of characters available you may end up feeling like chucking that cell 
 phone in a lake when you have 7 friends trying to call you up to arrange an evening out, fortunately 
 the available venues are pretty interesting. One of the larger criticisms that GTA has been receiving 
 is the drinking and driving, you can head out to a nightclub with a buddy and get totally trashed, 
 your character will be stumbling and falling around the street, to get home you can stumble into 
 a car and attempt to drive home avoiding the inevitable attention youll get from the police. 
 Drinking is a lot of fun in the game, but definitely doesnt glamorize drinking and driving, 
 instead it serves as a rather exaggerated deterrent since everything becomes so tough to control 
 and encourages you to hail a taxi. The highlight of the events is the comedy clubs and shows, youll 
 be watching recorded acts from both Katt Williams and Ricky Gervais, both guys have several acts 
 and some material is recorded especially for the game. Its a real pity that none of these 
 events are available in multiplayer modes, as getting drunk with 16 friends and trying to drive 
 to a comedy club would be a total blast, the real shame is that the minigames arent available 
 in multiplayer either. The minigames include pool, darts and bowling, these are a fair deal of 
 fun when playing a computer, the occasional glitch in the AI reminds you of how much fun it would 
 be to do this as a group.
  
  Even without the Minigames the Multiplayer is a blast, having 16 players spread across the entire 
 city is an incredible achievement, plus you have a whole slew of game mode to try. You can enjoy 
 competing to complete missions the fastest or get involved in a good ol fashioned game of 
 cops and robbers, the game modes are well varied and Im sure they will be people online 
 to join up with for a long time to come. Of course instead of heading out to complete objective 
 and win a multiplayer match you can also jump into a free roam game and just enjoy the open world 
 of GTA with a group of friends, this just limits you to your imagination and will likely end up 
 as free-for-all death match even though it started off as just a tour around the city in the helicopter, 
 because the city looks, well, amazing.
  
  Liberty City is based Around New York, youll start in Brooklyn (Brooker) and just as in 
 the other games youll eventually get access to the other islands, the most interesting of 
 which has to be Manhattan (Algonquin) . Youll be driving around great landmarks like Central 
 Park (Middle park) and Times Square (Star junction) . All the areas all feel very real especially 
 when you see all the yellow cabs filling up the downtown districts or all of the different people 
 walking around in the park during the day, the only thing that looks better than seeing all this 
 going on during the day is viewing the skyline at night. The draw distance scales extremely well 
 and you can see huge amounts of the city at once giving you a jaw dropping experience.
  
  Although the total map area isnt as large as San Andreas, the densely packed city can become 
 a chore to navigate around when you find yourself repeatedly having to have to cross bridges into 
 different districts, well say hello to the taxi to lift that burden from your already heavy shoulders. 
 You can hail any empty taxi with a quick click of the right button, should the taxi be occupied 
 no problem just swing the door open and drag the unwitting passenger to the street and climb in. 
 These taxis allow you to instant travel to any road around the map for a negligible fee, giving 
 you the freedom to drive if you choose or get back to that mission you just screwed up without 
 the 5-minute drive. Travel is aided even further with the almost total lack of load times, although 
 the taxi drivers with occasionally glitch and end up causing the police to chase you, roll the 
 car or just start ramming a wall over and over, these events arent all that frequent and 
 dont warrant a black mark on this well thought out system. If you do choose to drive then 
 youll be glad that the cars are fitted with a GPS system to help you work out where to head 
 to get across those bridges. The GPS idea is a leaf from the Saints Row book, but the Saints owe 
 the GTA series a few points, so its hard to hold a grudge.
  
  All of the major points for the game are well documented, but the little things are just as important, 
 such as the voices of Karl Lagerfeld, Iggy Pop, and Lazlow Jones on the radio all giving great 
 performances along with all the usual other radio shows. The attention to detail on the car damage 
 is also noteworthy, youll see tiny dents and scuffs appear on the cars as you make minor 
 collisions, try to fire out of a car window or break into a locked car and Niko will smash the 
 window through using his gun, or take a shot to the wheel your car and watch as air will slowly 
 leak out, tires may also catch fire if things are going really badly. My final point worth mentioning 
 isnt really that minor and involves the new cover and lock-on system; this has transformed 
 the clumsy previous gunplay into something far more enjoyable and tactical. You can now drive towards 
 a group of targets, slide the car to the side, jump out and take cover behind it, begin blind firing 
 at the targets and then start rolling across the ground towards a nearby dumpster. All of this 
 while can be done while quickly switching between targets and taking well aimed shots, although 
 headshots are perhaps easier than perhaps they should be.
  
  Its hard to avoid the tsunami of GTA news around the release of a new game, be it in magazines, 
 in the paper or on the telly and it would seem to be impossible for any game to live up this kind 
 of hype but somehow GTA IV still manages to exceed even the most lofty of expectations with an 
 average completion time of around 30 hours and plenty left to do afterwards, this ones a keeper 
 and scores an easy 5 hookers out of 5.
  
  Missing
   No fitness levels
   No turf wars
   No pedal bikes
   No planes
   No car mods
   
 No taxi missions, ambulance missions, pimping.
  
  Bad
   Only 3 Clothes shops
   Occasional faulty AI for taxi drivers and minigames
   No online minigames
   
 Graphical glitches sometimes when entering new area
   A button overused, sometimes when running by tapping A quickly youll suddenly skip 
 a cut scene
  
  Good
   Beautiful city, especially at night
   Free roam multiplayer, two people on a bike or in a chopper
   Involved story mode 
 with multiple choice
   Nice extra touches
   Cover system works great
   Minimal load times
   Taxi system saves a lot of aimless driving
   Comedians 
 and radio are great
   So many different faces and voices with great acting
   Niko is a great star 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippiehunter
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best game I have ever played, and yes, I am including things such as Oblivion, 
 Halo, COD4, and Resident Evil 4. The story line is simply the best in the series, full of interesting 
 little twists and more than a few darkly humorous characters along the way. San Andreas was always 
 fun (I played it up until the day GTA4 came out) , but this game tops it in almost every aspect. 
 True, many popular aspects such as the RPG elements and plane flights are now a thing of the past, 
 but the other parts of IV more than make up for it. The new combat system, which isn't perfect, 
 feels so much more complex and at the same time more natural than that of previous games that it 
 is almost addictive as the game itself. Very satisfying to shoot at a random homeless guy and see 
 the blood splatter on the wall behind him. The driving takes some time to get used to, but it feels 
 a lot more realistic than the relatively easy controls in San Andreas. There are occasional framerate 
 and blurring problems, and sometimes the game just freezes, instilling the fear of the RROD in 
 your heart, but it always passes. The multiplayer is fun but not great, and the cycling method 
 used for changing clothes is frankly retarded, but these things so rarely interfere with gameplay 
 that it doesn't matter. BTW, 10 does not = perfect. 10 = awesome in comparison to all of the other 
 games out there, so don't get the two confused. Also, be prepared to act like this game is your 
 crack, because I am totally hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar North has been hard at work these past few years to significantly expand their ever-increasingly 
 popular series Grand Theft Auto. This will be the first iteration of a GTA game on a next-generation 
 platform and with the games that have already been offered they really set the bar high for this 
 newcomer to the world of high definition. Rockstar promised a lot with this installment and said 
 it would be the definitive GTA game. There have already been similar games on the PS3 and X360 
 that take place in an open world that have an immersive world and did a good job at it, so does 
 GTA have what it takes to stay at the top, or have they fallen behind at their own game?
  
  We head back to Liberty City once again to live the life that one can only dream of. This is GTA 
 IV, and it follows the story of a man named Niko Bellic. On the run trying to escape his previous 
 life in Europe comes to Liberty City to live the American Dream. He is told all these stories from 
 his cousin who is apparently living this "dream" and decides it's time to start anew. Things didn't 
 seem to shape up when he arrived, everything was a lie and him and his cousin both fell into the 
 wrong hands very quickly. Liberty City is supposedly the dangerous place in the country where it 
 feels like heaven for those who have it all and hell for those who don't. You find out all that's 
 left for you is a rundown taxi company and a not so promising mansion. The best way to describe 
 it is It's a world where you make friends quick and enemies even quicker.
  
  The visuals of GTA are just amazing whether you're on foot or flying over the city in a helicopter, 
 just everything and it's really just a city you want to come to know over time. Almost everything's 
 improved in the level of detail. They truly captured the realism of New York in this. Everyone 
 seems busy, take a cab to get places quicker and it's just the place to get the job done. The characters, 
 the vehicles and the buildings as well are just over the top.
  
  The gameplay consists of a lot of variety in the way everything can be done. There's simply just 
 a lot to do and in this case that's a very good thing. Everything you remembered from the past 
 GTA games are here. You can still steal cars, kill anyone, go to strip clubs, but with the addition 
 of a few new features. All your contacts are done through your cell phone, which is a nice approach 
 to a more modern GTA game. You can call up your contacts, see if anything new is happening or just 
 hang out with them. Everyone you meet can somehow benefit you in a way, by either earning cash 
 or giving you a special ability. The way the wanted system works has been altered, they now search 
 for you within a given space depending on the amount of stars you're at. Another mentionable notice 
 is the AI and the Physics system. They have been drastically changed to give it a real feel so 
 nothing feels out of place or weird. It just feels natural in the way things just end up happening 
 in Liberty City.
  
  The biggest change being the addition of an online multiplayer. There are fifteen game modes that 
 range from the standard Team Deathmatches to Races and a lot of co-op modes that are almost like 
 a time-attack challenge. If for some reason none of that interests you there is a free mode you 
 can play with your friends. It's basically Liberty City at your disposal. There are no maps; just 
 the entire city from the single player mode and it looks just as good. Overall the single player 
 and the online offer up enough content to keep everyone enthralled in the world of Liberty City.
 
  
  GTA IV is a fast paced adrenaline ride filled with interesting missions and a cast of memorable 
 characters. With that said and the detail that has been put into Liberty City it's safe to say 
 that GTA features a story mode that's unrivalled by so many others already out there. It offers 
 so much to the gamer and will never feel the same twice. Rockstar has accomplished something that 
 others couldn't nearly perfect, this is a fully realized, living-breathing world which is what 
 makes this game a spectacle.
  
  GTA IV: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmr900
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was almost perfect ALMOST! But it is the best GTA yet. Because it took what made to old 
 ones great and improved on it and took out what was wrong with the others. With the best story 
 yet and the way you use the internet, cell phone, cop computers, etc. I love the way that you can 
 choose the fate of certain people and the way that can change the entire story. That is what makes 
 this game great.
  
  But like everything else this game has flaws. The driving is extremely difficult, but you get use 
 to it after time. The connections with the multiplayer game messes up way to easily. Also the wall 
 hugging system needs a bit of tweeking cause everytime i try to get off the wall i just jump to 
 another wall. One problem i have always had with this game is the Niko needs to learn how to run 
 up stairs. Too many times have i failed missions because i cant run down stairs fast enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, forget everything you've heard about killing prostitutes or acts of random violence. 
 Forget everything you've heard about the games ratings. If life, real life that is, were to come 
 with ratings who among us would be allowed to play?
  
  Having finished the story, I am here to testify that the use of or violence against prostitutes 
 in the game is not required. Niko does not use drugs. Niko also advocates NOT driving while drunk 
 and doesn't smoke.
  
  Of course such vices pale in comparison to the fact that NB is a hired gun. I guess It would seem 
 that violence, as far as society is concerned, is less harmful than either drugs and or sex.
  
  GTA IV is a story. A plausible yet not so likely story of an immigrant who searches the concrete 
 jungle of LIberty City in search of revenge. The story is filled with wit, anger, sorrow and plenty 
 of laughs. Whether on a mission, meeting with a friend or cruising the streets, I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the character dialog. Just as in real life, there's a surprise around every corner.
  
  Lastly, I would have given GTA IV a ten. Except, GTA IV does not deserve a perfect score. The games 
 controls should have undergone additional testing/tweaking prior to releasing the game. Though 
 an improvement over San Andreas, the controls, in my opinion, feel too loose while driving and 
 too tight while on foot. Secondly, the weak traffic AI continues to let down. Why would people 
 driving on a two lane free way all change lanes en mass?
  
  So, GTA IV, in my opinion, is not perfect. Having said that, it's still one of the best overall 
 gaming experiences I've ever had.
  
  Ps. Yo, Gamespot, fix the 'Your Score' slider. It only allows the ability to rate the game in .5 
 increments. I had wished to give this game a score of 9.9 but was unable to do so due to your inadequate 
 tools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  12:01am April 29th - The doors open to the local gaming store here in a small town in Texas. I 
 looked around and saw a completely different crowd than the Halo3 release. These guys (and one 
 girl) were about GTA4. 
  
  I got home and my roomates where waiting for me to place the disk into 360. The Game begun and 
 the first thing we noticed... The opening credits were very cool. It looked amazing... and the 
 sound and music is wonderful on a 5.1 surround sound.
  
  A week has past and It seems I have only but a SMALL dent into this game. I have played through 
 63 missions and I have so much more to go through. Side mission... Flying rats... random friends... 
 dating... and so much more... and that is just the single player mode. The multiplayer is another 
 wonderful addition to this game.
  
  I love a good story... and so far GTA4 is doing a great job telling one.
  
  The graphics... 
 just like a beautiful painting... some people will look at it and say... "WHAT IS IT?" It does 
 not mean that person is a retard... just that they see art as ONE THING. GTA4 came about the graphics 
 as just that... ART!, and I really like the look.
  
  Sound and music... I have an amazing set up. Guess you can say I am very blessed. I play this game 
 and I feel that I have been transported into Librity City... Rockstar did an amazing job on the 
 sound and the writing of the story. I love the music... I could just sit in my house and listen 
 to the stations...
  
  The game play... I am enjoying it... Honestly I have never gotten into a GTA game before... I enjoyed 
 Vice City.... but other than that I have not been into any of the other GTA games. GTA4 has sucked 
 me in and I am sitting back and enjoying it. GTA have taken me away from CoD and it has been enjoyable.
 
  
  I have not finished the game... and this is a first for me... I dont want it to end anytime soome... 
 I am over 30hours into this game and I am enjoying evey minute of it.
  
  This game is not for everyone... It is not going to please everyone... 
  
  I am a Christian 
 gamer and I know that there are alot of thing in this game that would offend people. But I enjoy 
 a really good ganster movie... and every thing that makes a GREAT ganster movie is in GTA4...
 
  
  Cheers
  GT: filmfreak1138 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vestalboy
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Never before has our medium delivered in such a realistic and satisfying manner. GTA IV will go 
 down as the quintessential game of this generation in the way Pac-Man, Super Mario Bros., Mario 
 64, Goldeneye, Legend of Zelda: OOT, and GTA III each revolutionized our beloved hobby in their 
 own unique ways. 
  
  The story is wrought with mature themes beyond the gratuitous sex and violence expected from the 
 series. Building complex human relationships, overcoming adversity, and every American's pursuit 
 of the so-called Dream are a few of the things you will experience during your stay in Liberty 
 City.
  
  The multiplayer options are voluminous and will slow your single player experience to a grinding 
 halt if you're not careful. They are everything we've wanted since GTA III lived in our PS2s for 
 those glorious months in 2001. Be prepared to experience a full-fledged street war that is as unrelenting 
 in its scope as the single player story. I have a strong feeling that GTA IV will dominate Live 
 for months and years to come; until GTA V is released to be exact. 
  
  See you in the streets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the thousands that looked forward to the fourth installment of this series. And like 
 most found the game to be almost but not quite as awesome all of the sites were saying. First let 
 me say that the game itself I feel could have used a bit more polish. What do I mean by that you 
 ask? Well for one this title has been plagued by problems since release. Just as Bully did this 
 one sadly had bugs that just did not sit to well with allot of folks. Considering you are paying 
 60$ for a game these days the bar for polish and bug squashing needs to really be spot on. Especially 
 since this title has been one that has raked in the $$'s in the past. If this was GTA's first time 
 out I could see having a few here and there. But seriously coming on the heels of Bully's horrible 
 issues the GTA IV issues on both PS3 & 360 is just ridiculous. Second I was so very glad to see 
 them take us back to Liberty City with a new take on things. But sadly they took so many elements 
 out of the game that were previously in it. And what is in the game was seriously botched or dumbed 
 down it eeks to imagine why they cut corners so. The camera is just horrible which is so clearly 
 evident as soon as you start playing the game. From trying to drive to trying to run the camera 
 is clunky at best and just horrible at worst. Trying to drive is hard enough without having the 
 camera follow you around the corner. Just keeping the camera angle centered is a chore in itself. 
 The missions are fun but really nothing that has not been done before. The plot is decent but the 
 lack of actual player depth (meaning you cant buy houses, garage's, garage limit of 2 really stinks 
 and so much more) really does not pull me into the game as past versions of GTA have. The graphics 
 look great within the first 20 feet or so of your character but beyond that it gets pretty blurry. 
 One thing I found interesting with the Ps3 version vs the 360 was at least the PS3 allowed for 
 game installation. I mean a game this big really helps to speed up things with part of it loaded 
 to the HD the access times are far faster and since almost all systems these days have HD's the 
 option should have been there on the 360 too. So in a nutshell am I saying GTA IV is not a good 
 game??? No I am not saying that. I am saying that GTA IV is a good game that is way over rated. 
 As it sits today the game is an improvement in some regards but a huge let down in others. I really 
 got the feeling they cut corners dropped content to keep costs and dev time to a min and it shows. 
 With a title this popular you just can not do that. Trust me the fans of the series notice. I have 
 a feeling that Saints Row 2 will give this version of GTA a run for its money. I rate this game 
 an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmoney2587
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series has been very controversial over the years. To some only seen as mindless crime 
 base game, but to others seen as one of the best series to ever be played. Yes, GTA is back and 
 is better and worse in ways. GTA4 comes with the same element as the other ones but is way more 
 funnier and make way more sense. On the good side; Unlike in GTA3 and San Andreas, doing every 
 mission in GTA4 makes more sense like it did in Vice City. The soundtrack to this one is one of 
 ther better ones, classics all around. The talk shows are funny. Missions and side missions are 
 captivating than in previous titles. The police chases are area based. Actually seeing a hooker 
 doing what she supposed to do when u pay her for 3 different jobs (Hand, Blow, Sex) is way better 
 than her sitting next to you with the car jumping up and down. Comedians like Katt williams make 
 it even more funny. Watching T. V. and having a camera cell phone, makes GTA4 actually seem like 
 this day and age were people use them all the time. And the Multiplayer modes are all great. There 
 so much more good things that i wont give a way. On the flip side, the motorcycles seem harder 
 to drive, u cant change niko physical apperance (not really a bad thing) , cant save cars (i dont 
 think) . Aiming is still flawed, but a lil better. Some radio stations play the sames songs more 
 than other songs. All in all, GTA4 is a great title, for 1st time players, its a GREAT BUY, but 
 for fans... its MUST BUY!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgrmcmunchkin
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  At first, i admit it was hard to get into. The game wasn't at all like I expected it to be. Then, 
 after about half an hour I relised that is was even better than i expeted!
  
  Let me explain, i at first got of to a bad start, as i arrived in Liberty City it was 4:00 in the 
 morning and very dark, I couldn't see a thing, and it got alot worse as i knocked out both my headlights. 
 Also i couldn't get the hand of the new driving controls (LT and RT) . Then i did a few more missions 
 picking people up and droping them off. 
  
  It wasn't til i got my first gun i relised the fun of the game, until then i hadnt tryed just driving 
 around in a car running over people. it was f*cking brilliant. The missions are all fun to do, 
 and even though some are hard you cant help going after them again, and again.
  
  i cant be bothered to tell u everything fantastric about this game, so im just gunna tell u the 
 bad stuff...
  
  Bit of a slow start
  
  that is it, now im gunna answer some of the critisisms
  
  Car handling is sh*t - cars handle 
 like in reality
  Poor chose in music - this game is gunna make all of them songs famous! just give it time
  Simular 
 to other GTAs - WTF r u talking about? this game is 10 times more fun than san andreas
  
  So, the marks. As all my friends who haven't got a 360 or PS3 would say
  "there is no such thing 
 as a perfect game" and i agree, but this game is as close to perfection as can possibly be
  
  9.9/10
  
  P. S 4 some reason i can't put the slider thing to 9.9 so heres a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dhani-X
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game is better in so many ways that to compare it to San Andreas would be stupid. Dont get 
 me wrong I loved San Andreas, and I still love it but this game has so many better aspects that 
 it makes San Andreas look like pacman. The A. I. in this game is off the chain, it is awesome to 
 watch random people adjust to the crazy situations that are going on around them, for example when 
 you try to run someone over they jump out of the way, or when you steal their car they can actually 
 grab on to the car as you drive away. Another example of cool A. I. is when Niko walks through the 
 streets with his gun out people call the police. Also all the people on the street are different, 
 when you hit one person they might run away, or they might pull out a gun and shoot you. GTA IVs 
 A. I. will always keep you guessing and lead to some pretty funny situations. I say that alone proves 
 that GTA IV is alot cooler than any previous games in the series. Not to mention the story is awesome, 
 and the characters are all really cool. You can even call certain characters you meet in the game 
 and do a variety of activites with them. For example you can go drinking, play pool, or even go 
 bowling. This is plain and simple one of the coolest games you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljubs6
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  while i don't think that gta iv is a straight 10 like most reviewers, it's certainly not any lower 
 than a 9. A few idiots out there have complained about a lot of things that they obviously know 
 nothing about, or haven't bothered trying to find in the game.
  
  The graphics, while less shiny and new than say gears of war, definitely are above and beyond any 
 other open world game i've seen this generation. What do you people want!? The current hardware 
 isn't going to be able to do much more with such a huge game, and the graphics are still impressive 
 at certain points. MUCH more so than any other gta ever. It's hard to describe the amount of detail 
 rockstar has put into the game, although i wish there was a little bit more in certain areas (i'll 
 discuss that later) .
  
  A few people have also said that the ai for the pedestrians is "the same as san andreas".... did 
 you even play the game? The ai is a huge step up from any of the other gta games, as the peds are 
 all different, have unique animations, and react independently each time you're around them. The 
 ai system is quite impressive at work, and i think most of the people here just want to downplay 
 how good gta is, or just don't know what they're talking about at all.
  
  The storyline is awesome, i'm only about 50% through the game right now, and every mission is a 
 blast. The cut scenes are great and really draw you into the storylines. There is a completely 
 diverse amount of cars and types of cars, you'll see just about everything except for planes (drivable 
 that is) . The euphoria engine does a great job at handling just about anything you can think of, 
 with a few minor quirks here and there. Pedestrians act differently each time you run them over, 
 or when they hit you for that matter.
  
  The whole city seems alive, and i don't see any reason for this game to get less than a 9 from 
 even the most anti-gta person. It raises the bar for ALL games not just games in it's genre. That 
 said, i do have a few issues.
  
  I'm only about 50% through the game, but i have all 3 islands unlocked... i have a good question, 
 where are all the clothing options? there's 3 stores. that's it. with maybe 10 different outfits 
 available in total. I think rockstar may be planning to release downloadable content, which really 
 pisses me off. I hate developers that do that. It sucks to have to pay real money for clothes in 
 a game... boo to that (unless they make it free... in which case YAY!)
  
  My only other issue is the multiplayer, i think that most of the reviewers thought the multiplayer 
 was good because they played in optimal conditions. Literally every time i've gotten online it's 
 fairly laggy and buggy, and NO ONE plays correctly. You'll get into a game of cops n' crooks, which 
 sounds really appealing... that is until your whole team drives off and never tries to actually 
 get to the escape point or complete any objective ever, they just drive around like jackasses. 
 I think when it comes to the pc there will be some more serious people, but right now, there are 
 mostly 12 year olds who want to do nothing but deathmatch or free roam... in other modes. Just 
 to make people mad. It's quite annoying. There are some other issues like not being able to outright 
 kick someone, you have to vote which takes for ever and isn't worth it. You can't set the amount 
 of people for a match, so you almost always end up with 16 (which sometimes you don't want, believe 
 me) . Either that or if it's a player match people drop in and out constantly which gets annoying. 
 The multiplayer seems to be good, it just needs some tweaking to allow people who actually want 
 to play together play together, and those who just mess around to get booted.
  
  Overall i'd give it a 9.5 because of a few quarrels i have with it, but it is a great game, don't 
 listen to the lower reviews, they have something against the game in the first place. I know it 
 was over-hyped, but for good reason, all good games are over-hyped. (and some bad ones are as well) . 
 This one however, really deserves the great scores it got, i can't put it down!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  hype can be a good thing and a bad thing and this game was very hyped and to my astonishment it 
 has not met my expectations but totally exceeded them. i knew GTA 4 was going to be good but not 
 this good and rockstar has created a masterpeice for us gamers to be immersed in.
  
  one of the first things youll notice about Liberty city is an immersive world that feels so real 
 and you kinda feel bad for running over someone or just randomlly shooting a pedestrian all because 
 they seem unique. even the main character Niko Bellic is likeable in this one and the characters 
 around him are not just some stereotype (especailly little jacob) .
  
  the gameplay reains true to its roots but the new cover and combat system employed has worked wonders 
 and it gets pretty easy after a while but it is always enjoyable and whith Niko being a seasoned 
 proffessional with guns you really feel like you are controlling a badass but the one thing that 
 sets him apart from other GTA protagonists is that he has a very strong personality and you will 
 always want to watch the cutscenes, arrange meetings on your cellphone or you can just cruise around 
 taking in the sights of a very realistic city.
  
  the charm of GTA is still here and it really sets itself apart from the other GTA games and has 
 set the benchmark for sandbox games. one you must not miss as you will be blown away.
  
  + very realistic world and interesting NPCs, graphics are supurb, charm is still there, combat 
 is awesome, cover system works like a treat, so much to do so little time really this game is a 
 masterpeice. 
  
  - handling with veichles can be a little dodgy, some visual qiurks but these faults were not enough 
 to detract my experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Good Story since Tommy & CJ johnshon from san-andreas niko bellic is a Deep Character who doesn't 
 take any drug Do the job for money
  for once you have choice to spare life or not
  The CITY IS Realy big : could be bigger. like i donno 1.5X Bigger
  For more Stuff to do Like 
 San andreas But w/e Stupid company doesn't want to use BLue-ray or HD-DVD AT is Full-value to make 
 Big map & lot of extra-stuff
  Hope the Xbox 3rd Generation & Playstation 4 (or w/e it called)
  use Well the capacity : & Quality 
 of a game. 
  
  for me a GOOD GAME IS a game u can drool of how fun it is for almost a Year and more XD gTA IV 
 just miss some Fun of Free-box But have big Quality of Driving. Wich is good. Some people complain 
 That Driving is way to hard
  It just like any race game ? u must Slow down : Brake : turn like Real Life
  u think when u drive 
 at 80km ? u break in 2 second ? on highway .
  u just end up with a car crash accident and a Lethal Wounds to the Hospital :)
  It why Life so 
 fun u go on highroad. beliving ur car will break instantly
  like old Car game. and then u realize u didn't break enough good and got inthe way of a crazy Driver. 
 that drunk and on cellular phone and end up paralyzed 
  
  GTA IV IS GREAT Sequel i hope Rockstar make Better usage & Good Deep Story AS Nicko Bellic Before 
 2013 it take them forever to make a game ..
  time . lot of time. waiting time.. to see that a Sequel take forever to releash 
  Like Star-craft 
 2 ? I have waited that Sequel for 8 year ? it about to releash .
  about TIME.
  
  Buy this game. and have fun on multi-player lots of mods
  I heard of patch incoming to Fix Router 
 bug that make u unable to join any game like Lot of model of netgear & D-link That so Cheap from 
 them
  those Router Brand to not let there Router Being SET Correctly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingisaactheiv
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is by far the best out of the entire series. The storymode keeps you going back for more. 
 The only problem That I have with the game is the driving and the sound. 
  Lets start with the driving... They made the game to have REAL DRIVING PHYSICS but that worked out 
 horribly. You have to brake miles before you want to turn which is pretty annoying when your chasing 
 bad guys, which is most of the time. 
  The sound is not balanced well @ all. The sound of the engine is waay to loud. You usually cannot 
 hear what the person is saying in the car when you are driving. I find myself straining. If I did 
 not have the subtitles on, i would never know whats going on. 
  Online mode is kind of weak. You run around chasing each other and killing people but with friends. 
 It gives you something to do if you are bored but after playing Call of Duty 4 for the last couple 
 months online, my expectation level may be very high.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonbert
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I want to say the good and bad things about this game and I'll start with the bad things that prove 
 the game is not a perfect 10 because perfect means perfect
  
  The main thing I want to say in this review is that alot of people have been giving this game 10s 
 and calling it perfect , don't get me wrong GTA IV is a good game but perfect means perfect.
  
  The definition of perfect is to be flawless and this game is not flawless
  
  I will now 
 proceed to list the flaws with GTA IV
  
  1. The radio stations : Many of the radio stations do not appeal to me personally and I'm sure other 
 people feel the same way.
  
  WKTT , PLR , and Integrity 2.0 are hilarious but there isn't enough material to keep listening 
 to them forever
  
  Personally the only music station I like in the game is LCHC (Liberty city hardcore) and even then 
 I think half the songs on that station are pretty annoying.
  
  The radio could be improved by adding more songs and more segments to every radio station , a metal 
 station , and a modern rock station , and maybe a top 40 hits/pop station kind of thing
  
  2. The missions : Almost every mission is basically chase someone and then kill them , the chasing 
 is very annoying at times ... especially when its a motorcycle chase and you accidently scrape 
 something fly off the bike and can't get back into the chase quick enough to not fail the mission.
 
  
  When a mission isn't chase & kill it seems to be going into a building with about 100 guys who 
 somehow all know you are there to kill their main man before you even pull out a gun and they all 
 systematically sacrifice their lives for the aforementioned guy. These kind of missions can be 
 pretty annoying too , especially if you don't cheat. The only way to beat these missions (without 
 cheating) is lots of trial and error , near flawless use of the all new cover system , and knowing 
 where to get a health pack and/or armor (if there even is any)
  
  3. Story flaws : Niko often does missions saying its for the money or he will do anything for anyone 
 as long as they pay.
  
  There are major flaws with this seeing as there is literally nothing you can buy except clothes 
 (which there is not much selection of in the game) , Taxi rides (Which are dirt cheap and could 
 be financed through simple killing of random people on the street or paid for for life by doing 
 1 mission) , toll booth prices (Also dirt cheap and can just be run through for a small penalty 
 of having like 1 star wanted level) , food & drink (again very cheap and almost pointless)
  
  So what is it that Niko wants all this money for? In one mission Niko makes $250,000 and afterwards 
 he continues to work for people stating its for money. This makes no sense. Niko does not have 
 to pay a single cent for his many apartments , and he gets his cars for free.
  
  So basically Niko is running around with hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash and yet he has 
 absolutely nothing he can spend it all on.
  
  The real thing Niko is trying to get at is hes trying to find someone with the help of people he 
 works for but that does not diminish the fact that he often states what he does is for the money.
 
  
  4. Poor customization :
  
  4.1 Clothes : There are only 2 clothes stores in the whole game , 1 only offers russian clothing 
 with very few color varietys , the other only sells formal clothes such as suits and slacks again 
 with almost no color or style varieties
  
  There are no shorts in the game and no short sleeve shirts , no sleeveless shirts , etc.
  
 
  Also most of the clothes don't even look good. The russian clothes store in the game has nothing 
 but jackets that are under another jacket.
  
  4.2 Cars : The only customization that can be done to cars is changing the color at random by going 
 to pay n spray , and thats just lame.
  
  4.3 Character customization in general : You can't change Niko in any way other than the very small 
 selection of clothes.
  
  4.4 Lack of customizable radio : You can't make your own custom radio station , and so you are 
 forced to listen to whats provided forever , or nothing , or go into your menu and start music 
 manually which you have to manually pause or stop during cutscenes.
  
  5. Weapons
  
  GTA IV has the most boring lineup of weapons in GTA history , no flamethrower , no chainsaw , etc.
 
  
  Also , the RPG launcher isn't as effective as it has been in the past.
  
  Also they lied about being able to pick up random items and throw them , you can do that yes but 
 only on very small objects like bricks , coffee mugs , etc and those items aren't very common. 
 You can't use a knocked over stop sign as a weapon or anything you would imagine doing with random 
 items.
  
  6. Nikos annoying friends
  
  Nikos friends often call or send text messages asking if he wants to go out ... this is in my opinion 
 pretty annoying since with most of his friends going out with them doesn't seem to lead to any 
 sort of progression or reward.
  
  7. Minor flaws with the cheats
  
  If you are shot while using your cell phone it stops you from using your phone , if you cheat when 
 you play GTA IV and you are trying to keep Niko alive in a bad situation and can't find cover you 
 can't actually heal yourself.
  
  Also I think there should be a cheat to just never be wanted by the cops instead of just the lower 
 wanted level cheat.
  
  8. Several fun things from previous GTA games missing
  
  The jetpacks , planes , bikes , etc aren't in GTA IV. I don't know about some people but I personally 
 really liked the bikes in GTA SA
  
  9. Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is really messed up. The fact that the only way you can play multiplayer is online 
 is complete BS in my opinion. There should be a 2-4 player multiplayer so you could play with real 
 people in your own house instead of random people you don't know over the internet.
  
  If you had 3 friends you wanted to play GTA IV multiplayer with you can't just invite them over 
 , but instead they would all have to get online at their own houses and meet up with you online.
 
  
  This is also really bad for trying to play with siblings and roomates because what household has 
 more than 1 of the same console in it? So theres basically no way you can play GTA IV multiplayer 
 with your brothers , sisters , roomates , parents , signifigant other , etc
  
  That is insanely messed up and I was going to give this game a 9.5 but this just reminded me how 
 obnoxious that is so I'm taking it down to a 9.0
  
  Thats absolutley obnoxious to make multiplayer thats only available online.
  
  
  Now for 
 the good stuff
  
  
  As always with GTA games , GTA IV is an amazing and absolutely great game.
  
  The storyline 
 is what I consider the best GTA story yet.
  
  Ok so this GTA is basically exactly what you would expect from a GTA game
  
  A couple of new 
 things I like include :
  
  Waypoints (Shows you a route on your compass of how to get where you want)
  
  Customizable 
 & fully usable cell phone (Makes cheating easier and can be equipped with funny ringtones , is 
 often used to stay in contact with the other characters , etc) I would like it if they had let 
 you customize your own ringtone and cell phone wallpaper but what they let you use in the game 
 for your phones good enough.
  
  The cover system is interesting and it makes big fights pretty cool instead of you just being destroyed 
 in 2 seconds flat
  
  When you spawn a vehichle with a cheat it pops up right in front of you wherever you are , even 
 if your on a roof. Which is really nice to spawn a hellicopter fly onto a nice roof and then spawn 
 a motorcycle and drive it off the roof , etc.
  
  I like how you can take taxis to easily get from wherever you are to literally anywhere else in 
 the game in a few seconds for a small price.
  
  
  In GTA IV there is way less messing around you can do after you beat the game so once you beat 
 it its pretty much over
  
  The only thing I could think of to do for messing around in GTA IV was to spawn a hellicopter get 
 on roofs and then spawn motorcycles and drive them off the roof and stuff
  
  And thats basically the only interesting thing you can do outside of the missions..........
  
 
  I blame it on the removal of all silly vehichles and weapons
  
  But basically GTA IV is another GTA game with exactly what you would expect. I don't know why so 
 many people are claiming that this is the best GTA ever and the best game made in a long time and 
 calling it a perfect 10. I don't get that. Perfect means perfect and GTA IV is not perfect. GTA 
 IV is a good game but it is not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunit6
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing gta4 I was surprised at how good it looked, not Call of Duty 4 good, 
 but good for a gta game good. Then the story gets underway and I'm noticing little flaws with it. 
 The first thing I noticed is how awful it feels when I'm walking (snail-like) . You can run by tapping 
 A ,but Nico gets tired way too quickly. So I'm thinking I'll work on my stamina like I did in San 
 Andreas with CJ and run around alot, that's a no-go cause you can't build up your stamina, can't 
 build up your strength, speed, swimming ability, nothing. You are what you are and you can't change 
 it. No haircuts, tattoos, size change, nothing, just some ugly serbian dude that looks forty years 
 old and unathletic. How am I supposed to get girls looking like this. Not to mention there's only 
 one clothes store for a good bit of the game and all they sell is ugly russian clothes. where are 
 the bikes!! Bikes were awesome, not motorcycles, bicycles. Pulling off some mean BMX tricks was 
 great and now all I got is vehicles that can't turn. I know this sounds like a bad review, but 
 I just wanna get all the bad outta the way. Like I said it looks good, the story's pretty interesting, 
 there's cool features like the cell phone and the internet, multi-player, better targeting system, 
 cooler cars, mini-games like; darts, bowling, pool, Qubed, etc., the music is superb (Nas) , you 
 can turn sleep mode on so you're not bothered with petty tasks, and the characters are hilarious (Brucie, 
 sexuality is suspect) . So overall I thought it was a great game, just not perfect. Especially after 
 all the extra features that were in gta: San Andreas that were missing from this game. I just want 
 a fully customizable character, please. Good job Rockstar now all you have to do is combine San 
 Andreas with GTA4 and you can create the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to put it simply: Grand Theft Auto 4 is a masterpiece, and it brings gaming to a new, 
 previously unattainable level. It is better, more meaningful entertainment than any Movie, TV show, 
 or Book on the market right now. I would like to say there's room for improvement, and maybe there 
 is, but I just can't manage to find a particularly weak point of the game. Gamers: Be prepared 
 to be sucked into Liberty City - and the ride of your life.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an interactive, high intensity thriller that trumps just about everything 
 of its kind that came before it.
  
  Graphically, the game is top notch, especially considering the sheer size and detail of Liberty 
 City. Make no mistake, The game world is huge. It has a rightful place among the most massive gaming 
 worlds ever created. And unlike San Andreas, which had 3 smaller cities, most of the world isn't 
 simply covered in barren wilderness. Different parts of the city have their own distinct character, 
 and are brought to life by incredible detail. From the gleam of the streets after a rainstorm to 
 the breath that rises from Niko's mouth in the cold, to pedestrians holding objects over their 
 heads and scurrying for cover when rain falls to doomsday prophets shouting on the street corners, 
 you can feel the vitality of the city. 
  
  Gameplay: The best new aspect of gameplay is the enhanced gunplay. Namely in the form of the new 
 cover system. It adds a whole new dimension to firefights. Instead of runnign in the open and shooting 
 one target after another, shootouts are now much more intense and dynamic, as you run to better 
 cover, and quickly huddle behind it as bullets whiz past you. The game also utilizes Niko's cell 
 phone, on which he can call friends to go out, schedule appointments, take pictures, and so on.
 
  
  Niko is one of the most memorable characters of this gaming generation. He is clearly a ruthless 
 killer, but for someone who makes a living as a hired killer, Niko is remarkably human. As the 
 storyline progresses, you really begin to feel empathy for Niko.
  
  The humor of previous games remains intact, which provide both a tension-breaking laugh and an 
 interesting insight into American culture from the eyes of an immigrant. Niko is ensnared in an 
 emotionless world of obsessive materialism, in stark contrast to what he's used to, and his remarks 
 throughout the game illuminate this.
  
  
  I cannot possibly stress this enough: Regardless of console or system preference, regardless of 
 age, creed, or whether you're even that devout of a gamer, Grand Theft Auto 4 is a must. It is 
 a game that truly captures our era. This is the game you'll be talking about years from now. It 
 is truly ahead of its time and represents a brilliant new dimension in gaming. If Grand Theft Auto 
 4 is any indication of things to come, then I am excited to see video gaming's future. This is 
 what gaming should be.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes323
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  GTA, the franchise that helped gaming become a cultural phenomenon has finally arrived on the "next-gen 
 consoles". Can we declare the 360, ps3 and wii THIS-gen consoles yet?
  
  Simply put the game is amazing, if you can get it to work that is. Some PS3 users have reported 
 freezing. certain Xbox360 users report the same thing, but a problem that seems to be unique to 
 the 360 is that the DVD drive will sometimes read the game as a DVD and attempt to play it as one. 
 This results in an error message that says "this can only be played in an Xbox360 console" I have 
 this error message and while annoying, it doesn't show up every time. usually just a reset of the 
 console or a quick eject of the disc will fix it. This only happens with GTA and is most likely 
 an error in the copy protection code that could be fixed with an update.
  
  Nitpicking the bugs aside, it time to look at the game itself
  
  Graphics: While the graphics 
 in the game aren't "state of the art" they do look very good for an open world game. If I was to 
 nitpick the graphics at all, I'd say that some of the sign textures in the game are a little low-res, 
 some texture pop-in occurs (no more or perhaps less than previous GTA games) , and aliasing (excessive 
 amount of jaggies) seems to occur even in HD 720p. Even so, the game is still beautiful 9/10.
 
  
  Sound: There hasn't been a GTA to date that has sounded crappy and GTA IV is no exception. Everything 
 just sounds right and the music selection as well as the talk radio shows are great. That being 
 said I do still miss the old-school GTA theme by Da-Shootaz 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Comparing GTA IV to San Andreas, things look pretty bleak..... at first. They removed 
 a lot of the RPG elements and customizations. But I'll be honest, I hated that about San Andreas. 
 My CJ had the same outfit and haircut the entire game and I got so sick of the stupid skill building 
 mini-games I just cheated to build my skill. They also removed the ability to customize cars... but 
 I never really did that either.... usually i just nitro in the car and went on my merry way anyway. 
 I say what they removed was for the better, I know a lot of people complained about this stuff 
 in a very big way but I say to hell with them. That being said, time to nitpick. The driving mechanic 
 could have been improved. the cars feel a little floaty and tend to spin out way too often. you 
 could say "YOU JUST SUCK MAN" but sometimes its next to impossible to take a turn without spining 
 out of control, skidding to much, or crashing into something. I avoid the motorcycles for that 
 reason. maybe I do just suck, which is why I'm not going to count that against the game. what I 
 will count against the game is the gun-play. in GTA IV, you can finally take cover, but this can 
 feel very awkward at times. Sometimes, even though there is an enemy in plain sight and you have 
 bullets in your magazine, Niko wont shoot. He'll stand up awkwardly, point his gun, and just take 
 whatever bullets the enemy throws at him. I suppose with an open-world cover-system, theres bound 
 to be issues like that. What gets me especially is the AI, the AI will use cover to its advantage 
 almost any time. You'll fire wildly in an area thinking you've killed everyone. ask you walk out 
 in the open a guy you didn't see pops out with a shotgun and BAM wasted. this happened to me alot 
 and was extremely frustrating. That aside, theres just a ton of detail in the game and the Euphoria 
 physics engine makes the city and its people come alive. Multiplayer is also frantic and extremely 
 fun but its not something to obsess over like a Call of Duty or Halo. Its just fun for everyone. 
 8.5/10
  
  story (spoiler free) : If you play a game just for its story, this one of the better ones. Niko Bellic 
 seems like a real person. He gets frustrated, pissed off, he loves, he hates, and does everything 
 in between. Like the reviewers say, you also tend to feel connected to these characters in some 
 way. They're likeable and like all likeable people they also tend to have annoying traits and habits. 
 If you play the game just to blow people up, you wont get to see this awesome piece of story-telling 
 unfold. Rockstar North really outdid themselves with this one.
  
  Summary:
  
  PROS: This game is just plain fun, awesome sound and music as per usual, excelant story-line and 
 characters.
  
  CONS: certain textures in the game could use some work, lots of jaggies, annoying occasional bugs, 
 driving mechanic takes getting used to.
  
  annoying **** people just have to get over and stop **** about: lack of the total character and 
 car customization, loss of RPG elements. 
  
  overall, the game is a 9/10, not perfect like the gaming press seems to think, but it is really 
 good and you'd be foolish to miss out on it for any reason.
  
  one final note, to Rockstar itself.... MAKE A PC VERSION. the PC versions of the past Grand Theft 
 Auto games have ALWAYS been better than the console versions. San Andreas case in point! At the 
 time of this writing a PC version has not been announced. We just know that they have "no plans" 
 as of now. I'd buy it, I bought all the other ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalahokee
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a very fun game to play, especially with the great physics engine and all 
 the tiny details added into the game. I personally like hitting people with my car to see them 
 fly through the air because I think it looks very realistic and its fun to watch. But I still love 
 the previous Grand Theft Auto games just as much, maybe even more. If you have enjoyed all of the 
 previous Grand Theft Auto games, you will most likely love Grand Theft Auto IV. Even though Rockstar 
 got rid of some of the fun things such as getting hair cuts, custom paint jobs, and other things 
 (which I hate them for because Niko's haircut is crap) , it is still a very fun games to play and 
 recommend it to Grand Theft Auto fans. One monor detail I don't like is how there are no gangs 
 on the streets just randomly mugging or shooting people. That was really fun in San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awptical
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This GTA was very disappointing. They left out most of the funs stuff from the past GTAs.
  
  planes
  parachutes
  firefighter/ambulance missions
  flamethrower
  chainsaw
  etc etc 
 etc
  fewer cars
  gyms
  tatoos
  haircuts
  
  Radio station is abysmal at best.
  
  There are very few enterable buildings, restaurants, bars, clubs, and so on. You would think on 
 next-gen that they would add many times more than on past GTAs. The TV is a cool feature but has 
 very few shows and only 3 channels. The internet is also poorly done.
  
  You can no longer buy property.
  
  The game all in all gives nothing new to the series except 
 semi updated graphics and an "ok" multiplayer.
  
  Only thing I liked coming out of this game was the single player story, it was suprisingly good.
 
  
  
  
  I would rent before I bought on this one. Huge disappointment. =/
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance00
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I have yet to suffer the glitches and bugs that other people are suffering from (I'm assuming its 
 their consoles and not the game) but I have found GTA to be a very entertaining game. This time 
 round Rockstar has seemed to of taken a realistic take on its flagship franchise as now I find 
 that I go and pick up a vest every time my armour falls under the half way line.
  
  I am not going into a basic plot outline as many have viewed the trailers, reviews and game bashings 
 the media has jumped onto the bandwagon steered by the one and only jack Johnson (a money grabbing 
 P**** who really is doing it for the money) . But to say the least all of the resources give don't 
 give the viable reason away to why Niko is murdering people left right and centre and it has made 
 me fall in love with him (in a non-homo erotic way) .
  
  Right first the game play, the game play so far has been good as now with the newly added realism 
 I will need to duck and cover every time I get into a fight with the mafia or who ever is aiming 
 a gun at my person (usually the cops, I only scratched the paintwork and it was his fault for not 
 indicating right) . Cover system works really well unlike the gears of war 'one button' scheme that 
 just had you hugging the nearest pillar or rock only to be blown up by the frag you were trying 
 to avoid. The weapons are a good selection apart from purchasing the grenades and cocktails as 
 they are over priced ($500 for 1 cocktail and $1000 for one grenade) .
  
  Next graphics and sound are both brilliant though with the voices with the radio turned on can 
 be too quiet so I stuck subtitles on. The relationship thing is good but sometimes they get annoying 
 especially when they throw you into a mission or ambush when you have a quarter of your health 
 and little ammo. I have so far seen nothing lick glitches and bugs with the game (again I assume 
 people who have found bugs are hunting for them) and the radio stations have a good selection of 
 music to listen to, was surprised to not being able to by a radio walkman or mp3 player for Niko 
 so you can listen to it on foot, but the civilians give some good one liners when you walk past 
 them.
  
  Multiplayer is very fun however amazing for a 18 rated game there are still the annoying little 
 10 to 13 year old kids who have seemed to of snuck in from halo 3 to plague us with their 'witty' 
 insults and whining complaints of "why did you kill me!?" and "that's my car you F***ing F*****!" 
 but unfortunately you can ban them all as all you will have left to play against is yourself and 
 the guys living it up in the Antarctica.
  
  So over all the game is very fun to play and has some very good story telling to be told. Also 
 for the media out there reading this, if you ignore the entire game and only want the whole prostitute 
 hit with a bus thing, it does have that to fall back on for your next 'youngster murders someone 
 in time for the season' plan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUnholyBudder
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely stunning. Having never played any of the previous GTA games before, I must 
 say that my expectations truly did this game no justice. The open world, the realism, the constantly 
 changing environment, and everything else about this game make it thrilling. It definately deserves 
 the 10, because of it's multiplayer and it's great storyline. And you don't have to just follow 
 the story, you can have tremendous fun screwing around for hours and hours and hours, because it 
 never gets old. I hope that there are more cheats than currently listed, because I've heard that 
 a big thing about the previous GTA's is the cheats, and this one only has about a dozen. I must 
 say I've never played a game quite as well thought out as this one. My only con for this is the 
 same as my only con for COD4: where the heck is the splitscreen/splitscreen online mode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hojo80
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  as the title suggests this game has eaten up all my free time since it's release, i get home from 
 work, i pop in GTA and before i know it it's dark out and my thumbs are sore. it's just that immersive, 
 you become Niko Bellic and it's just so easy to play.
  
  first off the single player mode is a great story, with 30 hours of main story play, and probably 
 another 30 in side misisons so there's plenty to do. i've heard people complaining about how you 
 can't modify cars, workout, fire fighting, ambulance, dirt bike racing, and cop missions... well 
 you can do cop missions fellas, and as for dirt bikes in liberty city? i mean that would be kinda 
 dumb, there's not too many dirt bike tracks in new york city. you still got the street racing tho. 
 as for the rest of that crap it's just that, tedious crap that bogged down san andreas for me, 
 i didn't like having a virtual gansta pet (giga gangsta) having to feed him, exercise him, dress 
 him... just all too tedious for a video game and GTA IV is filled the voids of that other stuff 
 with stuff that's rewarding, like being able to hangout with friends and actually do something 
 (drinking, pool, bowling, helitours, boat rides, stand up comedy shows) i means when you get a 
 call from a friend you actually want to drop what you're doing and go hangout. all this comes to 
 you by way of a cell phone you can actually use, dial numbers including 911, send picture messages, 
 receive texts. you really do take on a role as Niko Bellic and the universe that is liberty city 
 is presented to you in a very cinematic and gratifying way.
  
  now to the multiplayer... Fun as hell is all i can say, well i can say alot more, but the overall 
 theme is fun. you just bring up your phone and go to multiplayer and you're in the game with usually 
 4 trash talking 12 year olds, teenagers from the suburbs talkin trash and callin you "dawg" and 
 guys like me who talk to my friends and don't really care about anyone else, i'm just there to 
 kill people. with 15 game modes you're never going to get bored with the multiplayer, with a large 
 team deathmatch and a 20 minute game clock the amount of havok you can reek really isn't limited. 
 and each match is customizable as long as you're the host which is decided each match, i've yet 
 to be the host so i haven't done any customizing but you won't go from match to match growing increasingly 
 bored. but the hidden gem that no one is really talking about is the "free mode" when you start 
 a party and liberty city is your playground, where you are spawned at a warehouse complete with 
 every gun, helicopters, a nice car, a boat, etc. and you can drive and reek havok as you please, 
 no cops, no money, just plain fun. me and my cousin spent an hour just killing each other, finding 
 new ways to kill. my favorite is the suicide bomber technique... cook a hand grenade and just run 
 at someone even if they kill you... boom! sure you die but it's funny. it is very good when a car 
 filled with 4 opponents are baring down on you in a car, just cook your grenade and as they hit 
 you their car explodes giving you 4 kills to their 0 kills if you explode before the car makes 
 contact
  
  buy this game and come play some cops and crooks with me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I've played the majority of GTA3 and Vice City and have never got to finish them simply because 
 I got bored. But that doesn't mean I can't see the appeal behind GTA and especially behind GTA4. 
 It's good yes, but like anything and everything that comes out, it ain't perfect. Mostly everyone 
 I know who likes GTA has turned around and said "It looks great and is the best in the series but 
 it's just GTA". So is there enough innovation here to warrant 10/10? Clearly not. There are some 
 great gimmicks here and there with the mini games and some of the missions are very intense. Keeping 
 relationships with characters you meet through the game and dating women is all very Sims and is 
 the most boring aspect here in GTA4. I for one can't bothered with it. One of the most surprising 
 aspects not featured with the game, considering how far its come and what is expected of today's 
 action rpgs is the ability to customise your characters look and physique. Something Saints Row 
 has over GTA.... still. And with an online multiplayer, it simply would've made more sense for 
 the feature to be included. The other aspect is the fact that you're playing as a male character 
 again. I love the fact that he's Russian, totally original and very funny as you do sound like 
 Borat but a female character or option of could've opened a new door for GTA and would've made 
 the whole experience a little less predictable, maybe. The best aspect of the game is in the lighting 
 and animation. Finally it is actually noticeable that the animations to characters have been done 
 from scratch instead of ripping off the old ones and tweaking them a little. Physics are amazing 
 too with characters reactions to slight bumps or pushes from cars catching the eye and looking 
 totally realistic. In all fairness, the game is a technical marvel and is most likely the biggest 
 reason why it's getting 10/10 everywhere. But I'm not marking it on that, I'm marking it on how 
 well it's kept me interested and how well it's entertained me. The main story is being dragged 
 out way too long for me to really care anymore. I've been playing it for sometime (15+ hours) and 
 it feels as though 2 main storylines could've been introduced here not just the one. The controls 
 are up-to-date next gen shooting, not as arcade-like or at the same pace as Crackdown but still 
 respectably realistic. It's a little confusing as to how realistic Rockstar want to take the series. 
 The realism in GTA4 is through the roof but then so is the abstraction. I've gone through lots 
 of red lights, killed many people in broad daylight and had sex with a couple of prostitutes (which 
 is totally unnecessary) and yet I'm still not in prison, I haven't been fined for the red lights 
 or destruction of property - I mean could you imagine the ultra realistic version of this game? 
 You'd just spend it in jail! All that said, getting drunk in GTA4 has got to be the funniest thing 
 I've ever played and seen in a game. However this IS just another GTA game with shiny new bells. 
 There's nothing amazing about it and there's nothing bad about it either. People who like the series 
 will love it and people who don't, won't. It's not for everyone and let me be the first to say, 
 not everyone cares, it's just GTA.
  
  The opening credits were tastefully done though. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Well it's finally here ladies and gentlemen. The most highly anticipated game of 2008 is finally 
 out, and it was worth the wait.
  
  Now let me tell you, I was VERY pumped for this game. I mean DAMN, I couldn't get through a whole 
 day without thinking about this game at least ten times.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - This is what makes Grand Theft Auto the series that it is today. It gives you 
 the chance to do almost whatever you want to do, and that's alot. Let me just tell you everything 
 you can do in the enormous city that is, Liberty City. It basically boils down to this, you can 
 steal anything that has an engine, you can kill anything that moves. You can pick up hookers, you 
 can drive to a location to play a mini-game, or just get drunk. You can take people on dates, you 
 can hangout with your friends. You can steal a helicopter and fly it up to Rotterdam Tower (Empire 
 State Building) and just get out and drop down to the street, sure it'll take you about 30 seconds 
 to reach the pavement, but its damn cool to watch niko fly through the air while he sees the ground 
 getting closer and closer... hehehe. Anyway, you get the idea, do whatever you want, as long as 
 it's in the game. Omg I forgot... you can watch TV, with actual TV programs made by R*, as well 
 as surf the internet, now, gametrailers said that there were hundreds of websites, but I've only 
 been to about a dozen...
  Find out what else you can do when you get the game!
  
  Sound 10/10 - Music is great, Voice Overs are excellent, Sound effects are great. That's pretty 
 much it.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Damn there is ALOT of pop in textures in this game. For real, I was in a helicopter 
 the other day and I flew to the other side of the city fairly quickly and when I landed it was 
 just a slab of gray concrete, then slowly the buildings and people and cars popped in. It's distracting.
 
  
  
  
  Overall, get it, if you don't have it, steal it. 
  
  Duh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  You are Niko Bellic and you are trying to escape the troubles your having in eastern europe. His 
 cousin Roman convinces you to come to america and come live the american dream like he is currently, but 
 things dont't turn out to be like expected. Roman is in debt and he needs Nikos help. That's the 
 beginning of the story and if you want to learn more you should go buy it from Gamestop. I highly 
 reccomend this game. It is the funnest GTA yet. I liked the story in this game better than any other 
 GTA. This game is highly addictive. I found myself playing this game about 7 hours a day. The graphics 
 are great. Although you can't parachute off a building or fly airplanes but you can still fly helicopters. In 
 this game when you go into a shop there aren't any loading times like the previous GTA. This game 
 has raised my standards for videogames, I don't know if i could play saints row 2 because it just 
 won't be GTA IV. That's why I think this game is the best game ever and deserves a 10 out of 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I cannot beleive the awesomeness of this game, I mean when I popped it in and started playing the 
 first 3 or 4 hours of the storyline, I was wide eyed and was amazed at the level of detail that 
 this game has been given.
  I'd be surprised if there is anybody that can complain about this game at all, sure there are some 
 odd quirks every now and then, but every other level of game play overshadows the issues in everyway.
 
  
  The main story is great, lots of twists and turns and choose their fate sort of style when encountering 
 somebody you either want to kill or save.
  The weapons are standard but I love hearing the bullet shells hitting the ground with those wonderful 
 clinking sounds, and the explosions generated from grenades or RPG's are awesome, better than Saint's 
 Row's explosions that's for sure.
  
  World physics are great and reflect real world ones to a fault, the over the top part of slamming 
 into a van at top speed with a bike and then vaulting 100 feet in the air is a little crazy but 
 it makes me laugh each time I bite the pavement.
  The friendship system is Ala-San Andreas, albeit more refined in terms of keeping friendships rolling 
 along as it requires more effort.
  
  Basically everything is wonderful with the game, some difficult missions such as the bank heist 
 (sorry for any spoilers) , are outright maddening, but after some forethought and careful planning 
 I got past it eventually, sometimes cool and calculated is the way instead of painting a rampage 
 with your boomstick.
  
  The cars are awesome as well, some of the redesigns could really play into the real world such 
 as the Turismo or Blista Compact; my only real irk about the cars, and I know it's stupid and I've 
 overlooked it by now since I've gotten used to the controls, is the driving control it's self, 
 seems like your car is skating on ice.
  
  Other than that this game is fun and made of win, you dont like it well bullocks to you mate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  We've been through GTA on the PSone, GTA 2 on the Dreamcast and GTA 3 with it's add-ons for the 
 PS2 and Xbox. But none of them can stand up to the GTA of the next-gen. GTA 4 is amazing for many 
 reasons, one because Niko Bellic is the funniest and best character put into the GTA series, two 
 because the visuals and scenery is almost life-like, three because the multiplayer is not only 
 amazing, it's the best you'll find on the next-gen consoles for a long time.
  
  The beginning of the game is as follows, Niko Bellic is a Russian imagrant who used to be in the 
 war, but soon decides to put his past behind him and move with his cousin to Liberty City and start 
 a new life. Of course, New York isn't everything Niko was expecting, and he soon finds himself 
 having to help out his cousin and get some money to survive in this place. As he progresses, he 
 meets new people and makes new friends... but those new people soon get Niko into some serious 
 trouble...
  
  In GTA you can basically do WHATEVER you want and WHENEVER you want. You can go to the pub, go 
 bowling, surf the net, phone people, date online and meet people, make friends, or if you can't 
 be bothered with doing all this, you can just do the main missions and get on with it. Basically, 
 it's more than amazing, it's a masterpiece. The ragdoll physics are perfect and realistic, and 
 the things you do are life-like. For example, if you speed down a motorway and smash into a car 
 or a wall, you fly out of your windscreen. If you find a car that's locked, you smash the window 
 and hot-wire it. And for once, if you smash the hell out of your car, it doesnt 'set on fire' it 
 breaks down, even when your car is upside down, you don't have to worry about crawling out and 
 running for your life. The only way you can set your car on fire, is if too many bullets get fired 
 at it. 
  
  In the previous GTA games, you'd find yourself having to drive for miles and miles to get to a 
 mission, in GTA4, you no longer have to, just call a taxi, and get there the easy way, but at a 
 small fee of course. This may make the game easy, but in fact it's not. You can't blow the hell 
 out of your enemies by doing drive-bys while your in the taxi. Instead, the driver will just get 
 out and run away, leaving you to fight your own battles. Perhaps the biggest improvement, is the 
 AI. They're intelligent as ever before, instead of just walking up and down to streets and running 
 away from the cops now and then, they talk to each other properly, they come up to you and ask 
 you for money, and you may even see some fighting with each other just to find the police appear 
 and beat the hell out of them. Now speaking of the police, how annoying was it to get a 1-star 
 wanted level and find the police shooting the hell out of you. Instead of doing that, they ask 
 you kindly to get out of your car or to stop running and give up. If you refuse and try to make 
 a getaway, the police will run after you and you'll get a 2-star wanted level, and so on if you 
 continue to cause havok. Getting away from the police is much easier too, instead of crapping yourself 
 because you know you'll never escape from the dreaded 4 to 6-star wanted level, all you have to 
 do is look on your radar and escape the flashing circle that is the Police searching area. 
  
  As the online, it has many gameplay modes to keep you entertained weeks, months, years even. 
 From modes like racing, turf war, team deathmatch or just simple Free Mode which allows you to 
 do whatever you want with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2Dude89
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Initial Thoughts- Right when I first put the game in I was so excited to play, and after the first 
 time I saw the city and got to interact with it I was blown away. The city and everything in it 
 looks so amazing and the game is awesome.
  
  Game Itself- I had been waiting for this game for a very long time (years) and the wait was definitely 
 well worth it. The game play and controls are great and very easy to get used to even if you have 
 never played a GTA game before. Everything is so realistic sometimes you just want to stop and 
 look around. Everything from the way the cars react to the way you drive them to all the different 
 characters facial and body styles to the way weapons look when used (gunfire and such) . This is 
 probably the best if not one the best looking games I have ever seen and/or played. If you are 
 a longtime fan of the GTA series or a newcomer to the GTA universe this game will please anyone 
 that plays it. I give this game a 10/10 and I'm sure you will to. Game of The Year material here 
 that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: launchpad08
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of hype for this game, so i expected a lot. i havent had much time to play through 
 much of the story yet, but so far its looking very familiar. i was hoping for some big new addition 
 to this game and really didnt get it. there were some cool new things and the online play is always 
 fun, but for this long of a wait i expected more. im not saying its not a good game, it is, but 
 it surely isnt perfect. everytime i pick up a new gta game i think to myself, i played the last 
 one so much trying to get 100% that im not sure ill spend a lot of time with this one, but it pulls 
 me in. if you are into the gta series, its a no brainer, get this game. if you arent sure if you 
 would like it, compare it to the last three, they all have the same concept, you dont like them, 
 you wont like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox4life76
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure if I was going to buy into they hype of the game but I figured since it was my birthday, 
 why not treat myself. So i picked up the game and decided to see what it was all about. The intro 
 video was like watching a movie in the theatre. Then after I was settled and ready to play, the 
 graphics and sound effects and the controls of the game surprised me how much better they were 
 then what i expected. I highly recommend this game to anybody who is on the fence. I'm looking 
 forward to playing the multi-player aspect of the game but I can't seem to put down the single 
 player just yet. I'm not too much into the different radio stations and music, I wish a guide was 
 provided to tell you where you could find each song on the stations but it's just me being picky 
 and really finding nothing to complain about. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambambam21
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Okie GTA: IV is a great game, but it just feels like im playing Liberty City (GTA:3) all over again, 
 sure its set in liberty city so its gonna run on the same princibles, but what the hell happened 
 to car customising, Haircuts, Clothes Brands, Skill Training and most of all why is there a lack 
 of interesting cars in the game?, Aston Martin and Ferrari is a brilliant edition to be top of 
 the cars but i was hoping for there to be much much more varity considing the whole buzz of the 
 game, the graphics are brilliant are non the less which saves face for the game, But why was it 
 needed to be completely reverted from what san andreas gave us, sure you either loved it or hated 
 it, but i know it aint down the fact because there was soo much to do in there, they say you can 
 do activites, but only when you invite friend, so how is meant to be real life? The city is brilliant 
 and has many many features to keep you entertained, but you can only drive around a city so many 
 times to say , been there done that, the mobile features are brilliant , so im not gonna rant about 
 that. The basic problem i have with this game is, after completing it and enjoying the storyline, 
 im left with nothing else to do. sure there is police misson and other stuff but in great honestly 
 no1 buys GTA thinking yes im gonna do all the side missions!!! , then in the other hand of GTA 
 san andreas, i still had many driving, bike, shooting skills to get upgraded, Its set in new york 
 yet , there is no gun stores? No shoppiing malls, not even areas of the city which are filled with 
 feared gangs. So in the end of the day, GTA is a great game, buy it by all means, just dont expect 
 to be entertained for more than a month. Thank god the multiplayer has gave it a lovely boost in 
 being able to do many other things, but not everyone has a internet connection..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mansbridge95
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game has everything to offer. From killing some bad guys, to hanging out at a bar with your 
 girlfriend and getting drunk. This game is so realistic. You can basically do anything. The graphic 
 are absolutely amazing. The story in this game is so great! You can choose people's fate by killing 
 them, or letting them live. If you're a hardcore gamer, you absolutely have to own this legendary 
 game. 10 out of 10 easily. There is also quite a bit of stuff in this GTA game, like taking cover 
 behind pretty much everything. This is really a useful part of the game if there is a lot of enemies. 
 This game is so unique from all the other GTA games! Their is too much to do in this fantastic 
 world! I really hope they come out with a GTA5 which would be absolutely an amazing game. Maybe 
 even better than this one, but that would be a task almost impossible. In conclusion, this game 
 is perfect! Go out and buy/rent it right now, although it might be a little hard to get your hands 
 on one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has to be one of the most hyped games in video game history. The revolutionary nature of 
 GTA III with its open world environment made this game one of the most anticipated games of the 
 year. This left many wondering if GTA IV could live up to the hype. How could this game quench 
 a quarter of our anticipation? However, I have to say that it lived up to the hype. The open world 
 environment is great. Exploring the immense city which is close to an exact replica of New York 
 brings a sense of realism to the game. The storyline as well helps to guide you through a great 
 story that is the best that has been done in the GTA series to date. The characters are deep and 
 the voice acting is very compelling. And the violence oh yes the violence is present and plentiful 
 obviously. But, the new cover system brings forth better gunplay and really drives the game forward. 
 Also the new addition of the cell phone allows for missions to be more plentiful and also adds 
 a sense of realism to the game. Overall, GTA is a must buy the length, depth, and immersion of 
 the gameplay is something to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  First of all, this is one of the most addicting games I have played in a very long time. This game 
 is a really good game for the people who know to differentiate the virtual word with no real repercussions 
 to the decisions they take in it from the real world. The game certainly is an adult game, and 
 by no means youngster should play it.
  
  The world you play it:
  The game evolves in Liberty City with is simply a parody of New York City. You will find so many 
 details in the game that you wonder how many people where working in the city construction only. 
 You don't see repeated buildings or at least they are so well spread that you don't notice it. 
 There is a large variety of cars and the radio stations are just awesome. I'm going very fast because 
 I don't want to give too many details.
  
  The characters:
  One of the best parts of the game is the characters. Starting with Niko, the main character, you 
 will notice a great variety of personalities. Of course, they are cartoony personalities so to 
 speak, but they based on very well known stereotypes hyped to make them a lot funnier. You will 
 be part of very funny conversations. The cinematics are hilarious some times and they help you 
 to attach to the characters. As Niko you will be using all the help that you can to make the story 
 the easiest possible. With that in mind you need to be in good terms with the friendly characters. 
 You are going to go out with them and do their favorite activities and that will make them want 
 to help you out when the right time comes. You might even find love, who knows?
  
  Single player:
  Single player is very engaging. It is similar to previous installments but with 
 a lot of other stuff added. I feel that the story in this game is a lot better than in the previous 
 game. The game never becomes too boring because there is always something new story wise that you 
 want to know what the resolution is. The game is also very detail oriented. For example people 
 in the game notice the clothe you wear, the way you drive, and will let you know if you got late 
 to a meeting. You are going to be helping other characters with a lot of mini missions that will 
 give you the money to buy stuff. The game also have a very good variety of weapons to chose from.
 
  The game is very mature oriented. It gives you the option of doing as many perversities and killings 
 as you want. But is up to you the level of perversities you do. Some times you even have the choice 
 of killing a target or not and let it disappear. I've known people how feel bad after doing the 
 stuff the game allows you to do. I've heard friends saying, "Man, this game is too strong, some 
 times I need to take a break and play something else because I feel bad with all the stuff I do 
 in it" ha ha. That's very true, if you have never felt like that playing the game maybe something 
 is wrong with you, I'm kidding. 
  
  Multi player:
  When you play the multi player you need to realize that you are not playing Halo or COD. So don't 
 expect to have the best game mechanics and physics. It is a lot of fun too, especially if you play 
 with friends. You get to chose as your battle field from the whole city (not recommended because 
 it is way to big) , to district, to sections of the map. The game also gives you a great variety 
 of different multiplayer modes. I personally like the cops and crooks a lot.
  Some times the way your character moves is weird and going in a stairway becomes a struggle especially 
 if you are running from a mob of the opposite gang. There are many weapons, life refills, and armor 
 spread in the map so your first objective will be to find a powerful weapon to overwhelm the enemy 
 team. The best stuffs are always surrounded by everybody so sometimes the game becomes a flag kind 
 of game.
  
  In conclusion, I recommend this game to those who don't weak personality. This is not for the faint 
 of hearts. It is very addicting and funny. You won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  The GOOD
  
  - Graphics are great 
  - Story is amazing
  - Characters are brought into the story well
  - Framerate doesnt suffer (at least on the 360)
 
  - ITS GTA. The sandbox atmospere gives you a lot to do. The story changes it up and makes you 
 want to keep playing. 
  
  
  The BAD
  
  -Im not a big fan of the soundtrack. Id rather listen to my own soundtrack. 
  -Driving takes 
 sometime to get used to. But, it does come around.
  -Escaping the cops is too easy
  
  GTA 4 finally has hit the scene. This game is everything that it is cracked up to be. The sandbox 
 mode is back, you can do so much in this game that getting to the game is def a second. The game 
 allows you to get drunk, go bowling, throw darts, see a comedy act, get food. You can ask all of 
 your friends to accompany you and you can take your girl out as well. Of coarse you can reak absolute 
 havoc by destroying everything around. 
  
  The graphics are quite amazing once you look deep into the game. At first I didnt notice them, 
 but there are always people walking around, great light vs shadow and awesome textures. 
  
  The story is really immersive and good enough to keep your attention for a long time. It works 
 out well as it gives you some lagtime in between missions to run around. So it feels.. "real". 
 The characters are great and are fun to watch. 
  
  Overall the game is everything it was supposed to be. The only faults I can find are the tracklist 
 on the radio sucks and running from the cops is way to easy. But with that aside, i feel as if 
 i am nitpicking to find that. Great game and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  In 2001, a Scottish company by the name of Rockstar Games released one of the most controversial 
 video games of all time. Grand Theft Auto III spawned two sequels, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City 
 and each of which were composed of a free-roaming interactive digital world in which the protagonist 
 was able to cause mischief. But behind all the gratuitousness was a highly clever satire on American 
 lifestyle.
  
  GTA III took place in Liberty City, a loose New York City lookalike. Being set in the present day 
 (then 2001) , it was a mockery of various events of that era. The game also payed homage to such 
 films as The Godfather. A year later, Vice City was released, which took place in a 1986 Miami 
 knockoff, also spoofing classic movies, namely Scarface. Come 2004, we have San Andreas, the most 
 ambitious Grand Theft Auto game yet, titled after a fictitious state composed of three cities dubbed 
 Los Santos, San Fierro, and Las Venturas, a mockery of Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Las Vegas, 
 respectively.
  
  And now, for the new generation of consoles, the much anticipated release of Grand Theft Auto IV 
 is here, returning to a much revamped Liberty City of the present day, which is an even more literal 
 interpretation of a New York City that was sold to a generic product manufacturer. In place of 
 the Statue of Liberty, for example, we have the Statue of Happiness. In place of the MetLife building, 
 we have the Get-A-Life building. The list goes on. And the game even targets certain American television 
 shows and websites as part of its grand scheme to make a mockery of the world. In place of America's 
 Next Top Model, we have America's Next Top Hooker. GTA IV also targets the Internet, parodying 
 MySpace, dating sites, blog sites, ringtone download sites (download ringtones for $100) . The list 
 goes on and on, and Rockstar's inventiveness is seemingly endless.
  
  This time around, you play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant invited by his cousin 
 Roman to stay in America in search of the American Dream. Niko realizes that the so-called "American 
 Dream" isn't what he expected, considering America to be just a louder version of the rest of the 
 world (surprise, surprise) . Hence, Niko achieves this American Dream through unorthodox means, 
 doing business with a variety of colorfully shady people -- from Russian mob lords to crooked cops, 
 from Jamaican stoners to undercover government agents.
  
  In true Rockstar fashion, Grand Theft Auto IV is littered with ethnic stereotypes. While the stereotypes 
 against Italian Americans, Latino Americans, African Americans, Asian Americans, and White Americans 
 remain ever present as they have in previous Grand Theft Auto installments, Grand Theft Auto IV 
 has a set of new targets, including Eastern Europeans, Jamaicans, Irish Americans, among many others. 
 The game is truly an equal-opportunity offender in terms of culture, religion, and profession.
 
  
  Rockstar's new Liberty City actually feels like a real city. It's as if a piece of a major American 
 city was taken and placed into a video game, through which the player is able to interact with 
 it from behind a window. Where previous free-roaming crime games eventually spawned the same pedestrian 
 designs, GTA IV's Liberty City has all different designs for pedestrians. I have yet to see a single 
 pedestrian that is the same design. It makes the city feel alive.
  
  The physics of the game are also very much improved, although the car handling is a tad bit more 
 difficult from previous games. Still it's always fun to watch some ultra-realistic explosions and 
 cause epic accidents, complete with realistic reactions from an ultra-smart civilian AI.
  
  Also featured in the game's complex physics are subtle details such as flying through the windshield 
 when crashing (which was featured in 2006's Saints Row, but never in a GTA game) , along with blood 
 splattered onto a car that runs you or a pedestrian over.
  
  The graphics are equally amazing as far as consoles go (although a top-of-the-line PC game could 
 easily smoke this game's graphics) . There is much attention to detail to marvel over, including 
 the watery glistening of the streets during and after a rainstorm, the glossy reflection of the 
 environment against the chrome paint of a vehicle, the sunlight beaming against the streets of 
 Liberty City, vividly creating both glow and shadow. There is so much to drool over.
  
  Take that as a blessing or a curse, however, because I find that the more cartoony free-roaming 
 crime shooters have more replay value, as is true with Volition's Saints Row, which was a great-looking 
 next-gen game whose resemblance felt like an actual GTA game but with improved graphics that are 
 not necessarily realistic, but fun and creative. GTA IV, by contrast, is much more gritty in terms 
 of its visual style, and there are things missing in the game that were featured in previous GTA 
 installments, such as the ability to pilot a jet plane (although Rockstar had political reasons 
 not to feature such abilities in this game to avoid controversy) . So while Liberty City is an astonishing 
 achievement, you don't quite feel as if it's a city that would be fun to roam around in, as were 
 Vice City, the trio of cities in San Andreas, and Saints Row's Stilwater.
  
  GTA IV also lacks major Hollywood stars to contribute to character voices, which makes it seem 
 less like a movie. Instead, there are a bunch of no-name actors. With that said, however, the voice 
 work remains top-notch. For example, the one-liners uttered by Niko when interacting with the people 
 in Liberty City are in top form and often hilarious.
  
  With all the shortcomings of the game, GTA IV has so much to be proud of. There are plenty of amusing 
 minigames featured within, including, but not limited to, bowling, pool, and darts, along with 
 amusing side missions. And the radio stations continue to have great music. This time, along with 
 your typical rap, rock, and radio talk stations, with a few foreign stations scattered here and 
 there, the game also includes trance, electronica, and big band stations. Songs by ELO, David Bowie, 
 Smashing Pumpkins, and many more can be found as you hop into the car and play with the radio.
 
  
  But while the Grand Theft Auto series was a milestone in free-roaming gaming, I have a feeling 
 that the unique concept has turned more into a game genre to be expanded by other companies. The 
 Saints Row games, for example, have expansive potential that the GTA games don't seem to be catching 
 onto. And I must say that GTA IV lacks the real replay value that the other games had. I am actually 
 looking even more forward to Saints Row 2, due out in August. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a pretty good game..... that is..... once you get past some of the controls issues. Don't 
 get me wrong, GTA IV plays pretty well. The problem I have had is that it becomes hard to control 
 the character at times in 'tight' situations. This has always been my major pet-peeve regarding 
 console games. However, on GTA IV, where some fine movements are required to move over certain 
 obstacles, the controls system just does not hold up well. It works but not always with the desired 
 effects. The only other 'issue' I would have is the lanuage. Now, I am not a prude by any sense 
 of the imagination but some of the lanuage used and its frequency was far too over the top. Would 
 have been nice to been able to scale that back a bit in game. Other then these two minor things 
 GTA IV is a pretty good game. It is a must half if you own a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjharn
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  From the very moment you step off of the boat, you can tell Niko is in for an exciting adventure 
 in the latest game from R*. Niko appears to be a rugged, tough x-military man, and doesn't seem 
 to have a problem roughing people up, killing, and stealing things. The story itself is incredible; 
 all of the voice acting in the game makes it grammy worthy, in all seriousness. The emotion portrayed 
 by the actors never really stops amazing me. 
  
  Another great thing about this game is the physics. I really like how they made everything more 
 realistic this time around. Everything feels like it should in real life, from running over innocent 
 citizens, to whipping your car around a turn, to blowing someone up with a rocket launcher. Plus, 
 the way Niko flails around when you get ran over, or even ejected from your own car is a very nice 
 touch.
  
  However, by far my favorite part about this game is the multiplayer I really only have one thing 
 to say about it; incredible. Until you have sat down with a bunch of friends and blown each other 
 up, you can't truly appreciate this game. All of the different game types make for a great time, 
 although I usually find myself just playing freemode. Having 4+ people with 6 stars each makes 
 for an absolutely stunning cop chase.
  
  Graphically, this game does pretty well for itself. It is definitely a large improvement over all 
 the rest of the games in the series, however it occasionally looks a little rough. Despite running 
 on a 50 inch HDTV running at 1080p, when underneath an over pass or something like that, it looks 
 pretty grainy. However, this hardly ever happens and for the most part the game looks fantastic.
 
  
  All in all, when you consider all of the great things this game has, from the awesome multiplayer 
 to the stellar singleplayer, and even the small touches in between, it is by far one of the greatest 
 games ever created, and I know that everyone will be playing it for years. Really, the only question 
 remaining is How can Rockstar possibly top this game?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArasimusX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV might have disappointed some people because it cut back on some things (like 
 planes, jet packs, etc) , but it turns out to be the most free yet somewhat realistic game in the 
 series. For example, it makes more sense that the national guard shows up because you start a shootout 
 with cops. But lets get down to my opinions:
  Pros:
  - The city has rich environment
  - The taxi, fire, and ambulance mission have been replaced with more theft and vigilante related 
 side missions
  - Great story acting
  - Use of cover
  - Good balance of off and online achievements
  - Improved Aiming (but not perfect)
  - Continued 
 radio excellence 
  - Countless funny moments
  - GPS system
  
  Cons:
  - Pedestrian graphics could be better
  - Some mission have random difficulty increase that require 
 you to memorize the mission
  - No Co-op mode similar to Crackdown where friends can play in the free world to work for all achievements. 
 Free mode with no objects get boring after 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmoney128
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  I have read a lot of the GTA fan boy reviews, and also a lot of the GTA hater reviews but none 
 of them really spell out mechanics, game play, and ultimate value. The Gamespot review if you read 
 it, is pretty spot on but it only describes the good. I feel in a review you should have both.
 
  
  Plainly speaking GTA IV is a great game and a great buy. If you are a skeptic I would rent it first... 
 If you are a moralist don't bang hookers and kill them to get your money... Or play video games 
 period. You have to realize this game is all about entertainment. Just like any Hollywood Crime 
 Drama, you get down to the dirty business.
  
  Let me start with the games mechanics. You are Niko Belic, an illegal immigrant right off the cargo 
 ship landing in liberty city hoping to find something... You aren't too sure to start off with. 
 Unlike previous GTA installments this one puts you in the shoes of someone desperate trying to 
 make a living so you can imagine you are going to go into the dirty bowls of the criminal underworld. 
 Get used to it. They have changed things up in the addition to the GTA franchise. First off there 
 isn't any ownership of property. Imagine that, you are an illegal immigrant like you have a credit 
 history to buy something. Instead you have safe houses. These are your primary points of saving 
 your game, changing clothes and watching TV.
  
  From the very beginning of the game you work your way up the food chain. The beginning parts of 
 the game may seem a little slow which may deter some people from getting very far before they want 
 to try something else. So if you are impatient I would go to multiplayer to get more used to the 
 game play because the story is going to aggravate more as time goes on. That really is about it. 
 You will go progress through the game by meeting people and fulfilling missions for them while 
 unraveling a pretty a interesting plot. Not entirely as shallow as past predecessors. You are free 
 to do what you want, just realize there are consequences.
  
  As far as the game play is concerned the greatest problem that I had was adjusting to the controls. 
 It has your typical controls, but also special actions with certain buttons to do several things 
 from hailing a cab, interacting with objective, climbing fences, jumping buildings, you name it. 
 You have to memorize a lot of random controls that don't use to often unless you like parkour through 
 liberty city.
  
  Driving and flying are pretty easy to get a grasp of. The only thing that might get someone caught 
 up is driving and flying while working with the camera. Sometimes it gets pretty frustrating when 
 you are starting out.
  
  Another noticeable problem with the controls is the gunplay. You can pull down the left trigger 
 to free aim, or fully press the trigger to lock on a target. The unfortunate thing about the targeting 
 system is that doesn't determine friend or foe very well, especially out in public. It's easy to 
 be shooting a gang member in the street and then accidently gun down a cop or pedestrian. Then 
 you can get in even more trouble than you bargained for.
  
  One more addition they have added to the gunplay is the cover system. This is a great idea and 
 is very useful however it is difficult to master and when you want to move up on a target it gets 
 aggravating sometimes when you are trying to leave cover as Niko may jolt of in a direction you 
 didn't intend him to go. With a little practice it will become easier to manage but it is a lot 
 less than perfect.
  
  After you get used to the mechanics and game play (which both can be very frustrating) you begin 
 to enjoy GTA IV and find its value. The graphics are top notch. You have a few graphical slowdowns 
 in frame rate, especially through the busier parts of the inner city but for the most part they 
 are pretty smooth. One thing ALL GTA's are plagued by are graphic pop in: meaning, stuff appearing 
 out of nothing (ie. tree's, people, furniture) . GTA IV has very limited pop in and I have only 
 noticed when going 120 MPH down the road into a park, or running into a store real quick when you 
 just get in the area.
  
  The audio in the game is very rich and delicious. Over the 18 radio station's you will have a hard 
 time finding something you don't want t listen to. The people on the street express their opinions 
 in a very life-like yet very sarcastic and vulgar manner... Well up to par with the GTA theme through 
 the years.
  
  The story is well written, long, exciting, boring, fun, aggravating, dramatizing, revealing, traumatic, 
 fast paced, no end thriller, that will keep you stealing cars, shooting gangsters, running from 
 cops, and prevent a decent nights rest for weeks to come. It's fun, a guilty pleasure if you will. 
 Everyone is a little Niko Belic inside waiting to make a way and his mark if anyone gets in his 
 way. For some this a vulgar addition to the worlds pop culture and will be criticized now and respected 
 later. For others it's a great pas time much like eating peanuts, or watching baseball. Whoever 
 you are at least try it. Besides E-Bay, and GameStop have great resell values if you don't like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Its a great game, worth getting, but this "King" of the free-roam hasnt done anything to rival 
 "Saints Row" & concidering Saints Row 2 is around the corner i had impressions that GTA IV was 
 going to be a knockout punch & land Saints Row 2 in a world of hurt.
  
  Things lost:
  No purchasing of houses, cars, any form of property.
  No car tuning etc
  No robbing stores 
 (u can occasionally grab $40 from shooting a cash register, but its hardly a robbery)
  
  
  
  Things gained:
  Mobile Phone system (Great, though not perfect could have been better)
 
  Decision making
  Brilliant graphics
  Brilliant Polish
  Good story line, but then GTA always has been.
  Good Online Play
  
  I was really looking 
 foward to being able to buy some tastey cars, some houses etc maybe some property like in vice 
 city, but there doesnt seem to be any of this, its all done via a cousin who just calls u after 
 a certain mission saying "Hey cousin! ive just bought us a new apartment!" or after doing jobs 
 people say "Hey, u can keep the car." (By whichpoint its knackered anyway)
  
  But the good thing about the game is the decision making & everyone seems to know eachother, "Bosses" 
 will tell u to go kill another boss (who uve also been working for) and visa versa so u have to 
 make a decision as to which one your going to kill etc which reflects on the game later on, also 
 gang bosses are often "with" eachother so u feel as if everyone knows everyone else, plenty of 
 backstabbing too, so the story is brilliant.
  
  Anyway to sum up my review, its a brilliant game but its lacking alot of the things that made GTA 
 the King, and im now highly looking foward to see'ing Saints Row 2 as they've added rather than 
 taken away . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_385
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  First things first, this is a very good game with nice graphics, a decent soundtrack and realism 
 but Rockstar has made the game too realistic for its own good and as a result has lost some of 
 its GTA zing. Part of the fun in playing the previous titles was the crazy vehicles and free roaming 
 which have been really toned down which has come as a shock to many including myself after playing 
 San Andreas. Most of GTA iV you are confined to the streets seeing the same boring style of buildings 
 which can make the game feel one dimensional, the only respite being the helicopters which can 
 be fun flying in and out of the buildings but that gets old fast. Speaking of helicopters the only 
 outlandish vehicle reminiscent of past titles is the attack chopper which features machine guns, 
 besides that the vehicles are average and after a while travelling the city becomes a chore that 
 the taxi's are a god send.
  
  Some other features that were not included since San Andreas are car customisation much to the 
 dismay of many, while not essential to the game it is a nice touch. Just like the more clothing 
 choice and the RPG elements no longer present.
  
  The great thing people loved about other GTA games was the completely ridiculous and over the top 
 missions like stealing a jet pack from a secret government base in the desert. The missions in 
 GTA IV are repetitive with only a handful of over 90 missions actually standing out as really enjoyable, 
 notably "Three Leaf Clover", the majority being kill someone or follow someone then kill them.
 
  
  I think this game became way over hyped which has let many down. This has left an opening for Grand 
 Theft Auto's rivals, notably Saints Row 2 (released later this year) , which claimed by many to 
 be a GTA clone, has retained the appeal that the previous games in the series possessed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krullis_robin
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best game that anyone have ever played, even if some people don't think so. 
 But still, those people must have hit their head in their desk or something. 'Cause some dude wrote 
 a review about this game. And he didn't like the fact that you can't make aneasy turn in any direction 
 when you drive in high-speed. Well, isn't that strange? So that guy most really have a special 
 car or see the reality from an extremely strange angle 'cause I have never seen anyone make such 
 a turn in real life.
  And people who thinks this game is overrated msut really be from another planet.
  
  Really, 
 how can a game that is more based on real physics than the other GTA-games be a "Dissapointing 
 Game". If you really want to play an unrealistic game you can go back to San Andreas and miss out 
 on all the sickly fun stuff in GTA IV. How realistic is it when you can crash a car in like 200 
 km/h and be totally all right. Well, maybe some smoke appears on top of the hood. That is why San 
 Andreas was unrealistic.
  
  But now I will drop that, so I can talk a little about the great game that GTA IV is. I can't even 
 start to think about how good the storywriters for this game is.
  Can you have so much freedom and still make the story perfect?
  Yes, THEY can. Maybe other developers 
 can't make a game like that but the Rockstars of the gaming world sure can. They really know how 
 to make it feel real whilst you are aware of the fact that it is a GAME. This years Greatest game. (So 
 far.)
  They have all these little perfect details. Like, that for ones the character starts the car instead 
 of just sit in it and shoot away.
  
  But the thing I like the most is when you get hit by a car. When Niko get hit and start to fly 
 through the toxic air of Liberty City is gold worth. I started to cry 'cause it is so gracefull. 
 You would have another reason the cry if it was IRL. But that doesn't happen too often so maybe 
 you should start to cry for the grace in those situations too. IRL that is.
  
  Well, what I'm trying to say is that the physics have never been so real in a game before.
  
 
  Thank you for reading and bye.
  ----=KRULL= ----
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoss
Rating: 2
Date: May 5, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  I got bored with the new GTA just hours after playing. Yes for the old rampage there is no better 
 than GTA but the gameplay to this game is not better tha n the last. No planes, now bmx, no easy 
 aim system (it would ratehr shoot the closest person to you than the guy you wana aim at) . I think 
 its gone to peoples heads, just like Halo did. I think GTA is a really bad sequal of number 3. 
 I cant rave about it.
  
  The one person you dont want to be in life your playing, the monkey that goes and does all the 
 work. Great. Im not one to be against midless violence, i mean bring it on but this is monkey work. 
 There is nothing to keep me gripping my seat. You have played it once you have played it a thousand 
 times. 
  
  GTA used to have great radio, now i play with it off. The havnt got that same line up like they 
 did for Vice City for example with VRock and Kchat. I dont want to hear it. 
  
  Also the downgrades, we have lost bikes and planes. We lost bikes becasue... nobody knows why and 
 we lost planes because they didnt make the island big enough to fly about.
  
  I have to say the online is a big plus. Rampaging online with friends is always good fun :) But 
 its better than the missions. Good ols rampage. Think GTA, Think blow someones head off... Fun 
 fun fun.
  
  In sum up id say GTA isnt what I wanted. I would have prefered a fresh new storyline, new looking 
 area not something that looks like number 3 remodeled, a proper aiming system that doesnt take 
 ultimate technique to acustom to, planes and bikes, better cars, better guns, and more fun. Sorry, 
 i got bored of GTA IV within a few very long drawn out boring hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, to start off, this game is amazing! I was seriously blown away at the amazing graphics and 
 the amazing city!! It is really a living/breathing city! The pedestrians also have amazing actions 
 and dialogues.. Just the other day, I was walking down the street and I hear a cell phone ring, 
 but it wasn't mine, is was a Pedestrian near me's cell phone!! Then I started following him and 
 he was actully talking to his Ma, loud and clear! It was awesome! Aside from the visuals and Pedestrians, 
 the entire single player campaign is the best there is, literally. The campaign is filled with 
 humour, action (tons and tons of action!!) , Guns, Killing, Decisions, its got everything!! Now to 
 tbe multiplayer which is outstanding!! There are 15 online modes!! That can hold up to 16 players 
 at once!! It is amazingly addicting and fun!! My personal favourite is calledFree Mode" which 
 is up to 16 players all in Liberty City, causing mischief and destruction!! Its incredible!!! Everyone 
 who owns a 360 must have this game because basically, it is the 360 platform game.. It beats Halo 
 3, It beats Gears, It Destroys Saints Row.. It GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  i have been playing games for around 20 years and i think this is one of the most fun and quality 
 games i have ever played, i looked forward to this for ages and its the first game ever that has 
 actually lived up to what ik was expecting of it. I love the living breathing city, the amount 
 of detail lavished in every nook and cranny is mind boggling, i enjoy just taking a car and goling 
 sight seeing. Some people have complained that the game looks poor but i think the graphics (for 
 the type of open ended game it is) are superb, especially at night when its raining! The cutscenes 
 are great with top quality voice overs that make the story really come alive. i like the more realistic 
 car handling, i love the little extras even down to the stuff like being able to watch tv and go 
 to a show. for me this is the game of the year and its only may! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  can you imagine an open world that you can do anything you want to ease your frustration. can you 
 imagine driving a car while your drunk. can you imagine that you can have girlfriends or your buddys 
 to hang up with them, yes and that is GRAND THEFT AUTO 4 and you can do many many things that you 
 couldn't imagine in that game. also you can surf the ingame internet, you can invite your friends 
 online to help you with your missions or play online co-op or play an online deathmatch or team 
 deathmatch and many modes, you can change your phone ringtone and many more, but what is the difference 
 between the old GTA series, the ingine graphics has been changed with a new life like engine. also 
 they changed the whole combat system upside down and now the game have a stunning ragdoll system, 
 everything has changed, but what amazed me more is the missions. everytime i do missions in the 
 old gta series, i couldn't finished it, because i get bored easly with the repetitive gameplay, 
 but in the new installment, it's totally unlike the old ones and it never stop to amaze me. also 
 sometimes you wouldn't mind to replay the missions again, because it's fun to play them again, 
 but of course the game has cons.
  your AI is not always perfect, your buddys can be stupid sometimes when they help you in your missions, 
 and the camera angle will get you in your nerves sometimes. most of the cars dosen't have a good 
 brakes system, but sport cars does, and there is no offline multiplayer, there are some glitches 
 here and there and i can ignore all of that, because it's one huge city.
  
  the only thing i will say to you is go and buy GTA 4 now. it's way better than before and it's 
 like playing gta for the first time, but with better visuals, so don't think about, just go and 
 grab one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scullyshouse
Rating: 1
Date: May 5, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  If you dont own this game already then you didnt pre order it! There is no other valid reason for 
 not getting this game. Like I have already mentioned 10/10 is just not good enough for this game 
 it should be 1,000,000/1,000,000!
  
  Okies so may be im going a bit over the top, but im sure most people who have played this game 
 agree its the best game ever!!! If you remember the first time you played GTA 3 and felt dumbstruck 
 by how great it was, then its not even close to the first time you play this game.
  
  The attention to detail in this game is amazing, even if you have never been to new york you will 
 see the striking resemblance to it, and after you have played this game you wont ever have to go!!!
 
  
  basically in two words BUY IT!
  
  Rob Forster, iurl. biz
  http://iurl. biz/search/gtaiv
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebladinieres
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Im definitely giving up on gamespot reviews.
  They are not accurate at all.
  If this game got a 10, then Call of Duty 4, Mass Effect, etc should get a better review, cause 
 at least for me, i enjoyed them a whole lot more.
  GTA4, is the same thing i played in other GTA games.
  Better graphics of course, it is supposed 
 to look better, in Xbox 360 than in Playstation 2 or the first Xbox console.
  The missions are boring and repetitive: drive from point A to point B, pick up something and deliver 
 it. And some of those missions have nothing to do with the story plot.
  The gameplay is awful... GTA4 intends to be a great driving game, but you will find better driving 
 games like Forza or Burnout. It intends to be a shooting game, but you will find better shooting 
 games. Driving and shooting in GTA4 has the same depth as each of the lame minigames they put in. 
 (pool, darts, whatever)
  But, yes, the city is great looking, and you can do almost everything you want to bring chaos to 
 Liberty City, until you get killed, or arrested.
  The cutscenes are ok, but if i want to see a movie I will go to the movies. I want to play a videogame.
 
  This is what annoyed me the most: Every time i beat a mission, I dont feel like i am becoming 
 a better playing, or improving my driving or shooting abilities. I just feel that i beat that mission 
 randomly, being luckier than the last time i tried.
  I bought it because i thought that a game that gets a 10 in a gamespot review shouldnt get missed. 
 And got dissapointed again.
  Some one is paying money to get good reviews, just like in every other business. And its a shame.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Here goes, I've put a lot of time and effort to complete SAN Andreas and it was fun with all it's 
 details but this one I'm not even sure I'll finish. (I will just being dramatic) . 
  The good in the game are controls that allow you to do just about anything with a certain amount 
 of precision, and the great is the music. The wast variety of radio stations will satisfy everyone. 
 The bad is the lack of character customization and I don't just mean the clothes I mean he's not 
 gaining wait or loosing it, no alternative haircut and don't get me started on the clothes... and 
 you can fly, sail and drive without a permit...
  Story-vise they've kept the humor, and the characters are done good-but still not wow! and you 
 know the story your name is Niko Belic from former Yugoslavia who came to USA invited by his cousin 
 Roman who promised him luxury and not provided it. He is slowly climbing on the slippery food chain 
 working for anyone willing to pay top dollar, but he's also looking from the ghosts of his past 
 seeking revenge therefore he'll use any means to get where he's going. Having said this I'm leaving 
 up to you to decide is it worth the play.
  
  it's not a 10 can't be a 10 who paid-who knows but not a 10 ... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: USASandman
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  This GTA could be considered the best one but what happened to all the things we could do in the 
 other games, i know they got the hardware to keep it in.
  First in point, San Andreas (GTASA) had a great customization lvl that made the player or me able 
 to look like what i wanted to look like. In GTA4 there are are different styles of clothes but 
 then there are a very limited amount... Just not sure why there isnt more.
  There are aslo alot fewer weapons to choose from in GTA4, which i understand in the previous versions 
 there might of been too much but where did the silenced pistol go?
  The car selection is by far the best of all the series and there is no flaw that i could find in 
 that.
  There seems to be alot more chase missions in GTA4 but there is a healthy amount of impossible 
 missions too. The story is very good, but i am a sucker for Vice Citys setting and story so it 
 gets my vote. All of the GTAs are must owns so GO BUY THIS GAME!
  
  GTA with the best...
  Story-Vice City
  Detail-GTA4
  Music-San Andreas
  Custom.-San Andreas
  Vehicles-GTA4
  
 Main Character-GTA4
  Realism-GTA4
  Game size/length-San Andreas
  Originality-Of Coarse... GTA3
  
  Thank you Rockstar for the Best game series ever made
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  The first GTA game 2D where the player had to play from bird's eye view. Then GTA III became 3D 
 and first was shown on PS2 and it rock the gaming console. Later other episodes of GTA was published 
 like Vice City and San Andreas. Other sequels were also published on PSP. I just hated them all. 
 The graphics were so bad and it didn't suited the game. The combat was so weak that the game was 
 very pathetic. So I never ever played the game more than 5 hours.
  
  But now we have the latest version of GTA and only on next-gen consoles. The graphics and sound 
 effects are much better than before. The Liberty City is huge just like the Paradise City in Burnout 
 Paradise. Things are more realistic then ever before. The cars break down in a realistic way. Glasses, 
 headlights, rear lights, door, wheels etc. Everything falls down into pieces. Even driving is bit 
 more realistic. Cars don't turn easily at a very high speed. You may have to braking more than 
 the handbrake. Muscle cars drift a lot, modern sports car have better grip and acceleration. Any 
 car in the city might have 2 or 3 passengers instead of 1 which is the driver. If you hit others 
 car, they get so pissed that they swear at you or they get out of the car and try to fight with 
 you.
  
  The cops are more stronger and clever than before. The cops doesn't try to kill you as soon as 
 you make a crime. They ask you to stop and put your hands in the air. You can surrender and stop 
 the mayhem (which you will lose your weapons and some money for brining) or run away if you are 
 lucky.
  
  The cover system in combat made the game very easy. Just hide behind the wall and shoot by aiming 
 or make a blind fire. It is just using the same idea as in Gears of War. You can also make an evasive 
 roll to dodge the bullets. Even enemies take cover and roll when you shoot at them.
  
  The cell phone also make the game is easy. Press up on the D-pad to take out your cell phone (even 
 the character in the game takes out its cell phone too) . Press A button to enter the menu such 
 as Phonebook, Messages, Calender and Settings (where you make your phone vibrate, or change the 
 ringing tone, adjust the keypad sound etc.) From the Phonebook, you can call your friends to assign 
 a mission or have date with your girlfriend, entertain her in bowling, darts, billiards or bar 
 then take her home where she invite you to her apartment :-) ! Press up again on D-pad to see buttons 
 on your phone. Enter the phone number which can be used as cheat codes.
  
  Although there some places where the graphics doesn't look nice. Sometimes the characters responds 
 to commands. Some combat problem issues can make you die. Some glitches from here and there can 
 happen.
  
  This is all I can say about GTA IV. These new things in the game gives more excitement to play 
 GTA IV. The new character is cool, more beautiful cars to drive, huge city, lots of missions to 
 complete etc. I suggest you to buy this game. It is a must have!
  
  The pros:
  - Much better graphics and sound effects
  - Huge city and lots of places to visit
  - Enormous 
 amount of cars
  - Pedestrians behave realistically
  - Combat is more advanced than ever
  - All cars and city props breaks down
  - Lots of missions to do and with different objectives
 
  
  The cons:
  - The character may respond late to your commands
  - The health doesn't recover after a while
  - Some parts have bad graphics
  - Few glitches 
 may occur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usglenn
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for 24 hours yes I agree that it is a ground breaking game but as 
 a xbox 360 owner and a fan of saints row I have a few things to say about GTA IV. The overall gameplay 
 is smooth yes I agree but the targeting system is still a little off in my opinion. The loose driving 
 of vehicles is realistic and makes for smooth and excellent getaways. The cars are cool but this 
 a problem for me. Why can't I customize the vehicles and after playing for 25 hours I am about 
 60% done and I haven't seen a dealership where I can buy cars and I haven't seen nowhere to buy 
 houses or apartments. Saints Row allowed you to take a custom character and it allowed you to tailor 
 you lifestyle by giving you the choice to take and fix up rides and store them in the garage and 
 if you left the ride downtown you can just go to the garage and it still will be there. The vehicles 
 had better defintion than GTA IV and the effects and lighting on the vehicles were better. In my 
 opinion Rockstar Games gave us a game that was almost perfect. If they would have made it where 
 you could customize Nikko and the other vehicles in the game then I would say 10. I have almost 
 500k and that shouldn't be the case, where do I blow all this money at. Nikko should have the biggest 
 house and the fattest ride in Liberty City but instead he may end the game being the richest man 
 with no big material things. In defense of Rockstar I have about 40% left so maybe I see something 
 work blowing my money on. I have played all the GTA based games and what made Saints Row a real 
 GTA contender was the new things they added that people like my self like and that is customizable 
 things. What makes one GTA player different from others nothing we have the same game same cars 
 the same player models. For me the game falls off when Niko starts working for the mafia. Some 
 of the stuff is interesting but I seen it done. The city is the best thing in the game and you 
 can tell that Rockstar spent the most time on that but the player models could have been a little 
 better. Some people may disagree but for people who are playstation owners watch out for Saints 
 Row 2 on PS3 for the 1st time this summer. They will definetely capitalize on what GTA failed to 
 give us and that is customization and an intense addictive storyline that keeps you hooked like 
 crack. Don't get me wrong there are some missions that are straight raw like the bank job and the 
 interview and other stuff. The storyline is kind of broken though, Niko is just running around 
 the city like a hitman, and oh yeah he is looking for someone. Where is the big plot? I will see 
 how this game will end but thats if my interest level rises enough to get through these mafia missions. 
 Saints Row 2 is a little less than 4 months away and hopefully I will be finish with this game 
 before then. Rockstar has its eye on what THQ is doing with the Saints Row series Oh yeah and they 
 cellphone thing, Rockstar took the idea from Saints Row and just made it more effective (Just had 
 to throw that in there lol) . In the end, I'll be playing GTA IV so it'll hold me over for the second 
 installment in the Saints Row series. It has the potential to give GTA a run for the money. There 
 is a reason why you see it everywhere in related games when you search GTA IV and thats b/c its 
 a contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Because it rules. It rules the land of gaming, and makes other games pale in comparison.
  
  It would be an understatement to say that Rockstar's newest masterpiece, Grand Theft Auto IV, should 
 get Game Of The Year. Why is that, you ask? Because not only will it easily make GOTY 2008; it 
 is quite simply the best game ever created, and easily the most detailed, fun and breathtaking 
 piece of modern entertainment ever conceived. Now, instead of throwing my past resume of played 
 games in your face, I'll simply say this: I'm now 28 years old, and I've been gaming since I was 
 4 and I haven't stopped since. Basically, GTA IV is the best game I've ever played, period.
  
  Now that my praised introduction is complete, I can get to the part where I tell you WHY I 
 think it's the best game ever. Note that I haven't played any of the other grand theft auto games 
 - this is my first one (don't ask!) . I'll start my review a little differently; here's a brief 
 overview of how I spent today's afternoon:
  
  Me and my friend decided to jump on Xbox live and play together, in order to just explore the game 
 and see just how far we can take it. I setup a game in Free Mode and we enter the world. At this 
 point, it's basically free for all. We can kill other civilians, kill each other, and just wreak 
 havoc against the city and its inhabitants. And we did, for a good hour. 
  
  After messing around, I thought it would be cool if we could both jump in the same car, drive to 
 the airport, and take a helicopter ride together and try to find a dock with some parked boats. 
 At this point, I still didn't know if we could even do this. I remembered in the game, you can 
 hold Y to enter a cab without booting the driver out on his arse, so I proceed to steal a car and 
 ask my friend to enter it using this method. It works. He's now in the passenger seat. He promptly 
 shatters the passenger-side window and starts shooting out of it while I burn rubber, program my 
 GPS for the airport and head to the nearest highway ramp. While I do this, I tell my friend to 
 go in the cinematic mode, where he can watch our fast paced race to the airport from different 
 camera angles, like a skycam or driver-tire cam, etc. He runs out of ammo for his gun, having fired 
 most rounds in unsuspecting drivers on the highway, so I proceed to pull off the highway and we 
 collect some guns and ammo. We then switch seats and I give him a turn at the wheel.
  
  Now, this may sound boring, but all the while this is happening, we're taking crazy turns, smashing 
 into pedestrians and other vehicles on the road, and just laughing our asses off at the results. 
 Morbid? Yeah. Fun? Immensely so! The graphical detail and physics in this game are just downright 
 amazing. Apart from slightly exaggerated physics (hey it is a game, don't want it too real) , everything 
 reacts how you'd expect. It's something I can't possibly explain in words; you really have to play 
 this game in order to experience it all.
  
  Now, getting back to our misadventures, we get to the airport and we drive up to the grounded helicopters. 
 I didn't know if we could both get in one, but I assumed at this point that if it worked for cars, 
 it will probably work for anything. Sure enough, we were both able to get in the heli and start 
 our grand tour of Liberty City from the skies. Piloting the heli was a little tricky at first, 
 but it gets easier. We flew around, taking in the sights while looking for land marks or seeing 
 how close we can get to the ground before colliding with anything. We found the statue of liberty 
 and did a fly-by. 
  
  Then, we searched the beaches and coast until we found some parked boats. We couldn't manage to 
 both board a boat, so we had to take separate ones at this point. It was getting dark and the sun 
 was beginning to set. That's when I realized that GTA IV had the most beautiful water I'd ever 
 seen in a game. Waves from another passing boat were gently rocking ours, and objects and lighting 
 were reflecting realistically from the water's surface. In the distance, I could see the statue 
 of liberty, now lit up by powerful lights from below so that its splendor was still visible at 
 night.
  
  You see, this is where I can't grasp how Rockstar managed to perfect so many details in this game, 
 regardless how subtle. It's mind boggling. Things like people in the streets running in the rain 
 with newspapers covering their heads, or manholes and warm breath steaming in the cold. Or how 
 about turning on the television in your room and watching the non-looped hour and a half of hilarious 
 programming available? Oh, and don't forget the airport and all the passenger planes landing and 
 taking off. Steal a cop car and you can toggle the siren on and off, and when you do, cars in front 
 of you will pull over. Smash or shoot a driving car on the street and start the chase, and the 
 driver will react defensively, driving faster than anyone else on the road, speeding, smashing 
 pedestrians and other cars, and just generally taking risks as anyone would when acting in self-preservation. 
 Fire a gun off in a busy street and watch pedestrians panic, running in every direction, and vehicles 
 on the road scatter trying to get away from you. Stop by and play darts, go bowling or play some 
 billiards. The minigames themselves are so well done and entertaining, you have to ask yourself 
 just how the devs had enough time to make them so cool.
  
  All this and I haven't even begun to tell you how awesome the 30+ hour main story missions are. 
 Well, picture all the key mobster film elements, mix it with a healthy dose of humour and put it 
 in a game, and that's what you've got here. Excellent voice acting, great facial emotions on the 
 character models, steady plot pacing and it manages to be entertaining and funny the entire time. 
 The character development is also noteworthy; you learn to love and hate some of them. Best of 
 all, you get to kill some of them too :) The combat in the game is also superb. You'll get in some 
 fist fights, having to dodge, block, kick and punch at the right moment to gain the upper hand. 
 And there are several weapons, and the cover system is excellent, adding a nice dose of strategy 
 in firefights instead of having an easy button mash-fest.
  
  Apart from the main mission, there are plenty of side missions to do. They're so well done that 
 it's difficult to remember you're doing something on the side. All in all, with the single player 
 story easily hitting 30 hours, added with the side quests and all the fun you'll have playing in 
 multiplayer with its 15 modes, the game is about the best value per dollar for entertainment I've 
 ever seen. It feels like $59 is too little of a price to pay for such an amazing game.
  
  Rockstar should feel proud; they've made gaming history. It sold more copies in its first day than 
 any other game so far. We don't have the end week results yet, but I'm sure it shattered all the 
 world records for any sort entertainment medium (including films!) . They estimate it will make 
 over half a billion in sales in no time at all. They've raised the bar on software entertainment 
 in general, and they're certainly patting themselves on the back while other developers are wondering 
 how the hell they'll ever even come close to such a masterpiece of gaming.
  
  Be a part of gaming history and do yourself a favour, go buy this game and experience it for yourself.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strange-Dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I love how in the video review he even says... "Now GTA 4 isn't perfect" yet they give it a perfect 
 10. Tell me Game Spot how much did they pay you to rate it this well? We come here to see LEGIT 
 reviews that ACCURATELY represent the game not to be lied to. IT'S NOT PERFECT!
  
  THE GOOD:
  Anyways, GTA 4 is a great game. The amount of things you can do is astounding. You 
 can watch TV, surf the Internet, eat anywhere, play pool, play darts, have a GF, go drinking and 
 try to drive home drunk, watch meticulously created comedy shows and magic acts, and so much more. 
 It's really insane. Finally, the story is fantastic. It is so easy to follow along and the animation 
 that takes place is incredible. It's almost like watching a movie.
  
  THE BAD:
  The driving really needs some work; the amount that you need to slow down to take turns is ridiculous. 
 You can't drive fast and when you try and do minor turns to dodge traffic and stuff, the cars' 
 suspension is so soft that the entire car bounces side to side. Even the high end cars have extremely 
 soft suspension which is never good. The stiffer the better. The fact that their are taxis is bad. 
 Now you can get a taxi everywhere to wherever you want and skip the wait. It really makes driving 
 yourself a pain. The graphics are also not very good. I understand it would take a lot of time 
 to model and skin amazing models and it would lower the frame rate but a lot of things just aren't 
 an advancement from GTA: San Andreas or even GTA 3. Really the biggest pain is that the driving 
 straight up sux. I hate it and you know you guys do too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdeerdte
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  the hype on this game is like so.... this game is a dirty gutter that smells of fecies and someone 
 goes down there and comes back they say its the best thing in the world and you can do anything 
 down and have the time of your life there and makes you wanna go down so when you get there all 
 you see is a toilet and a piece of string..... this game omg its lost its GTA values sure you can 
 still kill people steall cars but ... i got in a ambulance clicked the clicker (youknow what i mean) and 
 i couldnt do the speachial missions and why isnt there a country side like in san andreas (now 
 thats a GTA game) this game is a total let down and i aslo remeber that in VICE CITY when you killed 
 a boss i think if i remmebr correclty you could buy where they lived but in gta4 when you kill 
 that first guy (4got his name) you cant buy were he live and also when you kill that second boss 
 guy faustin... whats up with that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  I've been thumbing through the reviews of this game for a few days now, and all I keep seeing is 
 10/10, 10/10, 100%, 5/5, and 1000/10. Okay, when you give something a rating out of ten, that usually 
 indicates that ten is the best and one being the worst. This game is not the best. With that being 
 said for the majority to chew on, Ill get started with the review. 
  
  
  GTA 4 or "IV" is in many ways superior to it predecessors. It brough along a much more realistic 
 and heart warming story. Okay, maybe it's not heart warming, but you will definitely find it a 
 hell of a lot easier to follow than in earlier titles. 
  
  The story follows the eastern-European immigrant Niko Bellic as he is brought into the sprawling 
 metropolis of "America" under false pretenses. Ahhh the land of opportunity. Undoubtedly when Niko 
 arrives, he finds things are not as how his irresponsible cousin promised them. While this part 
 of the story feels ripped straight from numerous pieces of literature, it's easy to get over as 
 you watch hours upon hours of lengthy and colorful cut scenes. There are just about eight hours 
 of cinematics total which could be more or less... a bad thing. However, the story overall is an 
 improvement and it is enjoyable to watch unfold. 
  
  The gameplay formula is very much the same as the original titles. Alot of the "rpg" aspect has 
 been removed from IV which is most definatley a plus. You run around, shoot guns with punishing 
 accuracy, drive in cars and change the radio stations. Yep, much of the same. There are less weapons 
 now. Only two tiers of firearms remain. I think rockstar was really trying to simplify the formula 
 while adding alot of new and interesting features, such as the friends system. Where you can take 
 your gangster, murdering friends out for a drink, or a game of poorly designed bowling. There are 
 simply wayyy to many new features for me to go into all of them individually, so I'll just say 
 this: The gunplay and driving now is clunky but simplified and alot of new feature have been added, 
 which may or may not appeal to some. 
  
  The graphics are probably one of the most noticeable new things i this game. The first game to 
 use the euphoria engine is a water mark of things to come. The physics are realistic and characters 
 react to almost every aspect of their surrounding environment. Sometimes, they will react a little 
 too much, and run screaming off into the distance with their arms flailing because a car ran into 
 a light post across the street. "THE END IS NEAR!" "Hey guy, I only spilt my Latte'.... It's 
 little quirks like that that subtract from the environment. I know that the AI isn't perfect but 
 I think Rockstar could have made the pedestrians a little more reluctant. 
  
  The mutliplayer is a whole other story. The shooting mechanics don't cross over very well at all. 
 The Xbox live options are fraught with networking issues as it drops about 70% of the match made 
 sessions. The running is clunky and laggy in many cases. In the end, the raked matches don't offer 
 any real rewards and you'll eventually find itsjust alot more fun, just to play in a private match 
 with a group of friends dicking around with the helicopters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Even though I don't have the game yet. I can assure you this will be the best game you've ever 
 played in your life, because this game will be your life!!!! Not only do you get to play in a life 
 like city "newyork" but you also get to live in it just how you were supposed to live it. With 
 the physics, this game becomes life. Not only that but you get to do anything you want and play 
 cop of the city if you wish!!! The driving system consist of real life properties and the ai is 
 smart and so alive that you could mistake one of them of being a person you know in real life. 
 This game truly is the game of all times and best!!!!!!!!!
  
  This game also features a great aiming system which is 100 times much easier than the previous 
 gta's so no more dieing if you know what to do. Plus the driving takes skill, so it going to be 
 a challenge everytime you drive and you wont be unchallenged. The police are so cool as they have 
 nice looking cars and has physics apply to them and thier cars and the way people die soooo life 
 like now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenceslivn
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  While never being the biggest fan of the series, I have always admired the detail and vast qualities 
 of the game. In this newest installment I realize that a lot of work and dedication went into this 
 game, and it delivers a good game. But that is what it is, a good game, not a perfect, great or 
 superb game. What GTA offers, it is also lacking, in customization, planes, etc. Glitches, sloppy 
 controls, and driving hinder this title from being perfect. That brings me to a major point, the 
 Gamespot review; the reviewer not only praises GTA IV for its innovations, but also points out 
 its problems! He then gives the game a 10 out of 10, something no game on a next gen console has 
 gotten! How can a game with inherent flaws be perfect?! In the review of Mass Effect, of Bioware, 
 Gamespot reviewer quickly took off points for minor lags in frame rates, and rare glitches (which 
 I never encountered) and gave it a lousy 8.5! This is a sad indication of the corporate sponsorship 
 of games and the unwillingness to put through an accurate view. GTA IV does not inherit a 10, but 
 a good, not great 7.5. hmmm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cracker_Austin
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Before reading any of this text I'm sure you've already scrolled down and seen yet another high 
 score for Rockstar North's latest entry in one of gaming's most famous franchises. As with any 
 other big name series, high scores are usually to be expected. It is as if there is some secret 
 code within the gaming press against giving the next Halo or GTA anything below a 9. That said 
 let me be clear that GTA IV deserves every point given to it in this review, and while it may not 
 be fair to call it the greatest videogame of all time, it remains the greatest entry in the series 
 and open world genre to date.
  
  We'll start off with one of the game's strongest points, the storyline, which thanks to great voice 
 acting, compelling characters, and better cut scenes is easily the best that the franchise has 
 offered thus far. The game begins with the main character, Niko Bellic, arriving by boat at the 
 docks of Liberty City from an unspecified Eastern European country. Niko is a man with dark past 
 but bright aspirations for a life in the United States, and has been persistently regaled by his 
 cousin Roman of the infinite riches that can be achieved in Liberty City.
  
  However, Niko discovers that life in the USA is not all Roman has built it up to be, and in his 
 short time there Roman has already gotten into some trouble. What follows is a moving storyline 
 of the American dream turned into an urban nightmare as Niko and Roman learn that not only is nothing 
 easily handed to you in this world, but everything can be taken away just as quickly. For obvious 
 reasons we won't go further into describing the lengthily narrative, but you can take our word 
 for it that the plot is one hell of a ride. Unlike previous main characters, Niko is the most persistent 
 protagonist that the franchise has ever seen and carries a multidimensional personality that was 
 lacking from the character in GTA III, and is not as malleable as CJ in San Andreas. He's a man 
 that loves his cousin and the American ideal that is constantly preached to him, but is willing 
 to do some shady stuff to achieve it without batting an eye.
  
  Rockstar has ensured that such a story will not get lost in the shuffle of the urban sprawl of 
 Liberty City and its many gameplay possibilities by creating a sort of social life for Niko. In 
 a game that has always been about making the right friends, GTA IV tasks you to cultivate these 
 relationships by not only doing other people's dirty work, but also spending quality time with 
 them. This includes activities such as eating, playing pool, bowling or going out to the bar. So 
 what's the point of all this? Well, certain characters will bring helpful abilities once a solid 
 relationship is constructed. One of the first friends you will make is Little Jacob, a Jamaican 
 arms dealer, and salesman of other fine Jamaican products, who will eventually sell you weapons 
 and ammo for much cheaper prices than your regular gun runner.
  
  Other characters will supply you with helicopters, or even let you know about local street races. 
 Heck you can even date various women. The way you go about connecting with these friends is by 
 using something all present day Americans can never get their noses out of, a cell phone. Your 
 phone is used for calling in favors like the ones mentioned, making plans for activities, or getting 
 calls for jobs. It's a great way to stay organized in the very intricate network of relationships 
 you engage in, and even serves as the menu for finding multiplayer games (more on those later) .
 
  
  I could go on for hours describing the ins and outs of Libery City, but I may as well try to give 
 you an all-encompassing description of its real life counterpart, New York City. Rockstar has once 
 again proven that they are the undisputed kings of the open world genre, and no matter what developer 
 has ever tried their hand at it, we have yet to see someone do it in such a way as GTA. There are 
 a number of events happening in the world outside of your own storyline that can come into play, 
 such as a looming election, that help give the feeling that you're stuck in something much larger 
 than your own situation. This can create a sense of being overwhelmed when playing the game, and 
 perhaps it's a similar feeling that real life immigrants face when moving to a metropolis in a 
 foreign country.
  
  The fact that Rockstar has crafted another unbelievably detailed world is not really news; it's 
 just what they do. What is new is the number of long awaited improvements to the gameplay. Although 
 the people at Rockstar are geniuses at replicating a real city, previous games have usually shown 
 that when it gets down to physically trying to make your way around the world there is a discovery 
 of some twitchy and unpolished core gameplay elements. The first, and most notorious fault of the 
 series is the on-foot controls and targeting system, which has frustrated gamers in the past to 
 a point that one could wish the game was only about driving.
  
  Luckily this has been remedied, as GTA IV repairs a targeting system that was starving for improvement. 
 There is the traditional lock on mechanism, but now by only slightly pulling down on the left trigger 
 the game will enter an over the shoulder free aiming mode, great for when you want to have a little 
 more control when choosing your shots. Niko can take also cover by pressing RB when against any 
 surface, and can then blind fire or quickly peek out to pop off a few shots. This makes for any 
 shootouts during a mission a much less dreaded occurrence, and lets the player have some breathing 
 room to strategize for their next move.
  
  And strategize you must since the game still does not feature any checkpoints during the missions 
 themselves. But since Rockstar has never included them before, and addressed almost all the other 
 problems players have complained about in the past, it's not likely to ever happen. Fortunately, 
 if you do fail to meet your objective, getting back to the action is made much easier with the 
 addition of a waypoint system and use of cabs. The waypoint, while basic, proves very useful and 
 takes away the stress of finding the right path to your objective by doing it for you with a helpful 
 colored line on the map. Or, if you just don't feel like taking your regular commute, cabs are 
 another option, and with the ability to skip through the ride they may as well be referred to as 
 a teleportation system.
  
  The on foot controls were not the only aspect of the game to get a few changes, and as you spend 
 plenty of time driving through the city a few tweaks will become apparent. Vehicles do handle more 
 realistically, especially when turning, but the main difference comes from the default camera. 
 In GTA IV it tends to hang back even when going around a corner, shifting to the side of the vehicle 
 so you may not always see what's coming. It's not so much a frustrating factor that will deter 
 any enjoyment, but it may take some players a few fender benders to adjust to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedtfeld
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Just overall fun. The story mode is one of the best I've played in awhile and is really addicting. 
 Multiplayer online is really fun too and there are a lot of modes to choose from and I didn't expect 
 it to be so fun. The only bad things are when you get stuck on a mission and when you are doing 
 bad online and those are just things that happen in every game. I like the addition of the mini 
 games and I didn't notice too many fun things that they took out. Before this game came out I thought 
 it was too much hype over nothing. But when I got the game and started playing it i was amazed 
 how fun it really was. I recommend getting this game it's probably the best game I've played yet. 
 My favorite part of the game is doing the missions but sometimes it's just fun to mess around and 
 fly around in a heli and ride around in bike. Also i kind of like how you get away from the cops 
 now. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360Legend
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  although the game has very good gameplay and realistic feeling it is lacking something new. it 
 feels like i'm playing the other gta's. it needs to have more things to do and more choices to 
 make. the cars are exactly the same except from a few minor changes and the missions are the same 
 as vice city. allthough the city is perfectly sized so there is enough to explore but not too big 
 so you get bored. the thing i like is the aiming system, very easy to control and it gives you 
 the option of free aim if you want. it is good that you get small choices to make but hey don't 
 really make a difference to the story in the end. the reaction of the people in the city is really 
 impressive. whenever you steal a car or start a fight the people around you act in all diferent 
 ways depending on what you do.
  
  a good game but not the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMurphy28
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the best GTA game to date and quite possibly the best game ever made. The game gives 
 you the freedom and customization that the others give with an improvement to graphics and framerate 
 as well as adding a new cover system and driving mechanics. 
  
  The game looks incredible. Character models and lip synching look incredible and the cars and buildings 
 look almost real-like. Framerate rarely has issues and it is even more rare that you see something 
 you dislike graphic wise.
  
  The driving has been tuned a bit more realistic. While people argue it is harder, it actually is 
 more realistic. You can no longer go into turns 100 mp/h and just handbrake to turn, if you do 
 that in GTA IV, you with spin out of control most likely. The turns feel like you're driving a 
 real car and you must slow down and go into a turn on an angle to not crash into the wall. Overall, 
 the driving system has been improved and I enjoy it more than the old versions.
  
  The cover system is simple, yet effective. With the click of a button you'll go into the closest 
 cover and you have to option to blind fire, or aim (but be vulnerable to incoming fire) . Although, 
 you sometimes go into the wrong cover, it is rarely an issue. With the addition of the cover system, 
 you no longer have to run into warehouses full of enemies and just stand there taking bullets.
 
  
  The story is just as deep and exciting as the others and so far is my favourite one. I originally 
 didn't think I would like the idea of an eastern european guy, but I actually like him more than 
 any of the other characters and some of the other characters like Little Jacob, a rasta boy with 
 a thick jamaican accent and Roman, your cousin whom you live with (and constantly talks about sleeping 
 with american women) are just as likeable as any other in the series.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is the best one in the series and really is a must have for any 360 or PS3 owner 
 whether you are a fan of the series or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this is the single greatest violent action game ever made, there is no comparison. I 
 do not give it the single greatest game of all time title because that belongs to Super Mario Brothers 
 for the SNES, and nothing will ever take that away. If you are of age, own a 360 or a PS3 and do 
 not have this game yet you better stop reading and being online and go get this game, you will 
 not regret it. The fact of the matter is the level of detail that the game displays is insane, 
 there are so many little subtle things here and there that just make you say "wow, I can't believe 
 they did that." This includes anything from the incredible damage taken by the cars, which seems 
 random, mening not simply scripted damage, well the bullet holes certainly aren't. The Euphoria 
 system actually makes it seem like you are hitting someone with a car when u run them over, actually 
 to the point where I would rather not run people over anymore, lol. Millions of people can't be 
 wrong, this game is perfection and all other game manufacturers should take not of what Rockstar 
 has accomplished, the characters, the immersion, the detail, the gameplay, it is all perfect, thank 
 you Rockstar for taking the time to do things right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has made its way on to Next Gen Consoles, and the series has never looked better. 
 Its the most realistic and movie-like GTA game yet.
  
  But many of the features added in San Andreas have been dropped. The Map is smaller, the Role Playing 
 stats (strength, stamina, driving skill...) are all gone. You can not use other gang-members to 
 help you. No jet pack, no planes, no ATVs or bicycles. And the use of boats and helicopters has 
 been scaled back dramatically.
  
  The shooting mechanics have improved. You can use cover, like in Gears of War (but i still dont 
 think the game is on par with other shooters, in this area) , and the auto-aim system still will 
 sometimes refuse to target the guy you are pointing at, and instead lock-on someone to the left 
 or right. 
  
  You still cant go inside a building, unless its a mission site, or a store to buy things. I thought 
 this was something they might change, when they made the map smaller. And theres not alot to do 
 outside of the main story missions. I guess Rockstar was content to have Multi player be their 
 big new addition.
  
  Driving seems more difficult. Power sliding (drifting) around corners is much more difficult to 
 pull off here. 
  The car camera view , which I thought was positioned too low in GTA: SA, is even lower in this game. 
 This is probably the most irritating part of the game, for me. 
  
  For better or worse, this is a visually superior GTA game, and little more. If you loved previous 
 games, you will almost certainly love this one. If you hated the other games, this new version 
 will probably not change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Revos
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable! GTA IV is currently best in its series and is now the hottest contender for Best 
 Game of 2008. It was to be assumed that GTA IV would offer awesome graphics with the 360 and PS3 
 along with updated versions of things like cars, music, and missions. Not only did it deliver on 
 the basics, it's given an awesome plot which makes out to be the best storyline of the GTA series; 
 and GTA's best malefactor to date, Nico. In addition, you've got a very 'engaging' community that 
 actually act like people and not just zombies, which makes out to be a realistic setting. It's 
 the realism that makes a game nowadays, and realism means everything when it comes to hot-wiring 
 a car, using modern technology, natural elements, and interacting with the environment around you. 
 Since GTA IV was planned, we all were anticipating a remarkable game, and IT DELIVERED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripgnosis
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Right away I was immensely impressed by the graphics. There is ALOT of dirty, gritty, urban detail 
 in this game. A HUGE improvement over the last generation GTA games. Improvement in this area was 
 of course expected but what impressed me the most wasn't the quality, but rather the actual design 
 and attention to detail. The quality is of course GREAT. But like I said, we all expeced this. 
 Better resolution, better models, etc. But beyond that, the designers did an exceptional job with 
 the overall look and style of the graphics. There is alot of DIFFERING detail. tehy didn't stick 
 to repeating the same textures and models as much as in other games, particularly previous GTA 
 titles. There is alot of variance. The second thing that really jumped out at me was the story 
 and the character development. Superb pretty much sums it up. It's very believable despite the 
 fact the situations are pretty UN-real. It's not just as good as most great action movies, some 
 of those stories are actually pretty lame. This is a good as the BEST action movies. But still 
 not without the classic Rockstar humour we've all grown to love. And they did it this time without 
 the nostalgia to fall back on which was largely the reason I loved Vice City and Warriors so much. 
 But this time around the nostalgia wasn't a factor and nor was it needed. Overall the storyline 
 has a great cinematic feel which I love video games to have. Incidentally, this great cinematic 
 feel is heightened by a really great soundtrack. I'm not saying it's a collection of songs I myself 
 happen to like - many of the songs in this game I wouldn't listen to otherwise. But they just FIT. 
 They add to the overall ambience and really set the stage for the game. OKay, now the controls. 
 The physics engine for this one feels quite a bit different form the previous GTA installments. 
 It feels a bit more realistic and mature, which I like. But it's been a bit diificult getting used 
 to it. Cars drive less like instant acceleration penny racers that can turn on a dime, they behave 
 more like cars should behave. If you try and drive like you did in the last of the series you will 
 lose control and crash into many many things. Cars feel and behave like they actually have weight, 
 which is very refreshing to me. And it though it takes a bit to get used to , the end result is 
 that it's easier to have fun while your driving around fishtailing around corners and rollin up 
 on two wheels and all the other crazy stuff you're gonna be doing. For one thing these stunts give 
 me a greater sense of accomplishment this time around. But it still feels very fun-action oriented 
 as opposed to simulation style driving. Problem is, the controls feel much the same way even when 
 you're not driving. Either Niko's belly is full of heavy liquid mercury or he's just not lost his 
 sea-legs yet after getting off the boat. There is a kind of inertia when you he turns that's been 
 causing me to actually oversteer while I'm runnin around on foot. It feels very loose and sloppy 
 and very HEAVY, for whatever reason. I prefer the crisp movements of the previous games to the 
 way this feels. As I stated above though, this is just my initial first impression after playing 
 the game for about 2 days and getting through a few of the beginning missions. My hope is that 
 I will quickly get used to the aspects of the controls that I don't like, because there is sooooooo 
 much about this game that I absolutely love. Any other game and I probally wouldn't recommend it 
 as a buy simply because of that loose, sloppy feel of the on-foot controls. Might seem unfair to 
 put such a huge importance on controls, being as they are only one aspect of the game, but lets 
 face it. They really CAN make or break a game. If you can't control it to your liking then you 
 can't play it to your liking and nothing else would matter. But don't get me wrong, so far in this 
 game the controls are just slightly annoying. I'm still playing it and I plan on sticking with 
 it til I get used to em. Which is saying alot considering I am such a stickler about controls. 
 And lets face it, the controls in the previous GTA releases were nothing to brag about. The on-foot 
 controls might have felt more crisp then in this game, but GTA IV's controls are superior in all 
 other respects. One example is the aiming system. When playing 3rd person games I feel it necessary 
 in most cases to have the ability to lock-on to your target. It just takes away so much of the 
 frustration. But this usually negates your ability to aim at certain body parts and get head shots. 
 Either your locked on for a center-mass shot, or you gotta manually aim and try to track your target 
 to get a head shot. This game fixes that. You can lock on to your target, centering your aim for 
 a center-mass shot but you can still manually aim from that centeral point for more precise targetting. 
 This is EXACTLY how the targetting system for a game should be and I never would have realized 
 that before playing GTA IV. Melee combat is improved as well with the ability to dodge, counter-attack, 
 and disarm opponents. There is a learning curve with these abilities as well - I, as of of yet, 
 have not been able to perform these maneuvers with any consistency. I haven't had enough practice 
 to say whether or not the difficulty of these moves negates their viability, But I like the idea 
 of them. If you play video games, then you are likely already a huge fan of the series. So you 
 were probally going to like this game no matter what. But if you don't consider yourself a big 
 fan boy of the GTA universe, or you if your a bit more picky than most when it comes to gaming, 
 you may want to try out before you buy it and make sure you think you can get used to the controls. 
 Though renting most likely won't be necessary -- you may very well be the ONLY ONE out of your 
 group of friends who thought it necessary to try before you buy. They won't let you borrow it, 
 but you can come over and play. I may consider the on-foot controls to be a flaw, and perhaps a 
 pretty irritating one. But it really is the ONLY flaw. It is still the "Best in Series" with a 
 score of 9. And I don't give out 9's very easily. If Niko didn't drive like a truck it would have 
 been a perfect 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flame06
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4
  This game I feel has a great feel in comparison to the previous versions. The town is very free 
 roaming, the idea of having many different activities to do is awesome. And the graphics has improved 
 since the last versions.
  BUT... I would have to say there is discussions to be made about the rating... I agree with jinbhai 
 completely when he said "How much did Game spot get paid anyway??" Very valid point. Reason: look 
 at all the other very attractive games in the past. Bioshock, World of Warcraft, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl, Crysis, Halo Series, The Orange Box... and the list goes on... All rated at the highest 
 rating of 9.5. And then all of a sudden, GTA 4 - as if to be the only Superb game out there (which 
 I highly disagree) - takes a 10.0???!!? I don't know about the rest of you, but I think the highest 
 - just to be fair- score GTA 4 should have gotten was a 9.5. The list I have up there is just a 
 minimum amount of very highly qualified 10.0 games, but GS has not given that too them... Which 
 I completely agree. Reason: NO GAME OUT THERE IS PERFECT. IMPOSSIBLE. Which is one reason I've 
 been using GS as my site for games for many years... at least 5. So with this new game in the GTA 
 series having a 10.0, I only see it fair to either 1. Rate the rest of the games according to this 
 same inaccurate accuracy 2. Lower the rating on GTA 4... And like I said I'm not saying this is 
 a bad game, I'm merely saying that this rating is unacceptable with the previous ratings already 
 given to other highly qualifying games.
  
  I understand there are many people who love GTA - I am one of them - but just to be fair to the 
 other great games out there, lets rate it right... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well the game overall is the best but lets start off the 1st mission had me addicted 
 already. The shooting is really good, the driving is difficult at the beginning but then is really 
 easy, the storyline is great and it is very long it took me 33 hours to beat counting the fooling 
 around. Its awesome that there are side mission for after you beat the game and the cops are good 
 and its pretty hard to get away from them at 3 stars and also the missions are fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, they're not the best. I know its Grand Theft Auto and they usually 
 don't have good graphics but this is a step up and its good. I like how the explosion look to.
 
  
  Sound: Its great the voices are amazing and its some people that we don't even know about. The 
 guns, cars, music, explosions they are all amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawk7000
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the GTA series, never had much time to play all the games, but I'm still huge 
 fan. I loved vice city and never got to try San Andreas but heard it was great. My first thing 
 to say is that this game is not perfect, but it has completely changed gaming. To start, Liberty 
 City is based off of New York. I have seen almost all parts of New York, and for this game they 
 made you feel like your in a city. Every square inch of this city is used for structures. In other 
 games you don't feel like your in a city but GTA4 has completely dumbfounded me in detail. There 
 are 4 MAIN islands, there is: Dukes (Queens) Broker (Brooklyn) Algonquin (Manhattan) Alderney (New 
 Jersey City) and Bohan (Bronx) . When you are in more affluent areas, such as Algonquin and Broker, 
 you will noticed clean streets and less crime, that includes more cops in the area or less. But 
 if your in Bohan or less affluent areas there are pot holes, trash, crime and hookers everywhere. 
 You begin to learn the streets and beat the GPS recommendation routes by more than half the time. 
 They also removed some side missions like ambulance missions and other things and replaced them 
 with more in depth missions that don't get repetitive even though most are based on the same idea. 
 The controls have tweaked, especially for shooting, there is now a cover system that will let you 
 slide to cover, roll to cover or simply switch to the other side of a hallway all controlled by 
 RB and the control stick. I thought it worked wonderfully. Driving has been fantastically remastered, 
 just in physics. Suspension actually reacts realisticly. For example if you cut a corner to fast 
 you will be on two wheels and have a good chance of flipping over when you hit the ground because 
 your shocks will push you up with reproduced force. Also motorbikes are as fun as ever, slipping 
 in through alleys, there are much more, or past cars. They have also fixed the wanted system, instead 
 of cops flipping over trying to chase you, they will cut you off, surround you, hide behind cars 
 and block the end of alleys. They've also added some fantastic relationship building parts of the 
 game. To start you get a cell phone where you have a appointment reminder, contacts that you get 
 throughout the game, different ringtones that you can buy online and, only when you unlock this 
 phone, a camera. You will get reminder calls, mission calls or calls to hangout. When you hangout, 
 you can go out for drinks/get wasted, play pool, darts, go to resteraunts, clubs, fast food resteraunts, 
 bowling, speedboating, helicopter flying, etc... It goes on and on, and there are several different 
 places you can go to. Plus they got real comedians for the comedy club. Witty and low brow humor 
 are in this game along with hilarious radio stations with great music. They also added a fully 
 intergrated web browsers that only go to in-game websites. Sites can be very fun plus there is 
 a online dating system, where you go on a date and if it goes well you get the persons number. 
 You can buy tons of clothes and you unlock great houses. Probably one of the best features must 
 be the online, there are ranked matches, and a gigantic range of modes. All fantastic. I've had 
 the game a week and I'm not even close to beating everything in the game, there must over 40 hours 
 of gameplay for those of you who stay inside all day and play missions non-stop without doing any 
 of the other much more fun things you can do, but for gamers who enjoy there game gets over 100s 
 of hours of gameplay maybe over 400 hours just to do every little thing without cheating or looking 
 for maps online for hidden stuff. Even after the game there is much more to see that means after 
 100% I would start over because it is that great. It may not be perfect, but this game looks phenomenal, 
 plays phenomenal, tons, pretty much an infinite amount, of replay value, changed gaming depth forever 
 and that is why this game deserves a 10 out of 10 for its revolutionizing of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicBaconBits
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to proclaim that this game is like crack... it takes over your life and you 
 can't hide from the fact that you're addicted. GTA IV is possibly the greatest videogame I have 
 played in all the days I have spent, wasting my life playing videogames... I wouldn't even go as 
 to call this title a game... it's more like an experience. In no game have I been so engrossed that 
 I actually feel like I am a part of this world... almost to a point where it is part of a second 
 life of some sort.
  
  Everything in this game screams golden. The main character, Niko Bellic, is probably the most likable 
 criminal anti-hero protagonist ever conceived in the world of entertainment. His sarcastic and dry 
 humor mix perfectly with his "whatever it takes to get the job done" demeanor, he even sometimes 
 seems like to nice of a guy to be wrecking havoc in Liberty City.
  
  The amount and variety of missions in this game will make you dizzy... and will have you immediately 
 hooked. With and interesting story built upon great writing, dialogue, and voice acting that is worthy 
 of an Academy Award, this title delivers an experience that makes you forget you're slouching in 
 your beloved EZ chair, playing a videogame.
  
  The vicinity of Liberty City itself is so amazingly real, is seems like an actual place on this 
 planet. The skylines tower over Liberty City with all thier astounding beauty... just take a Heli-Tour 
 at night and you'll see what I mean
  
  Of course, Rockstar's superb sense of humor strikes again in GTA IV. TV, Radio talk shows and even 
 commercials in the game take political and comedic stabs at anything from Reality TV, Democracy, the 
 Government and Abortion to over-payed celebrities, rich snobs, the school education program, drinking, Adult 
 Swim, teenage society, those crappy daytime judge shows (ugh) ...
  The list just goes on and on.
  
  Above all, GTA IV is a game that will consume you without even 
 coughing your remains. If you're a gamer casual or hardcore... or even if you just barley fool around 
 with games, It would be sac religious to not buy this game and experience it yourself... WTF are 
 you doing still reading this? You could be heading to your local Gamestop, Best Buy, wherever the 
 hell you go to purchase your videogames right now...
  
  
  .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the funnest games on the Xbox 360. You should defiantly pick this 
 game up. Everything feels right on this game, nothing is lagging and nothing is off. The only complaints 
 i have are the frame rate, achievements, and there are only 3 types of clothing stores, and no 
 parachutes (those were fun for me in San Andreas) . Sometimes objects come into scene a bit late, 
 but that's okay, and i wish they made the achievements in the game a little better. I would have 
 like to of seen kill a certain amount of people achievement.
  
  The story on gta 4 is absolutely amazing, it feels just like a movie, But it could have been longer. 
 The game play is just right as well. You can run around the city for hours and have nothing but 
 fun. If you beat the story mode, of course there are side missions. and those are just as good 
 and fun as the story, and once you have mastered all of that, there's the online play. The online 
 play is up to 16 people playing 15 types of matches around the WHOLE city! If you hate the story 
 mode, or just cruising around the city, the online play defiantly makes up for it.
  
  If you want a game that is fun, and takes a while to get bored of, you should pick up a copy of 
 Grand Theft Auto 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  First off the only reason i gave this a hard difficulty rating is because of the driving, which 
 in turn is the main reason this is not a 9.0.. The driving is hard because of the steering.... 
 you pretty much can not turn corners when u r over the speed of 50 mph.. u might slightly move 
 to the right a bit but theres no way ur not making the turn with out nailing a house or building 
 or other cars. Your best bet is to use the E Brake which will make you skid and almost 360 to make 
 the turn a waste of time anyway. It took me about 4 hours into the game to finally investigate 
 the controls and find out there was an E brake cuz left trigger is brake and reverse and doesnt 
 work on turns. So finally RB is E brake. Drive by shootings r a bit tough but still fun . The voice 
 acting is very well done. Even without the star studded cast that Vice City had. In fact i dont 
 think they have any famous people voicing the characters. Not even Gary Busey who voiced alot of 
 GTA previously. Maybe because hes working with THQ for saints row 2. Atleast the Ads, dont know 
 if he voicing any characters yet. But back to GTA4. The story seems pretty good so far, nothing 
 compared to the complex and addictive storyline of Mass Effect but still worth playing through.. 
 Characters are enjoyable to follow, except your cousin who appears alot in the game who I'd wish 
 to kill because he is so naive and annoying. The best thing about this GTA is the little details 
 they went so far in depth with.. Like when i Hit a pedestrian with my car blood splattered on to 
 the hood and grill of my car and stayed there until i got rid of the car. Another blood detail 
 was when i Shot someone out of their car with my Shotty it didnt shatter the windshield like most 
 games; it put bullet holes in the windshield and then blood splattered onto the Windshield and 
 outa the bullet holes and on to the hood of the car.. Oh SNap merit right there. When your running 
 down the stairs the animations are so amazing he kinda is angled side ways and walking like you 
 or I would run down the stairs, another detail within the if someone gets in your way on the stairs 
 they will get knocked over and roll down the stairs and will reach for the handles. I remember 
 when I kicked someone out of their car, I didnt take off quick enough so the owner tryed to take 
 his car back but after he opened the door i took off and he was hanging by the edge of the door 
 until i side swiped another car and knocked him and the door off. I also was in a shoot out and 
 shot a civilian in the stomach and he held his wound and remained hunched over as he tryed to escape. 
 I then shot him in the knee as he dropped to the ground and begged for mercy.. The AI of the civilian 
 is amazing... I remember I got into a car accident that was a 20 car pile up and my car exploded 
 and i was ejected through the windshield and i hear someone on the street screaming, H0ly F**k1ng 
 Chr! st!!!!!! I was laughing so hard. So in conclusion GTA IV is an impressive sequel or game in 
 itself that I will definatly be playing through. Have yet to try multiplayer. Also despite the 
 major steering flaw, and minor visual glitches this game is definatly worth it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I , with many others gave this game a 10, and not becouse it has the title GTA, but becouse it's 
 a great game with an great multyplayer.
  
  The game is 2 deep to explain in detail, thats why I am going to show you a list with the good/new 
 points and the bad points.
  
  Good/New Points;
  
  -Better Graphics
  -Explosive Story, with an great end
  -Ability to watch TV
  -Ability to go on the internet (not 
 multiplayer but in-game websites)
  -New Cars and Bikes
  -Mobile phone, a very important gadget
  -Amazing car damage
  -Boats, Helicopters and bikes 
 can damage too
  -Realistic Blood and water
  -great radiostations with famous singers like Busta Rhymes and Ne-Yo
  -It really feels like New 
 York City
  -You will never see the same guy on the streets
  -The Old-Skool weapons are back, like Ak's and Desert Eagle's
  -Ability to buy Clothes
  -Ability 
 to call taxi's
  -you can crawl on trucks, like in Pursuit Force (a PSP-game)
  -Good Cover system
  -Bunch of side missions
  -Greatest multiplayer ever
  -Ability to make 
 your own character online
  -Easy achievements
  -If you get shot, you wil see blood on your clothes
  
  Bad Points:
  
  -Sometimes problems 
 with getting online
  -No Airplanes
  -You can't pimp cars
  -The customization of your online character isn't deep at all
  
  Now compare the good with 
 the bad, and you will see that this game is worth a 10, and maby more. And if you will be tired 
 of the story mode, team up with ya boys. And this all makes GTA IV, the best game of the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharkotron
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics and some nice touches.
  
  But very BORING and not as much fun as San Andreas. Rockstar have spent far too long puting lots 
 of radio stations, in-depth web browsers and other stuff that must have taken an age to develop, 
 and forgot to put some gameplay in. You can't even do Taxi, Vigilate or Fireman missions any more.
 
  
  The cars handle better but forget about the motor bikes, they are terrible now.
  
  It is a fairly good game but I'm bored with it already and I've only had it 6 days. I was hoping 
 after each mission it would get more interesting, but it never did. I havn't completed it yet and 
 I don't think I have the patience to.
  
  I'm a fan of all of the previous GTA games but this is quite a disappointment. NO game deserves 
 10/10.
  
  The multiplayer is by far the best thing about this game. It rocks, as long as the auto-aim is 
 switched off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 901Hallion
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  It is as simple as yes. Many people have ctiticized this game as not being changed enough. How 
 much more change do you want?! If you change the game much more then it wouldn't even be part of 
 the Grand Theft Auto franchise.
  
  This game is just right. The multiplayer part of the game is so exciting. I believe that the whole 
 deathmatch aspect could use some work when/if another game comes out but it really is amazing. 
 Just last night I was cruising the city in my Banshee with 15 other people just blowing **** up 
 left and right.
  
  The story mode is much more developed from the predecessing GTAs. I loved the accent of the main 
 character the first time that I heard it. As of now I am not very far because I just recently got 
 it but so far it is an A+ in my book.
  
  Be looking out for more of an indepth review later.
  
  Later Ladies,
  The Stallion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverzeus
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Enough said. The game delivers in every way possible, i. e. graphics, gameplay, playability, and 
 specifically the excellent story. I have one piece of constructive criticizm after playing it for 
 50+ hours. During multiplayer matches there is no reticule telling you who's talking. Because of 
 this when a moronic lowlife jumps in the game with you and starts screaming or vomiting on his 
 microphone you don't know who to mute. Therefore, if you want to mute the jackass then you have 
 to scroll through your recently played list and start muting away until the noise stops. That's 
 a major hassle in the middle of a ranked deathmatch game. If you have any unconstructive criticizm 
 about this game then you will never be happy with anything. People who give this game bad reviews 
 are either religious nutjobs or pathetic losers that can't afford it. I actually know someone who 
 admitted to giving it a bad review just to tarnish it's superb street credit. It's well worth your 
 hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troika1
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Great things about GTA 4:
  
  -Groundbreaking gaming representation of city life... the city comes alive like never before. 
 
  -Very good driving physics compared to past versions
  -Incredible city detail, providing a real sense of enormity and reality
  -Interesting missions 
 that don't get stale or repetitive
  -Excellent story, character interaction & character relationship building
  -Combat AI is pretty 
 good
  -The cell phone system is really effective for managing the game
  -Lots of cool "real-life" add-ons like online dating, emailing, web surfing
  -Great humor in 
 the game as always, but done in a more subtle way than the previous games... this is less of a spoof 
 than Vice City, but just as hilarious
  
  
  Things to improve on:
  
  -The combat system is better than ever, but lacks a sense of reality found in such games as COD4 
 or Mass Effect
  -Character creation/customization is still almost non-existent
  -Very little sense of ownership in the game; adding things like real car ownership and customization 
 (which was very good in Saint's Row) would be great. Adding the opportunity to acquire, retain, 
 and customize property would be terrific. 
  -Improving game save and replay options to avoid long non-value-add travel times and the repeating 
 of completed mission components after a failed mission would be great
  -Basic life actions like eating and sleeping are still a little too limited and unrealistic
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I should start by saying that GTA vice city and sanandreas are my 2 favorite games of all time.... 
 thats right ALL TIME favorites. GTA was progressing down a route that I beived was truly innovative. 
 It was becoming a complete and massive action RPG. you were able to buy new places and customize 
 your characters build and buy tons of clothes etc etc. I was hoping that GTA4 was going to continue 
 and expand on that idea but of course it does not. Instaed it went the "assasins creed" way of 
 gaming. Go out on similiar missions, kill someone, return home save and repeat until game is finished 
 40 hours later. The story is great as always but the missions are just the same thing. go the internet 
 cafe, go bowling bla bla bla. you cant buy property cant customize chracter build theres barely 
 and clothing choices same same same. Its needs to be more RPG than what it has become and thats 
 extremly disapointing. The greatest thing about GTA was the driving, but now even that got overhauled 
 and now while more of a simulation is way less fun and actually is kinda a pain. the shooting mechanics 
 are still screwed up as well. also the fact that I have to drive across the entire map to complete 
 some missions and then all the way back to save is also a pain. in snandreas which was much bigger 
 the misiions all happened in the same part of the map you were currently living. it was so much 
 fun to drive around sanandreas from the city, to the casinoes to the hillbilly towns it was awesome. 
 I hate driving around liberty city theres alot of buildings and people but it fels as if theres 
 less to do. remember racing up mt chilliad? are taking a dirtbike on the course in vice city? putting 
 out fires? saving people in the ambualnce? where did al that go? GTA has officilly jumped the shark. 
 its a sad day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game today. The cashier (a hot young brunette) asked to see me ID. Cashier: Hello.
 
  Me: Hello.
  Cashier: Is this everything for you today?
  Me: Yes, thank you.
  Cashier: Can I see your ID please?
  Me: Excuse me?
  Cashier: I'll need to see your ID for this 
 game.
  Me: ID??? But I'm 42!
  Cashier: Really? I'll need to see it anyway. I have to ask anyone if they look younger than 18.
 
  Me: Okay. Here you go. Thanks for making my day. How about a drink or something after your shift?
 
  Cashier: Errr... no thanks.
  
  So I'd give GTAIV a 10 but am docking half a point for being forced to show my driver's license 
 AND getting turned down for a date! Thanks Rockstar!
  
  Watching American Idol and bashing hookers with a baseball bat are my two guilty pleasures. GTAIV 
 has a lot of replay value and worth the price of admission (and embarassment) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsanders
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  What have Rockstar done? From one of the best games of all time to an over-hyped near bore. Three 
 years we was playing San Andreas and lovin' it. Just over a month now on IV and I really don't 
 want to play it no more, so I'm not. Where's the fun gone???
  Bad controls, bad physics/gravity, boring, repetetive missions and not much to do on the side. 
 How has this happened?
  Terrible online too. I heard the online modes weren't just tacked on, I heard wrong. The racing 
 online is one of the most frustrating activities I have ever taken part in. No thought whatsoever 
 has gone into the online play, it seems, but then again it is Rockstar's first real online play 
 so, they may be forgiven. Not by me, though. With the amount of time and money spent and the amount 
 of expectation from the fans, this game should have been much better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etherninty
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game scores high in some departments and low in others. 
  
  In the graphic/sounds&music department (call it the artistic department) , yes, it does deserve a 
 10/10, they maxed all what they could for this huge city. Of course games with smaller levels can 
 deliver better graphics but that's a whole city who is running, it's impossible to do both at the 
 same time with the current generation of consoles. I have no doubt that the artists working at 
 Rockstar did all what they could for the time they were allowed to work on that title.
  
  The physic engine it-self certainly deserves a 8/10. Two points loss because the environments still 
 are not that destructible (i always found it stupid in a game that u shoot a wall with an RPG and 
 the wall stay intact) and because some stuff just don't feel right, like a garbage bag feels like 
 a pack of balloons put in a garbage bag. Or may be that's what they put in those garbages bags.
 
  
  As for the gameplay it-self, it's pretty much classic GTA. If you did'nt like GTA III that much 
 and just want to see what the fuzz is about, rent it, don't buy it. If you liked all the GTA games, 
 then buy it.
  
  You still can't enter in the very vast majority of the buildings (this was a disappointment, i was 
 expecting a lot more) . 
  
  You still can't use the very vast majority of the objects in this game (another disappointement, 
 again i was expecting a lot more) .
  
  They cut on the AI probably to get more processing power, the virtual people in that world are 
 still dumb as ... but they are still better than in the past GTA games but not by a big margin.
 
  
  The controls are average, I heard it get better the more you play, and that's probably it. 
  
 
  I give it a 6/10 for the gameplay it-self. 
  
  Load times on the X360 were good and hardly noticables, I was surprise. Definitely not a point 
 to buy the PS3 version over this one.
  
  I think the real deal will be the next GTA on the next generation of consoles when they will have 
 enough processing power to improve the AI and all what they could'nt for that title.
  
  They are lot of good little things in this game as described in other reviews but you won't focus 
 on them that much, they get boring quite quick.
  
  I think Rockstar did what they could for that title and decided that the efforts could be better 
 put on the next generation of consoles.
  
  GTA V will be it, but this is not it. Worth renting, worth buying for people who usually like those 
 games or are new comers. This game is fun to play, but I played so many games that I need a lot 
 more to really appreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzTurnip
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Great ! At first sight, I was gob smacked. The graphics, the gameplay, everything about it was 
 so defined and incredible. However, I couldnt give it the 10 that everyone else has been giving 
 it, because it made some pointless sacrifices that were in the previous games. e. g. Planes, police 
 bikes and other. With everything else just made better it kinda fills the void but not enough. 
 I am definetly not giving a negative review and I am not saying it is a bad game, because it is 
 still high in the 9's but I think GameSpot is being a bit heisty with the 10. If you really dug 
 deep and compared it to previous Grand Theft Auto games, you would see that if they had reached 
 out a bit further, they would have easily broken a 10. So, If I were you I would definetly go out 
 and immediatly get this game ( If its in stock..? ) but its not without its drawbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  gta 4 is in every word the best game ever made in any console. stunning and way unbelievable graphics 
 for an open world game, endless possibilities, wonderful physics for vehicles to peoples movements.. the 
 way nb walks, runs, moves when turns sideways, climbs stairs while walking, climbing stairs while running, moving 
 when drunk, driving when drunk, awesome vehicle details.. (loved the hummer) .. water details, bike  
 in the air when crashes, explosions, the way a vehicle starts burning,,, slowly the fire spreads to 
 the wheels, seats and BOOM...!!!!!!... simply awesome to watch.. rain is like u walking in real rain.. cellphone 
 calls, sms, side games, vehicle driving, in shop details, firing guns, fist fighting moves, stealing cars, getting 
 into cars, going on dates, enjoying strolls with your girlfriends, walking along the streets and talking 
 on the cellphone, do anything.. this time the possibilities are endless and visually it stunns you..... the 
 BEST GAME EVER.........!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  When "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" was released three and a half years ago, it was clearly the 
 biggest GTA in the series and was claimed to be the best by many. Now that "Grand Theft Auto IV" 
 has been released, I can now say that it's predecessor can still be named the biggest and best. 
 I mean, really? Regardless of the move to the next-gen consoles, how could any GTA be any bigger 
 than "San Andreas"? However, Rockstar Games didn't see it that way. It wanted for Part 4 to be 
 better, not bigger. Have they succeded? Perhaps. In a way.
  
  The targeting scheme, which is in its fourth upgrade, is the best one yet for the series. You can 
 now pin yourself against walls for cover and targeting is a snap. Also, you don't have to travel 
 through pointless "miles" of unpopulated land (hello S. A. desert and countryside) . But most of 
 all, the fun factor is back! I'm not saying that GTA SA wasn't fun, it simply took itself too seriously 
 at times. The ghetto scene was hard to satire. The first missions which consisted of gangbanging 
 walked the fine line of glamorizing the gangsta life. Poking fun of Mafiosi is much easier to laugh 
 at (just look at "The Sopranos" as an example) and that mentality returns in "Grand Theft Auto 
 IV". Yes, the Mafia were in SA, but they took a backseat to CJ and his barrio ese Ceaser. Oh and 
 the multiplayer element, new to home consoles (not new to PSP owners) is back and much better than 
 ever.
  
  I don't know why, maybe because Rockstar North is based in NYC and Part III was set in it, but 
 GTA has always felt like a New York franchise to me. As big as SA is, it still felt like "Grand 
 Theft Auto goes to California". Here, in "Grand Theft Auto IV", things feel like home again. The 
 newly reimagined Liberty City still feels famililar. The saying "everything old is new again" can 
 definitely be pertained here. 
  
  Just like "Devil May Cry 4", GTA IV has grabbed the template of its last gen predeccessor and has 
 built on it. San Andreas was about the social life as much as it was about the criminal life and 
 this newest game provides that same type of gameplay. Unfortuantely, much has been pulled from 
 GTA SA. You can date again, go to a strip club, play pool and customize your clothing. Also, just 
 like CJ, new hero Niko can jump fences and swim. Nothing really new. In fact, much from GTA SA 
 has been cut as well. There is no dual wielding weapons, no bodybuilding or fighting styles, and 
 many weapons and vehicles from SA are no longer to be found. Even the number of radio stations 
 has been decreased! Wha??
  
  Still, on its own merits, GTA IV is high flying entertainment. For those who thought "Grand Theft 
 Auto: San Andreas" was just way too much and/or way too dark, than consider "Grand Theft Auto IV" 
 to be a return to form for the series. It's great fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 74141976
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  man where do i start first i gave it a 100% on it cuz i'm a grand theft fan.... but more importantly 
 cuz of the online features we wanted that so badly around here now that we have it lets over use 
 it like them chumps in halo 3 ha ha....... it touches on everything in the game from using the internet 
 to better phsyics...... to be honest i dont have much to say but WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! there is plenty 
 to do in here for u not to get bored off of it plus the free mode is whas poppin just doing what 
 ever u want no rules..... it may have a lil minor issues but man u will get over it pretty quick 
 i recomend for yall to get the collector edititon cuz its gta......... driving is is kinda on the 
 arcade side meaning to loose but overall i wouldn't like it no other way..... the drunk driving 
 part is fun too and it shows y u should not be drinking and driving good thing i dont it no more 
 ha ha ............ try smokn and drivin ha ha.........."kids dont do this in a real car its not 
 fun"........ i know they are getting bad rep too fast....... but parents u dont have to buy the 
 game for your kids but for us grown up please dont forget to buy this game u owe ya self some guilty 
 pleasures 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Well okay its a 10 for a next gen version if that's what they really base it on. I my self feel 
 its not a perfect game. Yes I am having just as much fun with it as the next guy but it falls short 
 in its story mode. Let me start off with how annoying Roman is, this guy is like a 5 year old that 
 won't stop nagging you. I just don't care for the fact that I have to pacify every character in 
 the game, you just don't have time to hang out with all these people let alone the dating part 
 plus main mission and sub-missions, sometimes I wounder if Niko is a under cover gay. The other 
 thing that bugs me is driving, yes driving every car in this game bounces all over the place like 
 they were made with cheap part from China. The next thing is I'll be cruising along see another 
 car that I want to jack drive by me I'll hit the e-brake and do a 180 and to my surprise "ITS FREAKING 
 GONE!" Poof into thin air. Its unbelievable the things that change when you turn your back. Next 
 the walking around is so slow, he walks as slow as an old man with a walker the running is just 
 awful to run hold in the A button he trots, beat the A button he jogs about a 100 feet and then 
 he's just to tired to run anymore. He's no marathon man that's for sure. Then there's the weapons 
 and armor where the hell are they all! Hidden that's where.
  Enough of the complaining now, the game is well worth the buy alone for the 15 multiplayer games 
 you can do. The game runs really good on line the only thing Ive found is when in free mode a pause 
 occurs when a newbie comes in. Over all the game mode has a great story line the graphics are outstanding 
 for what its evolved from. I will say a guide is a must for the story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLEFTHAND0FG0Dx
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  I think there was to much hype for this game. The music isn't up to past gta's par. The customazation 
 is definitly sub sanandreas anyone who disagrees just compare the facts, only so many outfits mostly 
 just diffrent colors. The whole body customization and stat improving was one of the greatest improvments. 
 I can sacrifice graphics for game play any day. I beat the game yesterday morning and i am left 
 wanting more but its just not there. Bowling and darts are fun but only for a short time. no co-op 
 missions. I would have made a relative for niko who comes and goes when your friend does. The multiplayer 
 idea is good but poorly executed i judge games in this order ; Fun, Story, Length, Multiplayer, 
 Creativity, Graphics, Sound, Execution. Mabey its just me but as long as you don't have your hopes 
 up you can't be dissapointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torjim
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  It only takes about 15 minutes to figure out you may argueably be playing the greatest action game 
 to ever hit any format. 
  
  It throws you right into the game in a very cinematic way rarely seen in the video game world. 
 Possibly the closet you can come to actually playing a movie.
  
  Characters are awesome... Dialogue matches the character perfectly. You believe these people could 
 actually be living breathing entities. 
  
  If there is any weakness (for lack of a better term) , it is the sandbox element. Only because it 
 is a familiar element if you have played any GTA game in the past. However, Rockstar adds so many 
 fantastic quirks it far makes up for its familiarity.
  
  The story and the city are the reasons this game knocks it out of the park. It moves along nicely 
 introducing Niko to different characters and game play elements. Niko Belic is one of the most 
 likeable characters to come around in a long time. You can tell he has the best intentions, but 
 has to do what he must to survive in Liberty City.
  
  Liberty City is absolutely amazing. Huge with so many places to discover.. it is alive and breathing.
 
  
  This is a must have game.... Even someone like me who is more of an RPG fan, has fallen in love 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoseon87
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  GTA 4, how long have we all waited for this game?, too long, does not live up to the hype, the 
 disk has now stopped working on my console, and nothing has even made me think how great this game 
 is,
  sure, its a quite good game, taking nothing away from it at all and sure its really funny, and 
 has really good graphics and great visuals and good gameplay, although the wanted bar around the 
 map and the red circles indicating the police area hunting for you is all abit Scarface,
  I would rather play Scarface then this,
  good game, but not worth the wait or hype, or to play 
 if you have Vice city or San Andreas, definetly better then this.
  
  its worth an 8 maybe 9, but cause of the undeserved hype and the pointless waiting, and the many 
 bugs I have encountered, this get my low rating,
  so dont complain to me that I have no taste, I love games, but this could have been better in many 
 ways and should have been, a game to play for fun, but not for too much time, definetly not worth 
 it,
  although the ending is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  WHAT a great game
  
  map: 10/10 its huge, its detailed and looks amazing at night truely next gen
  
  characters: 
 10/10 there are many characters throughout the story, the voices are done very well and they also 
 look well modelled wiht good animation
  
  engines: the graphics engine is custome by R* it supplies nice visuals with steady frame and gets 
 a 10/10. the euphoria engine which supplies realistic A. I which react tot everything around them 
 is also stunning so now running over people is more fun! 10/10
  
  vechiles: wide range of vechiles from buses, trucks, vans ,cars, garbage trucks, bikes, heli's 
 lots of variants and the good thing is there all look a like cars fromt today, the handling is 
 wikid and effects are kool like burning out tires, hgot wiring etc. 10/10
  
  sound: great sound especially for vechiles get in a bus and you see what i mean 10/10
  
  gameplay 
 awesome!!!!!!
  
  explosion effects are also v. good!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun. I enjoy the graphics and the witty humor. I'm not a huge GTA fan though 
 I played the original which was on PC way back when and found amusement in the game play. In this 
 iteration of the GTA series you get to do some fun stuff like bowling, smashing shop windows to 
 get protection money and ride a cab. It's a nicely done open world game and with a lot of humor 
 between the characters. I have not played a whole lot of the game, but from the parts I have played 
 its pretty fun.
  The driving mechanics of the game is very soft and boat like, so making tight turns or power sliding 
 through a turn is not the smoothest but entertaining as you try to steer the car without slamming 
 into a wall or pedestrian, or worse a cop car. If you enjoyed the previous GTA titles you won't 
 be disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonioGamer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  I never really like the GTA series, i just bought this game cause it got 10/10, so im like it must 
 be good, but i did not have high hopes i will like it,
  So i start playing the game, and i really like the story, it keep you wonder whats happening next, 
 is like watching a movie and playing an awesome video game at the same time.
  The graphics are not cod 4 good, but are good, the building look in good detail and cars look great.
 
  I also like that the people in city are doing different things and not that just walking, it gives 
 it a more real life feel, and theres so many people is hard to see the same people twice.
  I already put in 10 hours and im only 24% done, so the game is worth every penny.
  I have not 
 tried the online yet cause im having so mush fun off line, but i will eventually.
  the missions are well design, my favorite mission so far is when you go to this high building and 
 snipe killed 3 guys on a construction site and then move in and to killed the main boss, but you 
 have to killed all the guys in the first floor and the move to the second floor killed the group 
 leader who screams "don't killed me, i cure make you rich" and pow his dead" awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar31an09
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  GUYS THIS GAME IS THE BEST IN SERIES I RATED PS3 AND 360 VERSION OF GTA4 10/10 AND THERE BOTH SAME 
 THING LIKE COME ON DUDES AND DONT WORRY ABOUT the freezing it will be fixed xbox and ps3 versions 
 rockstargames nad sony are getting a solution they may put a patch beside the 12 step. dont get 
 mad rate it 10/10 who cares if it freezes as long they gettin a solution rate it 10 or 9.5 lol 
 really guys gta4 owned it  combined lmfao. this game rulz trust 
 me guys 360 adn ps3 version and yea i have ps3 but like both consoles but ps3 more but 360 still 
 great! as long better then wii lol wii ok let go shoot browser lol jk yea best game ever polayed 
 yet dont worry about freezing. plz agree with me becuz it right thing and i have rockstar email 
 they email me for solution when they come out with one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Couth_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is extremely well put together game, but it's not without some minor flaws. 
 I will start with those. First, the driving mechanics are difficult to get used to. When you first 
 start the game your going to be crashing and spinning out a lot, but once you get used to it, it's 
 actually very solid. There is also some minor glitches, pop in in certain areas. Pop in gets really 
 bad when you are on high speeds or crossing bridges, but it's manageable. Also some of the mechanics 
 feel awkward. The hand to hand fighting is clunky and slow, using ladders for some reason is more 
 difficult than it should be, making chasing someone up a ladder a hassle. The auto aim function 
 makes shooting pretty easy, but sometimes you get caught aiming at something you don't want, or 
 sometimes you can't lock on to your target. Shooting out of your car window is pretty difficult 
 as there is no auto aim for that. The cover system also works well but you might get caught in 
 an awkward position behind your cover every now and then, which is annoying.
  
  The game all around is amazing; the city is huge! You are given a cell phone to communicate with 
 every person you meet. You can do missions by calling people over the cell phone, or going to their 
 houses. You can also set up dates or hang out with your friends, going to places like bars, or 
 doing mini games like bowling, pool, or darts. People even call you when they want to hang out, 
 or need you for a mission. So if your on your way to pick up Michelle for a date, and something 
 comes up, you can call her to cancel and go on about your missions.
  
  There are tons of cars to choose from, including motorcycles. But I suppose the game has trouble 
 rendering a variety at one time. So believe it or not, if your in a Corvette, your going to see 
 a lot of Corvettes on the road, if your in a junker, your going to see a lot of those models on 
 the road, so sometimes it might be tough to find a car you like if you want to switch. Another 
 thing I noticed is that there seems to be a lot more cops in Liberty City than before. So whenever 
 steeling a car you are going to want to look around first unless you want to be chased by the cops.
 
  
  Where Grand Theft Auto IV stands out though, is the story. It actually has you interested in what's 
 going on. You take the role of Niko, a Serbian immigrant who migrated to America to live with his 
 cousin Roman, and he is just trying to get by. It may start off slow but once you get a gun and 
 start doing some more serious missions it really takes off. The story develops very well and is 
 probably the best story in a GTA game to date. 
  
  As for online I don't think GTAIV is going to be a juggernaut that can compete with the likes of 
 CoD4 and Halo3 in terms of quality, but there is some fun to be had. There is modes ranging from 
 death match to even races. However, being set in a GTA world with cities the size of Liberty City, 
 leaves a little bit missing from the online. There is little incentive to stick to the objective 
 in a race, free for all feels like GTAIV single player, only with other people there, and death 
 match feels to spread out to take that next step. But the online is a good compliment to the single 
 player and if you have some friends you could definitely jump online and have some fun.
  
  GTAIV has a good chance as going down as the highest rated game ever so I suggest picking it up 
 and giving it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Well i have been playing this game ever since it's release dates. i was one of the people standing 
 outside your local gamer store at midnight to get get my greasy hands on it. This game is definitely 
 the bvest in the series. the graphics and AI are out of this world. there is plenty to do in this 
 metropolis to keep you busy for some time. Lets start with the pros. you can go and do al sorts 
 of things like go for a drink with an NPC friend or you can walk around and just take the scenery 
 in and see the statue of liberty, or at least rockstar's version of it. if you like the old grand 
 theft autos then this game is a definite must have. Some of the things i dislike is that well.. 
 the story is too short for my taste lol could have been a littel longer and the game does gets 
 old quick in my opinion. the only thing left do really play around with is the multiplayer. and 
 just blow **** up. there are a few glitches i have come into, got stuck in a couple of places. 
 anyway final answer. its a BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machdawg88
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  After a long patient waiting time till grand theft auto came to xbox 360 and it has some of it 
 tweaks like any other game that came out but they do need to fix their server. I hope the next 
 GTA game in the franchise is going to have co-op story mode or even more area to spread out the 
 crazy fun. The graphics are really great comparing it to real life situations. Also maybe some 
 self saves instead having to run or drive to your apartment to save a place in the game. These 
 are some of mine suggestions.
  
  The mini-games in the game itself are great but it doesn't live up to the hype if it were like 
 you could play to when prizes or even money for starters. Bowling, pool, darts, and qubed.
  
  The controls of the game are some what basic and complex depends on the situation you are in 
 the game. The use of the right bumper to cling on walls like in rainbow six or gears of war and 
 also the sliding on the ground to a different spot is kinda cool. Blind shooting is another thing 
 and also the gernades throw or drop is kinda lame due to the fact that everytime I try to throw 
 it, the gernade itself doesn't go across the room but accidently drops in your very own lap then 
 you try to run away but you can't run because the gernade just killed you in the process. 
  
  What would be like if they added bicycles or skateboards to the game? I would think it be pretty 
 cool and you could even cling on to trucks or cars to get to your destinations. I notice that the 
 vehicles trunks can open but you can't use them for anything. It could be used for carrying ammo, 
 health packs, and armor. 
  
  
  I rated the game 9.0 due to slow loading and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  There are no words to describe this game but just amazing. Rockstar Games really put a lot of work 
 into this game to make it just perfect. The detail of everything is just fantastic. It feels that 
 I am in a real city. To me, the best part is the damage engine that they used. Its not I hit a 
 poll and my front end of my car dents a little, I mean my car caves in where I hit the poll. 
 
  
  Now, I do admit that there a some minor problems in the game. The one problem, and I'm sure that 
 other people agree, is the driving. It takes some time to get used to. Online play does glitch 
 occasionally, but nothing bad. Also, the AI does get a little dumb. But these problems can be easly 
 over looked just for the fact that everything else makes up for those little problems.
  
  I have read other peoples reviews and for those who gave this game a bad rating, what is your problem?!?!?! 
 I'm sorry if you don't like violence, drinking, blood, or anything bad. But this Grand Theft Auto, 
 what are you going to expect, cutsy animals and cotton candy?
  
  Rockstar has, for me, made one great game. This game will remain the number one game for sometuime. 
 I will be playing this for awhile. There is a lot the will keep me busy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUFF1807
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  YOOOO ROCK STAR, DID IT NOW! THIS GAME IZ HOOOTTTT! the graphics are Sick and the game is vary 
 VARY REALISTIC, by the city the buildings the cars the people, the ground.... well maybe not the 
 ground but EVERYTHING! its cool how they have the way u break into cars on there its not like other 
 games where u just hop in the car and drive away, you have to break down the glass and hot wire 
 it, and they did a great job of bringing the people to life and nikkel to life its like everybody 
 on the game has there on personality, its just vary fun just wish i had money to buy it, im renting 
 it for now til i get sum money together..
  
  
  the number 1 thing i dont like on it is how the cops are constantly around and on ur back at all 
 times and when they come after you and they have there guns out and if u stay there to long your 
 guy gets down on his knees and then they arrest you... that gets annoying sometimes but other then 
 that the game is HOTT! and you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlassRabbit
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is a stripped down version of GTA III with improved graphics, targeting, driving, and 
 multi-player. everything that made the GTA III series great is gone. the single-player campaign 
 boils down to following the story and stealing cars. thats it. gone are the taxi, ambulance, fire 
 truck, train, and big-rig trucking missions, as well as gang warfare. what did RockStar keep? lame 
 dating missions. there are also stupid bar games of very poor quality. you can find better bar 
 games for free on the internet. it just goes to show how rockstar can give you so much less, and 
 the majority of people will just follow the crowd, and say thanks... here's my $60.
  
  someone really needs to say something, but the critics, who are part of the industry themselves, 
 need RockStar and their latest effort to be a monster hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 from Rockstar games is their most recently released game in their controversial 
 and critically acclaimed Grand Theft Auto series. It is safe to say that this guy is undoubtably 
 the best installment of the Grand Theft Auto series, and simply one of the best games to come out 
 in 2008.
  
  In this installment, you play as immigrant to Liberty City and America, Niko Bellic. He was tempted 
 by the American dream, the positive (yet not-so-true) words of his cousin, Roman, and is flung 
 into the underworld of the city while he tries to forget his troubled past. The story is not dull 
 at any moment in time, and is filled with believeable plot twists and developments.
  
  The graphics are superb. The game's new engine allows for spectacular views of Liberty City, awesome-looking 
 damange models for players and vehicles alike, and a living environment. Bulletholes will remain 
 on cars. Dents will remain in walls. And two words, my gamer friends: ragdoll physics.
  
  As you play in Liberty City, the physics system is flawless. When you are drunk, running for cover, 
 or getting hit by a car, your character moves fluidly. In layman's terms, it looks like a dude 
 is running for cover, rather than a video game character running for cover. If you are hit by a 
 car, it looks like a dude is getting hit by a car.
  
  The introduction of a single action button is Peter Molyneux's dream at work - most things can 
 be done by pressing the LB button on the Xbox 360 controller, and as I stated earlier, it is fluid.
 
  
  The voice acting is incredible and at no time, except for sex scenes (which really aren't scenes 
 at all) , so I find myself rolling my eyes at what the characters say. The dialogue is dramatic, 
 humorous, interesting... To put it plainly, I put the subtitles on just so I always knew what the 
 characters were saying. The well-animated and well-written dialogue kept me on the edge of my seat. 
 The quality of the script and story is better than that of most movies released today, in this 
 reviewer's opinion.
  
  The great thing about GTA4 is the city is just alive. The cellphone in the game makes it that more 
 immersive, the taxi cabs make it easier to get around, the police are easier but harder to get 
 rid of, and the weather system is great.
  
  The cellphone allows you to contact friends, hang out with friends, progress the storyline, go 
 on dates, and set appointments, amongst other options. The cabs are a godesend for people that 
 don't wanna drive everywhere. The police AI is a lot smarter in this game, in comparison to Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas, and their ability to find you is measured in your ability to keep them 
 from finding you. No more driving five miles and having a cop magically appear - they have to see 
 you, have a witness see you, and you have to be in the area they search. However, a helicopter 
 watching your ass makes escaping very difficult.
  
  I only have a few issues with the game.
  
  First, there are minor AI intelligence problems. 
 They will sometimes have problems getting through doors, but hey, we all push when it says "pull" 
 at least once in our lives, right?
  
  Second, and this comes with all massive games like GTA, sometimes you will drive through what you 
 think is an alley, and run into something that will stop you in your tracks and load up a moment 
 later. However, this occurs much less than Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, or Saints Row.
  
  My last problem is what really hurt the game for me - the short story. The smaller amount of things 
 to do. I buy GTA games to waste my time for months, but I find the storyline going too quickly 
 and I want more time with a game like this. A longer storyline does introduce wackier and less 
 believable things, but still, 30 hours isn't that long. If you play this game, savor the side missions.
 
  
  GTA4 is definitely one of the best games of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preplook
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ive ever played. It has great graphics, everything looks real. the story 
 is awesome and believable. Its the kind of people you would expect to be living in a big city like 
 New York City. tons and tons of little detailes that makes the game so believable and realistic. 
 ive played about 22 hr, and i'm only about half way done with the story. its really long (not a 
 bad thing) It does start off slow, and almost every mission teaches you something new. i just started 
 playing online which is really fun. If someone sets up the match right. i like it best with a time 
 limit, because sometimes people put the score to high and people start to quit after awile. i only 
 have a few complaints about the game. i wish the made more clothes to where and stuff... the clothes 
 are kinda lame. and you do all these missions for money but u never need to buy anything except 
 wepons. so when u die u lose like 10,000 dollars (if u have alot of money) ... but thats not really 
 a big deal i guess. i like the cars too. it takes at least 2 or 3 days to get used to driving (cant 
 take sharp turns, very realistic) but once u get it down its pretty fun to drive around. good game. 
 buy it cause its so big. make ur friends buy it so u can free roam online with each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I gave GTA IV a "Best in series" but as far as i really believe i liked vice city the most for 
 it's time. But what really changes my mind about IV is the multiplayer. I mean the story was fun 
 and the improved gameplay was just amazing (although getting used to using the handbrake as a means 
 of dodging and turning around was hard for me to get used to. But HOLY S*** when i first played 
 the multiplayer i was blown away the amount of choices and just how fun it can be to run around 
 THE WHOLE CITY. Of course i played Cops & Crooks first because that's what i had heard of from 
 the multiplayer and it's not that, that mode is bad but i had to say it was not all it was cracked 
 up to be. But the free mode and team DM and all the other modes were pretty fun to play and i have 
 spent quite a bit on it. In fact i haven't renewed my subscription to xbox live because i had no 
 reason because i wasn't finding games that i wanted to pay to play online for but because of this 
 game because it had a card thing for one month free i decided i might as well and because of this 
 game i am for sure renewing after this month because i just need to keep playing and it's fun playing 
 games i have owned for awhile but not played online with. But anyway i highly recommend this game 
 to just about anyone except for the age factor i think a lot of it is pretty darn inappropriate 
 for most kids but if you believe your kid is mature enough go ahead it's totally worth it ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  GTA on its best!!! This game is so awesome!! 
  Starting with the storyline, the best in the series... very addictive!! The city is so well "made"... with 
 lots of details. So full of life, lost of activities to do... what more can I say?! I don know 
 how to describe this game, I just love how mature it looks compared to previous GTA games.
  The thing that I like less is the cops, its quite easy to escape from them, I liked how it was 
 in GTA San Andreas, those cops were quite hard to escape, in GTA IV we just drive for a bit, and 
 if we are of their "radar"... pursuit if off... quite a pity. Thats why I didnt give a 10 to this 
 game.
  
  Anyway, GTA IV is game with lots of things to offer, so the best thing you guys should do is... BUY 
 THE GAME TODAY!!! The game of the year is here to give lots of hours of fun!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a remarkable piece of work. Everything from the story, the new physics engine, 
 to the cover system, aiming, etc, is improved. Except this time around I don't feel wowed like 
 GTA: SA made me.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game is good but where are those moments of achievement? Cool, I got a 
 new house, made some new friends, did some funny side missions, etc. But what about the moment 
 you first step foot onto your own airport? or broke into area 51 and stole a jet pack? or sky dived 
 from a plane that was about to explode?
  
  Now, I know a lot of that revolves around flying and jumping, but those are some of the things 
 that made SA unique. The planes I understand, but the jet pack and sky diving should have been 
 included. Especially this time around offering 16 player multi player.
  
  The other thing is what about the hidden packages? It's been a trademark since GTA III. Yeah pigeons 
 are cool, (SPOILER) but collecting 200 of them to receive a special helicopter really doesn't do 
 it for me.
  
  It's only a few problems that I feel would have improved my gaming experience atleast, but as where 
 it stands I can only play this game for an hour or two at a time before I get bored of doing missions. 
 Because I know there won't be a pot of gold waiting at the end of the rainbow. Just another mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumsoil
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  this game has the best gameplay of any game i have ever played! nico is a good guy compared to 
 previous grand theft auto games, he has reason, character, and is not a complete jerk. the missions 
 are all great, they blend together is a very good way, they make it almost feel real. i find myself 
 playing 12+ hr and not eating, sleeping drinking or going to the bathroom! there are some minor 
 quirks, but the pro's overwhelm the con's. the graphics are great, but some things just don't do 
 it for the next gen world, graphics are not everything tho. i recommend anyone with a ps3 or xbox 
 360 buy this game. PS: i have found that the graphics are beter on the xbox 360, it has a higher 
 resolution, much beter colors, is much more sharp, ans seems to have a better frame rate on the 
 xbox 360. SO GO BUY THE GAME NOW, NOW ,NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gty_gty
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really anticipating this game that much. I loved Vice City and haven't full beaten San 
 Andreas. Both games were fun, Vice City for story, and San Andreas for what you could do beyond 
 the missions. GTA4 takes 2 steps forward and at the same time, 1 step back. The storytelling is 
 a lot better. Humour is still in the game, and the main character is likable and seems like a real 
 person, not some mute psychopath. 
  
  But then again, a few things are taken out. You can't pilot airplanes. Helicopters are still in 
 the game though. Can't parachute either (as far as I know) . You can't pimp out your rides either 
 which was a great plus in San Andreas. 
  
  I'm going to keep this short. This game is great, definitely work the money if you are a GTA fan, 
 but don't go into it expecting a perfect 10 game. This game isn't. It's great, masterfully done, 
 but it lacks some of the fun factor that the other GTA games (the more recent ones) had. Maybe 
 this game deserves more than a 8.5. I'm guessing it should be sandwiched somewhere between 8.5 
 and 9.0, but definitely not the 10s its getting all over the place.
  
  Great game. Doesn't live up to the hype though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitelyon40
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The GTA Series is known for making excellent games with tons of replay value. And they did it again. 
 Put simply, GTA4 has its roots in the great games we know and love, but it adds new features that 
 put it over the top. For instance the ability to adjust your aim slightly while locked in to target 
 a particular body part (i. e the head for one shot kill) , the pure joy of going out w/ friends and 
 doing random things (getting drunk, bowling, shooting pool) and jsut the feeling you have mid-mission 
 that makes u feel like part of the action. 
  
  Graphically the game is stunning, dirty cars look grimey and clean cars shine. Niko has great facial 
 expressions and features, along with many of the main characters (and many of the npc) . The AI 
 is pretty intelligent, and will react to your actions (or lack thereof) . The buildings are beautiful 
 and so is pretty much everything else in the game, but the shadowing is a bit off occasionally 
 (odd times of day the game seems very grey, or orangish) . 
  
  The controls are different, but after a bit of adjusting they work quite well. And the character 
 animation is done decently as well. Unfortunatly sometimes he does odd movements that seem out 
 of place but nothing that affects gameplay, just something that is not aesthetically pleasing. 
 
  
  The story line is unfolding wonderfully, lots of intereting characters, and a deep history of Niko 
 keeps me going back to see what is going to happen next. 
  
  The entire game has been revamped courtesy the addition of a cell phone, which allows you to make 
 contacts and take on missions from anywhere. And you can make appointments with friends or dates 
 with girlfriends all from the phone. 
  
  The game has its quirks, you cant fly airplanes anymore (not like the city is big enough for the 
 need of them, but the hydra was one of my favorite features in SA, and it will be missed) . And 
 the addition of "realism" detracts from the chaotic madness that happened in GTA4.
  
  The addition of multiplayer adds a great new feature and even more replay value to a game whose 
 replay value is already through the roof. An entire city for a few crazed maniacs w/ guns? yes... 
 its as fun as it sounds.
  
  I know theres lots of points im missing and alot of features i failed to mention and many more 
 ive yet to discover. And i hope they will be as exciting and compelling as the game has been so 
 far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Well to start with I just want to write in the start that this is the best game I've ever played 
 and in this following review I will give you some examples why it's the best.
  
  The first thing you will react to is the much better graphic and acting from the characters you 
 meet and ofcourse from the main character Niko Bellic. They've really got the hang of making all 
 characters more realistic and believable.
  
  Not to mention all the small details that they've put in to make the game a bit more crispy to 
 play. One of the small things is the headlights of your car, It can be switched from half-light 
 to full-light, I mean why? It's just a small thing that makes it just a bit funnier and realistic 
 to play the game. 
  
  The physic engine is also crazy, I don't really want to get in to it but you will really enjoy 
 to get hit by a car (or the other way) ^^. You want to get drunk as well for sure because that 
 will give you a time of laughter. 
  
  The missions are sooo fun and you just can't stop playing when you get in to it. The missions are 
 so well done that it nearly feels like you're apart of a movie.
  
  I would love to sit and write more about all new changes but it would be a bit too much to read. 
 I can just say that it's far more better then the previous games, that I can promise. Don't even 
 think of reading the reviews that are under the rate of 9 'cause they are all lairs and are just 
 looking for "perfection". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fourthgeartappe
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding the release of the newest installment of GTA, you'd think there would 
 be huge revolutionary step taken. And if you thought that, you'll be sorely disappointed.
  
  Almost 60% of the little tidbits you enjoyed in San Andreas and Vice City are gone, without 
 a trace. Some examples are: buying property, riding bikes, working out, character customization, 
 most of the interesting vehicles (i. e. Hunter, ice cream truck, etc.) , R. C. vehicles, strange but 
 fun weapons (i. e. pool cue, screwdriver, machete, etc.) and airplanes as well as parachuting. All 
 have been removed, for what purpose I don't know
  
  Instead GTA has been stripped of all the extraneous details that made it fun and adventurous to 
 play every time you picked it up. What's left is a bare-bones version of GTA that keeps you for 
 the most part confined to the same tasks you feel you've done many times over.
  
  In place of these details are better graphics and character interaction, which were hardly benchmarks 
 of the series in the first place. Most players familiar with the series know that for lack of graphical 
 polish and detail, GTA more than made up for it in gameplay and open-ended exploration. However, 
 this GTA has great visuals, but less of the freedom you enjoyed.
  
  Controls are very awkward to get used to, and Niko feels very tied to his animations, making it 
 diffucult to make fine adjustments to movement. Instead of quick, reflexive movement, Niko feels 
 as if he needs a lot of steering and guidance to get him where you really want him to go. His default 
 walk speed is excruciatingly slow, and his run speed is nothing to brag about. The rapid tapping 
 of the A button to sprint helps, but only until he is winded. I can't really tell if his endurance 
 increases like in San Andreas, but it doesn't seem like it. In San Andreas, I remember having a 
 character who could run very fast for quite some time without stopping, but not here.
  
  Driving is equally frustrating, since now the cars have more of a realistic simulation feel. In 
 a game not particularly built on a sense of realism, I find it strange that now the cars accelerate, 
 brake, and turn much like they do in real life, which definitely bogs down gameplay. It becomes 
 irritating when no matter how many ways you take a turn, you just can't seem to do it cleanly without 
 hitting something, at any speed. Helicopter flight is much in the same category, and takes some 
 getting used to. Boating is still smooth and feels realistic, and isn't very difficult, which is 
 a breath of fresh air.
  
  The new targeting system works very well for the most part, and makes you feel more into the action 
 during fierce gunbattles. With the lock-on system relied upon less, shooting feels very strategic, 
 and shooting at different parts on other characters causes very realistic animations, like holding 
 injuries and limping. The main problem with the new system is the cover button. Niko always seems 
 to face the wrong way in cover, or take cover on the wrong side of an object. and some enemies 
 out of view in cover force you to step out of cover to target them. And it gets very frustrating 
 when you seek cover while surrounded and constantly are shot at from all sides and can't seem to 
 gain the upper hand.
  
  Most of your missions have good variety to them, and you're always doing something different, but 
 at the same time you never really feel like you're truly getting anywhere. In other GTA games you 
 were fighting your way to the top of the ladder or seeking some ultimate, meaningful goal, but 
 in this one you just feel like a simple grunt, doing all the dirty work for someone else. It would 
 have been nice to have bigger story developments or greater character depth. Trying to decipher 
 mission details from your Jamaican friend is like listening to jibberish, and you'll find yourself 
 checking your briefing log to read what he said seconds before.
  
  Overall, there are many small things over the years in this series that have developed into hours 
 of fun in each GTA game, and Rockstar decided they wanted to do away with these things at some 
 point, and I myself can't figure out who's idea that might have been. You'd think on a next-gen 
 console there would be nearly limitless details to explore and tinker with, but they are nowhere 
 to be found here. Instead you are left with fewer options, and a prettier visual experience than 
 before. Most will play GTA IV and enjoy the things they did before with greater detail (i. e. the 
 police computer in vigilante missions, etc.) , but will be left asking where their other favorite 
 things are. Anyone who hasn't succumbed to the hype and bought this title should definitely rent 
 before they buy- they may be left with a few too many questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StromileSwiftee
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't want to jump on the 10 bandwagon... but honestly speaking there's no choice. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is everything you can ask for in an open world game. Even though Liberty City isn't 
 as large as GTA III's San Andreas, you'll have plenty to do and see before you realize the confines 
 of the game.
  
  You've probably heard about the storyline ... newly arrived immigrant Niko Bellic arrives to LC 
 to live the American dream. Well let's just say there's more to that dream, as early on we find 
 out what it was that NIko did back in his homeland and what led him to depart and also individuals 
 he's looking over his shoulder for.
  
  Graphically the game doesn't cause jaws to drop, but who cares when you're having fun. To all those 
 familiar with the GTA series, the usual car-jacking, shootouts and errand running returns but never 
 gets stale. The added cell phone feature works perfectly... make new contacts and and expand on 
 certain relationships to gain added benefits (let me just tell you that 'Little Jacob' is my best 
 friend) . You can either call people for missions or they'll contact you.
  
  Now to what puts this game over the top. GTA IV doesn't feel like a video game or even a feature 
 film... more like a living world. Whether its catching a cab, sitting back enjoying the ride and 
 the sights or sitting back at your hideout just watching TV (yes there are various stations and 
 ample programming to enjoy... Look for Kat Williams' comedy routine) at times its just like walking 
 out of your own home and starting your day with whatever happens. That is minus the crack heads, 
 hookers and other dysfunctionals walking down the street (unless you actually live in New York 
 City) . 
  
  So if you're not willing to pick up a copy (which I STRONGLY suggest) , rent it and spend a couple 
 of days in Liberty City. You'll be treated to an experience that will bring you back for more. 
 Characters that will draw you in so that you want to know more about them including Mr. Bellic.
 
  
  Final note: multiplayer it doesn't have the addictiveness of a Call of Duty 4. Hit and runs and 
 shootings lose some of the appeal when there's no story behind it. Of course this is coming from 
 a person who doesn't generally enjoy multiplayer unless its the afore mentioned game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marleysfan
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  First off to those who think less of this game for some reason or another... You need to look at 
 the find detail of the game! Like when you slightly bump someone on the street with your car they 
 move so life like! The sounds around you and the water and how it sparkles when the sun goes down! 
 The old GTA games didn't do that before! There are more things to see and notice about the game 
 that makes this GTA better then the others! 
  
  The good: I love everything about this game, The sounds, the detail, the lightning flashes, the 
 people, The BOB MARLEY music, and everything else!! Thank you Rockstar! 
  
  The bad: Well not that much bad about it but The controls can get frustrating at times but it takes 
 getting used to! times when it gets really dark, I need to change the lighting on the game or on 
 my flat screen! other wise its not that bad! :)
  
  I know the next GTA will be even better and the next one after that!! It only gets better from 
 here on! :) Nothing compairs to this GTA game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackslimz
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the greatest i've played in my life. Liberty city is truly a believable world 
 to get lost in, everything from the characters in it to the downtown traffic, it has that X factor.
 
  
  The game play has taken everything the old games have had and fixed every quirk, while also adding 
 in wall pressing. It adds a whole new dimension toward the game while giving a memory of gears 
 of war in its depth.
  
  The cars handle like a real car, so when you and your boys are cruisin down the street hangin out 
 the windows killin hookers you'll get that handle only an actual car can give.
  
  The story mode is unprecedented in its length and fun, it always has me coming back for more. The 
 characters are so deep and real every one seems like theyre actually someone you know.
  
  Multiplayer is probably the only problem i've found, and thats only because of lag. If you get 
 in a good server with some cool cats and there's no lag you will have a blast, but this definitly 
 isnt something someone should buy the game for, the best in it is the story.
  
  Overall this game is the **** and anyone who has ever even though about what it might be like to 
 be Al Pacino in any movie owes it to themself to buy this game and play the **** out of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartvuggh
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the latest in the line of Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto games. It is set in Liberty city, 
 much like GTA III, but there have been many changes. Instead of a Wiseguy Tommy goombah, you play 
 as Niko Billic, a Serbian who steps off the boat from Europe at the begining of the game. There 
 have also been changes to Liberty City itself, it's now much larger than in previous titles. The 
 cell-phone that recieved extremely small roles as a tool in the previous GTA games is now the centerpiece 
 for GTA IV. The cellphone allows you to call girlfriends, friends and contacts to start missions. 
 The social aspect of GTA has changed as well, now you can go on dates with girls (a la San Andreas) 
 or go hang out with a buddy. But the rewards are very promising. Successful dates might have you 
 get lucky (sorry, but there's no "hot coffee" in this one) and hanging out with buddy's gives you 
 access to special bonuses. The gameplay itself is supurb! After a somewhat lengthy tutorial-ish 
 begining, GTA IV does what the series does best, let you roam around and do what you want. The 
 gameplay is extremely fluid and Niko is pretty easy to control. That being said, I encountered 
 some bugs while i was playing that had potential to ruin the game for me. The bug i found was that 
 if you finish a mission and then try to drive off while the game is auto-saving, the game will 
 freeze. I found no way to unfreeze it (though i did not look too hard, so there might be a way....) 
 and turned off my xbox. When I reloaded the game, it said my save file was corrupted and I had 
 to start over again. Lucky me, I was only on the third mission. The bug does not appear to occur 
 if you remain patient and wait a few seconds after you've finished a mission, so that it saves 
 properly and then you can go on about your buisness.
  
  The game also has a very well-versed online component. It has standard deathmatch-type games to 
 unique games like Cops vs. Robbers. However, there is little or no explanation for how online games 
 work, which makes it a little confusing, but you can figure it out relatively quickly.
  
  All in all, GTA IV is an amazing game, filled with enough hours of gameplay, it can rival Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirelingT7
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  the visuals seen in this GTA are the best in all series thanks to the xbox 360 offcourse, there 
 are some minor glitches but who cares, i don't .
  the storyline is very unique and very realistic, it could have really happened :P.
  the side-missions 
 in GTA 4 are rather different that in vice city and san andreas
  the ambulance missions and cabbie missions are gone and replaced with something far better! police 
 missions, okay it is nothing new if you read it like this but the fun part is that you can access 
 an inboard computer within a police car when you are standing still. you can find the bad criminals 
 by name and photo ( when you took a picture with your phone!!) WIRELESS DEVICE CONNECTING. 
  
  the cover system is what GTA really needed or it would be very hard to complete mission where 
 llike 30 men are shooting at you. your cover can be blown to pieces and it reactes really realistic. 
 the a. i. is sometimes pretty annoying but it has been improved greatly if you know the other GTA 
 games. in this game cabs really have a reason to be in it, now they are used for transporting people 
 !!! that's odd :P but those cabs will make you lazy, that's what it did to me i didn't wanted to 
 drive anymore. now you have a phone ( mentioned earlier) it is almost the same as in saints row 
 exept you don't have to access the main menu for it. you can call you cousin witrh it (ROMAN) to 
 arrange activities and others or to call the POLICE !!! (prety handy) 
  mix all these things with some others what i dind't mentioned and you get a perfect 10 a GTA 4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Most people won't read this review. Mainly because they know GTA never, ever, disapoints. And the 
 latest addition to Gaming's most prestigious series is no exception.
  After being promised a life of luxury and relaxation, Niko Bellic immigrates to Liberty City, only 
 to find that his cousin Roman's been exaggerating 'The American Dream', to say the least. 
  In other words, he lives in a sh*t-shack and his 'sports car' is a cheap cab for the Taxi firm 
 he works for.
  When you first play, you'll be desperate to complete missions in order to unlock more things, like 
 clothes shops and bars, and after this, you'll be embraced and hooked on the storyline, with unpredictable 
 twists and turns.
  Whilst doing these missions, or exploring freely, you'll see one truly amazing factor of the game, 
 and it's impossible to miss - the city itself. An awe-inspiring technical achievement for Rockstar 
 Games here, a truly immersive and gigantic city, filled with crime, citizens, and so much more 
 that my fingers' be tired by the time I'm finished.
  The people on the sidewalk will read papers, dial and receive mobile calls, talk with each other, 
 call for cabs, etc, and you'll probably never see, or recognise the same person twice. 
  But forget them, focus on yourself, what can you do? Buy clothes, drive cabs, go vigilante on drug 
 dealin' scum, go on the internet, hotwire cars, go on blind dates, get in good ol' cop chases, 
 the possibilites are endless.
  For the first time since I don't know when, you actually care for the characters - when you get 
 betrayed (don't sue for spoiling, you ALWAYS get betrayed on GTA) you really feel betrayed. You 
 feel anger, distress, confusion, suspicion and occasionally unsure, in scenario's when you choose 
 and change fates.
  There's just so much to do in this game, but some things have been taken away - Tanks, 'Chutes 
 and planes, but all in the name of realism, so that's okay, I suppose.
  The sound? Great. The music'll make plenty of new fans of the artists featured on Radio, and GTA's 
 historic sense of humour is still intact for comedic radio stations. Speaking of Comedy, on Radio 
 and Comedy Clubs, Ricky Gervais of 'Extras' and 'The Office' is featured in the game, fully voice-overed 
 by the real man himself.
  The Graphics aren't spectacular, but they never are in games with so much to offer in other departments. 
 They're not horrible, I'd give 'em 7/10, but now and again there's some minor hiccups.
  But once again, who really cares? There's never nothing to do in GTA IV, and I can tell you now, 
 this one's been well worth the wait, and the 40. Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  I've never liked the GTA series. I always felt like it was a testosterone filled low brow game to 
 make 14 year olds chuckle as they did naughty adult things. Rockstar gets off on being that line 
 crosser for the kiddies. However after seeing the rave reviews I decided to give it a shot. Rockstar 
 still hase it's "edgy" sex first game second attituede here. With its bilboards of women deep throughting 
 bottles of booze and its new worm coffee sex. Kudos to them for standing up for what they believe 
 in (I guess) .
  
  Now for the game it's self. What made me decide to give this a try this time was not the great reviews 
 but the fact that I love the whole sandbox gaming idea. I liked Crackdown so I felt like I may have 
 come to like this series. So first off the amount of things you can do in this game is great !The 
 effort they put into making Liberty City feel alive is top notch. Not the greatest graphics in the 
 world but the scale of it all is amazing.
  
  Here is the problem. They put so many things in the game to do that it waters the game down. Here 
 is what I mean. Its great to play darts, pool and bowling. It's cool to jump in cars and race around 
 or get into gun battles. However in trying to give us all these things to do. They did not take the 
 tame to make any off it play well. If you think driving the cars wile drunk was hard. Driving the 
 car sober is not much easier. The mechanics for any thing you want to do in this game is frustrating. It's 
 not really a hard game it is just that nothing seems to play well except maybe darts. Taking friends 
 places just becomes annoying and counter productive to the main story. Even those get old as well. Take 
 this guy here. Take this package here. Go there and shoot this guy. It's all so repetitive. Wile I 
 can appreciate what they tried to do. It just dosn't work.
  
  So I give this game a 7.5. Just for the effort of trying to pull this huge game off .The game may 
 get an M for mature rating but as far as the score goes it should only get an E for effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  After a long wait GTA returns in a very hyped game that several people myself included were afraid 
 it would not live up to the hype. I among many of my friends picked this up on the midnight release 
 and couldn't wait to get home. At first I was disappointed because the controls were very complex. 
 However after a few hours I realized the controls among many other aspects are vastly improved 
 than in the other games. This is definitely the best GTA bar none and here is why.
  Graphics: 10/10 The graphics in this game are nothing less than spectacular. Before this came out 
 I had lots of fun with Saint's Row and while still a great game it pales in comparison. Compared 
 to GTA IV SR looks like a PS2 game. The explosions are amazing in this and the destructible environments 
 are amazing. The blood effects are nothing short of amazing as well. No longer do bullet holes 
 disappear along with blood stains. This is truly a next gen game as far as graphics go. There are 
 only a few minor framrate issues that are so few and far between you will barely notice it.
  Sound:10/10 The bullet, car, explosive sounds are very well done and very realistic. Top notch 
 voice acting as well. I know this isn't popular opinion but I even feel the music is very well 
 done as well.
  Story:10/10 While I haven't finished the game yet the story is very well done. It is the most engaging 
 story in all the GTA games. It truly makes you like and hate the perspective characters. I won't 
 give any plot details away however there are many twists that make the story that much better.
 
  Controls:9.6/10 I have read many complaints about the controls but the only bad thing I can say 
 about the controls is they take some getting used to that's all. Once you get over the little hump 
 and learn the controls you will see that they are very simple and way better than the previous 
 installments. The driving is a bit tough but not that bad. Overall the controls are excellent.
 
  Overall 10/10 While the game has a few very minor issues this is still the best installment of 
 the franchise and definitely one of the best games of the console and destined to be one of the 
 best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great game.. But they took a lot of the best stuff out. For instance no buying property 
 or any other things this makes it pointless to care about your bank roll after a while. Some of 
 the environment interface seems broken ie when you have to climb a ladder. The take over element 
 is completely gone from the game which I missed. The graphics are like a stripper they look good 
 at a distance but when the lights come on and she is sitting on your lap... not that good. All 
 and all if you never played GTA before you will like it a lot more than GTA vets. I am glad that 
 I bought the game but I will tell everyone I know to rent it first. The cell phone is a nice addition 
 but I dont see the fun in going with ppl to bowl, play darts etc.. I can do that for real with 
 real friends I dont wanna do that in GTA game. I do have to say that the new avoidance system with 
 the police makes getting away from the law a lot easier. All in all I would say rent it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Perfection isnt usually a term that is used often in the industry, and I've seen countless titles 
 attempt to reach this status, but ultimately, they all fall short to bear the name. Simply, GTA 
 IV is the best game I have ever played since my all time favorite FF7, its such a rare game that 
 its gonna be awhile until we see something this great, GTA IV may not be perfect, as no game is, 
 but it does damnsure feel like it. As soon I stepped onto the shores of Liberty City, the experience 
 is overwhelming, From begining to end, it shows nothing but perfection, and you can't go wrong 
 with that. GTA IV is a one in a kind game, its the game that we were talking about 10yrs ago, the 
 one next gen game where anything was possible, and everything in between. It is a diamond in the 
 rough. Rockstar has simply outdone themselves here, the game meets our expectations but offers 
 a whole lot more, and then some. The series has always been known for its unlinear gameplay, great 
 story, and unparelled freedom which brought rockstar its fame. But always had its problems with 
 gunplay, graphics, and online play. That was enough last generation, but times are changing and 
 massive changes have been made to this incarnation, not only making it more of a refined experience 
 but appealing to all gamers of all types of genres. No matter what you genre you favor, you'll 
 enjoy it. The game is just Revolutionary, just like how GTA 3 set the bar for last gen, GTA Iv 
 mimics but takes the series further, its not just a revolution to the Genre or the series though, 
 its changing the gaming industry as a whole as well.
  
  Although there were some gameplay elements that were cut, GTA IV tacks on more than you would like, 
 The core concepts of the game are still intact, its just its so much more polished that its basicly 
 evolved and it may be too much that I can't possibly explain it all. The game is much more larger 
 in terms of playablity, the controls have been reworked, and so has the camera. The melee actions 
 are still activated with the B button but the fighting is much more complex, which I will explain 
 later. and Sprint is still A, tapping A gives you a boost of speed just like San Andreas, but its 
 much realistic than catching up with cars. pulling off Grand theft autos are still y and the game 
 has several ways of doing it, for instance if you have a weapon in hand Niko will use it to open 
 the door or use it on the driver, while vehicles are parked, you use your elbows to smash the window 
 so you can enter the car, instead of just magicly opening it up, and you have to hotwire it too. 
 There is now a cover system that is similar to Gears of war, and to fire you weapons you use the 
 R trigger. The cell phone which is a crucial part of the gameplay is one the most realistic items 
 that you'll ever see in a videogame. You can get Ringtones, Wallpaper and take photos, its also 
 your way to communicate with all the people that you meet throughout Liberty city, you can see 
 if they have work for you, or you can just call to see if they want to hang out. The internet is 
 also used in the game, located in cafes called TW@t, (mentioned in GTA 3) the web has 100 fictional 
 sites to go to, you even get emails and so on, Both of these elements are used in the story and 
 its great to see something this innovative, Driving has changed drasticly too, not only do you 
 have to brake when you turn, (you'll spin out if you don't) you also have to battle several road 
 conditons such as rain, and the surface you ride on, you also get a gps system, which some cars 
 give you a voice commands and the waypoints are marked by yellow lines. you can still hop fences 
 and swim, and you can eat and go to strips clubs, bars, comedy clubs and interact with a crapload 
 of minigames, there are no more territories to take over, (thank god!) and the game still gives 
 you the option to "dress" your character. The Camera is zoomed in on Niko to give a much more up 
 close and personal atmosphere, giving you a good look at the gorgeus city. The wanted level system 
 has been changed too, there are still stars but to escape you have to leave the radius on your 
 map, much like the game scarface.
  
  The fighting and shooting mechanics have always been dubbed with horrible critics, but this time 
 its much more different and is way good. Shooting in the game is a mixture of classic GTA and saints 
 row, holding down the left trigger is auto targeting, but slightly pressing it lets you free aim (aiming 
 down the sight) you can zoom in by clicking the Right trigger, and quick switch to differnt enemies 
 by flicking it to there direction while holding L. While moving the stick up, enables you to perform 
 headshots and moving it down lets you cripple enemies by shooting them in there jewels or legs. 
 Some instances, there is a gameplay option to exterminate your enemies by holding the R trigger, 
 the game is much more gory, and blood even splats onto your screen. The cover system is in harmony 
 with shooting as they both work together. The fighting system which is one of my favorites, were 
 usually clunky looking in previous titles, this time it is much more refined making it actually 
 fun. the now have three attacks, B is punches, X is kicks, and Y is combination of both. You can 
 pull off some deadly strikes but the real highlight here is the counters, kinda like assassin's 
 creed you press the A button as soon as your opponet strikes, Niko will dodge it and then you can 
 perform some badass comboes, these are ultra cool looking and you will always say wow.
  
  Liberty city has always been my favorite out of the three games, just because its were it all started, 
 it may not be as big or land variated as San Andreas, but it has so many memories and I'm glad 
 I'm reacurring. Some gamers know this city better than their hometowns, but the the setting is 
 10 yrs after the events in GTA 3 that its massively different. Liberty city isnt bigger than San 
 Andreas but is very close, the major difference between this and San Andreas is that this world 
 is much more detailed, (graphics, which I will dig deeper into later.) The city is so alive that 
 it feels like its a real place, the pedestrians don't just walk about the city. They have their 
 own agendas and plans for the day. The game also features some real-life replicas of key sites 
 in New York, such BOABO, times square, central park, and the statue of Liberty. You also can venture 
 into New Jersey, (known as Alderney.) which is a very different experinence than the heavy ghettoes 
 and lush metropolis of Liberty City. You can get around by cars, motorbikes, and trains but the 
 taxis are the highlight, not only are they numerous in ratio but you can use them to transport 
 you to any location. The city is filled with a whole bunch of venues such as bars, clubs, and food 
 stops. It is just so alive, and its the realist city ever in a videogame, hands down. its not just 
 big, its interactive and accesible too.
  
  As for the story its a changed aspect as well. This time around, the tale is much more darker that 
 past GTAs', but it still has its humor. You are Niko Bellic, an immigrant from russia trying to 
 escape a troubled past. The story isn't a rags to riches story and Niko isn't a hotshot trying 
 to get it all, its just a man trying to live a normal life with his cousin Roman, make friends along 
 the way, fall in love, have kids, work, and die. In real life, when **** happens, its tough. GTA 
 IV does a good job of portraying this, you have to deal with it. You just don't own a city and 
 be a multimillionnaire, you have to face struggles to get where you want to be, GTA IV shows this, 
 but Niko just wants a middle-class life, and I think that being serious is much better than the 
 over-the-top style of past GTA. Yes the game still has the badass moments and mafia atmosphere, 
 with everything between. But its more serious and teachs us valuable lessons, its touching, its 
 moving, its everything we asked for. Niko is the best protaginst in GTA as a whole, he is farcry 
 from CJ and Tommy Vercitti, just because he is sympathic, he does look tough. He is basicly you, 
 he has human emotions and he don't take crap from no one, the game doesnt have a visible plot, 
 but its just that its so good that it is seems transparent. The missions come in variety just like 
 past titles, but is much more exotic.
  
  As for the techincal aspect of the game, it may be the best on next gen. The graphics are collosally 
 better that San Andreas, and puts most games today to shame. It isn't like Gears of War, but sure 
 is close. The only major factor that makes it better is than the world is far more bigger, which 
 is a good excuse. Everything is so real looking with HD lighting, the animations are uncanny, and 
 the physics are mind blowing. Niko reacts to everything in his Enviroment. the sound effects and 
 track are great, but the voiceacting is where the game shines the most. Everything you see in the 
 game will be different and is a once in a lifetime experience.
  
  In conclusion, GTA IV may be the best game ever. It is pushing the industry further and is one 
 a hell of a game, it is a must play for all gamers regardlees of their tastes, as for flaws and 
 issues, the game has none other than a few nitpicky things that aren't really problems at all. 
 I might as well be wrong when I said no game is perfect, Because GTA IV is the closest thing we 
 ever will get to it. It is Diamond in the rough, the king of all games, and is the best game out 
 on the market right now. The only reasons that you won't like the game is if you are highly sensitive 
 or simply, you are allergic to fun. GTA is Legendary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RakinR
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Alright the game overall is pretty good. The graphics did a good job but it could have done better. 
 The game isnt organized at all and its kind of complicated to play online. Basically its complicated 
 to do anything. The driving is TERRIBLE. the controls on foot are TERRIBLE. i mean pressing B to 
 punch what happened to the gta 3 controls. On the most part its fun. you can go bowling and stuff 
 and hit the strip clubs but thats for those horny pervs. Hotwiring and breaking a car window to 
 jack it is interesting. I could care less about the radio stations. The gun controls are alot better 
 especially the cover system. But after games like these come out you wont find them to interesting 
 because its kind of like a repeat from the old series but some ppl even think its a good thing. 
 If you're a die hard gta fan be sure to pick this up though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the GTA games. I wasn't that excited about this game until I read about the 
 multiplayer, though. So when the game came out I picked up my reserved copy. I have to say first 
 and foremost that I am dissapointed in a few ways, but not turned off from it. Here's why.
  
  GAMEPLAY is decent, the single player story is just like every gta game so far. Obviously different 
 characters and different events, but it's the same old drive cars and shoot people for whoever 
 pays you, until you are king of the city. This isn't entirely bad, it's always been one of the 
 biggest driving points for the gta games. It's just not new anymore. It's not as fun as it was 
 the first time. I love the dialogue, and the characters are very likeable. There's also a good 
 amount of things to do in the city, if you can find them. 
  
  CONTROL is bad. I'm not sure why they say it's been improved, I like the hand to hand combat more, 
 and the gunplay isn't flawed really, but everything else is wonky. Just walking gave me issues, 
 as you can't ever turn slightly, since all your movement controls are chained to a single analog 
 stick. I hate the rapid button tapping for sprinting, it just feels unneccesary. Driving is bogus, 
 there is not good way to make a turn unless you slow down to almost a halt. You have 3 ways of 
 slowing down, reverse, regular brake, and hand brake. You would think braking would let you fishtail 
 a bit so you can drift around turns but that isn't happening. You can use the handbrake to 180, 
 often you turn more than that though. Try to fishtail around a turn and you end up sliding sideways 
 into a building.
  
  Part of the reason control is annoying is the camera. You get to choose different camera angles, 
 but when driving they are over the left should view unless you are behind the wheel view, which 
 is incredibly akward. Do you hang out your driver window when you drive? Because that's how it 
 looks in this game. Also when you take turns, the camera is really slow to catch up and you find 
 yourself watching the side of your car while you accellerate into a crowded area because you dont 
 see in front of you unless you manually move the camera.
  
  GRAPHICS are pretty sub-par. From far away they look good because of the nice high dynamic lighting, 
 but textures are bland, and people are blocky. Tons of clipping issues everywhere too. Graphics 
 aren't always important in a game, and it's sort of understandable why they are scaled down in 
 this game, since it is massive.
  
  MULTIPLAYER, the reason I decided to get this game right when it came out. It's a let down. It 
 is fun sometimes, but because of the huge environments, it can get pretty laggy. The multiplayer 
 doesn't feel one and its own when compared to the rest of the game; it doesn't feel tacked on, 
 but it doesn't feel polished. It will get you some good gameplay time though.
  
  All in all, I am shocked everyone gives it a perfect score. Especially gamespot. It's fun, but 
 it is far from perfect, revolutionary, or original even. It is a fun game to play, but not enough 
 going for it to warrant as high a score as it's been given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteryork
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Well. Perhaps its just my initial impression. But it seems to me like they exaggerated in the effort 
 to make the gameplay more "real". 
  Cars drive like water beads, its frustrating trying to pull out a good getaway when your car seems 
 to be rolling on vaseline. 
  Then the "auto aim" thing. What happened to the comfortable "semi auto" aim from previous versions? 
 
  You could free aim all over the place and when the sight was near a target it would "lock" onto 
 it, but still letting you break free to do more precise shoots, like care tires and stuff. Now 
 thats gone, and you have just two options, none of them as good as the past one. 
  Sure, the acting is great, the story is looking good, buy overall im dissapointed. 
  This is 
 supposed to be fun and so far Im getting more annoyed that amused by the way the driving and the 
 shooting behave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memtee
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV Possibly best game out for the Xbox 360. The graphics are amazing, storyline 
 is great, missions are good, character detail great and same with the vehicle and weapon detail. 
 Online Play- Absoloutely amazing everyone was wanting online play for the best games series ever... and 
 now we have got it! There is upto 15 different onlines modes including an excellent 'Free Roam' 
 where you can go anywhere in Liberty City.
  
  Btw, everyone who is playing this game check out the Heart inside 'The Satue Of Happyness' i don't 
 know what it is about yet but i want to, if anyone knows about this then tell me please?
  
  1 out of 10 rank:
  
  Graphics: 9
  Storyline: 10
  Online: 10
  Missions: 9
  Character 
 Details: 10
  Weapon Detail: 10
  Overall Score: Solid 10
  
  Should be a definite inductee to game of the year 2008
  
  Many thanks and congradulations to 
 the developers and staff at Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai-Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  The game has many good things to it, like the new cover system which makes it more realistic, and 
 more safer for you, and fun. In the old GTA's I think the cops could hide behind walls and stuff, 
 but couldn't shoot round the corner safely. With the cover system battles are more fun, but are 
 shortlived seeing as you can quickly get overrun in certain areas. Plus, if your in the middle 
 of a road, there is a chance of cops coming behind you and ruining your cover position which moments 
 before they came was superb.
  Another good thing is the new phone system, where you can talk to people and loads of other things, 
 and with the camera aswell it is slightly more fun.
  Now, onto Love Meet. Very good idea, but what's the point of sending the date option to men who 
 are straight and what's the point of your profile on Love Meet, as of yet I have found no use to 
 it, which is quite upsetting. Another upsetment is that no-one on Love Meet accepts your date requests.
 
  Besides LoveMeet, the ring tone website and the mail, the computers have no other importance.
 
  
  Now, onto the Graphics. They are amazing, quite lifelife at times, but ruined by some cartoony 
 bits. Other than that the graphics are flawless. I especially love the blood splatters you can 
 now get on your car, and that the car can get destroyed and not work when you damage it too much.
 
  Incredibly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is by all means a good game. I'm not here to say it isn't. I just want people 
 to know that it is highly over rated. A 10 out of 10 is a lie. And i find it odd that its gotten 
 this score almost across the board (Can anyone say pay off?) .
  
  Anyhow. Conspiracy theorys out of the way. GTA 4 starts you off as Niko Bellic. A guy from some 
 part of Europe whos been in war and has a strange, long background that will be brought up during 
 the games plot. He meets up with his cousin who promises him fame and fortune...
  
  You start as a lackying. Preforming millions of cliche GTA things. Drive here, shot him. Drive 
 there, kill that. It's all quite the same, and feels kind of jaded after years of doing the same 
 stuff over and over again. You wont be doing anything that is spectacular or different from the 
 gta predecessors. 
  
  Now this time around the controls have been tweaked a bit. Driving in this game is fun, but also 
 very VERY frustrating. They have exchanged the emergency break with some crazy emergency crash 
 button. Instead of using the break how most games apply it (to make quick turns and to swerve out 
 of trouble) this game decides to use it to spin you uncontrollably every which way. Usually resulting 
 in a crash (That may i say, looks very impressive) . Car handling, which is the supposed to be very 
 fun can become quite a chore. And i find myself calling taxi's to get me to and from my destination. 
 
  
  Speaking of destinations. When you finally get to your destination, it usually results in killing 
 someone. This time around its far less tedious, but no cause for celebration just yet. The game 
 has implemented 2 new features. The cover system and free form shooting. Now the free form shooting 
 works quite well. It allows you to shoot how you want instead of just locking onto a target and 
 hoping your hitting him. But the cover needs to be tweaked. with a tap of the RB (right bumper) , 
 you can instantly get into cover, from walls, cars, trash cans. Basically anything you can hide 
 behind. Sometimes this doesnt work to well and has you hiding against the wrong wall. Then the 
 game takes a second for you to register and your being shot up while trying to get away from "Cover". 
 If people get around you while your in cover your basically boned, because the reaction time is 
 just terrible. After a while of shooting, the game just seems repetitive and boring.
  
  Multi player is probably one of GTA 4's saviors. Its fun to run around and shoot friends and just 
 play in the limitless chaos. Sometimes there are some frame rate issues in multiplayer, or glitches 
 that are quite odd, but nothing too much to complain about. Forget cover in multiplayer though. 
 In this mode its kind of an after thought, because buddies will rush up in a car and run you over, 
 or people will just run up behind you and blast you dead. 
  
  GTA 4 is a uncut gem in the graphical department. The architecture looks pretty nice, but everything 
 has a small shimmer of dull until certain times in the day. Night, dusk and dawn is when the city 
 shows its true colors. Everything looks a lot better around those times due to lighting effects. 
 Gta still has trouble with character models, seeing as how everyone one looks like they are twisted 
 versions of people you may see on the street but that is a minor complaint seeing this is how Gta 
 is. 
  
  The story takes a long time to get anywhere. It seems like just when you are finally gonna make 
 it, everything implodes and you have to start all over. It doesn't feel like vice city, where your 
 beginning to own the town after about 10 hours of play. Around mission 60 you are still doing the 
 same lacky work that you were at mission 2. While some of the characters are interesting, others 
 (little Jacob) you need a Rast'a Dictionary to understand. They try to bring some twist and turns 
 to the story, but if anyone has played a gta since it has first came out... you'll know whats going 
 to happen next.
  
  GTA 4 is a good game, but if your looking for something revolutionary and not just the same game 
 you've played with a spray paint of awesome... well look else where. Its a very over rated game 
 that does have its charms... but ultimately gets quite boring and is redeemed by its multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TantricNferno
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I'll tell you the truth. When this game was first announced, I was like, "OK, cool, another GTA. 
 Anything different?" Then I started reading about it, and was beginning to become intrigued. Then 
 I found out about the Online, and I was like "Dude, holy **** I have to have this.". So at about 
 4:30 PM April 28, 2008, I put down my 60 dollars. I couldn't focus at school the next day. When 
 I got home to play it, I hopped onto free roam, and was a little underwhelmed. This was probably 
 due to the fact that there was only like two people in the room. :P. So, I left, and engrossed 
 myself into the single-player, and fell in love. If you people know what the theory of Marxism 
 is, the story BLEEDS the core concepts of it. Niko is the first GTA character that I actually care 
 and feel for (He's my favorite illegal immigrant) . The story has alot of twists and turns, full 
 of people who will stab you in the back just to make it up that financial ladder. The game's controls 
 take a little while to get used to, but then they become second nature. The graphics are incredible. 
 The city is so alive. People react so realistically, that you feel bad for them when you play the 
 "Stop Running Game" with them (Shoot them when they're trying to run) The audio itself would be 
 enough to warrant a M rating. I mean SERIOUSLY. But it engrosses you in this dark seedy city. The 
 music is varied, and I like that. The gameplay is smooth as silk, and the online is the best I've 
 played in a while. Get into a 16 player Turf War game and then talk to me about intense. I kind 
 of feel sorry for the little kids not being able to play this. They are missing out on an incredible 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X_Link10
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Wow, ok, let me start by saying, this game is definently worth the $60, and it's worth even more.
 
  
  The graphics are stunning, and make the game feel real and alive, Liberty City feels very alive. 
 Although there may be a few very minor graphic issues, no one will notice it, and it is much better 
 visual mess up wise than San Andreas.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, the storyline is amazing and suspenseful, funny dialouge and perfect voices 
 make the game very smooth and easy to understand.
  
  The car and motorbike and so on vehicles feel much more real than ever, making it a little hard 
 to drive at first, but it gets easier and easier.
  
  So many bonus missions and friendship acts, and many more things will keep this title in your xbox360 
 for A VERY long time.
  
  All I can say in conclusion is... thank you Rockstar and all the publishers, for making one of 
 the best games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  First let me say that GTA is my favorite game series of all time. So if this review is bias... 
 read it anyway. I love the fact that I am still uncovering new things after hours of game play. 
 Birds to exterminate instead of hidden packages, various new locations to check out, the GPS and 
 cop computers, and the fun characters that have become as much a part of GTA as the game play itself. 
 The cover system, while helpful, is still a little tough to navigate with and there are times when 
 it has gotten frustrating. Otherwise, this game is everything I'd hoped it would be. The controls 
 are slightly different and the new target system is much better. Rockstar did it again... Forgive 
 me if this review is short. I have cars to steal for Brucie. Buy the game. You'll be doing yourself 
 a HUGE favor.
  
  WARM COFFEE FO' LIFE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spanks113
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is one hell of a game. When I first began playing it I began comparing it to all og the older 
 GTA's. This one has none of the rpg aspects of San Andreas so you can't work out and you can't 
 get better at shooting. I don't miss the workout part but I do wish I was rewarded for wasting 
 heaps of people. GTA 4 is way more condensed that San Andreas so you won't find yourself driving 
 for ages to get to a misson. Liberty City is pretty damn cool, just walking around you will notice 
 little things that make it seem real. Also the game is massively long so there is alot of replay 
 value. One drawback is that all your friends seem to call you or want your services at the same 
 time, so you will have to choose who you want to take out. From time to time you may notice a little 
 bit of texture pop in but you would be mad to think it wrecks the game. The multiplayer is also 
 alright although it does tend to lag a little in death match when people try and drive by you. 
 I don't personally agree with the 10 that gamespot gave this game but it is still awsome, I would 
 give it a solid 6 out of 10. After a while you will get way bored. Don't waste your money just 
 rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  A superb game, yes, a perfect 10... hardly. The first day that I played GTA IV was hardly the first 
 impression a game developer wishes to make, especially for a blockbuster titled such as this.
 
  
  I spent my first few hours wrought with frustration as I struggled to easily get Niko, the main 
 character, to move quite how I wanted him to. Some of these small frustrations include pushing 
 the Y button to enter a vehicle and watching Niko walk in place or spin in circles as he attempted 
 to open a door and enter a vehicle. Turning small corners and trying to turn up those small staircases 
 proved to be fairly difficult in some situations, as it seems Niko never learned to pivot in place 
 when he learned to walk. Driving left a lot to be desired at times as cars seem to slide around 
 every corner regardless of how fast you are traveling and the terrain you are driving on.
  
  After spending another few hours on day two of playing this game I started to get used to the 
 clunky controls. Traveling still feels drawn out and exploring the city isn't quite as fun as I 
 would think it should be, but after 3 three dimensional GTA games and a countless amount of clones, 
 exploration just isn't what it used to be.
  
  The games greatest plus is the sheer number of things to do in Liberty City. If you have not heard 
 about the goings on of Liberty City yet, in the single player campaign you can use your cell phone 
 at nearly anytime to phone an ingame friend and invite them to a night on the town at numerous 
 locations. These can include going bowling, shooting pool or playing darts, spending an evening 
 at the bar, or even hitting up a strip club. 
  
  I've spent the majority of my 3rd day with GTA IV running single player missions. Although they 
 are well thought out and are very story driven, they really are just more of the same. This game 
 will be much more spectacular to a GTA rookie than to a player who has already spent 100+ hours 
 in Liberty City on the first go around.
  
  The biggest letdown of GTA IV is the multiplayer. A ten minute cops and robbers match has less 
 action in it than the original 12 Angry Men. If you have a confrontation with the same person more 
 than once or twice, than the Crime Boss doesn't know what he's doing and does not deserve his status. 
 
  
  Car Jack City usually includes off balanced teams driving aimlessly around the city hoping to get 
 their jacked car to a drop off point before it dissapears from a different player utilizing it 
 first. All the while your poor team mate on a standard definition TV is complaining that he can't 
 see anything on his minimap. Meanwhile you have pushed the pause button to look at the map and 
 set a new waypoint at the new drop off point, but while navigating the menu you're car has been 
 exploded with you inside. 
  
  If you are a GTA vet and have not yet decided whether you are not you are going to pick this title 
 up, please do not factor in multiplayer, as it is highly forgettable and you most likely won't 
 spend much time there. Do get this game if you are ready for another entertaining GTA storyline.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingTuell
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the best game I've ever played. I got it the day it came out and it is already a game 
 I will remember for the rest of my life. I have never played a game that is so realistic. Liberty 
 City is massive and amazing. The online modes are awesome even though the ranking system isn't 
 that great. GTA 4 has a new cover system that is almost like Gears Of War's cover system. The story 
 mode is very large with 90+ missions and hundreds of side missions. Plus, you get a phone that 
 you can use to talk to people you have met in story mode, get side missions from them, or even 
 go out with them to a restaurant, bar, club, play darts, strip club etc. Cars also have a new GPS 
 system like the one Saints Row has except it tells you when to turn. GTA 4 is one of the best games 
 ever. Go and buy it. I can almost guarantee everyone will at least love it. It gets an easy 10 
 but it is as close to perfect as any other game will get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mycroftholmes86
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is simply the bestest game in the history. combined with unique gameplay, multiplayer option, 
 engaging story, and awesome graphics, it makes your journey to liberty city is unforgettable.
 
  
  This game is just as addicting as the others. Hard to put down. Rockstar has thought of everything. 
 Don't want to do missions, go online. Don't want online play, go play pool, bowling darts, or just 
 run free and do whatever you want. The controls for driving/fighting were somewhat difficult to 
 get comfortable with but that just ads to the learning curve, and whats you master you feel like 
 you have way more control than in the previous gta's. Pleased to see you don't have to maintain 
 weight lifting and eating like in gta: sa. All in all, great game. Online I have only played crooks 
 n cops, but it was a blast.
  
  I would not elaborate much longer because all aspects of the game have been discussed.
  
  just 
 three words: buy this game!!! if not, you will be regret =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto IV is definitely one of the greatest games in the history of video games! Of course 
 it is also the best in the series too! Although it takes away some stuff from San Andreas (Planes, 
 jetpacks, ect.) , those details are so small its like Rockstar has taken 1 gold coin after giving 
 you a mountain full of coins. Every detail, person, character, building is a treat! The storyline 
 involves around a European Ex Soldier named Niko Bellic. He has been told by his cousin Roman that 
 America has gave him a mansion and hot babes. However once Niko arrived in America, he realizes 
 that Roman has lied to Niko about his riches and that he is really in debt with some of Liberty 
 Cities most dangerous crime organizations. Niko and Roman have no choice but to work with some 
 of these people or perish in the Underworld of Liberty City. The story is arguably one of the best 
 and has a great introduction! Of course missons aren't the only thing you can do in the city! you 
 can date, go out with some of your friends, drink, kill people, evade cops, bowl, and more! The 
 cellphone plays a huge role as it provides for calling and updates for friends and missons, replays, 
 and getting online. There is just so many damn things to do. You won't be able to get through all 
 of them even within a year! The detail of the city is tremendous and very alive. Peds are very 
 well designed and real especially jacking them. Cars handling is extremly well done and you can 
 feel the handling of different cars the way it turns and the like. The only problem for IV is that 
 it has a painful control system to get used to and there have been reports of freezing and crashing 
 (mostly on the ps3) . But other then that, gtaIV is quite almost a perfect game. I could write a 
 longer review but that would take up too many pages! Here are the pros and cons
  
  PROS: Huge, magnificent, REAL , alive city. Peds act and talk real, enviorment are heavily detailed, 
 sound adds to the cities sensation, shooting is 100 times improved and covering system helps along 
 with it, characters are VERY believable and likable (most of them) , Best protagonist out of all 
 the others in GTA, visuals are just fantastic, online gaming can hold up to 16 people even in free 
 roam!, LOTS AND LOTS of things to do, story is well thought out, Radio stations and TV programs 
 are hilarious and adds to GTA IV's touch. Umm perhaps one of the greatest games ever!
  
  CONS: Reports of freezing and crashing, some missons are a bit frustrating to repeat again and 
 again since there are no check points, aiming system is a bit itchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Its finally here! and HOLY CRAP IS IT GOOD! Lot of games have come and gone over the years and 
 chances are, whether you are playing Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 or anything else, 
 you are going to have to set it aside for about 6 months.
  
  Well, lets start out with the postives. The open world sandbox gameplay is still intact, which 
 is good because that is what had me hooked on GTA III, Vice City and San Andreas. As well the open 
 world is full with about a gajillion things that can be done. And the multiplayer is the one thing 
 that this franchise needs. Now that its here, is it good. HELL YEAH IT IS!!!!
  
  HOWEVER, if you are playing the single player campaign (you poor souls) its starts out pretty slow 
 and many of the missions just seem like filler.
  
  This is the breath of fresh air that gamers have been waiting for since COD4 was released. The 
 final verdict is: SCREW YOU JACK THOMPSON GTA IV IS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wepeel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  
  If you have played any previous GTA games since GTA III, there will be few surprises for you in 
 GTA IV. The core game is still the same, and the changes, while nice, are mostly cosmetic.
  
  The cellphone is nice, but its usage is mainly contrived. Like, instead of going to your girlfriend's 
 place for a date like in SA, you call her up first, and then go for a date.
  
  The Internet is pretty cool when you first get to use it, but in the end it has very little impact 
 on gameplay other than a handful of contived missions.
  
  Also new is the element (or at least the illusion) of choice. At a few points in the story you 
 get a choice what to do, usually between sparing and killing someone. It sounds cool, but ultimately 
 your choices have very little impact on the story or the game world.
  
  That this game is mostly more of the same isn't all bad though. The "new" Liberty City certainly 
 feels alive, with more details and more population interaction/behaviour than any previous GTA 
 title. You can just drive around or chill somewhere and, for the most part, have a fairly interesting 
 time.
  
  Money: Unlike some of the earlier games where you could buy property, there is little to no use 
 for money in IV except buying clothes, body armour and replenishing your ammunition. None of these 
 are very expensive, so you'll soon hit a point where you can buy everything you want and money 
 ceases to be a motivator. Some more options to invest in would have been nice.
  
  
  Story: It's decent, but again, don't believe the hype. You meet some very cool and funny characters, 
 but few of them have much depth. Also, unlike previous games you don't noticably "climb the ladder" 
 through the underworld. There's no real take-over like in Vice City, instead you just move from 
 employer to employer and accumulate more and more cash. You'll soon be rich enough to buy anything 
 in-game that you want, but story-wise you won't have any more power or influence. The hype seems 
 to imply there's extraordinary depth to be found, or that anyone would suffer from having anything 
 spoiled to them, but there's not much to spoil, just a case of false advertising. The poster-girl 
 with the lollipop isn't even in the game.
  
  
  My main beef is with the ending. There are two endings, the one you get being decided on what you 
 choose during the second-to-last mission. The problem is that instead of a good and a bad ending, 
 you either get a bad ending, or a worse ending - and obviously neither of them leaves you feeling 
 good or satisfied about the game's conclusion. 
  Thus, even if you do things the "right" way all through the game, you still get shafted in the 
 end, as if it were some kind of moral of the story from Rockstar that crime is bad and criminals 
 can't find happiness.
  
  Really, if I wanted a game to preach to me about such issues, I sure as heck wouldn't choose any 
 title labeled "Grand Theft Auto" to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  First, I would like to say I am glad to be part of the xbox 360 forum. I guess we are simple folk, 
 and lack the ability to enjoy the ultimate experience in game play. (If you wonder what I am talking 
 about, please visit the PS3 gamers forum.... omg! When I visited their forum there was SO much negative 
 posts.... they are so critical and uptight!) I guess it comes from having crappy games to play since 
 the release of PS3. I digress however, I have been looking forward to the release of GTA 4 for 
 some time. After playing the game for over 20 hours, I play to experience the game as the developers 
 hoped we all would when they developed the game! The game is FUN.... PERIOD! I paid $65.00 for the 
 game. Considering the cost of everything these days, I say it is money well spent! 
  
  If I had one gripe, it would be the constant control adjustment while driving. But having played 
 for 10+ hours, I have adjusted.
  
  Thank you Rock Star! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  So GTA IV packs a lot of stuff into one disc, and as such it has a lot of things to talk about. 
 Basic premise is any other GTA layout. You play as Nikolai (whether that is spelled correct or 
 not) , "Nicky" as his friends call him, and you're an immigrant from overseas. You've come to Liberty 
 City for numerous reasons, many being laid out as the story unfolds. Regardless, as far as you 
 are concerned, you are there to live a new life with your cousin Roman.
  
  The controls are all fairly the same. You can jump, use/switch weapons, auto-aim on enemies as 
 well as, something new, take cover. Everything else you'll remember from past GTAs. The missions 
 are of course laid out around Liberty City, different locales open up as you move along in the 
 story. As you progress through the main story missions, you are presented with a cast of characters 
 from your cousin, to traitorous mobsters, and of course a man-lover. 
  
  To get from point A to point B, you may either jack cars or, my new favorite, take taxis to designated 
 points or points that you want to place and tell them to go. You skip wasted time, and get to enjoying 
 the game faster. Another new feature is a replay system, say you die or just fail a specific mission, 
 your phone will present you with a message asking if you'd like to replay it. This, as such, prevents 
 you from having to methodically go and pick up the same mission again.
  
  Missions range from following other people to blowing up rivals, and everything in between. Of 
 course these missions would seem much more tedious if it wasn't presented with the polish, great 
 voice acting, and enjoyable story that Rockstar lays out. So in fact it's the opposite of tedious, 
 it's a great game that'll last you approximately 25 hours (just the main story missions) , and has 
 numerous side missions (transport drugs, chase down criminals, assassinate people, etc.) . Of course 
 there are also the "packages" and "stunt jumps" which, from my current point-of-view, seem very 
 drawn-out. I mean, 200 packages, and at least 50 stunt jumps; if anything, this will be the only 
 game to make you want the strategy guide in recent history.
  
  Those paragraphs being a mouthful, I'd like to throw in my opinion on the driving. The vehicles 
 are a lot looser than previously, but not for the better. Often times you'll come careening around 
 a corner and slide so far off from your target point, you might even slam a cop car, and it's just 
 frustrating. People may say it's for the better, but when the NPCs are able to make tight turns 
 and I can't, it's a bit of a downer. That being said, it doesn't make GTA IV any less amazing.
 
  
  As far as value goes, let me just wrap this summary up. Main story will last 25-30 hours, complete 
 with side missions, a multiplayer mode (which I'll go over next paragraph) , way too many "collectibles" 
 and "stunt jumps," all the new mechanics, and finally the achievements. All those together will 
 probably make this game last at least 50 hours for the avid gamer. The achievements, to be honest, 
 are a bit dissapointing. I've always hated collect achievements and multiplayer ones, yet I always 
 reluctantly do them.
  
  Multiplayer I played for about 2 games, both being bad experiences. I just recently finished the 
 main story so I felt I needed a few games of multiplayer to make a complete review. So multiplayer 
 doesn't seem too tacked-on, only because of the variety of game modes, but that doesn't save it 
 from being a laggy, disastrous mess. I'm sure co-op and rolling around the city with your friends 
 is fun, but the competitive element of Team Deathmatch, among others, just doesn't work for this 
 franchise. My second game just sat at the loading screen for about 5 minutes before I turned my 
 Xbox off.
  
  I recommend this game to any sandbox genre lover. I still don't feel the charm of Vice City has 
 been integrated the same way since Vice City, but GTA IV is still primarily the best game for what 
 it is. I still love Pogo the Monkey from VC, but there are a couple refreshing commercials on the 
 radio this time around. If you can spare $60, then throw that down on GTA IV; there won't be another 
 great game like this for a couple months at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, Niko Bellic's has arrived to America. Liberity City, familar to GTA fans, and a soon favorite 
 for newcomers. Just like all GTA games, you have missions, side missions, free roams, and the cheats 
 that make the game playable for hundreds of hours. Graphics are excellent considering the fact 
 of how they had to make everything, so they are really good when you consider how much they had 
 to make.
  
  Cars are newer, including a Turismo and Super GT. You can date in this game.... nothing abnormal, 
 cops chase you if you cause trouble... normal, a targeting system for when you fight enemies... WHATS 
 THIS? a targeting system? yeah... and it helps so much. 
  
  GTA IV will make you become a couch potato, I'm dead serious, so much fun. My only hate for the 
 game: THOSE DAMN COPS! they are so ANNOYING!!!
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV: A Masterpiece of The Next Gen Gaming Systems. King of Games, and Game You'll 
 Be Playing For Years.
  
  My Ratings:
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Sounds: 10
  
  Overall: 11 [extra point for the cheats]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogglies5
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first played San Andreas, I thought it was great. The gameplay, story, characters but the 
 graphics for the xbox sucked (unfortunatley) . GTA IV was 99/100, I was amazed how everything ran 
 smoothly! The characters looked great not to mention the enviroment, the water (simply beautiful) 
 and everything else was peferfect. One thing caught my eye though, the getaway system. In theory, 
 running away out of the circle sounded great but it seemed to easy. I went on a killing-spree and 
 got about a good 4 to 5 stars and the circle took up about an island. I thought it would be hard 
 (and it was) but with it being based today with all high tech gizmos, it seemed a tad to easy. 
 The people in general in San Andreas were easy to kill (somehow) but IV's people took a bit too 
 much lead! I wasn't suprised when the lowest score I seen was 9.8. The revolutionary class means 
 what it says, the '360 was made for games like this! I've seen some highly anticipated games rise 
 in publicity but fall when it came out. GTA IV lives to what it said it would do. In the old ones, 
 some of the non-important places had little detail but now, from the Jumbo Jets and Helicopters, 
 to the small and insignificent can of 'Sprunk'. EVERYTHING IS AMAZING AND LEFT ME IN AWE! Multi 
 player sounds amazing (havn't played it yet) with the cops n' crooks and free roam looks like fun.
 
  
  My conclusion is that everything in the game is pretty real with the graphics and sound bring it 
 to life (did I mention sound?) . San Andreas was great but this is a league of its own! And something 
 you won't want to miss... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I've played great games before... but nothing compares to this game. Nothing. You play as Niko Bellic. 
 A former East-European with some stories to share and revenge on his mind. Unlike past characters 
 Niko is more developed. He's more believable and don't be surprised to pick up some good smack 
 talk from the guy.
  
  The game screams perfection, brilliance. The gameplay will blow your mind. All the missions are 
 played out extremely well and with so much variety in the missions, you'll never be bored. Never. 
 But, if it just so happens boredom DOES hit you, the beauty of GrandTheftAuto shines: you can do 
 ANYTHING. Go bowling, go for a date, play some pool... shoot some cops-whatever your hearts desire. 
 They toned the difficulty down a sligh bit, and the missions that are difficult are challenging, 
 not frustrating. Multiplayer is also surprisingly addicting and, just like the game itself, can 
 be customized to however you like it.
  
  Do not pass up this game, it's life changing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -mostwanted
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is just awesome! It didn't get a score of 10 for nothing. Sure it might be a been there 
 done that, but GTA has developed so nicely from the previous versions and I must say, I didn't 
 expect it to be this good, the game is freaking awesome man. I'd like to say this just because 
 I grew up in a Jamaican hail up to rockstar!!!! RESPECT u done kno!! Adding Jamaicans to the game 
 made the game even better lol seriously. I love this game. This is a definitely a Masterpiece.
 
  
  "A superb single-player story mode and online support for up to 16 players make this the best Grand 
 Theft Auto game yet"
  
  No doubt about that!
  
  Its just awesome what you can do in the game, I believe it could be a bit better but overall its 
 superb game!!!!!
  
  I really don't have much to say because the game is just too awesome I can't even type up a 800 
 charc. review about the game. Its a good game yall, lots of volience, crime and all that stuff, 
 ohhh I just want to say I love the phone feature lol I actually called the police and they came 
 in a flash lol I just wished they arrived as fast in the real world. Anyways peace thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooken58
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is not GTA: San Andreas. Rockstar Clearly stated that this would be a tottally different 
 experience and more realistic feel than previous GTAs. Well right away you can tell they gave their 
 promiss. And i believe it was for the better. First thing you notice is the graphics are amazing 
 for a game of this scale, and the voice acting rivals those of oscar winning movies. The characters 
 feel real, and you can relate to them and Niko in some ways. I have only gotten through mabye 1/4 
 of the game, not entirly sure, but the missions are unique and fun. There was a few that were kind 
 of a pain because you have to drive around a bit in the beginning and then die and have to start 
 over. One of my favorites (wont try and spoil anything) was one where you have to chase this guy 
 across the rooftops and it felt real cinimatic, and evently he trips and is clutching onto the 
 ledge, and you decide if he should live.
  
  The City DOES feel alive, unlike the previous games, every pedestrian looks different, he or she 
 is doing her own thing. That be reading newspaper, using their cell phone, or some just simply 
 cleaning the sidewalks and such. They also react to certain situations, using umbrella when it 
 rains, or if one gets hit by a car the driver gets out and trys to help or sometimes when they 
 crash a fight breaks out which can be hilarious and if cop is nearby they will break it up.
  
  The cops now will not chase you indefinatly, you can out run them and lose them, 1 star is 
 like a 1 block radius, but the cops do call for backup so a cop might be around the street so the 
 radius of the search updates due to your posituion. 6 star though, which is considered a terrorist 
 threat is more like a 2 mile radius which is very hard and almost impossible to outrun. This feature 
 is very nice and more realistic imo instead of just going to pay and spray and bam you are gone.
 
  
  Little Ranting at the others, I dont understand why you just want another San Andreas game, That 
 version of GTA may have had alot of other features that this one doesnt, but it doesnt make it 
 better. Being able to drive down the road 200 mph and not gettin hurt is unrealistic. And only 
 reason SA had planes because it was so huge. Going to gym, eating and getting fat, and stats were 
 OK, But is GTA A RPG? NO IT ISNT. SA was more of an arcade like GTA, and GTA 4 is a more adult 
 type of game with an exellent story line.
  
  Graphics are awsome, sound and music is superb, and the size of the city may not be as large as 
 all of SA but the sheer scope and density of the city feels more real and you will not even notice 
 that is somewhat smaller. This game is no masterpiece, and its not revolutionary, wasnt expecting 
 it to be. But it is an awsome game that has a lot of replay value and will be playing for months 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_The_Cage
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had the opportunity to finish the games but i'm writing this review any way. My game 
 arrived on May 1 which was pretty cool as I had the whole day to indulge myself with such a great 
 game.
  
  For starters the game is simply amazing, there are so many features that will make your jaw drop 
 as you discover them, not to give much away you can take a cab to any place you know in Liberty 
 City, which lets you get around in the city much easier, as it is a big city. 
  The main character Niko is quite the guy, as you will find as his story unfolds, you'll be wanting 
 to know more about this eastern Europe personage.
  
  The new aiming system; in a word perfect!, it's everything GTA fans were waiting for, it automatically 
 centers the aim in the chest of your opponent, letting you take out all the scumbags in Liberty 
 City in a snap, nevertheless you can change the aim to manual, which transports you to previous 
 versions of GTA.
  
  One aspect this game stands out is the music, GTA IV comes packed with more radio stations than 
 ever and I can risk to say there is a station for very taste in music, if that weren't enough the 
 gus at Rockstar packed the game with TV station , which in my opinion are hilarious, seriously 
 you can spend an entire afternoon just watching TV.
  
  Regarding the controls, if you played San Andreas, you're ready to go as the controls are pretty 
 much the same, in the other hand, if you are a newcomer there are plenty of explanations to get 
 you going on the right direction.
  
  Am I leaving something out, you bet, what kind of review doesn't mention the graphics and with 
 GTA its no exception, gorgeous graphics, character models are the best I've seen, and this is clearly 
 seen in HDTV's and will really show the potential of the 360 or ps3.
  
  To conclude anyone that doesn't have this game should go out and buy it, it is simply the best 
 in series. For all die hard fans will see that there dreams have come true when they play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryIreland
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Great, great, great game. Characters you will love, humour you will love everything about the game 
 you will love. From the opening movie you be in for a unique experience. Words simply can't describe 
 it. I'm trying to and it's hard. This game isn't style over substance or vice-versa it's both style 
 and substance. What style and substance Rockstar North have created. It's not perfect but what is?? But 
 this is truely briallant. Minor flaws are sometimes unresponsive players etc.. But it doesn't ruin 
 the game don't worry. This is what Developers at the top do!! You listening Bungie. They don't go 
 withthe same formula but re-invent it unlike waht Bungie did to Halo!! This will be hailed as one 
 of the best games ever. Look at metacritics average score for this game!! You don't see that everyday. The 
 only flaw is that they could have done a bit better with the multiplayer. But don'y let that scare 
 you it's still very very good!! Well thats my review thanks for reading it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys im back for another one.
  
  Before I go into my catigory based review, To all the negitive reviews out there with complaints 
 about slow gameplay and sluggish action, Dont you guys know rockstar is going more realistic? Take 
 a look around this is the most real in game city any game developer has made. People throw litter 
 out of there cars, cops actually put other people in the back of there squad cars and this is just 
 to name a few, I will leave the rest for my review.
  
  1:] Graphics- For a game of this scale I am impressed. Rain and all other weather effects are done 
 so well it looks real. Not to much bloom. Awsome to look at. Also the blast from firearms look 
 good this time around.
  
  2:] Gameplay- Have you ever played a GTA game and it became boring? Well I dont see that happining 
 hear, shoot outs are more frantic then ever, You dont feel invincible when shooting 5-10 guys anymore, 
 its much more tactical. Also you could just look around the city in aw, This adds alot to the gameplay 
 aswell. back on shooting you now have a cover system much like RSV2 or GOW and this really helps 
 during heavy incoming fire. 
  
  3:] Sound- Great soundtrack as you would expect from rockstar. It never sounded as somthing was 
 misplaced, good sound nothing special though.
  
  4:] Tilt- Multiplayer! If the story mode gets old and stale [WITCH IT WONT] the MP will spark it 
 up agian, Awsome job on MP so many modes to choose from, And lets not forget what we all been asking 
 for FREE mode.. yes you and up to 16 other people can do whatever you want in libirty city for the 
 first time in history! .
  
  Well that about sums it up, Also I would like to say thanks to Rockstar for one of the best game 
 titles I now own in my game collection.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinjohns0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I don't see how people make such a big deal over the content of this game. 
 I've noticed that it really isn't that bad of a game in a sense of violence and sexual content. 
 You'll see more on cable TV then on the game! I don't know what the fuss is about. I wish they 
 would've went a little further w/ it and added more adult content. Don't get me wrong though, this 
 game ain't for kids or immature young teens. Anyways, the game overall is badass is my opinion. 
 Im more of a military shooter type of guy and this isn't really my type of game but dammit I love 
 playing it. I've gotten about 20-25% of the way through the single player and it's just straight 
 up addictive. I love it. Better than the multiplayer which is also pretty good. I think that this 
 game is going to raise the bar for future games to hit the market and do well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalem01
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is a series which is well known and extremely popular. The games offer a different, 
 and fun, world in which characters are free to explore and cause mischief. There was a story, of 
 course, but it was never the selling point. It was fun, but it was a distraction. The big selling 
 point to the game was the ability to free roam around a city (or multiple cities) and cause complete 
 and utter havoc. Pulling out a rocket launcher in the middle a street and just opening up on the 
 cars around you and then spending the next hour driving, flying, and running as you try to stay 
 alive all while gunning down police.
  
  Things have changed.
  
  In GTA4 the story is the obvious focus. The story isn't great, but its much more fleshed out than 
 previous games. How? Well for one characters have a lasting effect. In previous games you may meet 
 a character, work with him, and then never see him again after doing 3 missions. His role is over 
 and he's gone as suddenly as he was there. The characters had no depth to speak of, and even if 
 they did you wouldn't have enough time to appreciate them. In GTA4 characters are fully fleshed 
 out with unique personalities. You will no doubt find yourself growing fond of them despite their 
 glaring flaws.
  
  But perhaps the key aspect the success of the story comes from there actually being an over arching 
 story. In the previous games it was fairly generic and nothing was left to mystery. However in 
 this one you piece together everything all while having other aspects come into play. For instance 
 as you progress your cousin may call and talk about wanting to marry a certain lady he's been close 
 to, and eventually doing so. It all gives the feeling that you're advancing.
  
  Unfortunately GTA4 ceases to progress past this point. Graphics are what you expect from a next 
 gen title, the sounds are actually a slight downgrade (Since there is often too much going on and 
 it all gets lost) , and many mechanics from previous games are lost or changed. In some cases this 
 isn't a bad thing, such as the little side missions from cop cars and ambulances, but in others 
 its horrible (Such as saving cars or altering them) .
  
  Even the great story suffers. The game feels slow moving and it never feels like you're progressing 
 toward Niko's inevitable goals. This is in sharp contrast to the clean, and good, start of the 
 game. Its not that they don't know what they're doing, just they didn't quite pull off as smoothly 
 as they should of. 
  
  There are a handful of other changes worth noting. For one thing combat has changed from the other 
 games. Shooting allows you to quickly lock on and take out targets. Furthermore, well placed shots 
 to their gut or legs will cause them to stumble, or a shot while they're running may cause them 
 to crash into the corner of a wall, spin around, and lose their balancing and hit another wall. 
 The only problem here is that its hard to lock onto the target you want. In theory you do this 
 by tapping the analog stick, but in reality it doesn't work out so well.
  
  In addition you can take cover behind objects and this is obviously supposed to be a key aspect 
 of the game. Its not a bad one, and the cover system offers options like blind firing, its just 
 that its sluggish and often slows combat to a standstill. Taking aim at a target and opening fire 
 takes a second or two and by then its likely that your target is already firing on you or taking 
 cover. Of course all of this is meaningless since, often, you don't have any decent places to take 
 cover. None of this would be a problem except for that your character seems far more squishy now. 
 Enemies are accurate and it only takes around a dozen bullets pistol shots to bring you down. Now 
 that doesn't seem so bad, but considering that enemies shoot quickly and other guns do more damage 
 or shoot far more rapidly... you have a problem. Running away on foot is nearly impossible if shooting 
 enemies are anywhere close.
  
  GTA4 is a great game despite its flaws. Its enjoyable and easily worth the money. It offers a lot 
 of fun. While it starts out amazing it plateau's early. Gone are the days where free roaming could 
 entertain for hours and hours on end, but it does offer a fun world regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviar
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 changed the playing ground in the last generation of video games and Rockstar 
 has once again set the bar for ground breaking gameplay by releasing Grand Theft Auto IV. GTA IV 
 will more then likely be game of the year for 2008. The graphics and storyline for this game are 
 purely top notch. The game has tremendous detail to it and will completely immerse you in the world 
 of Nico Bellic. The combat system has been greatly improved from past versions of the game, and 
 the addition of a cover system makes gun fights even more strategic. Rather then just running and 
 gunning you can actually think your way through some fights which helps minimize your health loss. 
 All of the activities that have been included in the game, like bowling, 8 ball, and darts are 
 just fun little activities which give you a quick break from the non-stop action and will let you 
 catch your breath in between the fast and crazy missions that make up the main story line. 
  
  I was not initially following the making of GTA IV, but the more I initially read about the 
 game I was hoping to not be disappointed or let down. Rockstar has definitely put forth a game 
 that has lived up to all of its hype, and this game deserves all the perfect scores that it is 
 receiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Okay, so everybody and their brother is reviewing this game. They are ranting and raving about 
 how awesome, how great, how cool this game is because this aspect or that. Why am I jumping on 
 the band wagon here and actually stamping my seal of approval on this game even though I vehemently 
 despised the last 3 incarnations of GTA? The answer is simple. The game is a game aimed at the 
 ADULT crowd. There's nothing childish about GTA 4. 
  
  I'll start about by saying this: if you're not 17, you have NO business playing this game plain 
 and simple. If this were a movie it'd be rated NC17 for strong language, violence, drug use, and 
 sexual content. I'm not going to get into the age vs. maturity thing here. The game is rated M 
 for a reason. Respect that. Parents, if your kid is under 17... DON'T BUY IT FOR THEM YOU LOWSY 
 CRUMB! "oh hey it's one of the filthiest games for the 360/PS3 to date, I think I'll buy it for 
 my 13 yr old kid..." yeah go buy them a copy of Faces of Death too and just really screw them up 
 for the rest of their lives why don't you you dirty schlub.
  
  Anyway, now that that is out of my system... GTA 4, what can I say. It has free roam which is always 
 fun but grows boring quick. It has structured missions which you can accpet or ignore which is 
 good if your out being bored in free roam and don't want to be bothered with the chore of doing 
 missions as your driving your car around smearing pedestrians across the asphalt and trolling for 
 hookers after knocking over the old lady at the ATM and taking her money. The online is fun. Crooks 
 and Robbers offers so great laughs with good friends... but even on release day I found the game 
 swarming with kids who's voices weren't any higher than squeaky toys. This sickened and horrified 
 me to hear 10, 12, 13, 14 yr olds spewing more filth from their mouths than a 80's Eddie Murphy 
 comedy special. Is it GTA's fault? NO. GTA is an enabler... it is the parent's fault for not smacking 
 their foul mouthed kids across the face and sticking a bar of Ivory between those teeth for speaking 
 such words.
  
  For adults, yes this game can be wonderful.... just make sure when you go online you go with other 
 adult friends less you be enswamped by teeny bopper squeaky toys who think it's hip to use F bombs, 
 N bombs, C words, and a holy host of other cuss words whilst playing online... simply becuase they 
 are playing GTA and they think that's how they're supposed to talk in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Essentially the same as any other GTA but with so much more to do. The storyline is great, 
 probably the best, and the characters are all funny and have something to them. The gunplay is 
 all advanced and works pretty good. The only thing they didn't do in this game was being able to 
 get fat, upgrade your weapons and upgrade car skill etc. But it doesn't much matter when theres 
 so much more new stuff such as the internet where you can do a lot such as meeting dates, side-missions, 
 E-mail. The cell-phone is a lot more usefull this time because you can call any of your friends 
 and ask them to go drinking or play pool or whatever and you can build trust or hate with each 
 friend. Another thing for the storyline is that you can rarely make choices such as killing a guy 
 or letting him go. Another thing is that in a police car you can access the computer and do Viginalte 
 missions like completing the most wanted list or current crimes. The online is awsome, theres 15 
 modes, and its chaotic, you can free-roam the city and kill each other like in deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch. You can also gain levels which is good, and you can create your own character such 
 as clothing, glassess etc. and can unlock more by doing games online.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't bad but the rag-doll physics are hilarious, you'll find out for yourself. 
 The cinematics aren't as good as everyone said but whatever.
  
  Sound: The sound is too quiet in the cinematics, you can barely understand what people are saying, 
 so i recommend turning on the subtitles.
  
  Overall this is probably the best GTA but not much farther from San Andreas, I was a little dissapointed 
 but it's still worth buying.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Sometimes a game franchise come along that came at the right time and the right place, the GTA 
 franchise is one of them that did. I've always loved this series, Rockstar seem to put in a lot 
 of work and a ton of details in to the GTA games, amazing so. I can't imagine how many man hours 
 they put in creating those amazing places we love to drive and crash in. GTA 4 have taken it to 
 a new degree of details, there is so much in this game I just can't believe one company have that 
 much time to do the things that have been done in this game.
  Graphically the game have improved, not to the degree of a GOW or COD 4 but the graphics seem very 
 functional and works very well, Niko and the other main players in the game are all very well done, 
 and feel believable enough to not give it another thought. Sounds in the GTA series have always 
 been top notch and this is probably the only game series that I actually turn up the music in the 
 game. Most of the time that is the first thing I turn off, but GTA 4 sounds are amazing and very 
 well done. The music is great, and there is a ton of it, so everyone should be happy with the radio 
 stations. The voiceovers are the best in the series, and should win some sort of award, because 
 there are just tons of dialog in the game, I mean a ton of it.
  Game play has always been the key to this series, and I think GTA 4 is by far the best of the series. 
 You can tell that Rockstar worked extra hard to make the game itself more fun to play. It's very 
 easy to get started in the game; you don't need a lot of direction to startup. Moving your character 
 around has changed a bit, you will tell right away that moving Niko is a bit easier but a little 
 strange at first. The big change and one that REALLY needed to be change is the weapons mode, they 
 revamp it so that now you aim and fire almost like you would in Gears of War, over the shoulder 
 like. It's a much better way to control your aiming and it works very well in this game. You can 
 also still lock onto to your enemy when firing or when you are in fist to cuffs. 
  Driving around the city is still one of the most exciting and fun part of the whole experience, 
 I mean you can jack a car and be cruising around in just a few minutes. You get all sort of cool 
 cars just as you did in the last one. The city of Liberty is amazing detailed and is very, very 
 huge. Now of course Liberty City is mocked after the city of New York, so now you have a much more 
 East Coast feel to the game, a much more urban jungle feel to it. You hear amazing number of city 
 folks talking and walking, sirens, garbage trucks, pigeons, and the normal amazing amount of city 
 noise. There is so much to this game you almost forget about all of this.
  The game is more of a story then the other games, you still have goals and all that, but the story 
 is much more believable, and much more of joy to play. The missions are pretty easy at the start 
 but get harder as you advance in the story. I think Rockstar did a fantastic job with the mission, 
 with all sorts of different things you can do in them. Plus the ability to do some of the missions 
 without killing, if you have that sorta conscious. 
  This is really a must have game, I mean there is just way too much to talk about; I haven't even 
 start talking about all the humor in the game. Go get this one now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBagwell
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this game is great but not perfect. I would have given it a 9.7 but there is 
 no option here for that.
  Its just this game lacks some features that would have made it great.
  
  1 I found myself near 
 death after i had played a mission, saved, quit and came back to the game later. Seems my injures 
 form the last mission still satyed. Now i know you have to buy food to heal, but why not give the 
 player the option to store food like saints row. That way i dont have to take time out of the game 
 play to buy food after every mission.
  
  2. I knows its been said the driving mechanics arent that great. Mainly my complaint is with the 
 breaks. The rest work fine.
  
  3 Storing cars they should have given you an area to park them in without the hassle at the beggining 
 to park it a certain way in the yellow lines to get them to save.
  
  4 Running. Tap a to run is fine but i am not used to that button for run. Maybe one of the should 
 buttons of even like cod4 push in the analog. Not that bug of a deal but it does hurt.
  
  These are just a few of the things they need to improve on if they make another gta game for it 
 to get maybe a 9.9 or even a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Ok im gonna be the first to say that im not the biggest GTA fan in the world. I don't take a day 
 off work to play it, if i see it in the shop i'll buy it. Having said that they are really really 
 good games. GTA 3 was amazing, Vice City just as good and SA, well that just left me speechless. 
 With its epic scale and great atmosphere. Now GTA 4 is out and everyone is shooting there load 
 off to it (as with every release of a GTA game) and i've got to say while it is a great game and 
 there are many great additions added to the gameplay. It just doesn't do alot new to make it a 
 "Perfect" game as some poeple call it. Breaking into parked cars is a great addition and you now 
 get Scenarios that require you to choose between something, killing one of the 2 gangsta's for 
 example. Theres a better structure on combat, and many other extra additions. But after playing 
 the game now for about 10 hours i already feel abit tired of doing missions. One of the main things 
 i loved about SA was the massive amount of clothes you could wear. This time round there is hardly 
 any clothes shops, the map is also cut down a hell of alot smaller. Graphics: This works both ways. 
 While it isn't gears of war graphics if you think of the scale of the game they are actually amazing! 
 weather effects and lighting are amazing.
  
  Sound: Rockstar never let down on sound. Top notch dialogue with brilliant voice acting. Soundtrack 
 is good but nothing amazing as past games.
  
  Gameplay: Why fix what wasn't broke in the first place.
  
  **** Box: Not enough new additions 
 to the game. Smaller city. Overall: We all know this is the game of the year and i would go as 
 far to say rightly so. But it hasn't had a massive leap from the last games. Infact it might have 
 gone back a step this time. But its a fantastic game and you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTrickMe
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  To start things off I would like you to note that if you gave this game a ten then you are just 
 plain retarded. Second I want you to understand that when you review this game and your grammar 
 and spelling is completely screwed up, you prove my point that you are in fact a retard. There 
 is even a spell check button at the bottom. You have single-handedly made everyone dumber for having 
 to try to read your horrible chicken scratch. 
  
  With that said I will continue on with my review...
  
  I may sound like un-happy S O B. I am!! 
 I was so excited for this game to hit the shelves since the day I heard it was going to come out. 
 This game reminds me of the hype that Assassins Creed got. And like AS I was extremely let down. 
 For all you retards who gave AS anything higher than a 7, I feel bad for you. You are obviously 
 easily amused. 
  
  I'm sure you all get the story and I actually am down with the storyline. Its touching and sweet 
 and all that b/s. Not exactly the best storyline to date but a decent one at best. Graphics are 
 really good but as some of you have said, it takes more than good graphics to make a game. The 
 city, however, is super dark and you need to go to your display options and change the brightness 
 and contrast. 
  
  When compared to GTA 3 and Vice city this game is very redundant. When I first played GTA 3 i was 
 soooooo amazed on the gameplay and have never seen a game with such dynamics. Then when Vice City 
 came out, I had the same joy i felt when I first played GTA 3. After playing for over ten hours, 
 I must say that I just dont feel that love anymore. 
  
  The controls of the game are exactly what you remember from the last GTA's. I am very disappointed 
 in the driving controls. I dedicated 3 hours of my playing time to trying different cars and trying 
 to understand the physics it takes to successfully drive them. I must say...... those were probably 
 worst 3 hours of my life. I was bored out of my mind and did not find any good way to solve this 
 dilemma. That said, I guess I am going to have to deal with it and keep on truckin. (No pun intended) 
 
  
  I am very impressed with the voice-overs, and I find myself being delighted by the cut scenes. 
 I am really enjoying the fact that our character does in fact have a voice of his own in this installment. 
 I can recall running around with a mute character in Vice City and cant remember too much of San 
 Andreas to say whether or not our man had a voice. ( I was stoned very much through-out that game)
 
  
  I've heard that you cant buy property in this game. Two thumbs way down for that feature being 
 deleted. If you are anything like me, you like to free-roam and find the hidden things that worlds 
 have to offer. I wasnt too into the working out and ish like that, it was a little boring to me 
 and I'm not bothered by that not being in this game. 
  
  I'm going to leave you with this for now. I am going to play through the end and if my feeling 
 change I will let you know. As far as I am now in the game.... this does not deserve to be ranked 
 number one on the list of games. I still to this day believe that Halo 2 will most likely remain 
 at the top of the list of XBOX games (360 and Original)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: queen_rocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. The graphics are great, choice of music is just incredible, the story 
 is pretty interesting, gameplay is OK, etc. All in all it's almost perfect. (Please note that I 
 didn't try multiplayer yet) .
  
  The only thing in fact that doesn't make me rate this game 10/10 is that sometimes the controls 
 aren't really fluid. Shooting isn't that "natural" and most of all close combat with baseball bat 
 or fists or anything else is a pain in the ass from my point of view. The controls oin this case 
 are not responsive and it makes it harder than it should be. BUT in the rest of the game they're 
 just great.
  
  Other than that, this game just kicks ass. Everything is in there! A lot of action, a good story 
 with some twists, a lot of blood, some crazy characters with life-like reactions, crazy driving 
 etc etc... It's really worth the 60 dollars, in fact you get more for those 60 bucks than many 
 games give you.
  
  So In conclusion, this game is almost perfect, but not quite. Anyway perfection doesn't exist! 
 Way to go Rockstar! This was really worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: better-than-U
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I dont know were to start theirs so much to say...
  well the game starts of as a cut scene were you are on a boat ... you get off ,your cousin Roman 
 collects you and he is really drunk... so you drive from the docks in his car and he tells you 
 about the good life he is living, the mansion, the woman, the cars... but soon you find out its all 
 a lie and that he lives in a crappy apartment and owns a bad cab stand and owes a lot of money 
 to angry people...
  
  From here you will start simple missions such as delivering people to their houses and geting know 
 the neighbourhood, then things resort to violance etc and youll get involved with bad people and 
 discover a excellent, deep storyline that i will not ruin on you...
  
  GAMEPLAY
  (cars)
  The overall gameplay has been improved massivally... the cars handle alot better and feel hevier... they 
 can be difficult at first but you will get used to it eventually. Also different cars have different 
 Specs.. eg a muscle car will have massive power in straight lines and you will need to drift most 
 corners... while a sports car will have massive speed altogether, will feel light and will turn corners 
 sharpley. Cars now take a bit more damage and dont blow up when flipped upsidedown...
  (shooting)
  The guns systym has also improved and makes the game alot more intense you can now 
 take cover, blindfire etc although their are only 15 guns they all fell different eg: a AK-47 will 
 throw powerfull bullets at a slow rate with medium range; while a m4 will give high speed bullets 
 accuratly with long range but are hard to use at close range... some of the guns are : 
  1. Glock handgun
  2. desert eagle
  3. micro uzi
  4. mp5 n
  5. SW MP-10 (sub machine gun)
  
 6. M4 Carbine
  7. AK-47
  8. G3SG/1 (sniper)
  9. PSG1 (sniper)
  10. Sniper Rifle 
  11. SPAS-12
  12. Winchester Defender (shotty)
  13. RPG-7
  this cover systym is great and works 
 nice ... although it aint gears of war its still great to use and makes taking large groups out 
 easier...
  (combat)
  This has also been improved their is now different types of punchs and kicks etc but has not been 
 massivelly improced but is still better.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Wow thats all i can say... this game is beautiul its graphics are just amazing everything has been 
 improved including framerate (although their are still small drops nothing dangerous) and draw 
 distance... the textures, facial expression and models have all been massivly improved meaning the 
 most brillent sandbox graphics to date.
  
  SOUND
  cars sound better, the streets sound and look alive and its got an amazing soundtrack nothing else 
 to say.
  
  THE CITY
  being roughly the same size as san andreas liberty city is great and has been completly rebuilt. its 
 amazing to watch everything going on in this alive city from people preaching, to fat guys selling 
 hotdogs etc when it ains people will do things such as hold thei newspapers over their heads ,head 
 inside or take out umbrellas! you can even see people trying to repair their cas outside their 
 hosue/apartment... also their is alot more indoor area to explore
  
  ONLINE
  this is a must see their is great 16 player online modes and heir all great fun including cops 
 and krooks were you eithr play as a bad guy escorting a VIP or a cop trying to take then down... or 
 you can doss around the city with you m8s!
  ~
  overall GTA: IV is a great game and has a healthy 30+ hours story gameplay in their for you and 
 a great online adding up to about 150+ hours packag altogeather ;it is one of the closest things 
 to perfection youll ever see and you will keep coming back for more
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  GRAND THEFT AUTO IV
  
  With a level of anticipation in the same arena as the Halo series, GTA4 had a lot of expectations 
 to meet. This being the first entry of the franchise to "next-gen" consoles, the lofty expectations 
 of gamers was in danger of going unfulfilled. Since its release last week the game has been under 
 fire - and rightfully so - for its violent, sexual and linguistic content. This is not a game for 
 young people. While the battle over keeping it on the shelves and maintaining its "M" for Mature 
 rating instead of "AO" for adults only rages on, gamers are currently fighting their own battles 
 on the streets of Liberty City.
  
  Graphics: Incredible but not perfect. Liberty City is a remake of a fictional metropolis from an 
 earlier GTA entry. It easily is the biggest and best open world urban map to date. After almost 
 10 hours of gameplay I still have more than 2/3 left yet to see. The neighborhoods are well designed 
 - from the projects to the bluebloods. There is a real feeling of history and character to Liberty 
 City. It does look and feel very lived in. Developer Rockstar Games has done an admirable job in 
 bringing the city to life. Everything from people, billboards, shops, skyscrapers, planes, trains, 
 automobiles, changing weather and time of day and everything in between just feels right and looks 
 great. Load times are kept to a minimum, and the frame rate is fairly solid. The character models 
 are a big step forward from last gen. While the faces and animations don't quite live up to standards 
 set by Gears of War or Mass Effect, they are well designed and executed. The emotions of your main 
 character, Nico, and the guys and gals he interacts with are fantastic. The graphics do take a 
 hit in the texture department upon close inspection. There are also some "pop-in" elements that 
 suddenly appear as an area of the map loads when you enter it. These are minor blemishes to an 
 otherwise beautiful looking game. The rain, water, fog, sun and lighting effects give the game 
 a nice sense of immersive realism. Some of the animations could use a bit of work - particularly 
 interacting with some objects in the game. 
  
  Sound: Rockstar clearly went above and beyond expectations to deliver one of the best sounding 
 games ive ever played. The dialogue between the characters is movie quality. With all the cut scenes 
 that move the storyline along, its amazing to listen to the variety of people interacting. Everyone 
 from the protagonist to the bum walking down the street has something or other to say. The sound 
 effects are great too. The click and clatter of the elevated train. The distant rumble of a passing 
 747. The seagulls at the ocean. The explosions. The gunfire. Screeching cars. It all sounds quite 
 authentic. The music is great too. There are over 200 songs in GTA4 to listen to on the car stereo, 
 and the banter of the radio personalities is very funny and entertaining. With hundreds of thousands 
 of lines of dialogue the sound rarely gets old. 
  
  Gameplay: The controls for GTA4 follow the shame basic scheme as earlier GTA games. While not as 
 responsive in some cases - such as driving and controlling the camera angles - for the most part 
 its easy to move around and interact with the world around you. Your character can now scale fences, 
 climb ledges and leap between buildings - all of which are useful when running from the cops! Running 
 seems to be the popular mode of transport when not in a stolen car because the city is just so 
 big, and your objectives are often far, far away. A new cover system allows Nico to duck and stick 
 to walls while firing his weapons. This needs a bit of work. It is a useful new feature, but feels 
 a bit sluggish and unpolished. The gunfire is a bit cumbersome too. Aiming and acquiring targets 
 can be complicated if you're trying to shoot a particular enemy in a crowd. One cool new feature 
 is the cell phone. Now you can interact with the people you meet by adding them to your contacts. 
 You can set up dates, get new jobs, or simply call friends to hang out. There are some fun minigames 
 that help to pass the time as well. The pool hall is particularly fun. If you feel like sitting 
 around your apartment, you can surf the net or watch TV. There are hours upon hours of original 
 Liberty City programming. Its kind of like The Sims meets Grand Theft Auto. Very cool.
  
  Overall: Grand Theft Auto IV is an ambitious and fun game that takes the open-world action genre 
 to a new level. I wouldn't say its a revolutionary effort, but it certainly does polish up and 
 improve on the series past games. That being said, it is very similar to those other games. You 
 will be moving from mission to mission and doing things on the side. It get a little repetitive 
 even though the mission are fun. You pretty much will get what you are expecting if you've played 
 other GTA's, but this time around the language, violence and adult content are much more gratuitous. 
 The story is engrossing and the characters are well conceived and designed. If you enjoy these 
 types of games, you will get a lot of value from GTA4. The multiplayer option (which is accessible 
 through your cell phone) really gives this game legs. There are a ton of game types to explore. 
 With a few more graphic and gameplay improvements the Grand Theft series would be one of the best 
 games ever - at least from a technical standpoint. Its easy to get lost in hours of gameplay as 
 you take Nico up the criminal underworld ladder. 
  
  Graphics: 9.1/10
  Sound: 9.4/10
  Gameplay: 8.4/10
  Final rating: 8.9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 6
Date: May 2, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  The Facts:
  
  # I like GTA but this just has not as much going for it compared to the other GTA games. They' 
 ve just taken too much out and put other things in it so you won't see the big picture here.
  
  # Yes the grapics are great but you need more than grapics to make a great game.
  
  # I 
 realised that some of the cars are exactly the same as the other ones in other gta games and guns 
 are the same too also you do some of the same missions as well.
  
  # No tattos, no hair styles, no paint garages, no planes, no bmx s, no more body building, no more 
 stats that you can build up, no car  What the frigin hell happened 
 because i what to know right now!!!!.
  
  # The stroy is good but i will say this is its same story everysingle single time you take over 
 the city theres nothing wrong with that but they could at least try to mix it up.
  
  # Now for the new yes there are new things but i fail to see how they are a big improvement to 
 seris mini games like pool, darts and bowling. 
  # Geting away from cops is differant having to just get out of the circle and wait its just too 
 easy and fractly not as fun as it used to be.
  # Muitiplayer in my opinion is not that good I was expecting something like making your own gangs 
 and it just being so much more in depth. 
  # You can duct and cover which is good but asides from that cars don't handle that well when you 
 turn corners. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  I have been playing video games since the Atari 2600, and the is one of the best games I have ever 
 played. The sheer size and replayability is absolutely amazing. I really love the skyline, when 
 you stand in front of the Empire State Building and lookup, it makes you feel like you were there. 
 The skyline also made me wish it had been included with Crackdown, because it would be awesome 
 to scale the outside of the buildings and then look straight down!
  
  The graphics in this game are really very good, I am particularly impressed with the damage effects 
 to vehicles. I drove under one thing and it put a crease in the top of the trunk lid of my car, 
 I was like wow, nice touch. This is nothing compared to seeing the dent and blood on your hood 
 from hitting a pedestrian, disgustingly awesome!
  
  The story line is really good, it's just like watching a movie except you can take part and not 
 just sit there. One thing I would like to applaud Rockstar on is having the common sense to allow 
 the user to skip through the cinematics, unlike Assassin's Creed where you are forced to watch 
 it every single time you replay it. Good job Rockstar!
  
  The radio shows are really good and though they can be borderline offensive, they can also be very 
 funny. The hookers seem pointless, other than it's amusing. If you have ever been to a real strip 
 bar, this virtual one will make you want to go back.
  
  The replayability alone makes this game worth the money. Though the game is very violent, you are 
 not forced to kill innocents, so keep that in mind.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Positive :
  
  - 90% of the graphics are great. Some texture's are a bit so-so, but generally everything looks 
 fine.
  - Weather changes and the effects
  - Cutscenes are well acted, well scripted and motion capture is excellent
  - Characters. It's 
 been the highpoint of all GTA's, and the fourth doesn't fail us
  - There's lots of little things going on around the city, and often those most random events create 
 funny incidents (and sometimes frustrading one's too, though)
  - Cars feel bit more heavy now, which makes the driving in general a bit better
  - Game length 
 is good and there is lots to do instead of just going along with the plot
  - Camera is waaaaay too slow in most occasions
  
  Negative :
  
  - Some shadow effects are 
 so grainy-blurry that they seem to make no sense
  - During some times of the day, instead of just basic blur, we get some sort of crystallized blur 
 that looks a bit ridiculous if you stop looking at it
  - Moving Niko is a bit stiff
  - While driving generally seems better, the handbraking is flawed since you cannot accelerate/keep 
 the wheels rolling while breaking with it, which often results in busted turns instead of flawishly 
 going around the corner
  - Despite the updated retry-option after a failed mission, it's still pure boredom to drive all 
 the way back that 5-10 minute drive you just took on some missions
  - The general gameplay, mission types and how-the-stuff-works hasn't changed a bit since GTA III
 
  
  Rockstar once again made a very good game with so many new things around, but in the mix they forgot 
 to actually update the things that matter in the playing the game. Definetely a Game of the Year 
 contestant, but not a hands-down winner just yet.
  
  Longer version :
  
  I'll try to keep this short as well, even while there would be so many things to mention.
  
 
  First time I got out of my in-game-cousin's flat, I took a look outside and couldn't help going 
 "... this is the 10/10 for graphics?", mostly because some awfull shadows and weird blur in the 
 distance. Those things still look ugly if you stop looking at them, but most of the time you can't 
 notice them if you keep doing things, so they haven't bothered *that* much.
  
  The next thing you notice is that there's lots of things going on the streets. Some people chatting 
 together, perhaps a perp running from a rather hefty cop who's waiving his pistol telling him to 
 stop and so on. Kudos for Rockstar for making so many small things to be seen around you happening, 
 often because of you doing something relatively small (say that you crash your car into someone's 
 car -  a guy comes out and starts shooting -  cop in the car nearby comes out and starts shooting 
 him, resulting a full blown firefight and more cops pouring to the scene) .
  
  One of the best things you notice after playing some while, is that the weather changes, creating 
 different kinds of visibility, colour schemes and driving conditions. It's always sort of a treat 
 to go drive around in a rainstorm, especially if it's thundering out there.
  
  I can't say there can ever be enough praisal for the characters and their animation, they are both 
 top notch. I mean, come on, who hasn't laughed for Brucie's roidrage or hadn't had trouble to understand 
 all of that Little Jacob and Badman are saying? They're all been just great so far.
  
  There's lots of other good things worth mention, like the GPS system that works nicely, the cellular 
 phone (while not being new) works fine, police missions you can get from the police vehicles and 
 so on. Even the guns sound better now and people react to getting hit far more realistically, even 
 while they sometimes seem to be able to take loads of bullets before they hit the dirt.
  
  But while 90% of the game is good, the rest isn't so. Vehicles work otherwise fine, but handbraking 
 is a bit of a letdown, since you cannot keep your wheels spinning while doing it (in other words 
 you can't keep controlling the speed and the turn) , because the car needs to be more or less stopped 
 or out of the handbraking, before the wheels can start taking you forward. This often results in 
 a full-stop spin or just otherwise bad turn, instead of you making your way around the corner like 
 a racedriver, or just a reasonable action movie.
  Niko is also a bit stiff. Getting him to run up stairs and doing some 180-degree turns in a confined 
 space can be often be hard and frustrading. Make that times 10 when you're getting shot at. Also, 
 having him to go on the semi-running state would have been nice to have as a toggle, not as  
 altough having it a toggle could have prevented the tap-running to not work at all, but still. 
 Now in the heat of battle it's sometimes a bit hard to be aiming, moving, running and making some 
 sense to it all, all at the same time.
  Does the cameraman help then? No. It's the same piece of crap it has been since GTA went 3D, but 
 obviously that's not worth fixing. Sure, you can pan it with your other stick, but seriously, I 
 don't have time to start panning the camera when I'm trying to run away or drive away from some 
 guys trying to get me familiar with their leadworks. It also hinders that otherwise quite fluent 
 driving there is, because you have to either wait that the camera turns on it own (which takes 
 half of forever) or do it yourself.
  
  It's also a sort of a fact that the missions are all the same one's there has been since GTA III, 
 with few exceptions. We have your follow someone's, take this package's, kill all of'em's, get 
 that vehicle's and so on. There's a few exceptions to the pattern, such as one nice one where you 
 help a guy who's been blackmailed, and you have to find the guy in the area based on a cellular 
 phone use.
  
  So in the end, the greatest and perhaps the only real flaw of GTA IV is that the core of the game 
 hasn't changed basically at all. We still have the same issues with the camera and controlling 
 your guy (he either moves too much or not enough, very rarely he moves precisely as you wanted 
 him to) and same old mission types, albeit in new places and with some spices. And the worse still 
 remains : you still have to drive across half of the city to get to the missions area after a failed 
 one, which can take the juice out of ANY game. With the retry-option they removed the part where 
 you move from your safehouse to get the missions, but I can't see a reason why they didn't erase 
 95% of the journey and let us start over from like 100-200 yards away from the mission area, instead 
 of making us drive like 5 to 10 minutes in worst cases, perhaps even more if the cops are willing 
 to chase you. Very agitating.
  
  But nevertheless, it's still possibly the best game of the year, at least so far. It's fluent enough 
 and has a good length for a game. At the rate that I've played, that doesn't involve much of free-riding, 
 cop missions or a whole lot of miscellanous stuff (90% of the time or so I've been on missions) , 
 I'd estimate it'll take me about 40-50 hours to play it through, and that's saying I'd be missing 
 quite a bit of content that's scattered around.
  
  Game of the Year contestant, definetely, but not a hands-down winner. Not a 10/10 game, either, 
 but very close to being one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  GTA is a great series, with each chapter, it just keeps getting better and better. After this forth 
 installment, it is scary, and exciting to think about what Rockstar could do to make a better game, 
 because "GTA4" is perfect, they really went the whole nine, and outdid themselves.. Great story, 
 breathtaking graphics, super game play, jeez what more do you need? How about fun Multi payer? 
 Well it's got that too! GTAIV is a living, breathing, vibrant world within itself, a world you 
 can easily get lost in, such amazing detail in every little thing. Liberty City is so detailed 
 I bet after playing this game extensively you could go to New York on vacation, and never get lost 
 driving around. As you first make your way into Algonquin you are awestruck by all the lights, 
 buildings, and atmosphere. I can now say that I have been to "Times Square", though it's called 
 something different in the game, Star Junction I believe. The areas are so damn huge, going from 
 burrow to burrow you could easily get lost, good thing they have a great mapping feature that gives 
 you the best route, so all you have to do is concentrate on driving. You are Niko Bellic, this 
 is your story, and you're on a blood soaked journey to become "The King of Liberty City", nothing 
 but pain, betrayal, and riches await you. Just remember "There ain't no halfway crooks" , if you're 
 in for a penny, you are in for a pound, so you might as well enjoy the ride. Nobody can put into 
 words just how great this game is, If you don't own this game, how can you look your in the mirror, 
 and call yourself a gamer? Grand Theft Auto IV is a masterpiece, and well worth the wait, nuff 
 said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome but... i wish some features from san andreas would have made it to this titles 
 but only better instead its more like the psp remake versions~ also worth noting is the gunplay 
 when mixed with the physics and the cover its pretty sweet .. but it really is just the same old 
 gta weve seen for alota games now with some real next gen flash~ i havent dual wielded any guns 
 yet that makes me sad ... and screw michelle i thought she was coo! , oh yea i got the collectors 
 box for this its pretty nice i thought it would be abunch cheap junk like sum preorders but its 
 all pretty nice quality ... the line for this game was sooooo long at my mall in anchorage alaska 
 like every gamer in the city was there but the fact that theres only two gameastops in town that 
 i know of might have had sumthing to do with it ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodLovesDead
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  We all know what's awesome about the game. I'm going to delve into what's not so great about the 
 game so I can justify why it isn't a 10. 
  
  - The driving and walking feels clumsy in this game. Turning altogether just isn't sensitive enough 
 and it's just about impossible to consistently pull off sharp turns when driving. And when walking, 
 there are times where I need to go around a corner really quickly and I either find myself running 
 into the corner itself or the wall on the other side. 
  
  - No custom radio station. Seems like this is the first Grand Theft Auto after GTA3 to not include 
 this. It's a real bummer too because I'd like to enjoy my music as opposed to rap that I've never 
 heard of. Thank god for the radio talkshows. 
  
  - Hand to hand combat is as weak as ever. You can simply hit A while the enemy executes their 10mph 
 punches and perform 1-Hit-Kill combos. Reminds me of Assassin's Creed - except it's easier this 
 time around.
  
  - You'll encounter several situations where the FPS is ~10-15. Normally I wouldn't care but it's 
 somewhat annoying how unresponsive the controls become. This occurs when it's raining or when you 
 drive through city streets. 
  
  - Extremely little character customization when it comes to the online counterpart. 
  
  - Weaponry 
 is as basic as ever. Baseball bat, two pistols, 3 SMGs, 2 Rifles, 2 Shotguns, 1 Sniper Rifle (Maybe 
 2) , 1 RPG, A Knife, Grenades, and a molotov cocktail. All the weapons of the same type handle 
 pretty much the same except for the Deagle. 
  
  
  I know I'm just nitpicking, but this game doesn't feel like a 10 title. But don't get me wrong 
 - the game is awesome. The multiplayer is anything you could ever hope for. The singleplayer is 
 lengthy and amazing. Despite these issues you should buy it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarNone101
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing a review is basically unnecessary. Just go out and purchase the game, 
 then say goodbye to your social life. Did i mention it has a very entertaining multiplayer as well. 
 With that said I really can't find the words to describe how good a game this is, I'm sure there 
 are gonna be some haters out there ( but I really don't see how anyone could hate on tis game) but 
 don't let those haters skew your vision. Best game yet, like it or not. The only real conflict 
 here is which system do you purchase it on, and that really is up to you. Each console has its 
 own benefits, i preferably chose to buy it fro 360 for the sole purpose that i favor the 360 controller 
 better, but it looks amazing on both systems. The multiplayer is as addicting as the robust single 
 player campaign, with fun modes like "cops and crooks" it will seriously make you never want to 
 leave your room (which is sad but awesome all at the same time)
  Last but not least is the incredible story, anyone who is familiar with GTA knows that the story 
 is always been key to a lot of the games success, GTA IV is no exception. Awesome story, awesome 
 graphics, awesome game play, what more can I say. Now quit reading this and start playing more 
 GTA.. damnit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ageadi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 has been one of the top games on my most anticipated list ever since it was announced. I 
 got GTA4 the day is came out and played it for couple hours.
  
  If you have played GTA3 when it first arrived for the PS2 then you can expect similar thrills in 
 GTA4. Updated graphics, updated physics, and a updated liberty city more gritty than the last that 
 leaves you feeling like a criminal after the first couple of missions. Couple things I noticed 
 were
  
  1. I wasn't comfortable with the driving controls. The E-Break sends your car into an uncontrollable 
 drift into whatever you were trying to steer away from. After some practice you should get used 
 when applying the LT button to break simultaneously with the RB or A drift button. The driving 
 in GTA4 takes some getting used to and is no where near as easy as the other GTA titles. 2. Finally 
 a game that is a bit more realistic when you off unsuspecting drivers with your firearm. Shooting 
 someone through the front windshield sends gruesome blood splatter inside the car and the driver 
 slumps down onto the horn of the car. Shooting a walking pedestrian or anyone else in that matter 
 will send other near by witnesses running in panic while the downed character lies in a growing 
 pool of blood that streams out a little too realistically for my taste. 3. The dialog seems a bit 
 more believable than the other GTA games along with the content being more risky than most games 
 I have played to this day. ****I can not see how this game would be suitable for anyone under the 
 age of 17. The M rating is more than deserved... Jack Thompson is probably **** bricks right about 
 now. Buy the game before they do something along the lines of recalling GTA4 copies and taking 
 out all these cool effects then re-releasing a watered down censored version like GTA3****
  
  The aiming controls also take some getting used to, after about 6 hours of game play I am finally 
 getting the grasp of the over all controls. Couple things I found most difficult was locking onto 
 ladders with the Y button, and using the "half-tension" manual aiming LT button. All in all I haven't 
 finished the game yet but I definitely think the perfect 10 score is a little stretched. The game 
 is no where near "perfect" but it does have many and I do mean many strong points that makes it 
 a definite buy for most mature gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j17neo
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this simple and just state that I've never played a game this fresh in years!
  
  People crave those new feelings and emotions of gaming, like they used to in the early days 
 of games. All the early games like;
  
  *Ys: Book I and II 
  *Earthbound 
  *Splatterhouse
  *Final Fantasy III
  *Last Alert
  *and much more
  
  Basically enough, 
 with the move into 3D next-gen games, the gaming community has been receiving repetitive games 
 with different stories now for awhile! Same graphics, new story, same old gameplay mechanics.. 
 So much of that can only do so much for a gamer to where all they have to rely on is the story 
 to send shivers down their backs. 
  
  I find myself going back to the earlier nostalgia of games in order to enjoy 'games' in general 
 again. BUT now, with this detail and imagination and deep story that Rockstar has presented. 
 
  
  This is truly something to experience first before believing. So much to do.. so much detail within 
 character actions, and the city itself that it would take MONTHS to see everything. It's breathtaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getcarter4dynam
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I have loved this series since it came out for PC and console alike, but this is the first time 
 i have played it in a console (xbox 360) . It is a great game, the controls take about an hour 
 or two to get use too and then its plain sailing and dirty fun. The gameplay is outrageous and 
 very funny at times even though it is heavily controled by the storyline and mission structure.
 
  The multiplayer is great fun and will provide a long amount of time of playability especially 
 when playing with friends. You should get this game for the simple fact that this game has broken 
 so many boundries that we are all still counting just how many it has broken. Is this game perfect? 
 No! But it is so bloody near perfect it is easily considered a timeless peice of gaming and a leap 
 forward in terms of what makes a great game come truly alive. This does for open ended games what 
 COD4 achieved for FPS games. A mile stone in the making....... Enjoy, i know i will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aBathingApe_
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  April 29th, 2008 will be remembered for a long, long time in gaming years to come. That is because 
 the hugely anticipated and longly awaited game, Grand Theft Auto IV was released on that day at 
 midnight in stores worldwide. The game provides a beautiful landscape of a city representing modern 
 day New York. The game revolves around the young protagonist Niko Bellic who comes to America in 
 hopes of big breasted women, posh cars, and waterfront condos, expressed to him in letters sent 
 by his cousin Roman. When he arrives he figures out that Roman has stretched the truth ever so 
 slightly, and by ever so slightly, I of course mean that he made up the entire thing.
  
  The story progresses as though you are Niko Bellic and you actually feel as though it is you in 
 the man's body. You have numerous options throughout the game, that will change the storyline in 
 the ending. The graphics are beautifully detailed on both the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 consoles. 
 There are numerous things that one may do throughout the game, whether that be playing darts or 
 bowling with a homie or girlfriend, or ridding the streets of drug dealers and murderers while 
 in a police car. Grand Theft Auto 4 offers something for everyone and is by far the most complete 
 and greatest Grand Theft Auto game ever. The entire game has a serenely epic feel to it. Believe 
 the hype, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drgr33nthumb818
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If I said Grand Theft Auto IV was a terrific game! I'd be very modest. This game is the first game 
 that I have given a 10 and if their were an 11 I'd be more than happy to give it that score. The 
 storyline is the best story I have ever played. The multilayer I can honestly say that it can compete 
 (and maybe even better in some cases) with games like Halo 3 and COD 4. It's an easy start, but 
 twords around 30-percent completion of the game it begins to get difficult, but in a challenging 
 way that you always need to try again. GTAIV is one of those games that you need to cherish every 
 mission and enjoy (I haven't even beaten it) everything to it. It sucked me in and is the only 
 thing that keeps me off my Meth. I would like the gang at Rockstar because it's almost been three 
 whole day and I've hardly thought about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallicfan20
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  So one day, I got out of class, and I knew GTA IV just came out that day, went into the store, 
 busted my debit card out, and walked out. After getting my broken XBox to actually work, I found 
 myself almost trying to set a record for "longest non-stop game" as this game has a realism never 
 matched in the then-state of art other GTA games. After playing the most recent GTA, I have never 
 been able to go back. Happened with Vice City, then with San Andreas, then possibly this. I live 
 in NY, and its amazing being able to navigate the city by rote. The weapons are awesome, and more 
 realistic than anything Tom Clancy could ever dump, be it Ghost Recon, Vegas, and better than Counter-Strike. 
 I am very dissapointed with the lack of fixed wing aircraft, but I'd bet that is because of 9/11, 
 and people would think its insensitive somehow. But i'd bet there is probably a hot coffee mod 
 built in somewhere we haven't discovered to let us fly planes. I'm also sad that there is no auto 
 parachute jumping out of planes, and the music is nothing great, even compared the San Andreas, 
 both of which paled to Vice City in music. With this game, the dialogue is superb and lifelike. 
 The storyline allows for it, and girlfriends are a helluva lot more fun to use. I liked the controls 
 better tho in San Andreas, but I'll settle for this. I will say being able to shot in cars is the 
 best thing because you can be going in any direction and use more guns. I highly reccomend this 
 game, as it truly showcases the best of next gen systems, and GTA. It ties San Andreas, and blows 
 out Vice City and GTA III 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmaster_time
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4, the game that all the people was waiting it's out now.
  sure its a very good game. Very interactive, good grafics, and the most of this game, the realism.
 
  
  if you think you gonna buy gta4 because it's fantasy and bla bla to much stupid things that are 
 never used or only a few times, please don't buy it. Gta4 it's a game, that will bring you to another 
 dimension of gta, more real, light, dark ambience, you are not the life of the world in the game, 
 you will be only "more a man". That will really push you to be someone in liberty city.
  
  It's the best buy for you if you want a realistic game with the fun of the old gta.
  
  realy 
 good game.
  
  notes:
  graphics: some glitches, sometime to dark. but the city it's so beautiful and real.
  18/20
 
  
  gameplay: in 360 the gameplay it's easy, but not perfect, some problems but not very bad. If you 
 had already play a gta on the old xbox, you will play fine here.
  17/20
  
  sound: good ambience, and great variety of songs. for everybody.
  18/20
  
  difficulty: like 
 all the gta games they have a few missions that are "impossible". it's never impossible. and you 
 don't need to use cheats. be smart and retry very times :)
  just right.
  
  time of game: if you have buddys with the game you have to put more 20 hours in the game. the singleplayer 
 will have about 30 hours of game. that its only for story, with the "others" missions you will 
 have about 50 to 70 hours.
  19/20 
  
  OVERALL: I put 9.5. It's a very good game, good hours on single player (almost the games right 
 now think more the multiplayer less single.)
  and it will put gta in a new contest. more realism, less fantasy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conyshea
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Been playing it for around 10-20 hours and so far it has been amazing. Firstly the graphics are 
 unmatched. Even the most precise detail is captured to perfection, character animations and lip 
 syncing is very impressive.
  
  When i first started playing, the controls felt alien to me, I crashed the car so many times before 
 I reached the safehouse I was disgusted with myself. the shooting felt awkward and slow while driving 
 but as always, the more I played the more natural it felt so by the fifth mission I could take 
 corners perfectly while doing drive by's.
  
  However, there is something missing that san andreas had. I feel the only progress im making is 
 gaining more and more cash. I miss the skill feature from san andreas. Possibly I have not played 
 far enough into the game to appreciate this aspect yet. Apart from this, this is everything you 
 could want in a game and based on what i've seen so far, definitely worth the 2 year wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkilledBeast
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The details are great in this game. Much better than I expected and It is a great value. Definetley 
 worth buying. The level of details is amazing along with the great gameplay. Then there the multiplayer, 
 which is sick. Theres so much you can do. This game is very immersive, fun, and addicitong. I would 
 consider this one the best In the series because there was so much time to put into it to make 
 it as great as it is. Gta 4 does not dissapoint even after a long delay. A classic and one of my 
 favorites.
  -the civilians are awesome
  -the music is great
  -the driving is very enjoyable
  -the mini games are entertaining
  -the game play is unbeatable
 
  -the cars are awesome
  -the main character is my favorite out of the series and adds alot of personality and humor to 
 the game
  
  
  
  
  
  
  GO AND BUY THIS GAME NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpwagener
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  By now you know that the thing to do is get in your car and go get this game. Try not to kill anyone 
 and try to come home in the same vehicle you left with. Once you're home, all bets are off!
  
  This game is so worth the money it's not funny, especially with so much crap out there for 
 the same money and with a fraction of the effort.
  
  The story is immersive, the plot lines are interesting and fun.
  
  It's alot like earlier GTA's, 
 but better. I have no complaints. That being said, I typically play the main storyline and do a 
 few extras, but I have no time to complete every aspect and spend all day stealing every vehicle 
 under the sun (though I wish I did) . Those people may have a gripe if something is missing, but 
 I would have no idea and frankly I don't care.
  
  Get this game right now. It is way worth it. It is challenging but fair. 9.5 because nothing deserves 
 a 10. It's perfect, but it isn't perfect enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otacon6669
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  The single player has an absolutely amazing atmosphere, the entire time you can feel the disappointment, 
 the opportunity, the HUGE environment the entire time your playing, the fact that they set the graphics 
 to such a high quality with so much going on is nothing but impressive. The humor and quirky characters 
 makes for an enjoyable play. You can spend your entire time playing just the single player and 
 still think the game is perfect without trying the also perfected multiplayer, with up to 16 people 
 playing the the gigantic city in a vary of enjoyable modes. The wide array of guns and missions, 
 plus useless but fun side missions make for a +30 hours of gameplay, where every hour you will 
 enjoy. Plus if you bought it at futureshop the free hat is nice.
  The multiplayer has its downfalls of course. They should have an online menu rather than reverting 
 back to single player every time there is a connection issue which is VERY frequent. The video 
 settings are pushed a bit on the 360 is the frame rate is rather low, it can feel like your playing 
 in slow motion when there is a lot going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  If you have followed the history of Grand Theft Auto, you will know that the franchise has been 
 around for around ten years now making several titles. Grand Theft Auto 4 (GTA IV) Is the latest 
 title in the GTA franchise and quite arguably the best. 
  
  The game takes place in Liberty City which is closely based on New York. You Play as Nico Bellic, 
 recently immigrated into the country for a better living standard, and help your cousin out by 
 basically trying to get by. 
  
  The storyline is astounding and the Voice Acting is perfect, however, it is liberty city that is 
 the most amazing thing about this game. The atmosphere is breathtaking and the way it changes at 
 night will leave you stunned. You walk down a street in Liberty City and what do you see? A woman 
 carrying shopping, a man on his mobile, a business man carring a suitcase going to work, someone 
 hailing a cab, someone buying a hotdog at a vender, people out running, police chasing criminals, 
 people smoking, bums crowding around a barrel fire to keep warm... the list just goes on. There 
 is just so much deatail, perhaps at times there can be a lack of pedestrians and cars but they 
 soon come into veiw and you can find yourself in a 20 car traffic jam with over 50 pedestrians 
 on the screen at the one time.
  
  Saints row was the first very notable GTA type game released on the next gen consols and done quite 
 well but GTA IV has put saints row to shame. GTA uses RAGE (Rockstar Advanced Gaming Engine) combine 
 with Euphoria which bring every single pedestrian and character to life. 
  
  The new wanted system is brilliant and the silly things about San Andreas have been left out although 
 some features have been removed which would have been nice kept. These festures really dont matter 
 as the gameplay makes up for it. 
  
  overall this game is amaxzing and is a must buy.
  
  graphics 10/10 
  gameplay 10/10
  sound 10/10 
  value 10/10 
  tilt 10/10 
  overall 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: septemberluc
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  As you've seen/read/heard by now, Grand Theft Auto 4 is by far the best game in the series thus 
 far. The story is second-to-none, and voice acting is better than ever, even without the levels 
 of "star power" featured in Vice City and San Andreas.
  
  While the game is (obviously) the best looking game in the series as far as graphics goes, there 
 are a few minor quirks such as lighting, graphic "pop-ins", the occaisional frame rate drop, and 
 sometimes sluggish camera angles during driving.
  
  Speaking of driving, I've found myself quite frustrated (to say the least) with the driving aspect 
 of the game. There are times when controlling the vehicle is just plain hard. I understand that 
 Rockstar wanted to make driving "more realistic", but the fact of the matter is that I'm a real 
 person, and I know how to drive a real car; yet I've NEVER had this much of a problem driving in 
 real life. And I'm not even talking about the times I'm speeding through Liberty City, as the cars 
 don't seem to handle any better at ANY speed.
  
  But those are really the only complaints I can state for this game. I haven't finished the story 
 mode yet, but I feel very confident when I say that this is a game that absolutely MUST be played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cjb2442
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I was playing a mission and i stole a guys car. He scream OH **** and grabbed the door handle. 
 I was driving down the street dragging him when a semi drove by and hit him. Blood spattered all 
 over my car. I was amazed at it. I have not made it very far due to something that came up. I'll 
 be playing again tomorow which is May 2. What I've done so far is amazing. It's a great game with 
 a great story line. I still have to play the online mode still. What I've done so far is proving 
 to be a nice challenge but not too hard. The game has had some massive updates. The new driving 
 system has had many complaints. It's tricky to get used to but once you get used to it it runs 
 alot smoother. The new combat system is much more advanced than the ones seen in III VC and SA. 
 It's truly a great sequel in a great game series. I hope i see you all on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton130790
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the GTA franchise since the first one was released in 1997. The sandbox gameplay, 
 witty dialogue and mindless violence set it apart from its competitors. Im not here to talk about 
 the glory days but about GTA4, from the start i had very high expectations, i was tracking this 
 game for 2 years and with every new screenshot or trailer i saw i knew this was going to be big.
 
  
  When i first started playing the controls felt alien to me, i crashed the car so many times before 
 i reached the safehouse i was disgusted with myself, the shooting felt awkward and slow but the 
 more i played the more natural it felt so by the fifth mission i could take corners perfectly while 
 firing my gun at the assailant and feeling joy inside that im actually doing this. 
  
  You just need to stop once and look around you and see exactly how much work R* put into this game, 
 just to make the city feel alive and breathing, every character has multiple lines of dialogue 
 for every situation and i have yet to hear the same line twice. Police arrest criminals, people 
 getting rearended at red lights, friends having a discussion about last nights TV show it all combines 
 for a great experience.
  
  So driving and shooting is great and add a new phycics engine every firefight/ car chase is unique, 
 you will be telling your friends about that gunfight you had and how you took cover behind a car 
 and how that one guy fell off the roof etc the possibilities are endless. 
  
  What holds all of this together of course is the story, every character you encounter is unique 
 (Brucie is my favourite so far) and have great witty lines of dialogue in each cutscene or every 
 time you go out with them. There are so many possibilities you can do with your contacts like go 
 out and get drunk or play pool and this of course reaps the rewards such as free taxi service or 
 guns. Niko is the highlight of the show with a quick and somehwat dry sense of humour but which 
 still puts a smirk on your face with every comeback he does.
  
  But its the little things that make this the best GTA ever, the mobile phone is an invaluble piece 
 of equipment which means you can pull it out on the go and arrange meetings while being chased 
 by the SWAT for example. The side missions are back but they're different and unique to those in 
 the previous installments such as you can access the police computer database to track down the 
 Top 10 most wanted or even put in names of your contacts. There is the Internet and TV which contain 
 hours of extra material which i doubt anyone will ever use but its still nice to know its there.
 
  You may find a phone number grafiittied on a wall and if you call it you may get a nice surprise 
 :)
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially at night when it rains or is a thunderstorm, my favourite 
 is taking a boat down the river and putting on the cinematic view. simply spectacular. im sure 
 you've seen the screenshots, you know what to expect.
  
  Overall this is a masterpiece of a game and the beauty of it is everyone's experience of it will 
 be diferent and unique, and you may end up telling someone about that time you were taking your 
 girlfriend out on a date when your bike crashed and she died under the wheels of a big rig (true 
 story) . Its the little things that bring this game together with the smooth engine, oscar winning 
 story set in a magnificent city full of lively characters. Please get it, you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camerongb
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Damn What An Improvement From Previous GTA Games The Look The Feel.
  The Cars Are no longer to be able to fly around corners. trucks ect actually feel heavy as bikes 
 light. a neat little feature is you can turn you headlights on and when it gets dark and they automatically 
 come on then you can go from hi to low beam ect. i've only played it for an hour as i have to go 
 to school when im done on hear so.
  
  GRAPHICS: Woa Look At That City Skyline It looks so Detailed. The Water Gilstens Beautifly As do 
 The Cars 10/10
  HANDLING: so Much More Realistic And Life Like The Cars ect no Longer Go From Like 0 to 60 In One 
 Second The Brakes Are Not Super Senstive And AI Drivers Are Way More Smart.
  
  Thats All From Me Damn I Have To Go To School : ( YOU HAVE TO GET IT IS SWEET
  IT'S THE BEST 
 GTA EVER TO DATE NO JOKE. 
  OH AND I ALSO GOT A 30 DAY GOLD XBOX LIVE WHICH IS GOOD CAUSE MINE JUST RAN OUT AND MY INTERNET 
 JUST RESET SO ILL SEE YOU ON THERE MY GT IS Camerongb2007 Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsfseal
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes, a very good game comes once and a while, and rarely is that game so hyped as this and its 
 still able to pull it off. If you own a xbox 360 or even a ps3, anything with GTA IV for it-buy 
 it quick. Not only are the graphics and controls way better, including the driving- but the combat 
 is way more fun also. The storyline on singleplayer is outstanding. It makes you keep going because 
 you want to see what happens next. I could play for 12 hours and not think a thing about it. The 
 cover system could use a little work although, its kind of hard to get used to at first if you've 
 played alot of Gears of War or Army of Two. Either way it still provides usefulness to the game, 
 and the ability to take cover off of anything is pretty nice too. Everyone needs to add this game 
 to their collection, even if you like shooters or not, its just too good to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vermin14
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright lets first talk about the good things in the game my favorite is the interaction with the 
 cell it manges all your dates friend activtes an the special of your friends. now lets talkabout 
 the shooting an cover system in my opinon it works well i love how you can use almost anything 
 for cover an the shooting is awesome the free aim is good an i dont know why but i love the blind 
 fire option. An i love the use of the internet interaction 'Hey that sorta ryhmes!!!' but i thinks 
 its cool you can send emails an all the differnt sites are hilarous it defilently has the dan houser 
 humor. an belive it are not i rellay like the driving system the 360 degree shooting is great the 
 differnt wepon selction is cool the varity of differnt radio stations is amasing. alright lets 
 talk about the bad i wish the turning for the car was a little better and the jumping a climbing 
 system was better thats about it thou for the bad. I seen this game getting bad reviews an hearing 
 about the crashes which sucks bcause that happend to me on a differnt game but i bought it at walmart 
 at midnight an are having no problems but if youre still not sure go rent an if you like it go 
 get one the sixity bucks is worth it in my opinon an if you find my guide useful cool if not owell. 
 'only 21 more days to the new indiana jones movie awesome' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RupublicJedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is not worth a 10, for the following reasons, the targeting system is bad, it feels arkward 
 and clunky, all the missions feel like driving to one location killing someone then driving back 
 and the cars are really bad to drive. I felt as if they padded the length of the game out by making 
 you drive to far away locations. On the plus side the story is ok and there is a large city to 
 explore with races, bowling, darts and pool. The story should take about 20-25 hours if you speed 
 through it.
  
  Online matches are good, the best mode I would have to say is free roam. Even though it wont keep 
 me playing it will keep the game lasting longer for some.
  
  Overall there are more pros but the reviews forgot to mention the cons which effect the gameplay 
 alot.
  
  I would recommend you rent this first and see if you like it, if you do go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BKRut
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I waited a couple of days after GTA IV's release to purchase it because I wanted to see the reviews. 
 The reviews were good to say the least. Ten's everywhere and very little mention of any problems 
 or cons. I'm not a grand theft auto fan but, with reviews like these, I figured what the hey. I've 
 been playing the game for awhile now and I'm disgusted with the reviews of the game. 
  First off let me say this... I like the game alot. I like it for all the reasons that the reviewers 
 like it. For this reason I won' t rehash all the positive things that are being spewed out by reviewers 
 and GTA fans. 
  Now for the BUT... game reviews are the personal opinion of a few individuals and I understand that 
 opionions differ but, Ten out of ten is a perfect score. Perfect this game is not. Reviewers point 
 out how good the story is. I agree, it's a good anuff story but, I played Bioshock, Mass Effect, 
 Portal, Half-life 2 and Oblivion and the story isn't as good as any of these games. Wether or not 
 the story is as good as these games is an opinion and nothing more.
  The real problem I have with the reviews are the flaws in the game. The flaws are much more than 
 a small inconvenience, For starters the city is to dark, does the sun never really shine in liberty 
 city. The new targeting system is better than the previous games but, still down right sucks. So 
 gunplay is pretty bad as usual in GTA games. The graphics don't look very good when compared to 
 any of the other major titles released recently. The distance blur effect makes the whole thing 
 look washed out and muddled together. There is alot of detail to the environments but a whole lot 
 of nothing is still nothing. Why explore if there is nothing to be found. The new cover system 
 is ok but, it's not fluent. The targeting system and cover mechanic both need to be better. The 
 gun fights are confusing and un-natural, there is no flow to it. Feels clunky and awkward. The 
 camera is terrible. Indoors it's barely functional and outdoors it's just aggravating,
  And last but not least.... the driving. The driving just isn't fun. The cars behave more realisticly 
 but, less fun. The camera is also pretty bad while driving, it moves off to a strange angle as 
 you make corners keeping you from seeing in front of you. All I do when I drive is fight the camera. 
 This can be fixed by using the in car view but you don't see anuff of your surroundings. Do I have 
 to point out that "auto" is in the title. Shouldn't a game with auto in the title have good driving. 
 These cars make me long for the cars in GTA 3. 
  A driving game that the drive is terrible and a gunplay game with poor gunplay. Barley good anuff 
 graphics. Ten anyone... Ten out of twelve maybe... but 10.... please...
  I've come to the conclusion that review scores are meaningless... I guess that means me too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxforever
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  First off GTA IV is great. If you are a fan of the series you wont be disappointed. It follows 
 the same formula as the previous games with significant upgrades to the graphics and feel of the 
 city. You really feel like you are running around in a live city, pop-up and "dumb" AI are non-exsistent 
 or at least not as noticable.
  
  The Multiplayer is a huge bonus, I was not expecting too much from this as it is Rockstars first 
 crack at it but I am really impressed. The online games are fun but definatly not up to Call of 
 Duty 4 type quality. You have little control of what kind of match you join. You can pick the type 
 (ie deathmath, team deathmatch) but cant narrow your search for the minor things (autoaim on, # 
 of teams) . This can lead to joining an online team deathmatch lobby just to see the host change 
 the options to a game type you dont want to play (ie only rocket launchers) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil50cent
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  this game is absolutley breathtaking in every aspect. The folks over at rockstar games are nothing 
 short of geniuses everytime a GTA game is released its amazing but this game pushes the limites 
 of the series and actually shows you just how much work went into this game.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is my new favorite game of all time.. no game this year will top it... no game 
 next year will top it... the only game that can top this is GTA V.... if you are new to the series 
 or a fan... buy this game..
  
  its an amazing experience.
  
  oh, i almost forgot to add this. The online aspect of the game will keep this game fun for years 
 so even if you have beaten the single player twice you still have the online to fully explore.
 
  
  The character Niko Bellic is still growing to me im watching him develop as the game's story unfolds 
 so i cannot yet say he is my favorite GTA character yet since CJ was my favorite from the last 
 game.
  
  
  i still havent beaten the game so im not going to say if he is my favorite character or not... i 
 will be editing this review after i beat it though.
  
  the game is mindblowing in every way... i reccomned his to anyone who  
 violence.... and humor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThAdEa82
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  A great game with a great story so far. Graphics are great, characters are great and even the minigames 
 withing the game are fun. I agree with gamespot with MOST of what their review says. The cars are 
 kind of hard to control and could have been improved a bit. I am more disappointed with gamespot 
 giving this game a 10 taking the multiplayer into consideration. It just gets demolished by COD4's 
 multiplayer. I have played multi more recently and it is a bit better than originally expected, 
 but still not like COD4. ... also the controls are just awkward in multiplayer. With the minor stuff 
 out of the way: countless cars, music, definately a real city feel, great story, many missions.
 
  
  **Update**
  
  The multi has lost its appeal, at least for me. They left a chunk of the game out b/c you get a 
 bunch of cash you really can't do anything with as opposed to San Andreas where you could buy hard 
 assets. Very detailed environments and fun single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  There isn't much else anyone can say that will show how great this game is, the Gamespot review 
 is dead-on. The game really is that damn good.
  
  The graphics are the best the series has ever put out and the story is awesome. Niko is truly the 
 most likeable and most fun main character GTA has ever seen. Liberty City is massive and more realistic 
 than any video game city ever created and truly feels alive. People drive, walk, talk and just 
 act much smarter is this game, making you feel like the city really is alive.
  
  The aiming system is much better this time around. Its easier to use and makes the gun-fighting 
 aspect of the game much better than in previous installments. But by far the best addition to the 
 game is the cell phone. Calling people to arrange jobs, dates, or just to talk is what makes this 
 game so much fun. It is so much more of a non-linear game than ever before. You really have so 
 many options of what you can do versus what you have to do to complete the story.
  
  I love this game and it will be a very long time before I put this one down for even a short break. 
 Best game on Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  First off, some of the little things in GTA IV amaze you, like for example when it rains at night 
 the next morning you can see some of the rain left on the streets. GTA IV has some new gameplay 
 aspects and with the Euphoria and R. A. G. E game engines the game looks and works really well. Some 
 of the new gameplay in GTA IV is also very impressive like the way you steal a parked car or walk 
 into your safehouse, also in this GTA IV you can vault, climb or jump over something that is blocking 
 your way (if you can reach it though) and this feature makes running away from the police on foot 
 funner than ever.
  
  Like all GTAs this one is also very funny with alot of the jokes and funny dialouge. The missions 
 in GTA IV are alot more full of action and drama, although most missions won't take long to do 
 (if you are using cheats like I am) but are also very fun to play through and as you play through 
 you understand the story more and see it unfold in front of your eyes. The driving in GTA IV has 
 gotten a little harder and more realistic, like other GTAs holding the hand break while stepping 
 on the gas won't do it, this time around you'll need to practice the breaking techniques and it 
 will take a while to master.
  
  The damage on the cars in GTA IV is very good and surprisingly this was one of my favourite features. 
 All in all GTA IV was an excellent experience and theres so much to do that i haven't even written 
 it down in this review so go to your nearest game store or blockbuster and grab a copy of GTA IV 
 or else you'll be missing out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I would give this game a 10 because it definitely warrants it. This game is so detailed and so 
 well produced, it exceeded my expectations. It's like the old GTA games yet they put a twist on 
 it to make it feel different from the previous versions so it's not just a re-hash.
  
  What keeps my hooked is the story. It's actually quite interesting and I give the team a big thumbs 
 up for actually writing a story for this game type that is worth following and paying attention 
 during cut scenes.
  
  The ONLY beef I have is the framerate dips. I have experienced them occasionally in the game and 
 would have to say that in todays gaming age, 30 FPS is not sufficient to have smooth game play. 
 I'm currently playing the XB 360 version and the frame rate dips has caused me to look towards 
 a PS3 even harder now for hi-def as well as additional power (and no more bricking)
  
  My 2 cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidewinder1617
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  While GTA4 is a relatively fun game, after playing it for a few days, I'm left asking myself, isn't 
 this basically a driving game with a cool story? If it is, (and it seems like it is - you drive 
 from pt. A to pt. B, kill someone or blow up something, then drive back) then why do the cars handle 
 and drive so poorly. I'm not sure what the developers were going for, but I really don't enjoy 
 driving cars that are near impossible to steer, get stuck between things, take a riculously long 
 time to get back on the road and feel like they are going about 20 mph. Maybe they were trying 
 for realism? Big Mistake - This is a fantasy game. If I want my car to react like real life, I'll 
 get in my real car and go for a ride. What I was looking for was outrageous high speed chases through 
 Liberty City and the driving style that you might find in a Burnout game. I LOVE every other aspect 
 of this game, but getting from pt. A to pt. B is tedious and that is just unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Midas
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is a true masterpiece. No, seriously. Those who nag about this game are quite clearly 
 mad. So, GTA IV is as bad as Hour of Victory or Mr Driller online? lol, i think not.
  
  The graphics are fantastic. A full living breathing city going about it's lovely lighting business. 
 A few pop ups here and there are forgivable for the amount of detail you get onscreen. They are 
 next gen, and don't no-one tell you different.
  
  The sound is out of this world. The radio stations are still of the standard set by the previous 
 games. The insidental audio is just sublime. For instance I crashed my car, flew through the windscreen 
 and landed face first in front of 2 girls. They stopped their chatting and were like, "wow, did 
 you see that" whilst pointing at me!! Needless to say they didn't help and just carried on chatting 
 about some boy they both fancied!
  
  Mission structure is pretty much the same as before, but then what did you expect? It's GTA. You 
 should've realised that before playing. You play GTA for that reason and if you wanted different 
 then play a different game! Yet how else do you want the story to unfold? Don't want missions then 
 go watch a film. Want to sandbox your way to mayhem then you can do that too.
  
  It night just be me, but complaining about having missions in a game is like complaining about 
 having to steer through a chicane in a driving game?
  
  Yes, the cars might not handle very well BUT... have you tried doing a hand break turn at 80 MPH 
 and see what happens? You shure as hell won't just drift nicely into the next street. Smashing 
 into a lamppost is most likely. Oh, just like in GTA IV actually. Rather than complain these people 
 could hunt down a proper sports car in the game, then come back as say the handling suck0rz.
  
  There is joy to be had in the game. LOTS of joy. Please, don't listen to the negative muppets. 
 They quite clearly like to whine and whinge because they get kicks from it. I can also bet you 
 that these whiners have tried completing the game and getting the achievements, rather than never 
 play it again.
  
  And then there's the multiplayer... look, just play it and revel in it's awesomeness. The amount 
 of effort that's gone in to this game is truely staggering. The acting, cutscenes, gameplay, multiplayer, 
 audio, the city. Screw the naysayers. I know you are going to play this game regardless of whatever 
 anyone says.
  
  GTA IV is here. Happy days!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymib
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This is the best verison of GTA yet, even though it is smaller then the GTA: SA, it has more detail 
 to it and also the HD adds a more realist look to it. This GTA is also more realist in the way 
 that you hit people with the car, shooting them will not kill them all the time and so on. The 
 driving has also become more realist. The radio stations are just has great as in other GTA games 
 and sometimes you end up listing to the stations and just driving around. As for the wanted levels, 
 it is harder now to get your wanted level up so high, the police will chash you down and starting 
 shooting you at level one if you on it long enough, But now you don't have to get stars to get 
 to escape from the poilce, now its has more of what was in Driver, the poilce has a rader and for 
 ever star you get the rader gets bigger and you have to get outside the rader to escape. But all 
 this adds to it and makes it a better and more enjoyable game to play. It is really the best GTA 
 yet. It is a must have for anyone who like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  I'm disappointed with Gamespot. GTA 4 does not deserve a 10 rating. A 9.5 yes, but not a 10. This 
 is a great game, and definitely one that you should own, but it does have it's issues. For one 
 the crouching and taking cover features are tough to use. I'm used to the taking cover of games 
 like Rainbox Six Vegas. I also dislike the auto lock on feature. It locks on to the wrong people 
 most of the time. Driving is ridiculous in the beginning. Every car feels like your driving a boat. 
 The game is way too dark! I have a feeling this is done to increase frame rates. Make scenes dark 
 and then you can show less detail in textures and increase frame rates.
  
  Multiplayer is broken... I wait indefinitely in the lobby to start a game, and no one shows. Hopefully 
 this will be fixed.
  
  Definitely a game you should own, but this hype ruined it. It was so hyped up that I was expecting 
 the best game ever... and what I got was a decent game, but far from the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  A great Story Line, great graphics, a huge map to play, in particular it's the New York City, (in 
 the game known as Liberty City) , lot's of cool stuff, it's funny, and much more. Who ever wants 
 to buy this game and play it, wont regret the money and the time he/she spent. I just can say that 
 i cant wait for the pc version to come, cause my favorite gaming platform is the PC. Until then, 
 we, the gamers of pc, should satisfy our selfs on the platforms like Xbox360 and PS3. In both of 
 them the game has no really big difference, just that the online community on the Xbox is much 
 bigger than the one on the PS3, witch is having many troubles for now. Respect to the Rockstar 
 team who have worked hard and have kept us waiting, for this beautiful game. I think it was worth 
 the wait. Ah yeah, i almost forgot, the included multiplayer mode it's one cool thing to integrate 
 in the game. Again awesome job guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_spot_run
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Well. after waiting what seemed like forever for this game, I'm not as impressed as I thought I 
 was going to be! The main features of GTA that I LOVED are gone! No more blowing off body parts (I 
 mean COME ON that is what made this game GREAT!) , tanks, planes or even having the option to workout. 
 It's only my first impressions (I only have 3 hrs of game play in) . The dating is really annoying 
 and driving is really cumbersome! Graphics are amazing and have not ran into many bugs at all! 
 The city is huge and almost does seem alive!! Also the mini games are a lot of fun! Great game 
 but definitely lacking! I have a 360 and they are able to update the game via patchesso maybe 
 things will change for the better! Better meaning bringing back the features that made GTA my obsession!!! 
 Here's to hopein! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  In a series loved by all the world over, this will stand out, as its set to break records. A great 
 game, good graphics, great violence and fun missions, but seriously, does it define a new point 
 in gaming other than setting people on fire. I think its great but is not perfect.
  
  Its graphics are overall good with only very minor problems all around, which is great compared 
 to some horrible things coming out at the moment, but admit it they arent perfect.
  
  The controls are great, easy and quick to get used to, they are awesome so i guess they are perfect.
 
  
  Gameplay: Fun and violent games are something everyone loves and is something people will want 
 to play, but even then, with some games having just as good missions but getting bad reviews as 
 they could be by a more underground developers mean that this game should be given 8 or 9 as its 
 great but it ISNT perfect.
  
  sound: Good sound, nice stuff rockstar games, its near perfect
  
  So if you think about it 
 you realise that its not "OMG its GREAT PERFECT 10,10,10,11!" but more "Yeah this is awesome, but 
 look with only a few improvements from predessors it gets marked up thats for sure" But a ridiculous 
 score like 10, just seems really overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkz247
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  First off, some of the little things in GTA IV amaze you, like for example when it rains at night 
 the next morning you can see some of the rain left on the streets. GTA IV has some new gameplay 
 aspects and with the Euphoria and R. A. G. E game engines the game looks and works really well. Some 
 of the new gameplay in GTA IV is also very impressive like the way you steal a parked car or walk 
 into your safehouse, also in this GTA IV you can vault, climb or jump over something that is blocking 
 your way (if you can reach it though) and this feature makes running away from the police on foot 
 funner than ever.
  
  Like all GTAs this one is also very funny with alot of the jokes and funny dialouge. The missions 
 in GTA IV are alot more full of action and drama, although most missions won't take long to do 
 (if you are using cheats like I am) but are also very fun to play through and as you play through 
 you understand the story more and see it unfold in front of your eyes. The driving in GTA IV has 
 gotten a little harder and more realistic, like other GTAs holding the hand break while stepping 
 on the gas won't do it, this time around you'll need to practice the breaking techniques and it 
 will take a while to master.
  
  The damage on the cars in GTA IV is very good and surprisingly this was one of my favourite features. 
 All in all GTA IV was an excellent experience and theres so much to do that i haven't even written 
 it down in this review so go to your nearest game store or blockbuster and grab a copy of GTA IV 
 or else you'll be missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OminousDeflux
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised to see how amazing this game turned out to be. There was so many things introduced 
 in the beginning that blew me away.... From the graphics to every small detail of movement in the 
 game. Obviously there will be some minor flaws in the game. Let's face it.... the intelligent can 
 tell and appreciate all the hard work put in this game. Yes... all the hype for the game was well 
 proven. The story so far is brilliant and gets better and better, To those that just want to put 
 this game down because you wanna get attention, please drop your plastic light sabres and smell 
 my armpits of man. I apologize to those on behalf of the developers of the game that there were 
 no Master Chief and Grunt characters in the game.... There's no room for lil suzy's in Liberty City.....
 
  
  P. S. GTAVI is an awesome game by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. In fact, I almost feel "cheated" by all other games on the market. 
 Now that I see the capability an Xbox 360 game has, all future releases on the market had better 
 be a spectacle.
  
  What blew me away about this game is the fact that the environment is realistic. Everything from 
 garbage men riding on the back of garbage trucks, to getting tossed through the front windshield 
 of your car during a head on collision, to the passenger in a vehicle that you just jacked getting 
 their hand stuck in their door as it slams shut when you take off and dragging them down the street...
 
  
  This game has everything.
  
  This game will also emotionally hook you. You play Nico Bellic, a Russian immigrant that comes 
 to Liberty City to start a new life with your already established cousin, Roman. Things aren't 
 all they're cracked up to be as it turns out and you start to feel sorry for the both of them. 
 So it's up to you to turn things around.
  
  The combat aspect is like former GTA's with a new "cover" system like Rainbow Six: Vegas and Gears 
 of War.
  
  There are a lot of cars. And when you jack them, there is a new system in store.
  
  The pedestrians 
 are different. You won't spot the same one twice.
  
  You have interactive choices. Choose whether an enemy lives or dies in your storyline throughout 
 the game.
  
  All in all, this game is going to dominate the market for the next few months.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like every other version of GTA, except its like the crack head GTA member of 
 the family. It just has a different edge to it that the other games didn't have. It is definitely 
 darker. But the premise is the same: Fish out of water, broke, no weapons, deliver this, kill that, 
 screw a hooker, listen to your dead beat friends drop F-Bombs and prattle on senselessy about this 
 and that. Nothing about the opening of the game was any different than any other GTA game... ok 
 it was set in New York as opposed to Cali or Florida like the last two installments. I am really 
 disappointed with the story so far. I am also disappointed that it didnt start out differently 
 than all of the other games as well. A premise like being the top dog and having to protect your 
 empire from all of the other up-and-coming thugs of Liberty City would have been a nice plot twist... but 
 that didn't happen. Rockstar has also managed to fit more cussing in the game than all of the others 
 combined. A lot of the swearing doesn't even fit the characters. I've had nurses call me names 
 in the hospitals in Liberty City, that nurses would never utter. Even the main characters, while 
 they could cuss, should have taken a page out of the script of the film, "Eastern Promises" which 
 didn't see the protagonist use much profanity at all and he was a million times cooler that Niko 
 or his oaf of a cousin. The hu, or has some very witty parts to it, but overall is just pointless 
 crass trash. At least in the other games, the innuendo was far more subtle and outshined the blatant 
 reach for cheap dirty humor that this game has to offer. 
  There are a lot of things that were done right in this game though. A lot. There are almost as 
 many things that are great, fantastic, and superb in this game as there are that are wrong with 
 it. The cars are amazingly detailed. The weapons never get old to use. The City is AMAZING. It 
 truly is the most detailed city I have played in a game, besides maybe Jerusalem in Assassin's 
 Creed. Graphically, I was hoping for a little more though. While Rockstar has never been on the 
 cutting edge when it comes to graphical prowess, this game could have really been a jewel to look 
 at technically. This game also suffers from some technical glitches with the NPC's as well. The 
 music is great. Definitely the best soundtrack ever in a GTA game. You get a great channel in Tuff 
 Gong on the radio (All Marley) and the jazz station just absolutely is fantastic jazz (Basie to Bird 
 man to Coltrane to Miles) . The voice acting (not the dialogue) is incredibly portrayed by awesome 
 actors, comedians, musicians and others. After hearing the F-Word for the 1000th time after playing 
 the game for 2 hours (I'm not kidding) I just turned off the dialogue. It's like having to hear 
 Ashton Kutcher say, "dude" in Dude where's my car over and over again til it makes me want to vomit 
 in my mouth and gouge my eardrums out with a ball-point pen. What I do now is just turn the missions 
 off with my cell-phone, and I cruise around the city causing trouble and I don't have to listen 
 to nice looking, wholesome nurses and old ladies call me B@$t! rd and F-- k-r. This game, with a 
 few adjustments and some self censoring by Rockstar could have been a true gem. Just feels like 
 they went for the same overly used sterotypes again, and rehashed a lot of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series has set new ground, introduced some lovable characters, and continues to set the 
 bar higher. GTA IV is no different. This game has it all: kick ass graphics, awesome sound, revolutionary 
 combat controls, and more. I have only a few personal preferences: 
  
  One, I wish there were more story line based missions. Don't get me wrong, this game has the perfect 
 balance of mission play and sand box play. I just don't like not knowing where to go or what to 
 do, personally. 
  
  Second, the cops in Liberty city are really pissy. Just something small like killing one cop or 
 jacking a car will instantly throw them on your tail. The law enforcement play of the game is much 
 improved from San Andreas where just evading them long enough will get them of your tail. Not here 
 in LC, if a cop sees you, he'll chase you. You need to spend time far away from cops and out of 
 their sight long enough to evade them.
  
  Third, I wish there were more people on your side to fight with you, not like one other person, 
 but like seven like back in SA, I use to love those massive shoot outs. You CAN call the cops and 
 have them shoot the bad guys but they're not actually on your side, kind of like a third party. 
 Still fun.
  
  these are only personal preferences, This game has something no other GTA has ever had: built in 
 multiplayer, over XBox Live of course. Which polishes it off. that is the fourth thing I wish it 
 had, a skirmish for off line play.
  
  Other than these small PERSONAL problems, this game is worth MORE than the $60 it cost. I would 
 have paid more like $100 for it. This game deserves a place in any one's XBox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbanh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! With the exception of a few graphical and AI issues this game is great. Since 
 I can ramble on and on about how great it is let's focus on the weaker points, which there aren't 
 many of. The only problem i see with the graphics is the sometimes choppy unnatural motions of 
 characters during something like bowling and the serious AA problems. At least on the 360 version 
 there are ALOT of jagged edges around objects and in the environment although it isn't game wrecking 
 it certainly ruins the games atmosphere. Some of the AI in my opinion is a little messed as well. 
 Let's say some random person shoots you and the cops shoot him. For some reason you cannot shoot 
 back or even hurt them unless you want 2 stars. WTF?? Shouldn't we be entitled to self defense? 
 Other then these small issues the game is great. This is my first review and I know it probobly 
 sucks but bear with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flairlend_l337
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  4 years since the last Grand Theft Auto game and finally it is here. GTA IV takes the series to 
 a whole new level with much improved graphics, a great storyline, characters you will get to know 
 and love, a much better combat system then its previous counterparts and of course the ever needed 
 and quite intresting multiplayer. All these things are a much needed change to the series and has 
 re-ignited a love with the sandbox genre. No other sandbox type game will over rule this game. 
 There is always a darker side to a great game though such as some minor graphical flaws and glicthes 
 but this in no way takes away from the gameplay or overall graphics when exploring Liberty City. 
 Also the multiplayer will have minor glitches and will have the rare accurance of slowdown but 
 once again it is nothing to complain and fuss over. I must say that Rockstar has once again pulled 
 off another great success and I do believe that this game will go down in history as one of the 
 greastest games of all time and people will be playing it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrell145
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game i feel the sense of a game that is alive and breaths. it is a game that 
 you can get wrapped up in just by surfing the internet or playing pool. I got wrapped up in the 
 fact that if you go too fast and you hit something head-on, there is the possibility that you'll 
 fly through the windshield. Running around and shooting up the cops makes its return for me!!! 
 I also liked the amount of detail Rockstar decided to put in this game, remarkable. For example, 
 if you were to hit a couple of people with a car, truck, hummer, etc. the blood would be on the 
 hood of the car. The only thing that i don't like about it is the driving mechanics. No matter 
 what you drive in the game you can turn that sucker for nothing without hitting the e-brake or 
 that other brake (Right Bumper) . i guess the guys at Rockstar wanted to make things more realistic. 
 i applaud them them for this but i think that they could have laid off the stiff driving a little 
 especially when trying to get away from cops and/or while driving in the rain!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  3 years couldn't have gone by slow enough. After playing the great San Andreas, every gamer wanted 
 more. Well, GTA IV is finally here, and is better than ever. 
  
  I'll start with the story. You're Niko Bellic, an illegal immigrant from somewhere with a bitter 
 past. Hoping to escape his past, he comes over to America, Liberty City, to stay with is cousin, 
 Roman. In the past Roman promised that he had all sorts of the "American Dream," with fancy cars, 
 beautiful women, and a great mansion. Turns out all of that was a lie. A low-profit taxi company, 
 hookers and a run down apartment was the order of the day for Niko. Now things go sour, don't they 
 always, and Niko and Roman are forced down a spiral of lies, corruption and murder into oblivion. 
 It may sound plain, but what unfolds is a web of mystery and conflict.
  
  Now the meat of any, and most importantly this, GTA. Gone are the days of horrible targeting systems, 
 uber-disappointing friendly and enemy A. I., and cruddy graphics that can make what goes into the 
 toilet a work of beauty. Now, with next generation systems, Rock* can finally make the GTA game 
 they always wanted, and mostly in part to the new Natural Motion Euphoria Engine coupled along 
 with the RAGE (Rock* Advanced Graphics Engine) , everything plays a vital role this time around. 
 The Euphoria Engine can make the most minor of details some of the biggest surprises in the game! 
 This includes Niko flying out of the car through the windshield and flopping around the concrete, 
 pedestrians looking around in and on their vehicle, drinking coffee, talking on cellphones, sweeping 
 the ground, smoking cigarettes, and so on. The list is nearly endless. Oh, and explosions look 
 like explosions to a very striking detail! Now the aiming and targeting has gotten an overhaul... pulling 
 halfway down on the left trigger lets you free-aim, to make all those difficult and tricky shots; 
 fulling pressing down on the left trigger lets you lock-on. another nice feature is while locking-on 
 to a target, you can use the right analog stick to pinpoint a certain part of their body, while 
 flicking the right analog stick legs you switch to another target. Add the ability to have a cover 
 mechanic that would make Gears of War blush, and you have the recipe to cause a lot of damage during 
 firefights. To add to the next-generation feel, you even have a fully functional cell phone, complete 
 with customizable ringtones and wallpapers. For craps and giggles, the phone even has a vibrate 
 (yes the controller does vibrate) and silent option. However, the silent option suspends the main 
 story mode until it is turned back on to either silent or ring. But there is even more, believe 
 it or not, that that is impossible to write in a single review.
  
  Also for the first time in GTA history, we have online multiplayer. Featuring 15 game modes, this 
 is enough alone to keep you entertained for weeks on end. You have Cops 'N Robbers, a bank heist, 
 GTA race, and many more. Even better is that Rock* hit the the bullseye for the multiplayer on 
 the first attempt. Rock*, you guys really are masters of your trade.
  
  The sound is another highlight for GTA IV, as with every other entry in the series. Now, Rock* 
 has more advanced technology to filter sounds for every occasion imaginable. Upon starting the 
 game, and stepping out of my apartment for the first time, I heard a cop car go down the adjacent 
 road, a hot dog vender advertising his food, a man yelling at what was presumably his girlfriend/wife, 
 a train passing overhead and a car horn honking all at one time! Now that is ambient surroundings 
 at it's finest. Guns now sound like guns instead of party-poppers and every car has it's own distinct 
 engine sound. Even the voice acting is superb, as always. 
  
  The missions are your standard watch cutscene, go here find this or kill that, report, and rinse 
 and repeat. But variety is the name of the game, and is put to good use here. One mission has you 
 clinging to the back and top of a moving truck to stop the driver, another has you stealing a police 
 car to pull over suspicious vans to search for stolen merchandise. Since you have new gunplay mechanics, 
 you are also engaged in more firefights this time around, and they are fun and a blast to play. 
 Parden the pun. And the missions keep getting more wild, varied, and most of all, fun! To help 
 ease the frustration, all you have to do to replay a mission is accept the text message the mission 
 giver sends you. Nice, very nice indeed. 
  
  The graphics are what bring this package home. The city itself is very detailed and worth spending 
 countless hours of your life over. Pedestrians look different, and I haven't seen the same character 
 model twice out of my whole 10 1/2 hours of playing. Even the facial and body movement is fluent 
 and realistic, and ALL THE CHARACTERS NOW HAVE FINGERS INSTEAD OF CLAWS!!! WOW! However, I wish 
 the same could be said of the vehicles. There are tons of vehicles in the game, and more get added 
 every time you unlock part of the city. I can't wait to see how many there are by the end of the 
 game! 
  
  However not everything is wine and gold. No game is perfect and this is a shining example. The 
 infamous pop in is still here, although much less frequent. Far backgrounds have a faint grainly 
 look to them, but you can still see what is going on. Although I only experienced it twice, interior 
 details like to disappear for a moment, or on one occasion forever, locking up the game and forcing 
 you to load the last save. The lock-on when in firefights can spaz out when enemies are in close 
 proximity of you; something free-aim can fix rather quickly. Those are the only problems I found 
 out of my time with the game, and none of them are really hurtful because of the overall scope 
 and detail of the game. 
  
  NOTE TO READERS: I have played BOTH the PS3 and the XBOX 360 versions, and both look nearly identical. 
 However, the PS3 did have slightly sharper visuals and draw distances, I heard on a few occasions 
 in the cutscenes the volume for the speech go down then back up. I also heard slight popping sounds 
 in the LCHC radio channel. The volume only went down on two cutscenes at the beginning of the game, 
 one of them being the fist time talking to Vlad and the other being the first time meeting Michelle. 
 But that only lasted maybe 5 seconds. The DECIDING POINT BETWEEN THE two is the PS3 for SLIGHTLY 
 BETTER VISUALS or the XBOX360 FOR ACHIEVEMENT POINTS!
  
  All in all, GTA fan or not, there definitely is something here for everybody, considering you are 
 old enough to play it because it really is for the mature only. With a campaign lasting 35-45 hours, 
 a great storyline to keep you engaged and will actually care for, beefed up gameplay, and realistic 
 environments and physics help make this GTA one for the history books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleo125
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an amazing game.
  Compared to the early games in its series, it ranks at the top.
  Its use of up to 16 person multiplayer, 
 is just a huge breakthrough for GTA games. The huge terrain available to you in the game is more 
 than enough to keep you busy for awhile. Although, the game seems to be more "slow paced", but 
 that just adds to the emmense reality of the game. The controls, at first, seem a little difficult, 
 or hard to manage the movement of the character, but after playing the game for a little, you get 
 the hang of it, and the games other diverse controls.
  
  
  
  This is to those who like to sharply criticize the game in a false manner.
  
  Now, some people 
 disagree and just simply can't understand "why" it got
  a perfect 10, or "why" there is a big hype about the game.
  
  Well, thats because the people 
 who DO feel that way about the game,
  enjoy Action Adventure games a lot.
  Those who don't like the game, and feel it is overratted, are no different
  than those people 
 who criticitize the games that "they" play.
  
  So don't rag on the game, or the people who feel that this game is a great game. Just find something 
 else to do. Only criticize the game if you take interest in these types of games, and feel that 
 your review will actually "help" the person reading your revview.
  
  Simply stating, "This game is horrible, GameSpot was payed by Rockstar",
  is not going to help 
 the person, nor is it going to explain why you think the game is bad, other than how you dont like 
 the game and feel it doesnt deserve its "10". 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar North has really outdone itself and has issued proof that it is not only the founding 
 people of open world games, but also the undisputed king of the 3rd person shooters once again 
 done they did an amazing job of walking the fine line between the humor and the seriousness with 
 the characters that you're immediately able to connect to. They're almost all bad people, for sure, 
 but each of them has character weaknesses and vulnerabilities that make them real. Characters have 
 reasons for doing what they do, and it's apparent that they also have morals and inner demons as 
 well. For starters the story is top quality. The use of the phone as a gaming portal is genius. 
 With the graphics the level of detail is outstanding, with Liberty City feeling alive and lived 
 in. With Surrond Sound the voices sound perfect and with that the dialogue makes the story. The 
 multiplayer brings a nice compliment to the game considering this is the first multiplayer. But 
 I wouldnt put it up to the standards of (Halo 3, Gears of War, Call of Duty 4 etc.) but its still 
 compelling. I could go on and on about why Grand Theft Auto IV is one of if not the best game I 
 have ever played, so the only thing you need to know is that you have to play this game. Period. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Simply put GTA IV is a Magnificent Game. Every aspect and detail of the game is brilliantly conveived 
 and implemented with spectacular effect. WOW... what an achievement. Graphical setting is epic and 
 rendered with care and great beauty. The storyline sparkles while the dialogue has the rough edge 
 and tough tenor of the big city streets. Central role of the cell phone and text messaging is a 
 nice touch. At one point I jacked a chopper and took a tour of the city hoping to unleash a bit 
 of mayham on the city but was simply too mesmerized by the scenery to actually do anything. The 
 game drips with excellence from the start. Found myself at one point in the middle of some pea 
 soup fog trying to find a customer who needed a ride. At one point the cops were after me and I 
 crashed off of the overpass onto the elevated subway tracks.... so... I followed the tracks for a 
 bit and kept looking behind me to see if the cops were following me... well no surprise you know 
 what happened next... missed the fact that a subway was sceaming right for me and whamo... blown 
 to smithereens. I was laughing so hard I was crying... what a gas. Thanks Rockstar.... job supremely 
 well done. It is fun to be the baddest mof***** in the citay. 
  
  Surprisingly I have heard some people dis the graphics. In my opinion the level of graphical detail 
 in this game is second to none. It is nothing short of brilliant. When people say the graphics 
 are 'fuzzy' I am not sure what they are saying because the detail is exquisite. They may need to 
 upgrade the good ol TV set. or perhaps they either need contacts or they may be referring to the 
 style used to create a certain atmosphere. This approach is actually more refined than simply having 
 everything in the game be sharply defined and in hard focus all the time. 
  
  It is the little things in this game though that add up. Niko's almost imperceptible limp when 
 he is going down some stairs, the cheap rawness of the Eastern European mob and the way they phrase 
 things, the guy running down the street with the newspaper over his head in the rain... hundreds, 
 maybe even thousands of little detials that add to the ambiance and make the game so believable. 
 Liberty city comes alive in a new and fresh way.
  
  The only way to appreciate the richness of this game is to get into it... and get deep into it. 
 Darned amazing really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lookatdamonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  do it, there is really nothing else to say, this game takes san andreas to a new level. so realistic 
 looking, but still has the classic gta feel. im not far into it yet, but its a great game, and 
 a lot more realistic. if you have a ps3 or a 360, and have 60 bucks, buy the game, czu this is 
 what you've been saving up for, even if you didnt know it. the driving is taking a little bit of 
 time to get used to, but its overall, just amazing. when you run someone over, its not like the 
 old games where you just go right over them, you actually topple them over the top of the car and 
 they fly like a rag doll. there is the real blood after you shoot someone, unlike the old games 
 where it just goes on the floor. anyway, this game is one for the ages. dont be that one guy who 
 doesnt have it, just get it, anyway possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colbs678
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the greatest games ever released. The depth, gameplay, story make GTA IV 
 an encredible experience. You actually feel like your in a live, breathing city. Every aspect of 
 past games in the series has been updated and improved. The cover system makes the shoot outs and 
 gun fights completely realistic. The missions are well written and fast paced. There countless 
 amounts of things to do in Liberty City, and all of these activities are a blast in one way or 
 another. The graphics and dramatic, well written storyline give the feel of playing a cinematic 
 motion picture instead of just a video game. If your not a fan of the series, you should still 
 buy this game. If you are a fan of the series, Im not sure why you havent already bought it. I 
 usually agree with most of gamespots reviews and ratings, and for GTA IV, they are right on the 
 mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow! No really Wow! I was a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series from the begining I found the 3 
 rd to be a bit disappointing, same sound same graphics as the one before it. Well get ready the 
 series is alive once again. You are a Russian immigrant from the old country. Well you can figure 
 that out the great story line for yourself (Take a guess, soon to be Mafia?) . This game will do 
 what Rainbow 6 Las Vegas did for the Rainbow series. It is a compete face lift with a great storyline. 
 Graphics are amazing the attention to detail is also, for example car damage is a lot like burn 
 out. The driving in this game does take some skill you can't just jump into a Vet and go each car 
 handles different and also weighs different. Then you can add the gun play is like gears of war 
 by that I mean you stick to cover. The whole body has hit points head, arms and legs will make 
 the target act accordingly. The cities are large and very detailed and you have GPS and a mini 
 map to help you get around. The single player is great and the multi is surprisingly good also. 
 I could keep talking for a page or two on this game. First rating is a 10 for the best one they 
 have come out with, every thing you hoped for and more. But nothing is perfect the camera takes 
 some getting used too and can get annoying 9.0. Now stop wasting you're time reading this just 
 go buy it you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYNYS7ER
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is not the best in the series. San Andreas and Vice city both pwn this one. The story's just 
 not as compelling as the others. Also the gameplay seems sluggish. Every action you do seems to 
 be in slow motion. Lastly the driving is the worst I've ever seen. Rockstar was trying for realism 
 and ended up with frustration. The extremely wide turns you make while the AI turns on a dime, 
 without loosing speed. For this game to have so many car chases, the least they could have done 
 is to make the cars woth driving. Stealing a car take for ever and a day while the guy you suppose 
 to be chasing is quickly getting away. This game is fun just as long as your goofing around. But 
 the story line is generic the characters aren't interesting ang the gameplay isn't as fun as previous 
 Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric3441
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is, what i think, the best game in the GTA series. Just for a second, forget about the graphics 
 and think of the game features. Obviously, GTA3 didn't have online capabilities, but then again 
 neither did Vice City, or San Andreas ( before the SA : MP mod ) . Lets say that you're playing 
 San Andreas right now. The characters are funny, you're used to the driving from past GTA games, 
 and the story is long and hard. Now play GTA4. GTA4 is easier than other GTA games because it has 
 the cover system that past games didn't, it has a great story like that of GTASA, it has humor, 
 and driving is almost the same, with the acceptance of minor changes.
  
  When GTASA was released, some were hoping for the new ragdoll system, and were slightly disappointed 
 with the fact that running someone over or making someone fly into the air just made them stay 
 in one position. Now, the ragdoll system has been implemented and is great.
  
  Have you ever crashed a car big time in GTA and have only seen it start to smoke? Well, you can 
 still do that, but have fun watching Niko break the window and fly out.
  
  In GTA4, you've got the PS3 version, and you've got the 360 version. Which will you choose? Normally, 
 games like these would be favorable on a PS3, but gamers are advised to get the 360 version. Why? 
 Because the PS3 version has a native resolution of 640p, whilst the 360 version has native resolutions 
 of 720p, 1080i, and using the upconversion chip in the xbox, you can bring that up to 1080p. The 
 fact that the resolution is like this is not a problem with those with smaller TVs.
  
  All in all, GTA4 is the best in its series, deserved the wait, and is waiting for others to buy 
 the game and play it. If your a true gamer, you'll be done in 30 hours. Happy Gaming :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is, the best game you can own. The overall amount of things to do is endless. 
 You can socialize, kill participate in bank hiests, drive around, date, skydive, swim, take tours, 
 go bowling, play pool, hire hookers (lol) , eat at resturants, go to a cyber cafe with over 200 websites 
 (fictional) websites, run over people, oman ojndsgi anomodk msiam cplas. cp lasokf maso kmf okasmo. 
 sorry there are to many things to write down...
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in GTA4 is alot different than previous games. Aiming is no longer a annoying spazim, 
 theres a new coversystem, the euphoria physics engine makes for realistic car crashes and intese 
 firefights, and there are so many mini games that could be full games, and 16 player multiplayer. 
 That alone should make you want to buy this game. My favourite thing they added was making it easier 
 to shoot and drive, the right anolog controls the gun aiming while you steer with you left.
  
  Graphics
  
  Usually you have to forgive an open world game for not having gears of war 
 quality graphics... Not with GTA4. This game is an all out stuner. Wheither you on the top of the 
 chrysler building looking at the city and rivers or in times square looking at all the pretty flashing 
 lights this game with drop your jaw multiple times. Not to mention that the character models and 
 facial animations are the best in the bussiness.
  
  Sound
  
  In the past Gta's I've had a problem with the sound design. But not in the perfection of Grand 
 Theft Auto 4. The guns sound painfully powerful the voice acting is top notch and the cars radio 
 stations are perfect. 
  
  Story
  
  The story in all the Grand Theft Auto's have always been amazing but this one is by far the best. 
 It could actually have made a boxoffice hit and academy award worthy if it were a movie. Your Nike 
 Beleck and you have come to america to live with your cousin in Liberty City, were the streets 
 are paved with gold and it's a land of opertunity. Turns out not so much. The mansion he promised 
 is a Ghetto apartment and the rich bussiness is a taxi cab. So you must move up in liberty city 
 and make a living with the thugs and gangsters so it continues. I don't want to give anymore away 
 so I'll leave it ther because you need to play it for yourself.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9.8
  Story: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, never in the history of video gaming has a gaming publisher paid off a free-to-use internet 
 review website to give their game a high score. Sorry to burst your little conspiracy bubbles. 
 The Banjo-Kazooies, the Halo series, and now GTA IV received top-notch scores because they were 
 all top-notch games. Plain and simple. Why would Rockstar NEED to pay off anyone to advertise their 
 game with glowing reviews, anyway? All the hype that this game has generated, combined with television 
 advertisements and a huge chain of peer communication will launch this game's sale count into the 
 millions alone. 
  
  No, GTA IV received a 10/10 from Gamespot because it's an amazing game. Not because it's perfect 
 - no game can be perfect. Ocarina of Time received a 10/10 from gamespot, and that was back when 
 gamespot wasn't using the 0.5 scoring increment system, but that game wasn't perfect for sure. 
 Ocarina of Time was riddled with bugs, graphical hiccups, and other problems. But it was revolutionary 
 for its time, and so is GTA IV.
  
  GTA IV looks amazing, sounds amazing, and plays amazing. It places you in the shoes of Niko, an 
 Eastern European immigrant (probably a Slovakian, but you never actually find out) who has landed 
 in Liberty City, the virtual representation of New York City, who has come to America to live the 
 big life with his cousin Roman, and to take revenge on a rat who sold his village back in [insert 
 random Balkan country here] . Unfortunately, Niko gets screwed over multiple times in the first 
 hours of the game, and has to fight his way to revenge and riches, overcoming some of the wierdest 
 and most memorable NPC personalities you'll ever encounter in a video game. For example, you'll 
 have to work for a crazy, juiced up "entrepreneur" called Brucie, who takes bull shark testosterone 
 every hour and looks and sounds surprisingly like FPS Doug from Pure Pwnage. You'll cap some rival 
 drug dealers for your Jamaican buddy Little Jacob, who may just have more Caribbean charm than 
 Captin Pacard himself (if you've never been to YTMND, forget what I said) . 
  
  The gameplay has been radically improved from previous GTA games. The shooting now consists of 
 taking cover and using a combination of lock on and free aim to take out your opponents. In addition, 
 your enemies will take realistic damage, limping if they get shot in the leg, dropping their guns 
 when they get shot in the hands, and flailing on the ground in agony after you deplete their health 
 bars. The combat system isn't perfect - removing lock on altogether probably would have been better 
 for the series - but it's definitely gets the job done, and beats the pulp out of a lot of solely 
 shooter games that have come out recently. The driving is less arcadey and more realistic, so you 
 won't be able to round corners at 100 mph like in previous GTA games. Good if you're into immersion 
 and realism, bad if you're an immature, impatient prick with no driving experience (see forums 
 for details) , and the cars all take realistic damage and can stall out if the engine gets too busted 
 in. Although the game is a bit too linear for my tastes, there's still an amazing amount of things 
 to do straight off the boat. You can play minigames such as bowling and pool (which could stand 
 alone as games of their own) , go out on dates, get drunk, steal cars for Brucie, shoot up gangsters 
 for Little Jacob, take fares for Roman, and more. And the side quests are just as good as the main 
 quest, so much so that you may get confused as to which quests you have to take and which you don't.
 
  
  The game is shorter than you'd expect. Some reviewers have claimed the average playthrough for 
 singleplayer is about 50 hours - I'd say that number is closer to 30 hours. I beat the main storyline 
 and the majority of the side missions in just over 27 hours, not counting all the times I reloaded 
 after going on rampages and failing missions, so expect to beat this game after a week or two of 
 intensive gaming. As for the multiplayer... it sucks, don't bother. If your game isn't lagging 
 and you aren't getting disconnected every two seconds, you'll be running halfway across the city 
 just to be shot in the head by a guy using auto aim. Some modes, like cops and crooks and the coop 
 missions, are moderately fun with friends, but they wear thin fast. The multiplayer was obviously 
 just an afterthought, more of an experiment on the part of Rockstar than an actual commendable 
 feature. You'll want to play this game for the singleplayer experience, which blows everything 
 else in the action genre out of the water - while it lasts, at least. Maybe I'm just disappointed 
 about the game's length because it was so damn amazing for the 30 hours it lasted. Get this game. 
 Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-hawkplayer456
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Easy 10/10 and 2 thumbs up. This is the best GTA ever since Vice City and you can take my word 
 for it. Online is also the greatest thing ever. It really feels realistic too like the breaking 
 and hot wiring cars and more realistic fighting than ever. Driving brings more of a challenge now 
 and thats good and missions are fun too. I haven't beaten the game yet and i really hope i don't 
 any time soo because i really hope this story is long. Ive played every single game in this series 
 and i never thought any GTA could out do Vice City. That game is a classic and should be still 
 known as one of the greatest GTA games ever. Thank you Rockstar for GTA Iv and just thank you for 
 the whole series. This game is truly a masterpiece and im hoping you guys out do yourselves again 
 in the next installment to the GTA series. THIIS GAME F***ING RULES SO EVERYONE GO GET IT NOW. (while 
 supplies last) haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Absolutely amazing. Not only is the single player campaign great but the multiplayer was well 
 planned out making this game better than COD4 and Halo 3. I have been gaming for 12 years and this 
 is definitely top 5. I love the descriptive words that are used when a kill takes place online. 
 I'd suggest you should play it on the console your friends have because the PS3 and the XBOX 360 
 handling of the games are almost exact, so go with the one you'll play online with your friends 
 with.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hojo214
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is the funnest game I've played so far (including all the other GTA's and Halo series which= 
 PWNAGE) I don't even see how they finished it in such a short time for how big and detailed it 
 is. There are so many things to do that I probably won't experience them all because I have a life 
 which is almost dissapointing at this point because I would love to do everything in this game. 
 For instance getting drunk always funny to watch your guy stumble around and eventually fall but 
 best of all it pisses off annoying soccer moms ,who are trying to make a difference in the world 
 and horribly failing. The story is great the voice acting is impressive and the gameplay is very 
 refined from the others and makes it alot more worth playing. This GTA really breaks away from 
 all the others in a sense that when you do the missions and what not it doesn't feel like your 
 doing the same thing over and over again as it did in it's predacessors ,or however ever you spell 
 that word. Well there's so much time and so little to do in Liberty City........ Wait reverse that. 
 Anyways I thinks it's best if we both get off the computer suppress our personal lives for awhile 
 and go explore Liberty City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMitch24
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this is the best game I have ever played and not only is it fun to just mess around with, 
 but the plot and story actually have a design behind them. I fully agree with Gamespot giving it 
 a 10, I think everywhere should... and most likely it will be the first game to pass Ocarina of 
 Time on Gamerankings. com as the all time best game... If you aren't playing it already, go out and 
 buy it. This game should last anyone who buys it atleast a few years, no joke... Go buy it, it's 
 bomb as all hell.
  
  -Ride till I die in GTA, bangin' chicks with no rubbas, thug life. LOL
  
  
  Buy it nowza
 
  
  Nowza
  wasting words and space to post
  more wasted words buy it thug life
  and buy a 40 of O. E.
  and chug it
  
  
  
  more wasted space, buy it thug life
  
  more 
 thug life buy it 
  fa show 
  
  
  ballin
  
  
  oE
  no 
  rubbas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChimera
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  If they can't apreciate the pure brilliance of this outstanding game they dont deserve to play 
 a computer console.
  
  Ok my review...
  
  First impressions were a bit overwhelming (as with all GTA games, especially San Andreas) , This 
 is a good thing by the way. I dont mean it's too much to take in and thrown together badly. I mean 
 that you don't know where to start. 
  The general ambiance of Liberty city is un-rivaled in ANY game, next-gen or otherwise. This time 
 around the inhabitants of the city seem to have a wide variety of rich personalities. They dont 
 just walk round spouting out random coments at nobody "My mama's mah sister!!!"-GTA III pedestrian 
 lol. Whilst, in previous games the NPCs were often entertainingly quirky, they simply seemed to 
 be backround props as opposed to GTA IV's population. They get in the way, they create un-wanted 
 attention, they attack you, they get drunk, they fall over, they fight between themselves and basically 
 they simply seem alive.
  Ok the map. As you play through the game, advancing through the different stages and districts 
 of Liberty City you will notice the wide variety of atmospheres. For example you can take a cab 
 ride between broker and algonquin. You will notice how the gritty, steamy streets, run by small 
 time buisneses will turn into urban blocks of flats, surrounded by basketball courts and the 'Ghetto' 
 style populous and then you pass over the bridge into a bustling, comercial buisiness and entertainment 
 district. 
  The story is more inticing than in any other GTA title. Niko Belic is a very likable criminol with 
 a darkly enigmatic past.
  I am am not going to elaborate on the plot of the game any more because you can find out for yourself 
 what it involves. The gameplay is different to the previous title's, all of these differences being 
 improvments. For example, the targeting system is more usable now as you can target specific parts 
 of your target's body whilst still being locked on to them in a similar fashion to Crackdown. The 
 helicopter is awsome fun. This GTA is more fun, with so much to do and tonnes of personality. An 
 awsome game in every way. Don't listen to the idiots that give this game a bad rating. It's hard 
 to leave the game alone. Pure brilliance. I have missed out on lots because it's such a huge game 
 but you should find out for yourselves. Go buy this game. Nobody should be without it. :) ..... 
 OH and the multiplayer!!!! AWSOME 16 player free roaming around the city, doing what ever you want 
 with up to 15 other players... there are also lots of other modes as well as free mode. BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  finally one one of the greatest Grand Theft Auto games is finally out and it is worth the wait. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV is by far the best in the series and offers one some of the best online modes 
 i have ever seen, the game looks great and the graphics are the best i have seen so far, Liberty 
 City is much bigger then ever before and Rockstar has made it look almost like a clone of New York 
 City, even the Statue Of Happiness looks like the Statue Of Liberty. the controls are better and 
 car physics are awesome as well, cars handle differently and not all cars act the same, even the 
 bikes handle differently depending on what your driving. SUV's are always different and i like 
 how the Cascalade looks like an Escalade. the online multi player is where this Grand Theft Auto 
 shines the most. game modes like Cops N' Crooks is fun to play, even Free For All is fun. Grand 
 Theft Auto Iv is better then Grand Theft Auto: Vice City ( my favorite Grand Theft Auto game in 
 the series ) and has more to offer then Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, so if your playing the game, 
 then your enjoying it so far. if not, you really owe it to yourself to pick this up on the 360 
 ( or PS3 ) and play it till you complete 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This review is a re-due of my other GTA 4 review because previously I had given this game a 10, 
 but when I had given it the 10, I was barely into the game, and now I've beaten the story mode 
 and have 97.5% of the game done, so now I'm reviewing it for real. 
  
  
  Where do I start? The game is vastly different from previous GTAs. The graphics are revamped and 
 it's now fun to jump out of your crotchrocket or car because you never stop rolling. It's also 
 fun to just junp out of your helicopter and die. Those things weren't fun in San Andreas because 
 in SA you could PARACHUTE and FLY PLANES but in GTA 4, you sadly cannot do either of those activities. 
 The storyline, in my opinion is a massive downgrade as well as the mission variety. Mainly the 
 missions consist of driving here, killing him. It's almost like your somebody's b***h the whole 
 game. The cinematics are enjoyable to watch because of the graphics. The characters aren't nearly 
 as cool as they were in the old GTAs. Even Niko is just a boring character. No car customization 
 and barely any character customization. 
  
  Online is excellent no matter what you hear. The online does get boring pretty quickly but the 
 ability to free roam with your friends is pretty fun and the traditional deathmatch is fun also. 
 
  
  The good: 
  -Online -Graphics/physics -hopping out of cars at high speed -Brucie 
  
  The bad: 
  Storyline -replay value -fun factor after you've beaten main storyline -pigeons 
 -Niko 
  
  Yeah thats my review so f*** haters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duh_to_the_avo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto has always been a series I've managed to avoid. Perhaps it was due to the fact 
 I was one of the six or seven people in North America who didn't buy a Playstation 2, or maybe 
 it's because the few times I did play it at friends houses, I found it to be an under powered, 
 poorly voice acted mess. 
  
  I was told that for the new generation of consoles, all of these problems would be fixed, a big, 
 beautiful new city, wonderful voice acting, and a story that would pull me in so deeply I would 
 find myself thinking about the consequences of my actions for days, nay, weeks to come. So I was 
 pulled along in the hype machine, growing ever twitchier the closer I got to the release date.
 
  
  I stood outside at midnight Monday with the other huddled masses, enjoying the first little rain 
 Calgary had gotten for the spring. I eagerly rushed home to slam it into my console and play all 
 night to my hearts content. 
  
  And I waited. And waited. And waited.
  
  Waited for the rush of technicalrealism and beautiful story development that I had been promised 
 by oh, so many reviews.
  
  But it never came.
  
  All I received was a technical demo focusing more on building a "believable" (I'll get onto that 
 more in a second) city than character, proper voice acting, and plot development. I waited for 
 the people around Niko (the only character I managed not to develop a serious disdain for) to develop 
 into well rounded, lovable characters. Instead what I received was a troupe of the most horribly 
 conceived criminal archetypes that reminded me almost immediately of the hackneyed stereotypes 
 pushed in previous GTA iterations. The moment I met little Jacob and his horrible imitation of 
 a normally pleasant accent, I began my rather expedient decent into a deep seething hatred for 
 this game.
  
  While I will be honest in saying that I have not played through the entire game to experience 
 all it has to offer, it becomes rather obvious that the fact I didn't finish the game before reviewing 
 it stems from the fact that after a mere sevenhours. I don't want to play it anymore. Playing 
 it beyond this point has become more of a chore to see if it "gets better" rather than enjoying 
 myself. Why should I be forced to push myself through the storyline to get to a point that I actually 
 enjoy? Perhaps this displays a 
  serious lack of patience on my part, but I ask, "if I skipped lacrosse practice, sat outside in 
 the rain with a bunch of people who would be better served as test subjects for some brain altering 
 chemical, and thenpayed 65 dollars, shouldn't the game make at least a halfhearted attempt at 
 holding my attention for the first few hours?".
  
  Getting away from the storyline, I also found many problems with the technical marvel that is Liberty 
 City. Reading review after review I grew ever more excited at the idea of a "living, breathing 
 city". What I received instead was a bunch of strategically placed npc's yelling out their conversations 
 to anyone within a forty foot radius who cares to listen. What kind of realism is that? I suppose 
 I was pleasantly surprised by the driving physics, Nikos' movement flow and the radio stations, 
 but surely that cannot be what garnered all this critical acclaim. I did NOT pay good money for 
 a driving and walking around simulator.
  
  I'm going to stop this review now as you can well see the bile reaching the top of my throat as 
 I write it. Perhaps I could have gotten over the flaws that this game has if everyone and his brother 
 hadn't blown their collective critical load over it. Perhaps I could have accepted the fact that 
 the game IS NOT in fact, perfect if it hadn't received what appears at the first glance, to be 
 perfect scores all around. It's horribly irresponsible to give this game a ten out of ten, five 
 stars out of five, ten pandas out of whatever, when it is not perfect. It's far from it.
  
  Review score: 5.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lifeshifter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Generally I like this game all around, why? 
  
  1. Strong Gameplay offline which is fun, voice acting is great, soundtracks are awesome.
  
 
  2. Visuals in this game are really nice, fun to watch.
  
  3. Driving has never been more fun and challenging out of the GTA games.
  
  4. Online is a 
 blast working with friends from all around just having fun playing GTA online, a dream come true 
 for GTA fans if you ask me! 
  
  5. Missions and the city are a lot of fun in general, the characters you meet are funny, annoying 
 and can be loved and hated all in one bundle of joy.
  
  6. Car splatter marks from hitting people is awesome along with car damage and unique ways you 
 can bend the axle or blow tires or not just blow up when its too damaged instead it just stops 
 dead in the tracks.
  
  7. Helicopter flying has never been better (havent tried planes yet if there is any) but its a 
 lot more challenging to fly which is nice so its not too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmage
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is not a direct review but a word to the people scoring low, you may say that people are just 
 rating it high because of hype and being fan boys, but this game is amazing. the time and effort 
 that has been put into has made it deserve a solid 10 from gamespot. all you putting a low score 
 are just trying to make a statement that your not following all these fads but stop trying to be 
 clever and view this marvelous game for what it is. Niko is a very in depth character that you 
 will explore in GTA 4 and if you are a fan of the other protagonists that you play in the series, 
 Niko will definatley be your new favourate. he has a very laid back attitude that matches his background. 
 the characters are very entertaining and there are many laugh out loud moments. this game is phat. 
 buy it as it will keep you entertained for ages but good luck trying to get it anywhere as it is 
 sold out in many places. My Favourate game of the century. you will not be dissapointed. have fun! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say, its finaly here and it does not dissapoint. The cars, the women, the missions, the 
 guns you name it whatever made the previous grand theft autos great is back in this one but a whole 
 load bigger and better. I havnt completed it yet, infact im along way from doing so but everytime 
 i turn it on i cant help but marvel at how far the series has advanced. Having played a little iv 
 noticed the collection items (ala assasins creed) if you go down to the pier youl find a pigeon, shoot 
 it! itl tell ya theres another 199 flying rats in liberty city! oh what a lovely touch. As i said 
 i have not ventured that far into the game yet, im about 14.20% but as i progress il update this 
 reveiw. Without gettin to critical though i do have one gripe and thats when nico walks and almost 
 gravity defieing like, leans to either the left of right. But that is only a minor gripe and doesnt 
 reflect on the rest of this absolute marvel of a game, well done Rockstar, youve surpassed again! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  gta iv has arrived finally and ive done some serious time already on this game, and the first thing 
 i have to point out is the visuals are stunning. from the shadows the lighting. the character models. 
 theres so many small details that make the graphics a strong point. next id ike to say the story 
 so far is very very very deep. niko is one of the best main characters ive seen in a game. the 
 script is written perfectly. youll never hear the same quote twice. there is so much about this 
 game that makes it a great game, the relationships, the freedom to do whatever you want whenever 
 you want, the story, the graphics. i could go on and on. the multiplayer is very solid. hard to 
 find matches sometimes, but im sure a patch will fix that soon enought. ive played the single player 
 for 13 hours allreaddy and im only 23% through the game so if your looking for a long game then 
 this is for you. imma go play some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief5761
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Don't believe anything the people are saying that rated this game a 7 or below; their just saying 
 all that for attention. This is the best game out there yet. Its the most addictive game I have 
 ever played in my life. I haven't found one thing wrong this game and probaly won't. The only thing 
 I can't get a hold of his the dang handbrake, I slide everywhere. This game has lived up to its 
 hype. Perfect 10, way to go rockstar. The only thing I never liked is the cussing, but that just 
 me. Other than that the games the best out there. I have always been a fan of GTA games since the 
 first one ever came out. I just wish you could customize your guy more, like in San Andreas. In 
 your face, to the people who rate this game a 2 or  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthumann
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is well, GTA. Nothing much different there. More elaborate world, more things to do, etc. 
 Driving a car is impossible. I choose the scooter since it seems to handle the best in the entire 
 game. Running almost horizontal to the ground (the move and lean physic) is not only unrealistic, 
 it just looks silly. Combat is God-awful, both melee and shooting. The aiming system is unpredictable. 
 I try to aim at a cop and I get a hot dog vendor instead... helpful. The newly raved about "Cover 
 System" is the worst of its kind. R*, please take some education from a R6 Vegas type cover system.
 
  
  I love GTA (I bought the special edition and all) and I love Rock Star Games (one of the best out 
 there) , but from all the hype that surrounded this game, including the completely undeserved "Perfect 
 10" rating from GameSpot. com, I am simply disappointed. I will play the game and have fun, but 
 I am highly disappointed.
  
  I haven't even tried multi-player yet. Not to my lack of time to do it or laziness, but simply 
 because you cannot connect to any multi-player servers to play it. Minor launch glitch we hope.
 
  
  Buy it. Enjoy it. But don't believe the hype. Good game, far from Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkauffman
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Obviously this game was a great deal of hype for me. graphics are great.
  
  But the character is slow as hell with movements, the police are set off by every little thing. 
 The police in the game will call out for the Swat team almost asap and a helicopter shows up.
 
  
  In the other GTA games you had access to airplanes and helicopters and unless you use cheats I 
 have yet to be able to find an airplane you can steal.
  
  The guns are all still the same nothing upgraded, which is a little boring if you ask me. 
  
 
  After a while of playing it I'm sure people on here who gave it high scores will see its flaws.
 
  
  Oh yeah and the driving of the cars is terrible they are way too overly sensitive to turning which 
 makes you almost always flip a car. 
  
  A car is a few thousand lbs it's not going to flip from turning that easily, a little realism please.
 
  
  And the mapping on it sucks in comparison to Saints Row (they show all the stores/buildings you 
 can go into) .
  
  I guess I had my expectations to be high, but the graphics are really good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game has it all, along with a great story to pull it all together. Let me say this, I read 
 a review that said no game is perfect, so what I want to know is then why have the rankings go 
 to 10? Well the answer is this game is the reason. I really got bored after GTA 3 with vice city 
 and San Andreas, but this brings the excitement to what I feared was going to be a stagnant genre. 
 
  Another review I read said "There is nobody like Nico in the world." (Nico is the main character.) 
 Well duh, who wants to play a GTA game where you speed past a cop car and immediately get chased 
 down? Who wants reality? The premise of GTA is a healthy balance of reality and fantasy. It is 
 A VIDEO GAME.
  
  Ok, so now that I addressed the hater reviewers on this site who obviously work for the company 
 responsible for Pokemon Mystery Dungeon lets get to what makes this game great.
  
  
  This game is great because it is like buying 20 games in one. There is so much to do that unlike 
 the other games where missions become boring, GTA IV manages to keep them varied and interesting. 
 
  
  The storyline is great, and the voice acting is AWESOME. (Then again I just got done trying out 
 Two World which is like the difference between Orlando Bloom and Denzel Washington.)
  
  The graphics are beautiful and the cars are fun to drive. The game's use of next gen technology 
 makes the city come alive.
  
  I could go on and on as I think this game will be up there with the legends for a long time but 
 I want to address what makes this game a perfect 10. 
  
  The multilayer is what gives this game the 10. Not only is the single player game awesome but you 
 finally get to go nuts on the town with friends. The other day I played cops and robbers with some 
 buds and it was some of the most creative game play I've played in awhile. 
  
  I loved speeding by my friend and both of us shooting at each other from our cars then me doing 
 a u-turn and have "Jailbreak" come on the radio.
  
  Which reminds me, the soundtrack has some really awesome songs, and all the commentary on our society 
 and culture will most likely spur debates and lectures at state colleges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Everything
  Excellent story and characters
  Amazing graphics
  Top quality voice acting
  Awesome soundtrack
  Greatly improved driving and combat
  High production 
 values
  Multi-player is tons of fun
  High replay value
  Liberty City feels real
  Tons of side quests
  Social life is a nice new feature
  Cell phone is a great tool
  Highest 
 polish of any GTA game to date
  
  THE BAD:
  Virtually nothing
  Minor frame-rate issues
  Difficulty is toned down somewhat
  Mission structure is still a little 
 repetitive
  
  I'd be the first to admit that I haven't always been a fan of the Grand Theft Auto games. Although 
 I've played every GTA game (except for the portable versions) since GTA 3, I never really got into 
 any of them except San Andreas. This was largely because of the game's setting and RPG elements.
 
  
  Although San Andreas was a great game, it wasn't without its flaws. The biggest being that it tried 
 to do too many things, and at times lost sight of the plot and what made the game great. These 
 issues, and virtually every other problem in the GTA series have been removed from Grand Theft 
 Auto 4. This is not only the best game in the series, but also one of the best video games in history. 
 GTA4 is a milestone in gaming world.
  
  The story in GTA4 takes a different tone from past games in the series. GTA: SA focused on police 
 brutality, racial inequality, and family, as it's main themes. The focus wasn't really on the main 
 character, but rather the world he lived in and the people in his life. In contrast, GTA4 focuses 
 almost entirely on the main character Niko Bellic and the relationships he makes with the games 
 other characters. It's a much more mature theme compared to other games in the series. Specially 
 GTA3. Niko is a war veteran and immigrant from Eastern Europe, who has been convinced by his cousin 
 Roman, to join him in America where he's rich, has fast cars, and women with huge breasts. Only 
 when he arrives in Liberty City via boat does he realize that his cousin has been lying to him.
 
  
  Roman is really living the low life, and owes money to the wrong types of people. He's hoping Niko 
 can help him out of this situation. Although Niko has his own reasons for coming to America, the 
 first set of missions revolve around helping Roman with his taxi business, and developing a social 
 life in a new city.
  
  Niko is immediately a very likeable character. He differs a lot from protagonists of past games 
 in the series. He has a dark past, and is forced into a life of crime to survive on the mean streets 
 of Liberty City. He's a tragic character that you feel some genuine emotion for. He's in a new 
 city, doesn't speak the language well, and that comes across throughout the game. You'll often 
 see Niko struggling to express himself, or failing to understand this new world around him. Seeing 
 him evolve over the course of the game is sure to be remembered as one of the best moments in video 
 game history.
  
  Story and character development aren't the only improvements made in GTA4. One of the biggest improvements 
 comes in the form of revamped combat and driving systems. One of the major complaints about past 
 GTA games has been the boring combat. This consisted mainly of holding down the lock-on button, 
 and pressing the fire button until everything was dead. It involved very little strategy.
  
  Although the lock-on system is back, it's tempered with a new cover system similar to the one 
 seen in Gears of War. No longer can you stand in the open, and expect to survive taking dozens 
 of bullets. Damage taken is much more realistic now, which forces you to take cover behind objects 
 in the environment. Nearly everything in the game can be used for cover. If you're driving a car, 
 you can drive it into the middle of a firefight, bail out, and then use the car to shield yourself 
 from bullets while taking out enemies. Cars are also much more durable to gun fire, so using them 
 as cover will rarely result in the car exploding on you. This adds a whole new element of strategy 
 to the game, and makes combat a lot more enjoyable.
  
  Also improved is the driving. All the vehicles use realistic physics, and handle differently. Drive 
 up on a curb, and you'll feel the car shift. Go airborne, and you'll feel the car swerve and struggle 
 to maintain control upon landing. It really makes the car chase sequences more enjoyable. Vehicle 
 combat has also had a makeover. You can now fire from a vehicle using the right stick to aim, and 
 the left stick to steer. It takes a little getting used to, but is greatly improved from only being 
 able to fire left and right out of the car.
  
  The way you evade police is revamped as well. You still have your familiar star based wanted levels, 
 but you evade police differently. In the past you would need to enter a Pay 'N Spray to lose the 
 cops. Pay 'N Spray's still exist, but they only work if the cops don't see you enter. The best 
 way to avoid the police is to get out of their search radius. When you commit a crime and are spotted 
 by the police, a blue radius is placed on your map around that location. The size of the blue area 
 depends on your wanted level. If you can get out of that area, and not be spotted by the police, 
 you will lose your wanted level. However, if you're spotted again, the radius will re-center. This 
 makes the game a bit easier to evade police on lower wanted levels. But much harder once police 
 helicopters become involved since they can follow you, and maintain that line of sight.
  
  A new feature to the game is the introduction of a social life. There were hints of this via the 
 dating system in San Andreas and the infamous "Hot Coffee" mod. Although there's no hidden sex 
 in the game, you can still go on dates with girls and reap certain benefits. But it's not just 
 limited to romantic interests. Niko can also develop relationships with other people he meets. 
 For example, if you hang out with certain characters they will start to like you. These sessions 
 can involve any of the games social activities including going to strip clubs, bowling, pool, darts, 
 etc. If they like you enough, you'll gain special abilities such as being able to buy guns anywhere 
 from the trunk of a car, calling to have a car bomb placed, and even get gang members to assist 
 you on missions. It's a very well fleshed out system that feels right at home.
  
  Your social life and your missions are all handled by a new addition to the game: the cell phone. 
 Cell phones have been used in GTA before, but never have they been part of the gameplay. You'll 
 get calls on your cell to start missions, but you can also make calls to people you've met to arrange 
 dates and side missions. You can send and receive text messages, change the wallpaper and ring 
 tones, and even get info sent to you in real life about songs you hear on the radio. Also tied 
 into this is the Internet caf called Tw@. You can browse over a hundred different websites, check 
 your e-mail, read the news reports about your exploits, and even use the matchmaking site to arrange 
 dates. It's a very cool way to interact with the game world.
  
  There are some minor problems with the gameplay, though. The mission structure is pretty much the 
 same as it was before. When you accept a mission, you watch a cut scene about the mission giver 
 having been wronged by someone. You're then tasked with going to a location, killing everyone on-site, 
 and returning for your reward. Nearly every mission from past GTA games has played out like this, 
 and GTA4 is no exception. Granted, most games can be boiled down to a structure like this, so it's 
 not something you can fault the game for. Besides, the clever use of things like the cell phone 
 and GPS navigation to get to your destination help make this more bearable.
  
  Visually, GTA4 is one of the best games on the 360. But not in the way that you'd think. It's not 
 pushing the hardware for extreme character or environment detail like we've seen in Gears of War 
 or Oblivion. But what it is doing is having dozens of characters and vehicles on screen and interacting 
 at a single time. Having so many things going on at one time can drop the frame-rate from time 
 to time, but rarely will you ever notice this.
  
  The characters aren't anything special, but they do look good in the cut scenes and have expressive 
 animation. The lip-synching is a little off, but it's still not bad. What really looks amazing 
 is the dynamic lighting and the constant day/night cycle. Seeing shadows move across objects with 
 the tracking of the sun is a wonder to behold. Explosions and weather effects like rain and fog 
 look very nice too. Although there is some occasional pop in, you can see for miles. It's really 
 breath taking to see skyscrapers towering in the distance from another island.
  
  Liberty City finally looks and feels like a real city. With the afore mentioned day/night cycle 
 comes routines for the various characters and businesses. Stores close at night, and there is less 
 traffic than during the day. One time I even called a girl to arrange for a date, only to have 
 her chew me out for calling her at 2:30am. People on the street will get into accidents, argue, 
 and even start fights all on their own.
  
  Like previous titles in the series, GTA4 is no slouch when it comes to music and sound. The voice 
 acting is the best in the series. Niko and his friends all speak with an Eastern European accent, 
 and it sounds great. But this also means that some players will need to turn subtitles on to understand 
 the characters. There's a Jamaican man named Little Jacob who's accent and lingo is so strong that 
 even with the subtitles on he's difficult to understand, but this is how the character was designed. 
 Even Niko will make comments that he can't understand him. He puts Brad Pitt's character in Snatch 
 to shame.
  
  The soundtrack is likewise amazing. There are no less than 20 radio stations, all with their own 
 style of music or talk. The songs selected to play on the stations fit the theme of each, and are 
 some of the best examples of their genre. The commercials are just as funny as ever, and you'll 
 even hear news reports about what's going on in the city. There are TV's where you can watch hilarious 
 TV Shows, and even go to a theater to watch live performances. All of this adds to the feeling 
 that Liberty City is a real city with it's own history and heritage.
  
  GTA4 will take the average gamer about 30 hours to complete the story missions. It will last even 
 longer if you do all the side quests, social interactions, mini games, and hidden packages. There's 
 even a significant replay value thanks to multiple endings. Other characters attitudes will also 
 change based on how they like you, and the things you do. This adds its own replay value to see 
 how the different interactions play out.
  
  For the first time, a console version of GTA has online multi-player, and it's some of the most 
 fun you'll have on the 360. You start a multi-player match via the in-game cell phone. From there, 
 you can customize your avatar, and partake in the various modes. There are co-op missions that 
 task your team with doing various story-based tasks such as robbing a bank. Competitive players 
 can get their fix via death-match that spans the entire city, or various team modes. Included in 
 the team modes are Mafiya, which has each team performing various tasks before the others. Car-jack 
 City has you steal specific cars, and bringing them to the drop off point with as little damage 
 as possible. Turf War has each team attempting to control various points on the map. Finally, Cops 
 'N Crooks has one team play as the criminals, and the other as the police. The police have to either 
 kill the crooks, or their Boss while the crooks need to flee in their getaway car. There're even 
 online races, which can be played both with and without weapons. All these online modes are a blast 
 to play, and sure to be one of the most loved elements of GTA4.
  
  The achievements are very well balanced between single-player and multi-player. Some involve completing 
 certain mission branches, while others are awarded for unlocking special abilities, and for exploration. 
 Some even have that usual GTA humor. Like an achievement called "Warm Coffee" where you need to 
 be invited into a girl's house after dating her.
  
  I have never given a game a perfect score for a good reason. Some like Oblivion and Forza 2 have 
 come close, but have missed the mark because of some minor flaws that effected the gameplay. The 
 beauty of GTA4 is that even though it does have some minor flaws, these really don't matter considering 
 how great everything else is. A 10 doesn't mean that the game is flawless. Just that what flaws 
 it does have are so minor, that it doesn't effect the rest of the product. Grand Theft Auto 4 is 
 that type of game. It's an outstanding game in everyway, and will forever be remembered as a game 
 that took video games to the next level of interactive media. This is a game that should not be 
 missed by anyone.
  
  STORY  10
  PRESENTATION  10
  GAMEPLAY  9.5
  GRAPHICS  9.5
  SOUND  10
  VALUE  10
  
  OVERALL  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Best Features of the Game:
  The best graphics of the Grand Theft Auto series.
  Car's are a little touchy at first but after you get the hang of it is the most realistic and bielivable 
 of the series.
  They have realy built on the date and love aspect of which is brilliant.
  The phone was a great idea it was first seen in Saint's Row but that phone was limited in abilities 
 thought the phone in Grand Theft Auto 4 is well tooled.
  Hand to hand combat is alot more dramatic and has more essence than beating a guy and getting money 
 for it.
  Explosion's are the best i have seen in any game.
  Running is alot better with a walk, run and sprint run.
  Create's option's in game to inhance 
 charactor development like choosing to kill a man with an exciting cut scene or doing the right 
 thing and helping him.
  Alot more building's are enterable and alot more shop's to enter.
  Swimming has been retooled to better benifit the game's statue's of perfection.
  Crashe's are 
 ALOT beilieveable beeing that in the previous title's you did not get hurt in a chrash unlike now 
 you can.
  Massive amount's of radio station's and other entertainment.
  And alot lot more.....
  
  Worst feature's of the game:
  Wepon's and vechile's are more limited 
 but they are all nessacary for the moderness of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: threedown
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  this game has alot of issues.... ill agree with that... now with that being said... this is my 
 type of game, and i love every aspect of it despite the flaws. ive alwasy loved the GTA series 
 and this is by far the best one for me. the first 2-3 hours i was kindve worried, because it just 
 didnt feel right, but thats because this game has somewhat of a learning curve and if your not 
 into it or willing to learn it, its going to suck for you, which is why i understand some of the 
 low scores it got. but if you love this style of game and take the time to learn the conrtols, 
 its an EXTREMELY rewarding experience. 
  at first the driving was awkward for me, til i discovered you dont need to hold the gas all the 
 way down all the time, you just cant do that, youll be all over the place, drive like a normal 
 person and youll be fine, the driving mechanics are actually really good once you get the hang 
 of it, pump the brakes, use the ebrake etc etc etc.... the leaning when he walked looked weird 
 to me at first, but again, once you get the groove of walking and running it makes sense. and he 
 moves at the "right" speed. he walks, which is slow, duh hes walking, then he runs, not to bad, 
 and sprints, hes no track runner but its decent speed for a normal human. theirs definately some 
 graphical glitch's which i forgive because 1. it doesnt take away from the gaming experience at 
 all, and 2. this game is huge!!!! and theres so much in it, i applaud them for the great job they 
 did... ive heard complaints about the cover system, i really dont know what theyre talking about, 
 hit the RB button and you take cover, behind just about anything, it works really well for me, 
 never had any problems with it and the lock-on, and free aim and blind fire works really good too, 
 almost to good, i feel like a skilled assassin. and the story just plain rocks!! so anyways, im 
 not that great of a reviewer but i wanted to add my 2 cents. this game probably deserves a 9 for 
 all the minor issues, but its so damn fun i cant wait to play more, its got me hooked, thats why 
 i gave it a 10! its obviously the most hyped game ive ever seen, which makes people suspect it 
 right off the back, so anyways, their it is, your gonna either LOVE IT!!! like i do, or just not 
 see whats so special which is fine, its just not your type of game... for me, im gonna go jump back 
 into it, i think my 360 has rested enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing..... the city looks great. No more **** GTA graphics that we had on PS2..... the 
 cars look real.... the city looks real.... and the game is just beautiful. The sound is good. the VO 
 is great Nikko sounds good. The soundtrack is alright not as good as past GTA games but I still 
 like it. The gameplay is awesome. The new cover system makes the game alot easyer and funner. The 
 driving is hard so you will have trouble doing that for awhile. The controls are good... better than 
 the PS2 GTA games. The game is just amazing.... no game is better than this one..... ROCKSTAR really 
 nailed it.... the game is more realistic.... looks life like.... and is just a fun game...... oh and 
 its GTA so you can do whatever the HELL YOU WANT.. So just like all reviews i give it a 10 out 
 of 10..... no game is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptomex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Where to start. Grand Theft Auto IV is, by far, one of the greatest games I have ever played. The 
 characters, the city, gameplay, audio, physics, it's just so overwhelming and loads of fun. I won't 
 give away any part of the story but the mission design is superb. The characters are unique and 
 memorable and the voice over acting is top notch. The action is incredible, exciting, and intense.
 
  
  Liberty City, the city itself, is laid out nicely. Being a mock-up of New York City, it really 
 captures the essence and feel of New York. The atmosphere, pedestrians, buildings, roads, streets, 
 etc, really give the affect of New York. Also, classic buildings and landmarks, like the Statue 
 of Liberty have made in appearance in GTAIV, but like all GTA games, they have different names. 
 For example, the Statue of Liberty is represented as the Statue of Happiness, Central Park is represented 
 as Middle Park. Also, the names of many buildings and landmarks represented are quite amuzing. 
 Now that every street has name is makes navigating around the city a little easier.
  
  The obvious things that make GTAIV the best in the series and a much needed improvement from it's 
 previous predecessors is the graphics and the physics. These two things are revolutionary to the 
 Grand Theft Auto series. The graphics look great and everything has detail. Explosions look spectacular. 
 The physics engine is amazing. Shooting people in different parts of the body have different effects. 
 Shooting someone in the leg causes them to crawl or limp. When you think you've killed someone, 
 he'll start screaming in pain and you might have to shoot him one more time. Shooting people on 
 high places can cause them to fall and scream for their lives. Seeing the blood on your clothes 
 after being shot is an awesome affect.
  
  The combat in GTAIV is outstanding. Every scenario will be different. All the shootouts are intense 
 and action packed. Shooting parts of the environment have different effects. Chunks of walls will 
 fly out with a small dust cloud, bottles and glass will break and shatter. Enemies that are down 
 but not dead you can hear screaming, in pain, for help. There are fifteen weapons to choose from 
 and the melee combat is fantastic and much more in depth than previous GTA titles. You can now 
 pick up small objects in the environment like bricks and they can be used as weapons. The duck 
 and cover feature really makes the combat in GTAIV exciting. It also adds more depth to the combat 
 scenarios.
  
  The audio is perfect. Pedestrian voices really help capture the essence of New York. From the screeching 
 sound of skidding wheels to the sounds of weapons, the audio is outstanding. The voice acting is 
 great and makes the characters memorable.
  
  Vehicles have been much improved as well. They're very detailed and the control of each vehicle 
 is unique making the driving experience more realistic. Too hard an impact will cause the driver 
 to be ejected through the windshield. Whether your is popped or not, the wheel can get stuck and 
 stop rotating. Also, if damage is done to the wheels, they can become bent and wobbly. Vehicles 
 can now take more bullets before they're totaled. You can turn on GPS in the options menu so every 
 vehicle has GPS. No more arrows guiding you on the road, the GPS displays a route to your destination 
 on your radar. Also, the nicer the vehicle is, the nicer the GPS system is. In the nicer vehicles, 
 the GPS system will have a voice that will tell you how far to go and where to turn.
  
  The multiplayer is outstanding. With several different modes to choose from, it's pretty much everything 
 you would want for multiplayer in a Grand Theft Auto game. "Free Mode" is very cool. You can do 
 whatever you want with anyone you want. This is great when you don't want to play a match or the 
 single player, but just sit back and wreak havoc in the city with friends or other players.
  
  What really makes Grand Theft Auto IV stand out isn't just the graphics, physics, the storyline, 
 or even the multiplayer. It's the little things. You'll pass a garbage truck, and actually see 
 two men standing on the back of it. Pedestrians will preach and make random speeches standing on 
 the street. The ability to watch television, get in any taxi and choose a destination, even chat 
 with the cab driver, go online and meet people, check email, hunt criminals down using a police 
 computer. When you drive into and kill a pedestrian, the pedestrian's blood from the impact will 
 be seen and remain on the vehicle. Bullet holes is a nice affect. We all know that almost all shooting 
 games of today have the bullet hole feature, but it's especially nice in GTAIV. When shooting a 
 vehicle, every bullet hole will remain on the vehicle, each hole looks different and is highly 
 detailed, seeing the metal underneath the paint. If a vehicle crashes or hits something, you'll 
 see particles fly up and a dent where the source of the impact occured. Seeing the water splash 
 up from the tires when driving in the rain. It's little things like this that make GTAIV an ultimate 
 gaming experience.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the greatest games ever. It's a gaming experience like no 
 other. With outstanding graphics, a physics engine, and superb mission design, it's a hard game 
 to stop playing. Die hard fans of the series can really appreciate the improvements from previous 
 GTA titles. From the GTAIII series to GTAIV is probably a bigger leap than GTA2 to GTAIII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexus_nero
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  What can be said! This game has sent me into an insomniatic like state, like a Japaneses gamer 
 on valium, not saying that I'm finding it boring, far from it. since Monday I have managed 7 hours 
 sleep, waking up each time to find the controller still in my hand, TV making that irritating high-pitched 
 noise (yes unfortunately I don't yet own one of those eye-piercingly-sharp life-replicating over-priced 
 TV's that send small children into comas) and a solitary Malteser stuck to my lower lip. The more 
 I play the game, the more I wanna go out, rob an old lady of her Mercedes, kick her a few times 
 and any innocent by-standers, perhaps pull out a 9mm if im in a particularly destructive mood and 
 commit mass homicide. THIS is the reason why the game is so great, you can do all things imaginable, 
 with the biggest consequence being a slight concussion and a small dent in your wallet, waking 
 up outside a hospital. What seperates this installment from its predecessors is the aesthetic splender, 
 harnessing such technology as HDR, motion blur and high-definition output (for those lucky ones) . 
 All these elements are woven together with an immersive story-line to create a game that has a 
 serious amount of playability. Not only does it set a new benchmark for games as a whole, it is 
 one of the first games that pushes the power of your xbox 360 into an early retirement.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgewd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Just like a vast majority of the gaming community I was desperate to play GTA IV. As soon as the 
 intro rolled and the opening scene began playing my anticipation had reached monumental levels.
 
  
  Driving Roman to his bed sit, the scale and detail of Liberty city blows you away, having 'I Wanna 
 Be Your Dog' by the Stooges play straight off the bat raised expectations still further!
  
  But after some hours gaming it wore off, after months waiting to play it and the intro raising 
 the bar still further, there was a huge anti-climax. 
  The excitement levels dropped, a few glitches forced me to restart a mission a few times and I 
 was unimpressed. 
  
  GTA 4 does GTA very well, it's dumped all the painful parts out of San Andreas, girlfriends now 
 have a point to them and eating raises your health. But there's nothing massively new here beyond 
 the flash new cityscape, the cover system is neat, the mobile phone a nice gimmick. 
  But it IS flawed and underwhelming, there I said it, it was a minor let down.
  
  However, it 
 is still a great game. 
  
  The story is compelling, the characters have depth most games couldn't dream of, I found myself 
 going bowling with a girlfriend a few too often just to get laid again and running down police 
 and pedestrians with as much relish as I did on the first ever GTA. But despite these advances, 
 I still have the niggling feeling that it hasn't moved on enough.
  
  Oh sure, I've played it for just a day but at the moment, but the only thing calling me back to 
 play, is the Online multiplayer, which is outstanding. Without which I think the game would only 
 warrant a 7 or 8 at best.
  
  Playing with 15 other people across the city is nothing short of awesome, racing fire trucks, pick 
 up your friends in a helicopter and take pot-shots at pedestrians or just play cops and robbers, 
 I'd buy the game for this alone! 
  
  And that is why it gets a 9 for me, to tell the truth I don't know how I'd change the single player, 
 suffice to say I don't think it's good enough after the hype. If it was the first in the series 
 I'd give it more praise, but in my very humble opinion it came up a little short.
  
  Get GTA 4 if you're one of the ten who didn't pre-order it and once you've familiarised yourself 
 with the vastness that is Liberty City and you're used to the controls, get online, it won't disappoint!
 
  
  9 out of 10, close, but no cigar!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethonline
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  At first I was very excited about the release of GTAIV. It came with all the hype you would rather 
 expect from a Microsoft game.
  
  What makes this game a huge letdown is how the camera works as well as the so called Gears of War 
 cover system which is not at all like that. It takes too long to aim at anything from cover. The 
 cover system also makes it hard to look around.
  
  GTAIV is quite the same as the last one in the series with the same kind of missions... Chasing, 
 killing and escorting people around.
  
  It is hard to just go around corners wirh any car without doing a 360 degree spin. The graphics 
 isn't all that nice.
  
  Multiplayer adds allot to a series that is getting old with the same gameplay as it's predecesors 
 and adds to the replay value. When all is said and done, GTAIV is a good way to waste away time 
 if there is nothing else to do.
  
  If you're a GTA fan, you'll love this one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kutchena
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  GTA IV keeps pretty much every promise that Rockstar made. Multiplayer is fun and addicting, and 
 the story in the regular game mode is outstanding. Unlike the GTA games of the past, the main character 
 isn't just some guy that you look forward to taking control of to destroy the city; Niko Bellic, 
 is a well-developed character with a well-developed story. This makes the game that much more engrossing.
 
  
  Big props to Rockstar for:
  - making the city more immersive - I doubt I will ever notice repetitiveness in civilian interactions 
 on the streets because there is just too much dialogue and attention to detail in this game.
  - skimming down some facets from GTA: SA (San Andreas) such as dating (much easier) , while making 
 other parts of the game more intuitive (Wanted - Level radar system)
  - succeeding with multiplayer; deathmatch is no where near as sharp as Call of Duty 4, but it isn't 
 supposed to be. There are plenty of positive aspects that make each multiplayer mode enjoyable 
 and original. 
  - cover system for gunplay and cell phone user interface.
  
  Negative:
  - I'm not even sure if I am disappointed with this, but there does not seem to be as many easter 
 egg hunts (seashells, tags, bouquets) . Some of that stuff in GTA: SA was just a distraction for 
 me.
  
  Conclusion:
  You are sure to enjoy this game, whether you are a fan of this series or not. This game is probably 
 more raw (dialogue-wise) and seedy than any other game in the GTA universe, but it's all done with 
 the darker and more immersive story of Niko Bellic in mind. Finally, I know that kiddies are playing 
 this game, but I really frown on the idea that anyone under 14 is playing this game so parents: 
 even if you are secure in the maturity of your 7-year-old son and/or daughter, you still don't 
 have any business buying this for their birthday - no offense, or anything. "10" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuSt2Fr3sH
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  While you may read some people going on babling about how their multiplayer did not work or complaing 
 about the dumbest things I ever heard of. DONT be discouraged by it GTA 4 is an AMAZING game. When 
 I got my copy of the game which was at 10am I jumped directly into multiplayer where my cousin 
 and I wreaked havoc on the city FOR 9 HOURS with NO FREEZING!!! 
  
  GRAPHICS
  One of the best games Ive seen so far on the Xbox 360 considering that they have to take into account 
 keeping up all the textures FOR A WHOLE CITY this game looks amazing from characters to city buildings.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay has been changed somewhat but after a hour or so you'll be in good shape with them. Dricing 
 vehicles have become more realistic... no more can you just drive like a maniac... you have to learn 
 how to handle different types of cars... WHICH SOME PEOPLE DO NOT UNDERSTAND THEY JUST COMPLAIN 
 THAT DRIVING SUCKS. Once you've mastered driving which I have its GREAT. Just REALISTIC NOW.
  
  STORYLINE
  I cant say that much about this category since I have just started to play singleplayer 
 since I was stuck on the addictive multiplayer but its been pretty good so far and I can tell it's 
 going to get better.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  What can I say... simply WOW!!! the best multiplayer game Ive played online... it took me away from 
 Call Of Duty 4 so just imagine how good it is. Theres alot of different modes you've probably read 
 about but the best to me is free roaming with up to 16 people OMG it's crazy like WW3 or something 
 complete havoc with cops going crazy trying to arrest everyone. THE BEST!!!!
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  Dont listen to what other reviewers are complaing about there have been so called 
 cases that some people's games have frozen but thats not the problem with the MAJORITY of us. So 
 much stuff went into making this game some people are just discraceful and cant appreciate anything... They 
 have great music tons of radio stations there cars drive more realistically also they look WAY 
 BETTER the character models are GREAT the gameplay is also one of the best of the series. You can 
 go on a game internet which is funny, watch TV, your phone can be changed to have different ringtones 
 and other things. Last but not least it has never looked more realitic to shoot some1 while in 
 there car while the blood is sprayed all on the car window AMAZING also hittin some1 with ya car 
 leaves bloodstains on your vehicle. OMG IM GOING BACK TO PLAY NOW LMAO... GO OUT GET THIS GAME NOW!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_Blain
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is by no accounts perfect but is the best overall free roaming experience I have ever come 
 across in any of the games that i've played. 
  
  There is alot to be said about what makes this game so great. The story, the setting and the way 
 so many new innovative elements come together that aren't featured in any other games in this genre 
 e. g the mobile phone, internet, tv e. t. c. It's these elements that bring it a step ahead of almost 
 all other games I can think of in this generation. It's the sheer detail of how much content that's 
 found in GTA that makes it so unique. With rising production costs and many studios starting to 
 make more episodic type video games I find that this feels as if a breathe of fresh air to the 
 otherwise lackluster games that simply don't tell much of a story and don't really engage the audience 
 e. g R6V, Halo 3, GoW. I guess i'm not much of an online gamer which is where most of these find 
 appeal but GTA IV with it's sheer depth of content is so immersive and with its multiplayer component 
 is something that's definently worth the time and money. 
  
  This game is worth rating a 10 as it's the sheer scale and depth to this game aswell as the excellent 
 graphics and physics that make it that on it's on merits. The 10 is also based on comparisons to 
 other games of this generation more specifically on the Xbox as that's what I play on and this 
 simply has no rival. It's the best thing since sliced bread! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monoendo1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has been one of 2008's most anticipated game's and now that its out we can se 
 why.
  
  Best Features of the Game:
  The best graphics of the Grand Theft Auto series.
  Car's are a little touchy at first but after you get the hang of it is the most realistic and bielivable 
 of the series.
  They have realy built on the date and love aspect of which is brilliant.
  The phone was a great idea it was first seen in Saint's Row but that phone was limited in abilities 
 thought the phone in Grand Theft Auto 4 is well tooled.
  Hand to hand combat is alot more dramatic and has more essence than beating a guy and getting money 
 for it.
  Explosion's are the best i have seen in any game.
  Running is alot better with a walk, run and sprint run.
  Create's option's in game to inhance 
 charactor development like choosing to kill a man with an exciting cut scene or doing the right 
 thing and helping him.
  Alot more building's are enterable and alot more shop's to enter.
  Swimming has been retooled to better benifit the game's statue's of perfection.
  Crashe's are 
 ALOT beilieveable beeing that in the previous title's you did not get hurt in a chrash unlike now 
 you can.
  Massive amount's of radio station's and other entertainment.
  And alot lot more.....
  
  Worst feature's of the game:
  Wepon's and vechile's are more limited 
 but they are all nessacary for the moderness of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  First let me get this off my chest. If you don't like GTA don't waste peoples time righting a review 
 for it. I understand why people don't like any GTA games but if you did not like any of the other 
 GTA games then the chance that you went out and bought this game are slim so why would anyone write 
 a review for a game that they knew they were going to hate to begin with and never played it anyway. 
 It is like the people who rout against there hometown sports teams just to get on everyone's nerves. 
 And if you did not like any of the past GTA games and you went out and bought this one then you 
 are a fool, and a fool and his money will always part ways. Now that I am done with my rant let 
 me say that this game is fantastic. Not because it brings anything revolutionary to the table, 
 but because it takes all of the ideas from the past GTA games (and a few from Saints Row) and puts 
 it all together in the perfect package. The use of cell phones to keep all of the story threads 
 tidy. The use of GPS to keep you on the right path (although it does take away from forcing you 
 to learn the city streets better) , the use of a single city to tighten up the game (GTA: SA, although 
 expansive, was a little too big for its own good) , and with the best story and characters of any 
 sandbox game (GTA or not) ever. No more mute stoic types, no more Miami Vice wannabes, no more 
 gangbang stereo types. Finally a GTA with a lead character that you like, and want to see succeed. 
 The graphics are good if not great and the multiplayer, although a bit tacked on, still gives you 
 something to do between single player go a rounds and the fact that the whole city is open to do 
 what you please is a nice added bonus. All around great game with replay value to spare. But only 
 if you like GTA games, if you don't keep it to yourself, the ones who do like them don't care. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumptruck123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game but it took a step back from other GTAs. No property, businesses, robbing stores 
 and houses, character customization, and a good number of other features were removed from this 
 latest GTA. I don't care or want to hear excuses like: "GTA 3 didn't have these things and it was 
 a good game." This is true but I don't care. Why not just say Madden Football used to not have 
 stats, players names, or franchise mode but yet it was a good game so be happy with a newest Madden 
 that has nothing but better graphics. New editions to a game should have more content than previous 
 ones. And don't tell me that the phone is an added feature, because it is only a way to access 
 missions, friends, and girlfriends. The internet on the game is mostly worthless too, and in this 
 game you are such a worthless bum that you have to go to an internet caf to get online. 
  
  Adding this online multiplayer crap into the game meant sacrifices and they were made at these 
 levels. I understand that some people don't have real friends and need to play online games with 
 others. But why should the rest of us that people around us to play games with suffer. Aren't there 
 enough online games, do they have to kill this franchise like they did with Warcraft. The lack 
 of additional content in this game will destroy the replay value of this game completely. This 
 was the only game that I ever bought without renting first that will never happen again.
  
  Despite all the negatives in this game it is still a lot of fun. It is good to finally have another 
 GTA to play. I only hope it doesn't take so long for another to come out to correct the mistakes 
 of this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a masterpiece of the gaming art, but it's accolades of perfect 10 scores are a little 
 off, as there are more problems than you would expect for a perfect score. But don't take that 
 the wrong way, GTA IV may not be worth a 10, but it isn't far off.
  
  Lets start with the good, shall we?
  
  Immersion: GTA has always been about immersion. Sure, 
 there are oddjobs and missions, but it's structure is free form. From the second Nico steps off 
 the boat, you know there's a grand structure here. It's like a modern day Oblivion in terms of 
 scope and immersion.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, the framerate problems aren't as bad as some people make 
 them out to be, but they do have the occasional stutter, but everything is acceptable, with the 
 exception of a few seratted edges, and a short draw distance, but with so much on screen at the 
 same time, you can forgive these flaws, as everything else is slick and gorgeous. The animation 
 is also very well complimented and realistic.
  
  Gameplay: Okay, GTA's core gameplay may seem the same off the top, but there are many changes. 
 Each weapon truly feels unique and realistic, and using them is just as fun, I admit, even though 
 I would never live my violent fantasies in real life (Which is another plus to the GTA games, violent 
 escapism with no real people hurt. I still wouldn't give this game to anyone under the age of 17 
 though...) this game fully realizes them, I was worried that the blood count and carnage wouldn't 
 be as fulfilling, especially considering that many games these days pass off blood effects as the 
 cliched puff with no decals. I miss decals, but while you won't have pinky-violence style heads 
 popping off like in the previous games, the blood is exquisite and it drenches. In a similar fashion 
 to Goldeneye or the original Perfect Dark, subtle patches of blood soak through clothes where bullets 
 hit, rather than over the top bullet holes. Blood spatters the screen in up close and personal 
 hits, including hits on Nico, and the blood spurts realistically and the decal textures are great, 
 also gone is the ridiculous 'pool' of blood from past GTA games, with the exception of headshots, 
 in which the damage on the head leaks out a small, realistic patch of blood that drips down ledges 
 and other surfaces. Hell, blood even appears on cars, whether it be from running people down or 
 shooting them while in the car (Or having yourself shot in the car) . Now let's talk other things, 
 the cars handle excellently, a little exagurrated, but it adds to the fun and destructive nature 
 ofthe game. It's always funny when you see a cop car fall off a freeway overpass just to explode, 
 and even if it hurts your character, you can't deny the adrenaline that pumps through you when 
 you fail to slam your brakes in time and you fly through the windshield (Remember kids, click it 
 or ticket!) . Much of the gameplay would be hard to summarize without going into huge detail, so 
 that is all I'm going to cover. The rest, which is all great, I shall let the player play for themselves 
 to find out about.
  
  Now, let's talk about the bad...
  
  MULTIPLAYER. Multiplayer is fun... when it works. The game is riddled with strange bugs, where 
 your console will crash trying to load the multiplayer game. That black screen is starting to look 
 worse than a blue screen. I am hoping, rockstar will fix this in the future. 
  
  The story: The story is a mix of good and bad. I was severely disappointed to find out that, after 
 hearing the game had a brilliant story, that it had many cliches of past GTA games, as well as 
 the bad Reservoir Dogs style dialogue (F-this, D**khead that) . Some dialogue is funny, some is 
 just annoying. At least the actors are up to snuff. In the long run, the story is interesting, 
 and Nico is a good character, but the missions are often cliched... kill drug runners, be a mafia 
 hitman and find the rat, it's still fun to play, but it doesn't really make for great story.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a massive improvement over all previous titles, and is the greatest game 
 existing on the 360 to date right next to BioShock, but does it deserve a 10? No. It has it's flaws, 
 and they need to be addressed appropriately. But are these flaws serious enough to say 'This game 
 is bad?' No. This game is a masterpiece. Even with it's flaws, it's greatness overcomes them in 
 spades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodr1gues
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  I played it last night for about 3 hours and I can say that GTA IV is a great game although it 
 certainly doesn't deserve a 10. Good graphics, although not as good as other titles out there on 
 the 360, good storyline, amazing voice acting, good soundtrack and as other GTA titles very addictive. 
 There's a few issues with the AI but it's not a big deal and it won't ruin the experience. After 
 playing the campaign for a couple of hours I decided to go multiplayer and it's here where the 
 problems start. The game seems to freeze just before the match is about to start. I don't know 
 if other people have experienced the same problem and I will try again today, but it was pretty 
 frustrating having to restart the console 3 times to play 1 multiplayer match. There's loads of 
 different modes but I was only able to play a couple of team death matches and that was great fun. 
 To recap, amazing story mode and broken multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_rever
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Right then i have to quickly make the point that i have not fully completed this game YET, but 
 i thought that i would review it none the less as it is such an amazing game and i think that my 
 opinion will not change on it so here goes.
  
  First off i love the graphics of this game they are a whole lot better in my opinion than all of 
 the other GTA games. The physics engine in this game is on its own new level. for example Niko 
 is a whole lot more aware of his suroundings, so you can jump up things climb over things and all 
 that kool stuff you would have loved to have properly seen in the last games. As well as that kool 
 little addition the surroundings also allow for different ways to kill people or even different 
 ways people you have killed bodies to react differently. for example i shot some dude at the top 
 of a rail way staircase and his body tumbled all the way down the stairs instead of just fall flat 
 on the stairs and just stay there. 
  
  Now onto the driving, this has got a whole lot more realistic in GTA 4. Though on one side this 
 is a definate plus as you will get abit more enjoyment out of trying to master the driving its 
 is also in my opinion a major downside as i dont like the fact that u really have to cut your speed 
 in half to take corners and the breaks hardly work in most cars which dont really help. But putting 
 that to a side there is also some real good new features, like if your not feeling in the mood 
 to steal a car and drive off you could always call down a taxi and pay him to take you somewhere, 
 as well as that addition the whole public transport system has been improved in my opinion, not 
 that i really use it.
  
  Friends are the bigger addition to this game, no not ow wow look i have a friend following me around 
 shooting people this is addtion makes all those people who lock themselves in rooms for days playing 
 one game for countless hours (like myself) feel popular, as you get in game friends ringing you 
 up and asking if you want to hang out and go somewhere, which is kool and if you get real friendly 
 with them then they will offer you little services. like if you get quite friendly with your cousin 
 then you can get taxi's sent to pick you up and will take you where ever. As well as friends you 
 can also get girl friends in this game, so you can go on dates with girls you know in game and 
 take them places like bars and bowling, though you can do this with you friends the big difference 
 is that when you take you lady friend home you get a choice to try your luck, last time i tried 
 my luck i had taken her to a bar and i was well drunk and had drove home quite drunk and well to 
 say the least she wasnt to happy and told me where to get off.
  
  Like in the last game there was little places you can go and do little mini games, but in this 
 game there is internet cafe's where you can get email that is right EMAIL. though it is in game 
 and generally all crap its still quite funny to receive emails, as well as that little thing you 
 can now also go to car washes to clean up your car. i mean why would you not want to do that. though 
 some of the things in game are a tad useless like for example ATM's are useless for your character 
 as he carriers all his money on him some how and it just shows how much money you have on a bigger 
 screen, hang round an atm long enough and people will use it and needless to say you beat them 
 down and rob off with there cash. 
  
  The weapons system is alot better as now you can hide behind cover and shoot out at people, they 
 only way i can really describe the cover system as is basically GRAW, but that really isnt a bad 
 thing, infact i think it adds loads to GTA4. now you can hide properly you wont be killed whilst 
 yelling at your screen "why the hell arnt you behind cover" as i did many times in the last game.
 
  
  now onto the last part the story, well as i said i havnt yet completed it but the story itself 
 is well good. you start off by getting off a boat and then start to work your way up from nothing. 
 you meet some rather kool characters on the way and well some down right dodgy ones.
  
  thank you for reading another one of my probably not so good reviews, a little note that if the 
 spelling is bad is because im dyslexic and well just lazy as well. if any of you are thinking about 
 buying GTA 4 and you actually know somewhere which has it in stock then go out and buy it, you 
 will love this game and i cant really think of a way to better described it in many many good words 
 than by juts say well its GTA 4
  
  laters gamers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultralesus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  I, like so many others cued up for GTA at midnight to secure a copy. At 11 there was already a 
 huge line, so I'm glad I got there an hour earlier. By the time midnight had rolled around, the 
 queue was around the corner and down the street. With the exception of a new hardware release I 
 can't see this sort of thing happeneing for any other game other than GTA. Halo didn't need a midnight 
 opening, nither did Crackdown. 
  
  For someone who has never played GTA (And if thats the case, wha rong wit you!?) you may find it 
 hard to understand why exactly one game can cause all this fuss. That certain was the reacation 
 we got from the local townies, who hurlded abuse at us for standing in line at midnight for a computer 
 game. To which myself and many other people replied with 'What the hell are you doing getting drunk 
 on a Monday night!?'
  
  Anyway, again, for people who have never played GTA, the concept is simple. You're a man in a city 
 filled with drug dealers and murderers. The city is completly open and you can decide to either 
 do a mission, or run riot in the street with a rocket launcher. You can steal nearly any car, kill 
 any body on the street. This might sound alike a psyco's dream game but not yours. However, there 
 is a lot more to it then just the random car jacking and NPC hit-and-run. Imagaine this... you're 
 boss ordered you to take down a target but while doing so you get spotted by the police. You panic, 
 try and jump in to a car and with that song from the movie Roadtrip blasting out the stero, you 
 speed off. Only as you do it, a police man stupidly gets in your way is is thrown into the air 
 by your bonnet. You just got your second star. As your frantically trying to evade the police, 
 you're speeding a lot more than you usually would and accedently take a few NPC's out on the side 
 walk. Third star. Ahead is a police road block, you know the back end of a car is the lightest 
 and so plow straight into the rear to get by eaiser, however the stationed police car swings round 
 and squashes the police man that was firing at you. Fourth star, now swat are after you. As you're 
 speeding down the road, SWAT van's, a police helicopter and plenty of normal police cars are all 
 on your tail, trying to ram you off the road and you're smiling, laughing about it, still singing 
 along to that song from 'Roadtrip'. Ahead is a ramp which you take to quickly get over the river, 
 behind the numerous SWAT vans and police cars all fail to stop in time and end up swimming with 
 the fishes. This is but one of the charms of GTA.
  
  So, as you probably expect, all these little things return in GTA, the great police chases, the 
 radio stations, the funny easter eggs, over the top characters... everything thats made GTA what 
 it is. However, IV has returned, some what, more to these roots. The last games Vice City Stories 
 and San Andreas started adding new features which began to distract you too much from the game 
 itself. It started getting annoying when you was heading to a new mission and, oh surprise surprise, 
 a business gets attacked. Or having to keep going to the gym everday to keep your guy looking like 
 a steriod overdosed wrestler.
  
  IV still has many things to do between missions if you get bored. Originally, you'll only be able 
 to do taxi missions, but as you get settled into the new-llok Liberty City, you'll find alot more 
 to do. San Andreas girfriend system is back and this time its a little more interesting. You can 
 arrange or cancel meetings, go bowling or for dinner. This time, date-making is limited to females 
 either, you can ask male friends if they want to go to the a strip club or comedy club or evena 
 holicopter ride.
  
  Everything is all held together with another new feature, the mobile phone. Once you've met someone 
 new you can press UP on the de-pad to bring up the phone, navigate to messages or contacts and 
 select the contacts name from the phones address book. Then there are commands to envite them to 
 bowling, dinner ect. You can also just select 'call' and see what they are up to, however most 
 time's you'll just get an answering phone. The amount of detail in the phone alone is typical Rockstar 
 quality, you can even press up again to get access to the keypad an manually input numbers. Sat 
 in a taxi... bored of waiting to get to your safehouse? Well theres a number asking for drivers. 
 Phone it and see what you get! Yes you can even call the police on 911. Doing so sends a police 
 car, fire engine or ambulence to your current location, handy if you even need one for a mission.
 
  
  Another new feature is the internet. You can log on from computers in internet cafes and browse 
 numours websites, most filled with typical GTA humour and also recieve job's via E-Mail, including 
 spam. You get an option to reply with either a positive comment or a negative one. You can go on 
 internet dating sites, send a message to a girl, wait (and I mean wait) to see if you get a reply 
 and arrange a meeting. Again the level of detail is astounding. And this detail is far above where 
 the GTA games were heading with its RPG elements and business empires, making it feel more like 
 a real, living and breathing city full of REAL people and not just brain dead NPC's. Although thinking 
 about, maybe with the New York theme they should of stuck with the old NPC's.... just kidding. 
 People will stop and get out of their cars, holding their hands up if you point a gun at them. 
 They'll be sitting on a bench in the park having conversations... At one point I even though I 
 was getting a call only to find out it was a NPC who had the same ring tone as me. There was another 
 point where I thought I was getting a real call because of interfearence with my speakers, but 
 it was actually my in-game cousin calling me in the game. As I've mentioned, little details make 
 moments where you grin to yourself make GTA what it is and IV has more little details then anything 
 else made ever.
  
  Previous games had issues with cars feeling to unrealistic and light, however people over looked 
 this because they were still fun to drive. Some, like myself may of had fears that, because Rockastar 
 was using a whole knew pysics engine, the cars would lose alot of what made them fun to drive... what 
 made them GTA. Fear no more. The car's handerling certainly has improved tenfold. In fact you may 
 be put off by IV when you first get into a car because the handerling is too heavy and unresponsive. 
 It feels... funny. Not GTA. However I promice you, its the car! After you get into some of the 
 faster cars later on, you start to feel the speed a bit more, and find yourself nipping around 
 the city alot faster. Every car actually feels different, some feel purposly annoying to driver, 
 others you'll see parked at traffic lights and you'll want it. So much so you shoot the driver 
 just so they don't drive off. Although if dead body's foot hits the gas, it will sit speed off 
 (little details!!) . The cars are not old school-GTA. But once you get used to them, try a few different 
 cars you'll like the new pysics engine a lot more. Play PSP or PS2 GTA and you'll wonder how you 
 managed to tolorate such poor light handerling.
  
  Shooting was another 'ok but not great issue' from previous games that Rockstar has tried to improve... 
 and they've done... ok... ish. Targeting and free-aim is now down with the same button. LT. Push 
 full in for lock on, half in for free-aim. Reviews from official magazines might try and state 
 that this system becomes second nature, but for me personally so far it hasn't. It's still sometimes 
 a pain even after 8 hours of gameplay. I might get better before the games end, but that we'll 
 have to wait and see. one great improvement is that ablity to 'fine-tune' your aim. Lock on with 
 a fully pressed LT, and you can nudge the aim up for a head short to to cap them in the knees to 
 stop them from running away. It is a great idea, and works well. Targetting is still as over-excitable 
 as ever however. Not a single review I've read on the game has seen to make note of these issues. 
 Far to content on kissing Rockstars arse, but the fact is it is. For some bizarre reason, you want 
 to target a man on the other side of the road, but the computer feels the woman all the way down 
 the street is a better target meaning you have to use the 'fine-tune' feature to swing the camara 
 round to focus on the man. It's really odd, and I haven no idea why Rockstar didn't fix this before 
 release. Although in their defence I guess they did have a hella of a lot to do. Shooting also 
 gets really annoying when trying to drive at the same time, needing you to control both sticks, 
 concentrate on the road and where you are aiming. However I guess this just emulates what driving 
 and shooting would be like...
  
  I can't write a review on this game with out making mention of the graphics. Its the first 'next-gen' 
 GTA so we want to know about the make over... Well, it's good. Very good. But not Gear's of War 
 quality. I'm not moaning, because obviously Rockstar had an entire city to craft out of its limited 
 polygon count, unlike Gears which has a certain mapped area, its understandable NPC's might not 
 look that detailed, or that trees look like paper because FPS needed to be balenced. Indervidual 
 things however do have alot of detail. You can pick up a can of drink off a food stall and throw 
 it at the man, although I doubt he'll serve you afterwards. My only two grumbles are with the well-established 
 pop-up and the key character models themselves. They still look blocky, and although textures are 
 amazing in HD, clothes look rigid and unrealistic. The models themselves also seem a little on 
 the blocky side and is it my imagination or do they seem to be missing wrists? Face exprssions 
 also needed a little more work, faces oftern just looked streached to express emotion instead of 
 having good wirework. I know this is knitpicking, but concidering PS2 managed to create good facial 
 expressions, why haven't rockstar managed to do it with supior hardware? One other issue is the 
 lighting, the city seems overly orange at times, or overly gray. You see what I mean when you play 
 the game for yourself.
  
  The small issues aside, it does nothing to the gameplay itself. Which remains amazing and insanly 
 good fun. The main issue with number 4 is that it was far too over-hyped before release, most people 
 would of been expecting the GTA x 100 but in fact its just GTA X 5. Better graphics and some cool 
 new features, but essential its still just a GTA game. Missions are the same as always, characters 
 are comical but heavy sterotypes, shooting isn't as easy as it could be ect. Don't get me wrong, 
 I'm not saying this game hasn't been worth the wait, or its not as good as it could of been, previous 
 GTA game have created a standard thats never been matched since and IV raises the bar even further, 
 it's just from all the hype you may of been expecting more than just GTA with updated graphics, 
 and frankly its not. All of the new features could of been achived on a PS2 or Xbox.
  
  But it is GTA, theres so much to it and the new features are welcomed with open arms. I haven't 
 even touched multiplayer and will do that in a seperate review. This review may of seemed long, 
 but it could of been a whole lot longer. I didn't even mention the Fable like getting drunk. Get 
 drunk and try and drive... like no other game before it tells us why drink driving is bad. There's 
 so much in the game its a wonder how Rockstar did it without the space of a Blue Ray disc. I know 
 I've seemed to grumble about a few things, but you won't notice them once you emerged in liberty 
 city. My main point was it has been over hyped. Ignore people who have been complaining about the 
 stupid issues I have pointed out and just expect typical GTA. You won't be upset. I was debating 
 if the game deserved 9.5 or 10, because of the small issues. As you can see I went with 10 because 
 there is no game EVER that has even come close to emulating the fun and sheer overwhelming content 
 that Rockstar has ever fitted on to a single DVD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achanvc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  
  
  all i have to say is .....10/10 !!!
  all i have to say is .....10/10 !!!
  all i have to say is .....10/10 !!!
  all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is 
 .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have 
 to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all 
 i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 
 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 
 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 
 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 
 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 
 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! all i have to say is .....10/10 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sulfuric_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Some gamers don't seem extraordinarily pleased with Grand Theft Auto 4. I simply believe this is 
 because they expected something else!
  
  I wanted a new and improved GTA title, and Rockstar delivered. And the improvements are much larger 
 then any that have happened between the other games. 
  
  Allot of gripes players are finding are actually improvements and innovations themselves! You can't 
 bullet your way through the city anymore, driving takes skill. You may not be able to stand on 
 top of a moving car anymore, but the whole world reacts in a much more realistic and responsive 
 manner. Loading times have been cut, although you'll still find yourself glaring anxiously at a 
 black screen for a few seconds here and there. Annoying merely because you'll love playing it so 
 much. 
  
  The story is more serious, you will notice right away. And you can appreciate the fact that its 
 something more original. They really do a good job spanning out across the various aspects of crime 
 related culture without tripping over themselves.
  
  There are awesome new aspects, like being able to take cover or making decisions that affect the 
 outcome of the game in the future. Just the little things like the new system for out running police 
 or your car not starting sometimes after you drive it off the cliff are very immersive. 
  
  That is a key word, immersive. The tasks and activities have become more simple or complex to some 
 players dismay, but you can see how these changes draw you in. I've met with frustration with a 
 smile on my face.
  
  Although he seems to be the deepest character yet, it's not as easy to relate with Niko immediately. 
 But that is very minor. 
  
  I agree you'll find your own problems here and there, like you would in any other game, and I would 
 like to assure you this game is golden.
  
  You want to experience a grand game don't you? Well if anything out there is worth your 60 bucks, 
 this most certainly is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  How can I describe this excellent piece of art?
  
  First of all the game physics itself impressed me very much. The cars react as they are supposed 
 to be and every single car react differently from one another. The people dont fly anymore. The 
 graphics and artwork are perfectly detailed. I wont be able to say how detailed it is unless or 
 until you play this game yourself. The environment is very realisitic.
  
  About gameplay. Its a GTA game so every element from past GTAs exist. Stealing cars is not only 
 about getting in. You have to break in and hotwire it. In combat system, GTA has brought cover 
 system which is so cool. The new control scheme feels odd, so I always prefer the Classic control 
 scheme which GTAIV offers as option. Sadly there are no paramedic and fireman missions but vigilante 
 missions still exists. Best thing is that you can prank call 911 from your cellphone get a police 
 car in the scene and steal it for missions. Also each police car has built it computer to search 
 and locate criminals (this is much like RAP Sheet of NFS Most Wanted) . Another interesting addition 
 is the internet cafe where you can get emails regarding missions (much like that of Vampire Masquerade 
 Bloodlines) and find dates. The net has lots of random sites (including Myhome, a copy of Myspace, 
 Face without friends. a copy of Facebook, Electronic ***, a copy of YouTube and Craplist, a copy 
 of Craiglist) , which are hilarious. There are bunch of minigames added in GTA4 which is very much 
 required for social part of the game. There are more, yet to be discovered.
  
  BTW, there is Warm Coffee too!!!
  
  Buy this game!! U cant miss this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zZieatdirtZz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was well worth the wait. I ditched all my engineering classes today and had a GTA4 marathon 
 in my living room. The entire time I was fascinated by the amount of things that make this game 
 so amazing.
  
  There really is no one single part of this game that makes it great, but its a compilation of millions 
 of little things that make this game so fascinating. Since there are so many fascinating features, 
 I have been hard pressed to find a moment when playing when I'm not saying "Oh Hell Yea!"
  
  The only thing that i can say negatively about this game is the driving. Maybe it's because 
 I'm just new to GTA4, but turning and not crashing seem to be more of a challenge than in past 
 GTA's. However, I'm sure ill figure it out soon.
  
  If you don't have this game, and you own a PS3 or 360... you need to go to an electronics store 
 asap and pick up a copy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoSt3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Grand Theft Auto 4 in one word: BestGameEver. Yes, I cheated, but it's well deserved. 
 This game is ridiculous. Do yourself a favor and go out and buy it. The multiplayer is tons and 
 tons of fun, while the single player offers an incredible story with hours upon hours of fun. The 
 game is simply endless, and graphically it really is quite a feat. The visuals are just way better 
 than I expected. Get in a helicopter at night and fly around the city to see what I mean. Sure, 
 there are a few technical glitches here and there, but the sheer size and scope of this game completely 
 overshadows it. I have yet to experience one slowdown in my entire 25 hours of gaming, and no major 
 glitches at all. It is just unbelievable to think of how they made this game work so well. Do yourself 
 a favor and go play it for a while. Watch how the people in the city interact, and how gorgeous 
 of a city it is. Play online with your friends and be amazed at the fact that lag is almost completely 
 non-existent. 
  
  If any game has ever deserved a perfect score, it is GTA 4. Thank you Rockstar for giving this 
 marvel to us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyranger04
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I have never given a game a 10 and I am one of those people who thinks a game only deserves a 10 
 if its absolutely the best possible game out their and uses all the available resources. This game 
 does that and with its addicting game play, you find yourself putting all your other games away. 
 The story line is just fun in itself but GTA:4 continues to make use of mini games and being able 
 to do other things like vigilante mode to take a break from the story. Just adding multiplayer 
 alone bumps up my rating. If it did not have a amazing multiplayer to go along with the single-player, 
 i think you would be seeing a 9.5 here because its still has that solid single-player that you 
 know and love from previous GTA games in the series. What worked in previous GTA's was kept intacted 
 while adding more to it. This is a must play and own game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlanticRock
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Usually I start a games story mode first before I jump into multi player. But Grand Theft Auto 
 IV was too tempting with its online multi player mode. I played the story mode, which I know is 
 going to rock, for about 3 hours til I noticed everyone on my friend's list were playing online. 
 So I jumped on the bandwagon and 10 hours drifted away so fast.
  
  The graphics are incredible and the controls have improved greatly since San Andreas. As a GTA 
 fan I loved that they gave us a better over-head view for when you're in a gunfight. 
  
  The only problem I have with the game is the speed of the characters. Every animation has to go 
 through before you can do anything. To climb over a gate i have to watch the character jump, pull 
 himself up, then hop over, land, and finally stand up. Which sucks online when you're in a heated 
 battle because while you're doing all of this, you are getting shot at and can't stop the animation. 
 Same problem goes for jumping, it's so slow and you don't go anywhere which makes it useless. I 
 really wish Rockstar made players able to speed up these animations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMRB
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I must point out that Grand Theft Auto has come a long way from the blocky handed 
 models that it was in GTA III - GTA: San Andreas. Also GTA IV's Liberty City is such a masterpiece 
 graphically and a better setting for the game (much more so than the thuggish switch to San Andreas) . 
 Now to the review:
  
  GTA IV can be easily lowered to its basic elements of stealing cars, killing, maiming, misogyny, 
 escorting, and the like; but so can any game - Halo 3 is just about running through and gunning 
 aimlessly, Call of Duty 4 the same, and as with Bioshock. All of these games though, have a great 
 appeal and must have some low level basis for which a ton of fun can be achieved.
  
  To cheapen GTA IV to something so taudry is to deny GTA IV a chance to enhance your enjoyment of 
 a great idea: To go crazy in a city and to do whatever you please. 
  
  The improvements of GTA IV in comparison to its counterparts is that Rockstar has paid so much 
 attention to detail, reactions, and playability. The game's physics engine is impressive and I 
 feel like when I played Half-Life 2 online in multiplayer - when you use a RPG - things go flying 
 ragdoll style! That is a nostalgic nod to great games like HL2 where you could turn your opponent 
 into a frisby if you wanted. 
  
  Another aspect of physics is the driving. The driving is not entirely easy but it is easier than 
 driving a Mongoose in Halo 3 by far. Also, to keep a wheelie when you are riding a motorcycle is 
 tougher than it looks - that's where the physics kicks in - if you're not careful you'll fall on 
 your butt and get hit by a car or two.
  
  Another thing that is so impressive about this game is the hilarious things that occur just in 
 the environment and how one intervention by Niko and stuff happens almost like if it were the Three 
 Stooges. For example, I carjacked some guy and as I pulled him out of his car and he was staring 
 in dismay, another car came from the opposite direction and SMACK! that guy was a pancake!
  
  Furthermore, the game has caught flak on various parts of the games great elements (i. e. violence 
 and racism) . The issue of violence is an easy one to tackle - the violent behavior is nothing new 
 in this century nor from any other era; violence is human nature and is appropriate when attempting 
 to depict reality virtually. People are not blind to violence and are aware of it occurring all 
 the time, a video game such as GTA IV may have gratuitous amounts of violence but at the same time, 
 that's what makes it so enjoyable; you can go slaughter 15 guys in a game and no boys in blue come 
 knocking on your door seeking to arrest you - brilliant! People, you get your aggressions out in 
 a video game - that way - you don't go postal in real life!
  
  The other aspect of controversy is the racism element - look, once again we are dealing with a 
 video game that is trying to depict reality: in reality, not everyone of different races, genders, 
 religions, sexual preferences, different cultures, and such are holding hands and singing under 
 a rainbow; real life is hard, mean, cruel, and racist - everyone has a little and some have a lot 
 - so Rockstar rocks for pointing this out - the more we understand perhaps the better humans we 
 can be in the future.
  
  Niko Bellic is a great character with his torn psyche and gun-for-hire techniques. The game couldn't 
 have had a more well-rounded character. To follow Niko through his missions and how he progresses 
 is astounding and to learn more about his past bit by bit is almost like watching a movie play 
 out while you are at the helm. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV can be cheapened to its base parts but so can any great game; this game has 
 so much more to offer than a basic romp around a big city, it has the great American tragedy that 
 befalls the main character in his trouble to survive a haunted past while making ironic nods to 
 the fact that he escaped the war in Eastern Europe only to find himself embroiled in an urban war 
 in the United States.
  
  Whatever version you purchase - please take a second to observe how great a game it truly is - 
 steal some dudes car and take a spin to clear your head. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has done it once more.. Grand Theft Auto is by far the best in the series. The gameplay 
 is outstanding, the graphics are amazing, and the AI, Physics, and Driving aspects are vastly improved. 
 You can actually see your Niko honking the horn, steering the wheel and much more. The fact that 
 you are not the only criminal on the streets is a great edition to the game. You can do good and 
 bad task for mobs, cops, and much more. No more walking up to a parked car and taking it.. now 
 you have to break the windows and hotwire it, cops are just about everywhere. This game will take 
 hours upon hours to play. I don't think I am 10% done and I have been playing it for about eight 
 hours. There is so much to do so far and like I said i haven't even been anywhere near the whole 
 Liberty City. The game is great. The missions so far are so hard, but yet so addicting that you 
 don't want to stop playing. Grand Theft Auto: IV was truly wroth the wait. Now I know what you 
 are saying.. is there anything wrong with this game? The answer is no... if you have to point out 
 something the very, very minor "morph" glitch and I only see cars disappear once (unlike Saints 
 Row) . Grand Theft Auto: IV beats any GTA on the market. Anther downside to this game is that you 
 can't really surf the 'Net in the Internet Cafe.. but whocares.. you can surf the fake 'Net. All 
 and all this is the best game ever made for XBox 360 yet. 
  
  Great job Rockstar. Great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper4582
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  My favorite pick just bought it but I'm already amazed. GTA 4 is my new all time favorite game. 
 This game has the best physics engine to date. It uses the euphoria physics engine, witch is very 
 realistic. The graphics are mind blowing. the water is also freaking awesome. The rag doll will 
 have you entertained for hours. Cops seem so realistic is almost crazy. Plus the multi player is 
 fantastic. 16 players in one city is so much fun. the is even a character customization option 
 for mp. there are so many mp game modes and they are all fun. I don't know what else to say but 
 go out and buy this game you will e mind blow by the physics, the graphics, and the AI realism. 
 I highly recommend this game to any looking for the an Xbox 360 game. This game is the best. hope 
 to see you online my gt is assassin4582. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1989_gs
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow, that's all I can really say about this game, it's just that good. I mean sure, it has it's 
 flaws, but aside from that, it's perfect. Starting off, this has to be the best game of the year 
 thus far. It's only competition would probably be Gears of War 2, but that shouldn't be a long 
 time now.
  
  Now, by now you know the story behind this game, but if you don't I give a quick run down of the 
 plot. Basically, you're this guy Niko, an immigrant from Russia who's come to New York... I mean 
 Liberty City to help his cousin. Niko has a troubled past, but from what we understand thus far, 
 he doesn't care if he has to kill some one, he's used to it, so that means he's probably gone and 
 done himself some time for murder or something along those lines. The story goes on from there 
 and expands ever so more.
  
  The actual gameplay is superb. The graphics are beautiful, with a smooth frame rate and an excellent 
 character animation. Compaired to the previous games, this has the best graphics thus far, but 
 then again this is GTA's first outing on the next gen consoles, so it's kind of expected. Another 
 thing I'd like to point out is that Liberty City has had some modifications done to it to look 
 better than it did in 3, but the main changes are stuff like new islands and things along those 
 lines, you'll have to see for yourself. But here's my big question for this concept, if they're 
 going to do this for Liberty City, is Rockstar games going to go back and make Vice City better, 
 or fill in the gaps between Los Santos and San Fierro with other cities?
  
  The enviroment that surrounds you is exquisit, it's truely proving to be one of the best A. I. systems 
 so far, it and Deus Ex are probably some of the greatest examples. There are some little ticks 
 with it, such as a friendly A. I. accidentally running off the stairs while running up to your car 
 and then get stuck wondering what the hell to do, but it's all good, it's not enough for me to 
 hate this game, besides, it can easily be fixed by running back to them and just going back up 
 the stairs. Also, girlfriends have been incorporated into the game again, and while I don't really 
 like this idea as I find it's a rather tedious thing, but that's only because San Andreas was so 
 dull and frustrating, that I was basically turned off by it, they should have been able to buff 
 out that whole concept completely now and make it enjoyable.
  
  The gameplay is vastly superior to the previous and is actually really, really bodacious. Take 
 for instance the concept of stealing a parked car, no longer do you just walk up and pull the handle 
 and drive off, you have to sneak up, check to see if it's locked, smash the window if it is, hot 
 wire it and then drive off, but don't worry, it's way easier than it sounds. Also the aiming system 
 is just awsome, instead of just having a little reticle change colours as your enemy loses health, 
 it has a little notch indicator that goes down as your target loses health, however, just beating 
 or gunning them down won't do any more, they can now walk off afterward, so if you want them to 
 be gone you have to put one in their cranium. My only true problem is the car controls are a little 
 different and a little confusing, but's a little problem I can easily over look.
  
  Another thing to mention is how much more interactive this game has become. You can now watch TV, 
 surf the internet, talk with cab driver's if you so please and much more. There is also a larger 
 selection of things for you to do, such as going to a show that is just so terrible that it's funny. 
 You can also use a cop car to search up information on the computer. But please play the game first 
 to find out more. Another thing I would like to bring up is the soundtrack, currently I'm hooked 
 on the Reggae station Tuff Gong, but there's stuff like a punk rock station, a classic rock station, 
 electronica and all sorts of others.
  
  Also, if you're think of getting the Special Edition, it's worth the extra 30 dollars. It comes 
 with a duffel bag, soundtrack cd, art book, safe box (the keys are hidden underneath the lid towards 
 the back) and Rockstar keychain. The game is the same, nothing modified about it, it's just packaged 
 with a bunch of cool stuff to keep your game safe. That's all there really is to say about it thus 
 far, I haven't played it very much, so this is only the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't usually write short reviews... but I am too busy playing this AMAZING, nearly perfect in 
 every way game.... that I can't say any more. I'm sure I will update this is after I complete the 
 game. MUST BUY!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  a n now it seems that I need 100 words.... wow, ok 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 when will this end?
 
  guess not yet well maybe soon I hope that I can stop typing and start playing because this is 
 not worth the time. Still cannot get away from the stupid 100 word rule. This is driving me crazy!
 
  
  This is what they told me:
  The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 519 characters long.
 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Now, arent those two statements contradictory? Is it 100 or 800 because that is BIG difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrenj9170
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I can't see where the two bad reviews I read are even coming from. I mean who here actually bought 
 it for its multiplayer option. I didn't even know there was a multiplayer option and sure it'll 
 be something i'll try out just for kicks but its not what i bought it for. And can someone explain 
 to me how this is not rich in plot, yeah silent hill and resident evil are great and have a plot 
 BUT are pretty linear TOO!!! Currently this game has no equal, till maybe Saint's Row II comes 
 out. This game is open sandbox and very movie like with plot story and all. Oh and as for the guy 
 complaining about bad graphics, um maybe its time to buy a better tv, cause these graphics are 
 unbelievable, at least on my 1080p. Or even on my buddy's 720p. As for glitches, I haven't crossed 
 any yet (knock on wood) but wow how is it i've played almost twenty hours and haven't had any yet 
 somehow this one guy has???? framerate problems....... again look up at the better tv cause i'm 
 not having any refresh rate problems whatsoever. the city scape is amazing maybe not as good as 
 but still comparable to Assassin's Creed. But hey that's just my humble opinion and i've said enough, 
 i've already taken too much time from the game so for those that haven't bought it... get it... don't 
 rent it, you'll just end up wanting to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  1) Amazing graphics with such a huge world in which you can do whatever you want in.
  
  2) 
 Believable voice work that make the characters feel even more realistic.
  
  3) An all new cover system that will make the action even more fun.
  
  4) A great storyline 
 that will keep you addicted until the end.
  
  5) A whole bunch of extra stuff to do after you beat the game that will keep you on the game at 
 least until next year.
  
  6) Multiplayer mode has been added and it doesnt disappoint one bit and has everything that the 
 single player does except the missions.
  
  7) Liberty city feels alive as hell because the pedestrians never look the same and they are always 
 doing something like talking on their phones or drinking coffee or something else that regular 
 people do daily.
  
  The Bad:
  1) There is nothing bad about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hubs_blazzin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game in general no major bugs in multiplayer and a lot in it. The gameplay is just unbelievable. 
 The graphics are good for density of the map and all of the details of the skyscrapers when in 
 air or on the bridges. I really love the mafiya (no error) mode in multiplayer with all the missions 
 that they created. A lot of the cinematics are pretty funny and they putted a lot of time on this 
 game (THX for your patience) . I really like the multiplayer modes and the non-repetitive missions 
 like in San Andreas or Vice City. The only thing that I personally dislike is that there wasn't 
 a big family, there is Nico and is brother, but it's not that bad. The story is really good and 
 citizens a bit less dumb then before. The cars got better but there still have stupid names. When 
 are you guys going to put the real names of the cars and motorcycles. Still is a crazy game. Good 
 job Rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  i just got this game for the xbox 360 ( the special edition on the day it was realeased ) and i 
 got it sometime in the morning. i have been playing it since i got it. i just took a break just 
 now to write a review. in short, this game is amazing on every level. for once, i completely agree 
 with gamespots review. this game has a great storyline. Here are some of the great things about 
 this great game. They are storyline, driving, shooting, dating, making friends, just messing around 
 in a sandbox world, and many many other things. i think anybody who has a ps3 or xbox 360 should 
 go and buy the special edition or regular edition right now! the special edition comes with a rockstar 
 duffle bag, a special package for the game, the games soundtrack ( there is only 16 songs on the 
 soundtrack cd ) , grand theft auto 4 lockbox, rockstar keychain, and a big box that all the great 
 stuff comes in. you should get this game no matter what!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I always take the GTA series with a grain of salt. There are so many different things that GTA 
 tries to do, i never expect it to blow me away in any singular aspect of the game. There really 
 is no better way to say it, other than, "the game is better than the sum of its parts." Let's face 
 it, the shooting aspect doesnt hold a candle to Halo / Gears of War. The driving aspect doesnt 
 hold a candle to Gran Turismo / Burnout. The graphics don't hold a candle to Oblivion / Bioshock.... but 
 none of those games even come close to the scope of GTA, so I always grade the series with a little 
 bit of a handi-cap.
  
  I remember turning on GTA Vice City and being amazed at the fact that I was running over people 
 to Michael Jackson. I also remember running around GTA San Andreas and being amazed at the different 
 terrain / vehicles / and character types I ran into. Even though GTA 4 doesnt have the amazing 
 radio stations and a wide variety of locations / vehicles to play with I am amazed at the detail 
 Liberty City has this time around.
  
  
  The Good - Improved Shooting, Physics, Graphics. One HUGE City in VERY HIGH detail. MULTIPLAYER!!!!
 
  
  The Bad - Its only one city, but i am not really complaining...
  
  The Ugly - hand-to-hand combat is still weak. You must look at GTA in terms of scope... not take 
 it apart and analyze it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  GTA is back and it is truly a master piece.
  
  Graphics  Graphics are truly a work of art. Having the 360 version is not bad, in fact they look 
 amazing. Not bashing the PS3, but why would you listen to these brainless fanboys who are crying 
 superiority. Game will look nice on both systems. Every little detail is noticeable which makes 
 it to believe that one is actually in Liberty City. 10/10
  
  Gameplay- Its GTA and it bigger and better. But one would start to miss some options that Rockstar 
 took off. What are those you may ask? Well for once, no more army with tanks. No more tanks (rhino 
 tank) , Cars cannot be customized so you can put 22's on your bucket, and no more planes. Though 
 these features may be missed, they added more and improved other features. The carjacking has improved 
 to look and feel realistic, driving feel real as the car have their different agility of performance, 
 Cops or AI are better. 9/10
  
  Sounds- Radio stations are back and better. Don't like that crap called rock? Then put on hip/hop. 
 Don't like that hip/hop crap then put on Lazlo. Hate the radio you say? Then blow up your car and 
 listen to your surroundings. Hear the sirens echo through the city; listen to those potty mouth 
 pedestrians. 10/10
  
  Value- 60 dollars is too much for you? Or are 360 games and PS3 games to much for you? Well this 
 game that is worth every penny. Hell I would of gladly paid 100 dollars for this game. It's that 
 good. 10/10
  Online- Online work well. I'm really surprised that it is fun. You can create a character with 
 the basic features and let him loose in Liberty City. What was said to be a no biggie by rockstar, 
 one could just say that online is superb. But if you're like me, you'll be spending more time in 
 the single player mode. 10/10
  
  Overall- Game is close to being perfect, having barely scratched the surface; I could only imagine 
 what will be seen later on and if Rockstar is to make another GTA. This game should not be missed 
 by any fan as it takes it raunchy controversy to a whole new level which its fans would find pleasing 
 10/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This was way better then i thought!!!!! they even have car washes, that is sweet!!!! I played for 
 6 hours so far and it keeps geting better. The cars are crazy. The gunns. The multiplayer could 
 be a little better, it freezes some times but what u gonna do. Sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet game. 
 All the people in the game are cool except for the fat fat fat fat guys........... I cant wait 
 till another comes out. Got it at 12;00 and played ever sence. The year wait was worth it, WELL 
 WORTH IT!!!!! Too bad you cant play any sports in the game like b-ball or somethong. ddddddd ffffffffffffffffffffff 
 ssssssssssssss yyyyy iiiiiiiii rrrrrrrrrrr **** nnnnnnnnnn lllllllllllllll sssssssssss rerererererere 
 aaaaaaaaa bbbbbbbb cccccccccc mmmmmmmmmm dddddddd daaaa qqqqqqqq rrrrrrrrr eeeeeeeee **** qqqqqqqq 
 yuyu yu yu gggggggds sssss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the best games I have ever played. It has great graphics, a great 
 storyline, great dialogue, great multiplayer, heck everything is great about Grand Theft Auto IV. 
 What I really like about Grand Theft Auto IV is how Niko reacts with people and how the Liberty 
 City ( reincarnation of New York City) feels so alive from the people's action. One time, I was 
 stealing a car from this one guy, and the guy actually pulled me out of the car. I pulled him out 
 of the car again and he started hanging on the car door just trying not to let go. I was amazed 
 by this, and it was one of my most favirote moments I have ever seen in Grand Theft Auto IV yet. 
 I haven't beaten the game yet, but from what I have seen, It is easily one of the best games I 
 have ever played and can easily be game of the year for the whole year of 2008. Assuming that another 
 game is better than Grand Theft Auto IV but from what I have seen in Grand Theft Auto IV, I highly 
 doubt that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  you already probabily know the low down on gta games but wow this game is the best ever. Cover 
 system... Check.... Better gun play........ Check Great graphics, soundtracks, story, etc ..... Check. 
 You heard me this is no lie this is one of the greatest free roam action games ive ever played.. 
 I cant even explain how good it is... But please I BUY THIS GAME its the best $60 bucks ive ever 
 spent I would sell all my games for this. Goodbye saints row and Gta clones the king is back.. 
 And you aint welcome.................
  Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUYBuy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY 
 Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUYBuy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BBuy BUYUY Buy BUY Buy 
 BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY Buy BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I was not a fan of Vice City or San Andreas. Why? Because they were more or less the same game 
 as GTA III. Because of this, I gave myself pre conceived notions that GTA IV was going to be the 
 same and I was going to unimpressed. 
  
  You know what happened? Rockstar happened, they came out of no where and kicked me in my metaphoric 
 balls. Some how Rockstar has taken the GTA formula and beaten me over the head with it. It's so 
 good, its not even funny. 
  
  What else can really be said about the game. Every thing has been improved, graphics, aiming is 
 improved, physics are improved, everything is improved. Oh, and multiplayer. The multiplayer is 
 really what makes it. There is nothing like going around Liberty City and just doing a drive by 
 only to get hit by an RPG. It is just so fun, and there are tons and tons of modes to do online.
 
  
  There are little quirks here or there but honestly for the bigger part it doesn't matter, this 
 game is just that good.
  
  Sorry about the short review, but I'm going back to playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starrdude07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all, online, downloadable content, entire city to wreck havoc on by yourself or 
 with friends on xbox-live, but I wish it had one more, simpler thing than xbox live ----system link. 
 First, I want to complement the game on its immersiveness from the start. Right after putting the 
 disc into the machine it starts off with a cinematic that really pulls you into the story, and 
 then it slowly unfolds and finally unleashes the character into the city where it really starts.
 
  
  If this had system link it would make the multiplayer so much better. instead of halo lan parties, 
 there would be GTA IV lan parties. I'm a big fan of the GTA franchise, having bought the last three 
 for my 360, but I still can't give it above a 9 because adding system link capability would be 
 such a minor thing relative to xbox live. The thought of sitting next to the guy you're cruising 
 around Liberty City in, with another 4 or so people in the next room is something I can't believe 
 Rockstar didn't think of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthXzero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  First off if you are a video game fan then you have to play this. Its just that simple. Its the 
 full package hands down. Visual style. Audio that pulls you in, and doesnt let you go. Gameplay 
 that is simple but surprisingly deep ( its takes skill to truely master the gas and braking system 
 now) . Oh and the combat! Finally a GTA with deep combat!!! Its differently not a perfect game. 
 The game is visually appealing, but Rockstar really goes overboard with the blur effects! Oh and 
 what is up with the shadows?? Man I was getting a headache the first couple hours I played it. 
 But you do get used to it. Anyway if you want to justify spending 60 bucks on a game, then this 
 is the game to do it. It may not have as much as San Andreas in terms of actual things to do, but 
 what it has is so tight and so well executed that you will not even notice. Trust me fellow gamers. 
 You owe it to yourself to play this game! Hell just the multiplayer alone is worth the price of 
 admission!! I highly recommend! Darth out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomasg1434
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and i just started it and i'm already addicted... this game is wayyyy better 
 than every other GTA game... the characters all have their own story and they all are perfectly 
 acted... also the shooting and the driving are just too fun to put the game down.... i'm gonna be 
 playing this for a long long long time..... if you read this, what are you doing not playing this 
 game, seriously, everyone out there should buy this game... This is the first GTA that i'm actually 
 playing the story for and it is amazing, there is just too much to this game that you can't even 
 describe, the only way you could know is if you go out and play the game... the only thing i can 
 complain about is that sometimes when you drive fast you really lose control and the E-brake is 
 a little too sensitive... but other than that, GREAT GAME!!! LENGENDARY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  OK I hear some of ya complaining that the Online is messed up/laggy but it's a brand new game they 
 haven't even start updating it on xbox live. Just Give it some time and it'll be less laggy. This 
 has to be one of the funnest games I ever played I can tell this game is gonna stay #1 for along 
 time. So please think twice before complaining about the online cause it just needs time to update. 
 For example world of warcraft when it first came out it wasn't as popular cause there wasn't alot 
 of good updates till they start updating it and it got better and better. So just give it some 
 time to update. The graphics are out standing I know could of been a little better but this game 
 is a HUGE game if they would of made the graphics like gears of wars graphics it would of been 
 laggy. Thanks for reading my review about GTA4. No haters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppen695
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  It's the real deal.. All the hype was justified. The atmosphere is top notch and you get the feeling 
 that you are right there in the grit of liberty city. The driving is actually spot on compared 
 to many people who complain about it being too real. That's the issue... it's real and I love it. 
 You can't take a 90 degree turn at 60 mph and expect to make it. You will wind up powersliding 
 right into a dumpster or a wall.. just as you would in real life. If you have your drivers liscense 
 and own your own car, you will have no problems driving here beacuse it feels real. My only complaint 
 so far about this game is the soundtrack is subpar compared to GTASA. I'm not sure whether R* didn't 
 try to liscense big name hits or perhaps many bands felt this was too controversial to tag their 
 careers with, but one way or the other the song list is full of a big heaping pile of no namers. 
 It's ok, because you can always pull out your Ipod.. but still you would think in a title this big 
 they could have done better than a bunch of small time underground bar bands...
  
  Oh well... minus .5 for crappy soundtrack....9.5 overall. Worth every penny of your hard earned 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilseroth
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I'll be frank... the reviews all admit poor graphics, gameplay issues and the fact that they haven't 
 really changed the formula much... yet for some reason the game is getting lobbed 10s across the 
 board?
  
  I don't know call me a game snob but a game that makes few good new innovations and has flaws should 
 *not* get a 10...
  
  I will say that the characters are good, the gameplay is fun... but seeing this game get perfects 
 makes me feel... sad for the gaming world. This isn't to say it is a bad game, far from it, but 
 it is more of the same... if you like GTA3/Vice City/San Andreas, you'll like GTA4... but don't 
 expect this to be your new god as it really is the same game, with new characters + story... To 
 be fair it is a formula that made rockstar gobs of money so I don't expect them to rock the cash 
 boat too much, but still...
  
  Solid game, not a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexl86
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros., Final Fantasy VII, Legend of Zelda, Street Fighter 2. These games represent 
 the pinacle of their respective genres. They have all been at one time called the greatest, they 
 were revolutionary. They changed gaming forever, helped shaping it into what it is today. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV isn't revolutionary, the changes it makes are superficial and the concept remains 
 the same. Still, this is one of, if not the best game of all time.
  
  Graphics: Given the scale of the city, it's amazing how good the graphics are in this game. It's 
 well above what you'd expect from a game the literally gives you a huge city to explore. It's not 
 quite on par with the best looking games on the console, but given the massive scale of the game 
 these graphics earns it a 10/10. It's just that good.
  
  Sound: The sound [b] is [/b] on par with the best sounding games on the console. The accents are 
 done well, Niko's remarks are genuinely funny and all the actors give great performances. The radio 
 is as good as ever, with Christians going on talk shows saying praying is their orgasm. The cars, 
 the guns and pretty much everything that makes a sound in the game... the sound is just superb 
 overall.
  
  Gameplay: Here's where you'll notice the biggest changes. The often criticized targeting system 
 from earlier GTAs are gone and the new one is far superior. Coupled with Niko's ability to find 
 cover anywhere, random deaths on foot is all but gone. The most immediate change you'll notice 
 though is the car handling (after all, driving is pretty much the first thing you do) . It's far 
 more realistic, cars have more weight to them now and braking while turning is nearly impossible. 
 This takes some time getting accustomed to, but soon becomes second nature. The car also used the 
 right and left triggers to accelerate and brake, and shooting is done with the left bumper. This 
 allows for more accuracy in car chases and once you get used to the controls you'll never want 
 to go back.
  
  Story: The story is the envy of RPGs. Playing an eastern European immigrant, you arrive at the 
 docking bay where you're greeted by your cousin Roman Bellic. The main character Niko soon finds 
 out that Roman wasn't completely honest in his letters home as the promised mansion and luxury 
 car turned out to be an filthy apartment and a taxi. It doesn't take long for Niko to meet the 
 local thug Vlad, a Jamaican drug dealer and a romantic interest.
  
  Value: There are a ton of side missions and activities. Some activities could even be games on 
 their own and you can pretty much go do them whenever you want. The story mode should last you 
 a long time, coupled with the side missions and activities, don't be surprised if you clock in 
 triple digit hours in this game.
  
  Multiplayer: I haven't really had much time to play multiplayer yet. I've played a few deathmatches 
 and it's really, really good. There are several modes and I can imagine myself playing multiplayer 
 for hours on end. Bring a few friends along, explore the city and cause mayhem. With cars and plenty 
 of guns available, with up to 16 players the multiplayer is intense. I will not compare it to the 
 likes of Halo or Call of Duty, as they are very different games and built around the multiplayer 
 component. GTA IV offers great multiplayer in its own right.
  
  Overall: If you're really out to get the most bang for your buck, this is the way to go. This game 
 last essentially forever. It's not revolutionary, it's not particularly inventive, it draws from 
 various sources and creates an experience that's unrivaled by anything out there.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 9.5
  Value: 10
  Multiplayer: 9
  
  Final 
 score: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradx101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go 
 Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Go Rockstar Whoo!!!!!!!!!!!
  Duty Whats that? I see the big Picture its called GTA4 ladies and gentleman
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Duty Whats that? I see the big Picture its called GTA4 ladies and gentleman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHxKxDx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game pre-ordered for over a year. With high hopes set for the October release date, 
 my expectations only grew once the release was postponed for six months. What can I say? It was 
 well worth the wait.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as previous installments, but a few additions make this game 
 superior than the other games. The first thing I noticed was that Niko's cousin sounds like Borat 
 when he talks. The ability to have things to do while free roaming will make the game fun for a 
 longer period of time. You obtain a cell phone and you're able to call up people to meet up and 
 go to strip clubs, comedy clubs, bars, and even bowling whenever you want, which makes free roaming 
 fun and adventurous.
  
  The graphics are astounding. The city looks amazing all lit up at night time. With the amount of 
 radio stations and songs, everybody will be able to find something they like to listen to. It's 
 really interesting to hear people interacting with you as well.
  
  The only aspect which I think could use improvement would be driving. The driving is more difficult 
 than ever and takes a little while to get used to. The wanted levels have been improved so it is 
 easier to evade as well. Overall, if you're familiar with the past GTA games and you enjoyed them, 
 you'll definitely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb0fFilth
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of the GTA series for a long time, but never have been so excited about a GTA or 
 any game for that fact as much as GTA iV. I got home yesterday from work and saw the bad on the 
 becnh with the two Copies of GTA in therer wich my mum had bought me earlier. Once i started opening 
 it i couldnt wait to play it and now i know why!!!. This game is awesome! seriously everything about 
 it is top notch one of the only problems i encountered was alot of the characters are the same 
 sort of thing like they all look like NIko and speak the same also. But a minor problem nothing 
 to big this game is so much fun offline and online im sure everyone has a copy of this now but 
 if you dont get it now because you havent played the true next gen game until youve played GTA 
 iV. Niko is alos a greta main character he is no longer robot like standing there like the previous 
 characters hes got facial expressions and all hes great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darealmastad
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most detailed and heavily worked on game. I can tell the effort put in 
 this game, just by the amount of detail of real life situations. I saw a review before this that 
 inspired me to write a review. Someone before me criticized the game because of the material. Obviously 
 this person is uneducated because a review is about the games content. Regardless of blood and 
 gore, this game is the only game in YEARS where I've been able to sit down and actually progress 
 through the storyline. So much stuff to do, you shouldn't be able to say anything against the game. 
 So all Grand Theft Auto Haters need to knit yourself another sweater to protect your fragile lifestyle 
 because this game is as good as it gets. If your looking for a game that you'll be able to play 
 with your nephew, listen to falcown or whatever the name is (who cares?) , otherwise get the only 
 game where the company listens to their audience. BTW one last thing, how many official reviews 
 do you need to know that this game is great, bad reviews or opinions of others to this game are 
 the ones who need a life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strenuus05
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  It's awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  So me and my friend were first in line at the Best Buy Midnight Launch in WA. The game is amazing.
 
  
  The single player missions are supposed to take up to a week to beat (30-40 hours) so this is a 
 pretty lengthy game.
  
  I found the graphics to be somewhat similar to COD4's. Graphics are overall pretty good.
  The 
 only GTA games I had played previously were GTAIII and Vice City so I hadn't played a GTA game 
 in a while but this is the best GTA by far.
  
  so far the story is pretty good, I tried some multiplayer and that is lots of fun because you can 
 fuk around with your friends anywhere in the game and you can also do co-op.
  
  This game definitely lived up to the hype which is pretty hard for games to do nowadays. This game 
 is definitely worth the $60 for sure and if you dont have this in your hands by now you need to 
 have it ASAP.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seal160
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, AI seems alot smarter, and a nice story definantly a keeper in my book, this is 
 one of the games you know you must just go out and buy! If you are a big fan of the pervious grand 
 theft auto games you will most likely not be disappointed at this game at all, be sure to check 
 out the videos if you are uncertain and then go and get it, this game has a good storyline, though 
 I have not mastered it yet, check out this video and how good this person is! http://youtube. com/watch? v=eBGIQ7ZuuiU 
 but yea that is a little off topic.. although I have only been playing it for a few hours it seems 
 that the story has alot of action packed moments similar to but not quite like the other grand 
 theft auto games, the cover system quite helpful seeing as the first thing I did was go crazy.. 
 The game looks very promising even though I have only played it for about an hour however I do 
 miss the crazy train driver from the grand theft auto san andres game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_and_dumb
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Three parts to this review here: This is only on the Single Player Portion, I really can't go into 
 detail about the multiplayer as I haven't played it and probably won't. I'm sure there'll be enough 
 reviews to sate you. First part is what is new for Next-Gen. Second is the Good Stuff. Third is 
 the Bad Stuff.
  
  What's new? Almost immediately the sharper graphics are a great look to the grungy world GTA always 
 inhabits. The new Firing Controls are finally what everyone has wanted since GTA 3. Easier to aim, 
 because you can actually aim, with a nice Resident Evil 4 inspired over the shoulder perspective. 
 And going to a free aim from the lock-on is a superb touch. This will work well with the deathmatching. 
 Things are a lot more realistic when it comes to combat, even street fighting is a lot easier, 
 though it is cumbersome at first, you ease into it fairly quickly. The Achievement list offers 
 a fair bit of challenge, with examples like rolling your car five times in one crash, or destroying 
 10 cars in 10 seconds.
  
  What's good? Honostly? Almost everything. Nothing is perfect. But this is a game that really ups 
 the bar for other sandbox games and where their developers should shoot for. From the combat (finally!) , 
 to the realistic driving, and plenty of radio stations, to the very American immigrant story. Cops 
 are even more tenacious in this outing! I also like how there are no recognizable voice actors 
 in the bunch. It kind of keeps you in the moment of the story instead of thinking about the actor 
 voicing the character. No offense to Ray Liotta!
  
  What's bad? Surprisingly there is always something to mar any game. These mars are actually very 
 tiny scratches in the fine paint of this muscle car. Graphical slips may be noticed by a few, very 
 small ones though. Cops aren't so challenging in the search radius aspect of the chase, i. e. they 
 are very easy to give the slip. Just wait for them to get out of the car, then drive away. Boom! 
 You're gone.
  
  A masterpiece of a game, the Houser brothers, and the rest of Rockstar should be proud of themselves 
 for this piece of interactive fiction. Bring it on Jack Thompson!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The GTA Series has always blown up the gaming world, but GTA IV by far has blown up the gaming 
 world into a new world. This game has so much to offer and then some. It unreal the things you 
 can do in Liberty City and the visuals are just amazing.
  
  //Graphics
  First off, MUCH, MUCH better than previous GTA's. The graphics are a HUGE improvement in the series 
 with the character models and animation. Niko has all five fingers and uses them very well. Explosions 
 are so fun to do because they look amazing. Crashing cars is always fun because you can make Niko 
 fly out of the vehicle by hitting a wall or something at very fast speeds.
  
  //Gameplay
  The gameplay is great, much better than last series. The flow of animations with Niko and other 
 NPCs are beautiful. They flow very well. The controls feel very solid, but I do think that the 
 camera feels alittle bit off with everything else. The driving in GTA IV is alittle bit more difficult 
 because I think I'm just use to the previous driving in past GTAs. Driving feels more realistic.
 
  
  //Sound
  IS FREAKING AMAZING! You can hear everything. I can tell Rockstar has put alot of time into the 
 audio. You can hear the radio when your out the car and other people talking on a cellphone. The 
 voice actoring is perfect and I can see alot of people talking like Niko in the coming weeks.
 
  
  //Overall
  Just buy this game, hands down. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadherrella
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Weather system
  GPS navigation (setting waypoints)
  menu system
  radio station
  cellphone (fully functional - phonebook, settings, text, etc)
  cover system
 
  locking onto target
  punch and kick when fighting
  tapping A button to run faster
  buy clothes for main character
  mini games - darts billiards and bowling.
  water looks amazing
 
  dialogue changes when repeating missions
  you have choice to repeat missions or continue with story.
  
  Cons:
   you can't go into every 
 building, 
   30 frames/sec not enough during car chases and using the hood cam while driving, 
   warm coffee 
 sucks (bring back hot coffee) , 
   can only save games at the safe house when you walk up to someone you can't talk to them, 
  
  and part of the map is locked at the start.
  
  This game would be perfect running at 60 frames/second. 
  I hope game developers start aiming 
 for a high frame rate in future titles. 
  I wouldn't mind if they sacrifice a bit on the graphics quality. 
  Frame rate is my only gripe, 
 beside that the game is perfect!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series and totally the best game of the year (maybe) just the right for anyone really 
 nice for the size. Never seen game like this you just have to play it and keep going on and when 
 you finish it you can just play more or you can go multiplayer. I have to give 10 to this cause 
 this totally is a masterpiece and theres nothing wrong for me. Gameplay is awesome, only you have 
 to learn to drive a bit before you start anything. But this game has everything to be the best 
 game ever i love the graphics i love the gameplay i love everything in this game.
  Only thing i could want more is weapons and so you could change more at Nico.
  I love it how 
 Liberty City has changedand i can only say that the water in this game is the best ever its so 
 realistic that i could go swim there but for now and i could only wait for next game of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDEMONOFTHEMIST
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off saying that this is the best grand theft auto yet! The storyline is massive 
 and well written, and the in game engine is so much more faster and better than previous GTA's. 
 Though the graphics are roughly the same quality as its previous game that doesn't take away from 
 what makes it a good game. What I have a issue with is how the concepts of Saints Row became more 
 adavnced in this game such as drunk driving, distorted vision etc, I was expecting Rockstar to 
 come up with ideas of there own. If there will be a GTA 5 I hope to see nothing new that THQ adds 
 to Saints Row 2 in the game. I only want to see originality not a copy game because then you only 
 say been there done that! This game kinda only gets it's perfect 10 rating because of stolen features. 
 Other than that this was a great fun playable game that you can rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speardoomfre
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 is an amazing game first things first BUY THIS GAME! if you have it you will know it is amazing
 
  Gameplay: amazing gameplay i havent seen one glitch in my 5 hour playing time the AI is way smarter 
 cops try to arrest you when you have a gun out my score on gameplay would be 10/10
  Storyline: this story line was different and change all gta i mean some missions you got to pick 
 if you want to kill someone or not and there is 2 endings i highly reccomend you try to beat this 
 more then once 10/10
  Glitches/bugs i have not seen any glitch/bug in this game yet so this is an easy 10/10
  overall 
 this game is the most breath taking one i have ever played i would like to thank rockstar and take 
 2 games for making this 10/10 so yea this is great for grand theft auto fans i mean i could spend 
 the next 4 years of this with out being bored the game has about 25-40 hours to beat everything 
 the longest grand theft auto i have ever played the fighting has been improved alot i could hardly 
 breath when i got this game shooting is improved with the new cover system you can hide behind 
 mostly everything so everyone if your reading this you should buy this game as soon as possible 
 special edition is worth it to me i got it this morning at 8:00 and i enjoyed the rockstar duffel 
 bag and money box inside gta 4 the game sounds of liberty city art of gta 4 with 1 month of xbox 
 live gold maps controls and in the regular edition you get just the game the special edition is 
 for just a steal at 119$ (with tax in canadian money) and regular edition is 61$ too so i hope 
 you liked this game review thanks for listening :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channjose
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Stupid games like grand theft auto IV makes the videogame experience fells so unrealistic because 
 of its stupid themes and characters. I don't know what gamespot is thinking because this game is 
 totally disastrous. I think that the stupid people who needs to be accepted into the society play 
 this games so the people accept them because of its "mature themes". Games like metal gear solid 
 saga (1-4) and resident evil (1-5) are incredibly well elaborated stories, excellent gameplay so 
 they deserve theirs great scores. I hope rockstar games start thinking about some real realistic 
 stories and begin innovating his biggest saga like some new themes like bully because if they continue 
 like the way they are, in 1 or 2 more grand theft auto games, no one is going to by those ones 
 and chose incredibly better games like the metal gear, resident evil, sillent hills, or prince 
 of persia sagas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazv12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I was so happy when i got my copy today in gamestop i said to myself 'i really have gta 4 wow' 
 this game has great graphics great sound and great gameplay, it is the best game i have and ever 
 played the cover system is great, it works well, and the way the camera zooms when you are aiming 
 your gun, it is so good. Overall this game is recomended to everyone, people who are a fan of the 
 series or newbs. there is only one downside i htis game it is that the cars dont really handle well 
 but it is not o big problem because there are more good things to replace this even though it is 
 not that notacible. For onece gamespot gave a fair and right review about a game, they have this 
 review bang on. I dont have xbox live so i cant say anything about the multiplayer, but i have seen 
 vids and it does look good so i will be able to get live this week. this game is so good you just 
 cant run out of things to say. The strip clubs are back and more entertaining than ever the mini 
 games are great such as bowling darts and pool. This game is worth the wait..10/10 THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BooBakerBrown
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I find myself watching the game as apPosed to playing it. From the opening credits it has a feel 
 like watching a movie in a theatre. I can't classify this as a game... it's an experience that 
 is an amalgamation of the entire GTA series & a Hollywood blockbuster 4th of July theatre release. 
 The graphics are no better than those of Oblivion but, have the same compelling effect that draws 
 you into the atmosphere & make you forget about the environment around you. GTA IV is such an accurate 
 depiction of every day life, not only as a common thug but the overall ambiance of a bustling city. 
 The voice acting & character interaction are superb & leaves you with a sense of involvement in 
 their exploits. Niko seems to be a character the common man can relate to. A sence of honor & integrity. 
 Transitioning to a new city, state, country reminds me of getting off an airplane 17 years ago 
 in Frankfurt Germany as a brand new private in the U. S. army. When there are people in the world 
 who believe video games are a child's toy or waisted time providing no redeeming value I'd tell 
 them... Video games are an integral part of society today that has the same, if not more, artistic 
 value as reading a book, going to a play or opera, or goin to the cinema. Video games provide individuals 
 with a level of enjoyment & entertainment that can rival any activity viewed as art & actually 
 incorporate several art forms ranging from music, writing, acting, & art.
  
  If you, as a consumer, are looking for a video game go to your local games store & pick up COD4 
 or Halo3, or SSBB. If you're are searching for entertainment that rivals The Godfather, or Scarface, 
 or Dances With Wolves... then buy GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vzobel
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  From gang fights to Mob wars, this is the best GTA ever made, and even if they take out alot of 
 customization options, they fill the hole with some crazy stuff.
  
  The graphics, in GTA this never been the strong side, but now, with the nex gen consoles, they 
 finally did an effort and get us some nice look alike city and great character models.
  
  Gameplay, alot of improves, as the cover sistem, the mighty helpful cellphone, and good friend 
 relationships with some benefits.
  
  MULTIPLAYER MODE!!, amazing new feature in the GTA series, this can be one of the most played games 
 in the next few moths!, 16 players killing each other in Liberty city or in teams!, simply amazing.
 
  
  GTA has always been acclaimed because of the nice stories behind every character, now, coming from 
 europe, Niko will also gives us some of the best quotes while he shots houndreds of filty cops.
 
  
  I'll give a 10/10 to this Superb and Perfect Game! 
  BEST OF 2008 110% SURE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flowdee79
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  A lot of people are going to consider this to be the best video game ever made.
  
  If you're a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series already then we honestly can't see any way that 
 you're going to be disappointed in this latest sequel.
  It's a clear step beyond any of the previous games in the series and so full of detail and unexpected 
 extras it dooms any subsequent clones.
  
  One of the many problems with the previous GTAs is that while they've always had excellent dialogue, 
 particularly on the radio, they've lacked in terms of story and character.
  
  The plot here is the most complex yet, and in Eastern European immigrant Niko, Rockstar have finally 
 created a main character with some genuine charm. He isn't a braggart and can even be made to make 
 some hard moral choices.
  
  Although this improves on every aspect of the series the underlying structure and gameplay is still 
 largely the same. Once the game has walked you through the basic controls you're then left completely 
 free to taken on missions from a variety of people.
  
  Most aren't just empty avatars though, but must be befriended and socialised with, a task for which 
 your new multi-function mobile phone is essential. Not only do the main characters seem more alive 
 but the city does too, from snippets of overheard dialogue to the obsessive detail and hidden secrets.
 
  
  And yet no matter how well presented the missions are few deviate too far from basic shoot-outs 
 or driving tasks. Thankfully the controls for both are much improved, although aiming  particularly 
 in enclosed spaces  is more fiddly than it needs to be.
  
  Although the controls have been improved neither ally nor enemy artificial intelligence has. Bad 
 guys still run around like headless chickens, escort missions are still a pain and no one can drive 
 straight.
  
  But GTA has always entertained, despite these problems and more - and now it has more stable graphics 
 (although the frame is still sluggish) and even a mildly diverting online multiplayer. 
  
  With a game of this size it's possible to nitpick endlessly but there's not a single comparable 
 title with anything like the same ambition or flair.
  It's possible to live an entire virtual life in the game, with a whole fake internet to explore, 
 dating agencies, comedy clubs and sub quests galore.
  
  A game defined not by its gameplay but its environment the promise of the next gen consoles has 
 finally been kept. This is undoubtedly one of the best games of the year and easily a contender 
 for the prestigious GOTY award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  
  When we think of Grand Theft Auto, remember that game in World Open, where you do what you want, 
 where you stole cars, buying homes and much but. But that is equal ... But difrerente D =
  Grand Theft Auto 4 for Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 is a game where the rockstar is happening in 
 Gigantesca City of Liberty City (Well, a "New York") , where Niko (The Protagonist of the game) , 
 vai demand of the good things that Tio both his speech. Arriving there ve not karry none of the 
 things in which his uncle spoke in e-mails and letters, but much worse, this one Encrenca His uncle, 
 full of debts or just that Niko, begins to solve the problems and rise of Status . In the beginning, 
 you ve, the graphics, which are very good, both in the water, buildings, etc. characters. The GTA 
 series has not been famous for graphics, because they all seem to be designed to hand xD, but Grand 
 Theft Auto 4, can surprise, because everything is well designed and well bolado. The Gameplay is 
 well bolado, both on foot, with both vehicles, how can cite in cars, which has a suspension, leaving 
 with a touch more realistico. Walking tam the system is simple ... Press "A" To run and hit the 
 "A" several times to running even faster and Niko can also jump walls, fences and banks. One of 
 the things well in the game is the legal Sistama of cover, you can hide while loading, the mobile, 
 where you can call who you want and whenever you want, and can only enter numbers or linking with 
 the number recorded (You can make a meeting at any time with his girlfriend) , read e-mails, configure 
 it the way you like. Another thing that also draws much attention is its engine, which is surprising. 
 You come off a very real way, and also depending on batidad the car into something you can cross 
 the glass of the car, stopping there in front. Grant Theft Auto is Super Ultra Mega Hyper Recommended.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumpman877
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  I think this game is amazing, lots of things to do, great graphics awesome game play, a superb 
 history, funny Radios and TV Shows, the controls feel great, and a really good oneline multiplayer, 
 definitely one of the best games that i play so far if not the best. Although i miss some thing 
 from previews Gran Theft Auto, and i dont like this Russian guy to much, and some tiny glitches 
 the whole game make you forget that little things, because its really fun to play, and youll be 
 a lot of time completing this one, its not so difficult but not so easy either but is quite a 
 long game and a highly addictive one so prepare yourself for one of the best game ever, now... 
 What are you doing reading reviews, just go to a store and buy it run to your console and play 
 Grand Theft Auto IV and see this amazing game for yourself!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASSASSINLORD
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  It came . We were waiting. We were hopefull. We were amazed by it.
  
  
 
  GTA is the only one game in the world what everybody like and play
  As Nico Bellich you come to Liberty city for the ,, American Dream ,, . Roman, the cousin of Nico 
 has been living here for 15 years and sent home only good news. Nico arrives, and finds out that 
 every thing is a lie. So you have to help Roman to meet both ends. During the game you will meet 
 many interesting characters as Brucie or trator Dimitri.
  Liberty city is not so big as state in San Andreas but it is much more detailed. There are many 
 activetes such as bowling, strip club, bar etc.
  The new shooting and fighting systems make it look like more realistic- when you take out the gun 
 GTA 4 becomes alike Gears of war. In fighting system appeared many new combos grapples..... I can 
 say only one- now you really feel taking part in afight without any rules.
  GTA 4 did not become so revolutionary as the 3rd part. it is like a bright wrapper on the best 
 candies of the world. And I think that nothing can be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap911
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Just plain COOL, Best game i have ever played. I stood outside last night for 30 mins getting this 
 game!! Best Game EVER!! I recommend this game to anyone that just wants to have have fun. The graphics 
 are incredible. The interactions are unlimited. The People getting hit by cars almost to real. 
 You flying out of the windshield hitting a brick wall head on, just saw that one on cops the other 
 night. My god is there anything this game doesnt have, let me think nope. I would have to give 
 this game a grade of BAMF!! With this being the best in the serious Rockstar has taken this game 
 to the next level, no wonder it got a 10. This grade is no fluke, these people arnt on drugs, the 
 just know when they see a great game. If you ask me I think this game is sexy!! Its def a game 
 to  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneticlone
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I have to tell you that no matter how many games you people have played in your life and not matter 
 what games you have played this one pretty much takes everything where those games could not have 
 gone. The detail is amazing but it is also vast. You finally get to go where you really wanted 
 to go in a city that is just big. All the people in the city look different. This is a huge plus! 
 Sure there might be a few little kinks like a guys head thats sticking through a piece of AI but 
 he listen here you might not ever even see it. I don't want to stop playing this game as I am sure 
 if you get it you probably won't either. This a game you buy you don't rent it because you finally 
 get a multiplayer so if you would like this game will never end. I payed 60 dollars for it and 
 I have to say playing only for 5 hours I have got more then I payed for. 
  
  It sure will be hard for other video games to make a dent in this one. 
  
  2009 Game of the 
 Year! Hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  what else do you want? more ?you can not gain more in real world yet; the actions that you make, make 
 you insane and more more insane when the city gone mad with you; everything is alive and make sense 
 to you; you remember some places in the game that you saw in real world too; (the man in the beginig 
 in the demo with red hat is lik me;) the machins act like real ones; the houses at the night are 
 so beautiful, water shine under the light of sun or moon are so pretty; the roads have trafics everytime 
 of day or night; the characters have their own behavier and make you to watch them hours by hours; the 
 story is so strong and the rollbacks are in-time and right;
  the wemen in this world are the most wemen that you can see in games; and the men are more man from 
 us; the guns act like real ones; their aims are so perfect and the covering is like great GOW;
  when you use theem ,you can feel them; they kick back when you must aim so sharp, then drinks can 
 make it easier; the whole game make every nerves of you scream loudly;
  at the end you found the best game for ever; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wansyth
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Best game released in the history of online multiplayer gaming. The game is everything it was hyped 
 up to be and nothing less. BEST GAME EVER. Worth every cent and more. The multiplayer alone is 
 worthy of being a game itself. I will be playing this game for along long time.. Can't wait to 
 make people cry online! This is an A+ job rockstar.
  
  the people that have rated this lower ratings are probably just little 12 year olds that can't 
 afford to buy the game or their mommy won't let them. stfu this game deserves a 10 from everyone.
 
  
  What more can I say? Graphics, gameplay, story, fun factor. This game has it all. Its right up 
 there OoT, no joke! Simply amazing what more can I say
  
  If you haven't bought this best game since the history of gaming simply amazing best 60$ ever spent 
 then you must have some mental disorder because no person in their right mind would pass up a game 
 like this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProHexen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Finally after waiting for a couple of years for this game, I finally have it. I played it for a 
 good few hours after I got back from the midnight launch. The game is so amazing. Looks so much 
 better than the previous GTA's and it plays so much better. I love how the pedestrians interact 
 with you and how the city feels so much more alive. Im glad this game got delayed last October 
 because I bet that if it did came out back then, it would of been a poor, buggy game with no Online.
 
  
  I really like the main character so far, he can be humorous and also violent.
  
  Online plays very good, didn't see any bad frame rate issues. Cop's and Robber's is just the best.
 
  
  Im so glad that Gamespot gave this game a 10 instead of a 9.6 like they did to GTA 3, VICE CITY, 
 and SAN ANDREAS.
  
  I bet this game will win game of the year. It's gonna be in tough competition between Gears of 
 War 2 though but one of those will win it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the GTA franchise since GTA2 for the PS1. To see the advancements that this 
 series has made is phenomenal. With GTA IV, I have to say that I was very pleasantly surprised 
 and much impressed by all the hard work and detail that went into making this game. 
  
  Let's get the minor stuff out of the way first. One thing I don't care much for is the soundtrack. 
 While it's far from being bad, it's just not really my taste. I tend to keep it on The Vibe for 
 the most part. The car controls still feel a bit floaty, but it's much improved over previous installments. 
 
  
  Bad stuff out of the way, this game is fantastic! The single-story mode makes me feel much more 
 sympathy for Niko and the characters around him. Even though this is next-gen, and I expected the 
 graphics to be improved anyway, I'm glad that the somewhat cartoonish look of the prior games is 
 gone. Everything here feels real world. The missions are easy to follow and thank GOD someone at 
 Rockstar put in a GPS. The combat can be a little shaky, but at least the collision detection is 
 spot on this time. 
  
  While I could go on about the positives of this game, I'll end it here. GTA IV is gritty, raw, 
 realistic, and corrects pretty much any problem I had with the series previously. If you are a 
 gamer, you owe it to yourself to play this game. 
  
  Roger Ebert, I dare you to play this game and not call it a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  So I get back home at 12:25 from picking up my copy, I wasnt going to go but the gremlin in me 
 decided I better go pick this up.
  
  I pop in the game and BAM!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Blew me away, very nice very crisp. I dont think I have seen a such a beautiful game. the lighting 
 is perfect the animations flawless. I am instantly impressed
  
  Sound:
  
  The bump is what I like the sounds of the city, so real, the water flowing, HDMI cable putting 
 in over time, and I like it
  
  Value:
  
  Havent gotten that far, but let me tell ya... This game is going to dominate my life for a while. 
 I even think old Sween is going to pick it up, and my lil brother might go get a 360 just for this 
 game
  
  Overall:
  
  Its GTA, what do you want? New combat system and all, I mean why did they not think bout this before? 
 Looks like Saints Row is going to have a lot to live up to.
  
  GO GET THIS GAME, turn off your phone smoke a fatty and enjoy...
  The only part that sucked about 
 this game was having to turn it off so i could get some sleep before work.
  
  Gosh, my girlfriend is going to hate me for a while..
  
  Anyone need a girlfirend? Nows your 
 chance cuz i am married to the X-box for the next few weeks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  GT Whe!! Hey!! 
  
  It's finally here and what will the gaming public's reaction be. I guess only time will tell. 
 
  
  Of course it's going to sell well, of course it's going to play well online and of course I will 
 be playing it for the foreseeable future. But was it the game any of us were expecting when it 
 was announced in the strangest of ways (nerdy tattoo sketch) by Peter Moore back at E3 2006.
  
  Undoubtedly Rockstar has gone above and beyond in the attention to detail. Numerous man hours 
 were spent on everything from filming the sky's above New York City to monitor the weather patterns 
 to interviewing actual criminal elements to get the realism factor just right.
  My first impression of Liberty City is that maybe it has been made a little too gritty and realistic 
 to offer any fun factor (at the end of the day that's what games are about fun) . Thankfully after 
 the rather uneventful few missions the game started to open up and really began to flex its well 
 rendered muscles.
  
  It still hadn't answered my question "is this the game the paying public expected from Rockstar?" 
 The new Liberty City isn't as expansive as San Andreas and you're not likely to get the chance 
 to strafe the motorway in an F-16, so should this game be about creating limitless possibilities 
 or is it about providing the gamer with a plausible reality in which to have fun in the role of 
 a likeable psychopath. Although some will disagree, if I want to play the part of a near invincible 
 armed to the teeth nutcase who can fly almost at will I will wait for Iron Man. I applaud Rockstar 
 for having the guts to say OK lets make this feel like a high budget mini series and keep the balance 
 in between a character that is an immortal killing machine and character who feels vulnerable when 
 crossing the street.
  
  I have asked fellow gamers and a minority have said they would like to have seen the developers 
 go the other way and provide all kinds of ridiculous opportunities that would serve no other purpose 
 than to say "you can do it". I on the other hand believe this to be a masterpiece which continues 
 to push boundaries without having to be garishly over the top.
  
  Enjoy!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  I want to make everything clear to you guys and let you know this review is based on 35% of the 
 game completed. 35% of this game is a lot though and I've experienced a whole lot in the game. 
 You will see if you haven't already seen what I'm talking about.
  
  This game is massive, the details are spectacular, and the story is incredible.
  
  Ok when 
 the game first starts off, it does feel weird to play. The walking and running is not much of a 
 problem, but the driving is. Don't worry though, you will get used to it in no time and the driving 
 mechanics are made actually pretty realistic. Anyways, there is a lot to learn when it comes to 
 controls. You have to work at it to master everything from the fist fights to the gun fights to 
 the driving and to the simple walking and running.
  
  The story is awesome. So far, there is loyalty and betrayal. I can see the plot thickening as I 
 progress and its getting more and more interesting with the new characters coming into play. This 
 should most likely have one hell of an ending, especially from others I heard that already completed 
 the game.
  
  The details in the game are superbbbbbb. I can't stress that enough. Now you cannot compare this 
 to like Rainbow Six Vegas and think it will look that good because that is a FPS and this is an 
 open world game. But even being open world, the game looks spectacular. First of all, the damages 
 to the car are seen clearly as you hit whatever side of the car. You can see the bullet holes on 
 the car as you get shot at. Windows are shattered. Blood is left on the car if you hit pedestrians.
 
  
  During some of the fighting sequences when you are in gun battle, it is awesome. You can blind 
 shoot, hide behind almost anything and it all handles really well. Most of the environments while 
 in gun battle are not completely destructible, but you can see the great detail of the shots fired 
 at the walls or whatever you shoot at.
  
  The cell phone is used pretty much throughout the whole game. You can call your girlfriends, your 
 friends, and for the missions, call up what you want to do next. If you get in a health kind of 
 trouble, dial 911 and hit 2 for the paramedics and they will come to you to restore your health. 
 It costs a good amount of money, but its worth it to not start a mission over again. You can hitch 
 rides with the cab and you tell them where you wanna go and you can either sit back and relax while 
 the cab driver takes you, or you can skip the drive by pressing A and you will be there in no time. 
 Makes missions so much easier. I haven't really used the train much yet, besides one or two missions, 
 but I'm sure it will come into play more.
  
  Ok well I know there are going to be millions of reviews, some people for GTA and some against 
 it. I just want to say this though:
  
  For those of you hating on GTA, or any game that is excellent, why do you waste your time and other 
 people's time by saying you hate a game. I can understand if a game sucks, the controls suck, the 
 graphics suck, and everything sucks about a game, then you should give it a bad review and advise 
 people to stay away from it. But seriously, people need to grow up and stop hating on great games 
 like this just because they think it doesn't deserve all the attention its getting.
  
  IF YOU ARE GOING TO BUY A GAME FOR $60, THIS IS ONE GAME WORTH GETTING. THE $60 IS NOTHING COMPARED 
 TO THE COUNTLESS HOURS OF FUN YOU WILL HAVE. NOT TO MENTION THE ONLINE MODE IS INSANEEEEEE.
  
  Happy Gaming Guys and Gals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavobotto
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I just put my hands on GTA 4 and for me is already the best game ever made for XBOX 360. 
  
  The producers really had surpassed themselves and brougth the game over the top of the other 
 games made till now. The innovate in so many aspects that you will find yourself many time in the 
 game surprising and admiring the new things.
  
  Its a really amazing game, first of all because they gave a sense for all the killing, crimnal 
 acts and violence, making a character with a whole deep history behind him. You just dont want 
 to stop to live that, because its so real and immersive that you really feels living that. You 
 can feel all the reasons and the all the suffering that Niko Bellic (main character) carry when 
 he did the criminal acts, so its not senseless anymore, niko do it only because it has to be done.
 
  
  The city is amazing, feel like it is living, the people on the street has his own behavior like 
 each of them has a long history behind. The phisics is almost perfect, when you are driving, when 
 you hit the car, hit people, is something that you definitively have to see by your own eyes.
 
  
  The gun play works like you really use real wepons, with a very improved target system that make 
 the game more dinamic than ever! You can fix a target and choose where to shot him!
  
  In the single player game beside the main history, you can do side quest like work for some friends, 
 hangout with them (bar, bowlling, pool, darts, cabaret, strip club..) , date, travel at the internet, 
 making the liberty city wolrd more complex that you can imagine or you even saw yet.
  
  The multiplayer is just incredible and is really hard to stop to play it and live liberty city! 
 
  
  You have to live this experience, because it will change your way to see games!
  
  So if you look for a perfect, funny, immersive game its your choice!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I had never owned a GTA series game, only momentarily playing and hearing of San Andreas because 
 of the infamous Hot Coffee Mod. Despite being new to the GTA series, I decided to give the fabulous 
 hype a chance and try GTA IV, I can only say that I am VERY IMPRESSED, and love the game! It is 
 easily of one of, if not the top game this year. If i were to compare the OVERALL of Halo 3 and 
 the OVERALL of GTA 4, GTA IV does not fall a mark short! It is easily better than Halo 3, and although 
 the graphics are not as perfect, they are still to be reckoned with! Vastly improved game engine, 
 graphics and gameplay including the new ragdoll thanks to Euphoria systems is simply STUNNING. 
 
  
  I would definetly encourage anyone who is mature enough to appreciate the beauty of GTA IV to try 
 it out, otherwise, if you are a GTA fan, you have NO right to call yourself a fan unless you have 
 this game! It is simply addictive, immersive and a masterpiece. This is one game where you can 
 play the Story OVER and OVER and OVER again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFadi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  The Best of All the series playing as Niko Bellic originally from an unnamed country in Eastern 
 Europe, most likely somewhere in the Balkans who is visiting his cousin Roman in the Liberty City 
 for the first time who is in lots of troubles from gambling debts, Niko's military experience makes 
 him useful for the employers.
  After San Andreas, Rockstar has added some new gameplay features.
  Also they added the Amazing 
 physics to the game wich MORE advanced than in previous games.
  The New Good Stuff:
  Great graphics Very good gameplay like new cover system that makes gunplay much easier than in 
 previous games and Hailing taxis is a great way to get around town, and if you fast forward through 
 your ride for a little extra cash, it's essentially a teleport, When you're not running missions, 
 taking part in races, randomly stealing cars and cause some trouble, while others are just a fun 
 way to kill time. For example, you can watch television, listen to different radio stations, check 
 out some funny shows, good story line Actually the best in the series and more stable Very big 
 city.
  
  The Bad:
  with that great graphics and the big city fps is to be Sacrificed if you're useing an HD Screen.
 
  
  As i said this game is one of the greatest games in this year the game is simply a Next-Gen GTA.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  The greatest game I have ever played and I have played a few games in my life time. 
  
  I haven't even played this game that much yet and already I have noticed a few twists and turns 
 along the story line, which is making the story of this game extremely interesting already. I was 
 even considering bring my xbox to work this morning and hiding it in the backroom and hooking it 
 up to a old tv back there to play. My suggustion is that you book a week off work or school or 
 life in general to get into this game because after about a few hours of gameplay it will not be 
 very fun getting away from the amazing storyline. I am starting to go through GTA4 withdraw and 
 I really wanna get back at this game right NOW!!!
  
  Everything about this game is amazing. The Rockstar team does it again. They were the ones to really 
 get the open-world do and go where ever you want kinda game. Then had many other games that come 
 out being the same type of game... AND now they are setting the BAR even higher... 
  
  The visuals in the game are amazing Liberty City looks and feels alive. Every street corner seems 
 alive and going about their everyday business. You will see people doing some crazy random things 
 within this game... take a few minutes and just watch the people. Do some people watching... its 
 very interesting... there are so many minor details that make this game stand out from anything 
 i have ever played before as well. I mean a side from the amazing storyline, the visuals, the audio 
 of the game, the music, and the car radio the missions, There is also some pretty funny tv shows 
 to watch, comedy acts to see and other shows to watch as well. The internet is funny to check out 
 to you could spend hours on the Ingame internet checking out random ads and things like that... 
 
  
  ALL IN ALL GTA 4 is by far the greatest Video Game ever made. And i didnt even mention the online...
 
  
  10/10 Easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobjaw22
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game is unmatched to any of the games I am playing. GTA IV sets new standards of gaming. From 
 the very short time that I played it this morning after midnight, I knew from that instance that 
 it was going to be an unmatched game. I can already tell that i am going to be putting a lot of 
 hours into the single player and multiplayer aspects of the game. The start of the game is like 
 watching a movie and I was suprised how well Rockstar did with the graphics on the game for the 
 next-gen systems, both 360 and PS3 deserve a 10 out of 10.
  
  Other aspects of the game are the minigames that I enjoy playing and i was happy that Rockstar 
 has put in more mini-games this time around. The multiplayer is the highpoint of the game, in my 
 opinion and this is one of the best coop games around. 
  
  The setting of Liberty City is one of the best i think in the series and New York is one of the 
 best places to have the game at.
  
  In the conclusion I think that GTA IV is going to rival other games that have come out and is going 
 to hit sales of all time high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKorey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  EVERYONE, GTA4 HAS HIT THE SHELVES! This game has got to be the most intense game ever. I recommend 
 everyone to buy this, because it is made for basically anyone with a creative mind. It will not 
 disappoint you, and the reviews that say this is abysmal, they are obviously against GTA-series, 
 similar to the douche, Jack Thompson. I really think this is the game of the decade, GOOD JOB TAKE-TWO!
 
  
  Go out right now, and BUY THIS!!!
  
  The only subject I may say is faulty..
  is only the friendly AI, and some quirks in the shooting.
  But aside from those minor mistakes, 
 this game is a masterpiece. It's definitely worth more than just $60. The only game i'd ever think 
 that would be worthy of half a million. :) So I just really recommend everyone to go pick this 
 up. :) If anyone has any questions or whatnot, just send me a message. AND FOR ONLINE MULTIPLAYER, 
 even though the lag sometimes occurs, it is hands-down the BEST online game i've ever played. Just 
 drive around with some friends, go inside the restaurant, and shoot it up! :D
  
  HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplitxXxSkulls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Well it is an amazing game, but I also was hoping that they would keep the gore, or intensify it 
 I should say. I can respect that they didn't though because it would be kind of hard to take the 
 game seriously with heads popping off and puddles of blood pouring out of the dead bodies. I think 
 they should have put in the bloody footsteps and bloody tire trails from cars. 
  The thing that I like most about GTA IV is how they drastically improved the driving. It is much 
 more realistic but still fun as hell. The explosions in my opinion are pretty damn awesome, and 
 when your car catches on fire as your driving and the fire is pouring out of where your rear tires 
 are is awesome.
  The story is very involved. I like the whole dating system alot as well. For the 360, they have 
 a "Warm Coffee" achievement. Niko seems to be on top of his game with the ladies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JHodge32
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of if not the best game I have ever played. The game follows Niko Bellic, an Eastern 
 European who comes to the U S in Wanting the "American Dream" that his cousin, Roman Belic promised 
 him, only to find his cousin has lied about the promised wealth and luxury that would be in America. 
 The New cover system make for a GoW (Gears of War) like play, all out Gunfights are more interesting 
 this time around. The Euphoria Physics are so realistic, when you go down stairs in the game, you 
 see Niko take individual steps like a real human. This is jam packed with Missons and other goodies 
 that you will definately be satisfied. Best game of 2008 and possibly the best game ever. The new 
 Physics take some getting used to but that will not set you back at all you will have so much fun 
 in this game. GO Buy IT Now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerialslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  Yeah so I was the first one in Thunder Bay to buy the game last night. Anyway this game is perfect, 
 it has a great story line, amazing multi player mode, and the single player is of coarse the best 
 I've seen for a loooong time. This game kinda starts off a little slow, and I only have one problem, 
 I really don't like the camera in GTA4 but that doesn't really bug me. This game is superb and 
 I am glad it got a 10/10. Will this help the 360 win the war? Who knows but wen I was standing 
 in line over half the people there were buying it for 360. This game also offers tons of modes 
 for live like deathmatch, free roam, and cops and robbers. The cell phone is really cool, very 
 well doen. The phone acts like a real phone, you an change your ring tone, call lots of people 
 over live and in the game, text message, and tons more. It is Fantastic. Anyway in summary I recommend 
 EVERYONE to pick up this game immediately, you will not be disappointed. I promise you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieren_h
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  The Game is GTA IV
  
  Its not just another GTA game put together in a few years..... this one took around 9 years. Yes 
 that does mean they working on it earlier before GTA SA. They where perfecting the RAGE Engine 
 (Rockstar Advanced Game Engine) 
  
  Anyways to the main point...
  
  ******************GTA IV************************
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The game plays well 
 with the occassional frame glitch but you can hardly critercise that when your flying over Liberty 
 City in a Helicopter or getting a cab ride, you feel like your in a real living and breathing city.
 
  I followed a guy around expecting to walk around a building but he walked all the way from one 
 side of the island to the other to go to his house and walked in!!! Unbelievable
  
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sensational, Characters have skeletons physics (Euphoria) and R* had the freedom 
 to give the character 5 finger movement and lip sync and proper emotions when they speak and interact 
 with the game environment.
  
  
  Controls: 10
  
  The Lock - On system is very good and works well in heavy combat. The free aim mode was easy to 
 pull off to get that special shot you have always wanted to get and the vibration when mobile phones 
 go off was a great idea.
  
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  
  Best Multiplayer I have played in ages and I live in Australia, No lag, plenty of servers for every 
 country really in the world. Best modes, I personally like Cops and Crooks where two teams vs each 
 other turn out to big heat battles.
  
  
  
  Final Verdict : 10/10
  
  PERFECT
  
  Written by Kieren Hovasapian
  
  PSN: the_1st_assassin
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I waited in line for this game for the midnight release, i played it for about 4 hours. The game 
 is amazing you can interact with people and the environment so many ways, the story line so far 
 is damn sick, and the gameplay is just funny. When i was board i decided to go around liberty city 
 and explore, the graphics are amazing every building is detailed, every person is unique. This 
 is an epic in GTA series it suprised me how they improved it so much, thats why most sites and 
 shows gave it a 10/10 , 5/5 , or 100%. I havnt really played online yet since the single player 
 is addicting itself just crashing your car around and causing heat is more fun then ever. Basically 
 all the beginning missions are to adjust you to the game since its a very big world, and lots of 
 things to learn to survive in the big world. Nikko Bellic is the badass of the game and wanting 
 to live the american dream so its going to be a joy to beat the game through the streets of liberty. 
 I heard that if you rush the game its about 40hours gameplay, or else if you just mess around here 
 and there it would be like max 60+hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_soapy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Ever since GTA first went 3D, it was able to capture an everlasting fanbase that still continues 
 to grow till this day. GTA IV never fails to live up to the hype and even excels beyond what we 
 thought was the impossible. Every aspect of this game is polished and the game speaks for itself.
 
  
  With the seamless addition of multiplayer already along with its unparalleled single player experience, 
 GTA IV has the opportunity to become one of the most popular games in history. GTA IV offers a 
 city that has never felt so alive. The amount of things to do in Liberty City has grown to vast 
 proportions and you'll find yourself putting in numerous hours just touring the city and enjoying 
 its breath-taking landscape.
  
  Go out and buy this game if you haven't already! A 10 does not do this game justice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brb03
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, it is a huge improvement, and has brought things to a video game that you 
 would not think possible. Everything from the graphics to game play and anything in between, Rockstar 
 worked hard on this game, and it definitely shows, in my book, it is, to date, the best game ever 
 created, hands down. I recommend this game to anyone who likes to play video games, and even those 
 who don't, because this game will change your mind, and definitely has something you'll like. It 
 is a definite must have, and congrats to rockstar on yet another phenomenal GTA, you always raise 
 the bar, and go higher than the expectations. This game brings everything to the table that can 
 be brought. It is easy to see that rockstar tried to perfect every aspect of the game. The things 
 that the game contains, all the features, its like a real living breathing city, I was amazed at 
 how complex the world is, how big it is, how detailed it is, yet at the same time, rockstar throws 
 in great graphics, game play, and anything else you could ask for. This is a game you definitely 
 have to buy just to experience exactly what i am talking about, this is the type of game that can 
 make thousands of people go to game stop at midnight, and stand in line for an hour or two. Just 
 buy it and you'll figure out why people call this the new "greatest game ever made" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  So It's a new NEXT GEN GTA IV. It's something new we haven't experienced yet. But new and different 
 in a good way. GTA IV has a great single player story and a great multiplayer.
  
  Single Player - Story makes it all perfect. But it is one funny story. Game has lots of cars added 
 to the game that hasn't been added from previous GTA games. Rockstar tried to make the cars handle 
 realisticly and somewhat it works. Every car handeles differently. The cars now have almost realistic 
 damage and the bullet holes don't just dissapear. The blood stains don't just dissapear and the 
 weapons sound more real now. Also your character acts and moves more realsticly now. The way he 
 runs and pushes ppl and says things is a lot more real now.
  Things that have been removed from GTA series are planes. There lots of planes at the airport but 
 we can't use them. Good thing we can still use the helicopters.
  Now when you go on a date with your girlfriend she will notice if you wear the same clothes or 
 not and most likely she won't like it.
  New things have been added to the game like Bowling, new restaurants, some show clubs and more.
 
  Also cool new feature has been added to the game. Now you don't have to just blind fire through 
 the sides of the car. Now you can just aim from the window of your car and shoot your target.
 
  Graphics for this time of game are absolutely beatiful. . . best they can be.
  
  Multiplayer - There a lot of different multiplayer modes. About 16 and some modes are up to 16 
 players. So sometimes it gets a little crazy. But if It's a lot of people and a lot of explosion 
 is going on or something like that then you might experience some frame rate issues. But It's not 
 that bad and it doesn't happen often.
  Somtimes you might experience some lag and if It's laggy then It's usually really bad. Because 
 you shoot a person and then somehow he's behind and kills you. But there aren't really many laggy 
 games. . . unless you have crappy internet.
  
  Overall - It's a great game and def worth $60. So if you get a chance to get the game then It's 
 totally a must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingtwiggy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I actually considered giving it a 1.0 just to get fanboys upset... but I couldn't bring myself to 
 do it. The game is just incredible. I took a short nap before the midnight release so I'd be (slightly) 
 refreshed & I'm glad I did, because at this point the only reason I've put it down is that I have 
 to take my daughter to school tomorrow morning.
  
  Enough about me, lets get to the game! So far my only complaint is the responsiveness of the steering 
 while driving. That's always been a problem for me to get used to in previous GTA games and this 
 is no different. The learning curve for the brake/accelerator/handbrake is slightly steep (at least 
 to me) but I'm getting the hang of it & loving it now. 
  
  As most reviews have stated, the story is great! I've only played through like 2 hours but Niko 
 is a guy that you almost hate to love. He's the typical badass that gets shafted and turns to crime. 
 (Much to our delight!) I found myself more drawn into this story than any previous GTA iteration, 
 and I'm not sure exactly why. From what I've played so far the story on this game will be great. 
 
  
  One new feature that I absolutely love is the replay. If you somehow mess up a mission, after failing 
 out simply hit up your cell phone and it starts you out fairly close the start point for the mission 
 you screwed up.
  
  I've read some "professional" reviews and can't wait to try some of the small detail twists that 
 have been added... such as darts and pool (already played bowling) and getting Niko plastered.
 
  
  Overall, IF you're an adult and enjoy just playing around being a "bad guy" and being stupid... this 
 game is most definitely for you! It is more than worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  The GTA Series has always blown up the gaming world, but GTA IV by far has blown up the gaming 
 world into a new world. This game has so much to offer and then some. It unreal the things you 
 can do in Liberty City and the visuals are just amazing.
  
  //Graphics
  First off, MUCH, MUCH better than previous GTA's. The graphics are a HUGE improvement in the series 
 with the character models and animation. Niko has all five fingers and uses them very well. Explosions 
 are so fun to do because they look amazing. Crashing cars is always fun because you can make Niko 
 fly out of the vehicle by hitting a wall or something at very fast speeds.
  
  //Gameplay
  The gameplay is great, much better than last series. The flow of animations with Niko and other 
 NPCs are beautiful. They flow very well. The controls feel very solid, but I do think that the 
 camera feels alittle bit off with everything else. The driving in GTA IV is alittle bit more difficult 
 because I think I'm just use to the previous driving in past GTAs. Driving feels more realistic.
 
  
  //Sound
  IS FREAKING AMAZING! You can hear everything. I can tell Rockstar has put alot of time into the 
 audio. You can hear the radio when your out the car and other people talking on a cellphone. The 
 voice actoring is perfect and I can see alot of people talking like Niko in the coming weeks.
 
  
  //Overall
  Just buy this game, hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitefalcon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Just started playing tonight (midnight release FTW!) and all i have to say is that i'm amazed. 
 The guys who made this game really went all out and paid attention to detail. The introduction 
 of physics to the GTA series is phenomenal, everything from walking up a flight of stairs to driving 
 your car through a mass of citizens will be chillingly satisfying. I cant begin to describe how 
 realistic liberty city has become. Everyone is still dicks and its still great fun. Great game 
 by rockstar, the best GTA to date.
  
  As far as gameplay, its everything you expect from a GTA game. We have the cars, we have the fights. 
 there is a new cover system which is pretty cool. the story seems good so far, i've heard that 
 it gets really intense by the end. The characters feel believable and likeable/hateable. That adds 
 to the greatness of this game.
  
  I havent gotten a chance to check out the multiplayer component, which i will do tommorow, but 
 the premise there is that you can play with many people and cause as much havoc as you can in a 
 single player game, except now you can kill each other :) . Just the fact that they managed to make 
 a multiplayer component for a game that is a 10/10 as it stands, just goes to show how epic of 
 a game this is. 
  
  I give this game a 10/10, its absolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Okay now that i've turned it off for a while i can state my claim. Truely this is one remarkable 
 game. From the moment you turn it on you cant help but feel a small smirk apear on your face as 
 you know deep down your about to play one of the best video games of all time.
  
  The whole game for a start has been totally refurbished, rebooted and redone. The visuals are stunning. 
 The vehicles, characters everything is stunning. When you first get to run around you instantly 
 become overwhelmed looking around at the city, seeing huge skyscrapers towering into the sky, and 
 the biggest most enduring city ever seen in a game. The attention to detail is absolutely huge, 
 you can see it in the people every where you go. The people actually have purpose. They seem to 
 be going somewhere and if you bump into them, they shove you off and continue on their journey 
 (but not before shouting obscenities at you!)
  
  So far i must admit ive been let down by the promises of high profile games like assassins creed 
 and halo 3 but i must admit honest to god this game is the best that i have ever played. 
  
  I mean where to start, the huge city, the missions, do you want to run around killing people, 
 go out to dates, see people, search the net, listen to the radio, race cars, eat food, fly helicopters, 
 i... i mean come on!
  
  There is also something after that in the form of multiplayer. You've played Halo and COD4 well 
 heres another great multiplayer game. Wait you say GTA multiplayer... oh you must mean that two 
 player co - op thingo from San Andreas right? Well no thats gone. Whats left is a huge and deeply 
 fun multiplayer seeing 16 players running all over town killing each other with anything they can 
 find (yay!) .
  
  Now back to what GTA does best, it's single player campaign. The character of Niko is great. He 
 has a sense of respect that he earns from you. He's different from Tommy or CJ, he makes you laugh 
 and cry all at once he really is something special. In fact all the characters in the GTA world 
 are priceless, either holding your attention by making you love them or hate them. 
  
  As for the missions there all extremely interesting, extremely invigurating and very fun most importantly. 
 The thing about GTA you see is imersing yourself into another life. In fact it's not just that 
 it's taking another life and making it your own.
  
  As with all the GTA games the very best thing about them is the free roaming experience. Whether 
 you've played the other games or not though, even if your a pro and used to this sort of stuff 
 you will be pleasently surprised at the huge aspect of the game and the total amount of things 
 to do. 
  
  You can do just about anything in this game. The free roaming experience is top quality and certaintly 
 the best in any free roaming game. The attention to detail overall around the whole city is just 
 so immense its absolutely unbelieveable.
  
  Well anyway i can't rant anymore. In my opinion GTA is the best released game in a very long time 
 if not the best. Some more serious gamers might not exactly come to appreciate the open endiveness 
 of the game but for mostly everyone else you should come to respect this game for what it is, a 
 true gem. 
  
  If you haven't given GTA a chance once before let me just say do it now because this is its time 
 and its hard to describe really but you cannot miss it. Seriously pick up the game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcrobaticMonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  I loved The Grand Theft Auto series and this is by far one of the best games i ever played. It 
 has anything and everything to keep you busy and keep you wanting to keep playing it. The long 
 wait for the midnight launch was worth it. If you have the money go out there and pick this game 
 up now no matter what type of gamer you are im sure you will find enjoyability in this game. The 
 missions, the driving, the exploring, gun fights, everything is so perfect. it may take some getting 
 use to controls but everything is so excellent. the world you are in is just so alive no 2 people 
 are the same and no 2 vehicles handle the same. replay value is by far one of the highest out of 
 any game. the multilayer itself will keep you hooked for a very long time. any first person shooter 
 player will enjoy online multilayer. the whole map is open to everyone in the game and you can 
 never play the same game in the same way twice its just that great. so in my opinion get out there 
 GET THIS GAME its worth every penny you spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rexer-i4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  This is really the greatest thing that happened till date, There is absolutely nothing as great 
 as this game, This game the best things in all games: Driving fun, shooting action ,great story 
 ,huge city , new ideas and hot girls. You had never seen something like this.
  THE GTA EXPIERNCE:
  It's all here again, new radio stations that will totally rock you off with 
 the same dirty comments that you loved in the early parts just drive through the all new Liberty 
 City with the same open world feature, missions and mini games are even greater than ever.
  THE NEW THINGS:
  It's a whole new controller system it is easier and more stable and let you 
 catch each move and each angle of the camera.
  Now plus the radio you GOT TV ... YES... Great thing also ,Now you can watch all your favorite TV 
 shows at your house with multiple TV channels this fun will never end you can watch TV for hours 
 and hours.. My favorites Channel is WHEZEL TV.
  New cop chase methods, now when you got chase by police a small circle will appear in your radar 
 if you got out of the circle you out of the chase.
  More improved combat system with lock on feature.
  Everything is now interactive collect stones 
 from the street and break whatever you want.
  And more and more new features that wait to be explored.
  THE BAD THINGS:
  I think that I was 
 waiting for more graphics details
  Finally I hope you like it as I did, HAVE FUN
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28690
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best in the gta series of games. the only thing i disliked about the game was 
 they removed the vehicle customization that was introduced in san andreas.
  while some may find that trivial or nit picking, i thought it was a nice added feature in SA and 
 one that added extra replay and longer gameplay to the game. other than that the game is spot on 
 and rockstar has really set the bar in the sandbox genre of games.
  pretty much every thing else is back that we all grew to love and expect from the previous gta's 
 (except the bodybuilding feature in SA) and rockstar has added some new features as well (gun combat 
 cover system, cell phone, stealing cars is more realistic, added feature of internet, just to name 
 a few that come to mind) .
  I give the game a 9.8. i would have give it a perfect score of 10 if the car customization would 
 have been implemented.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
