-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GRID
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/racedriverone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of racing disciplines and locations.
 Accessible and rewarding career mode.
 Excellent online lobby system.
 Superb graphics and presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacking online game types.
 No mechanical upgrades for vehicles.
 No split-screen multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,615 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grid is a classy arcade racing game, providing enough depth and variety to satisfy any fan of the 
 genre. 

  Codemasters' Race Driver series has long put the emphasis on making the driver, not the cars, the 
 stars of the show. Grid is the spiritual successor to this series, and though it still offers you 
 the chance to travel the world as a racing driver, the emphasis is firmly back on the racing itself. 
 Taking in a wide range of international venues and racing disciplines, Grid's career mode puts 
 you in the shoes of a top racing driver. You'll freelance as a driver for other teams, form your 
 own team, and negotiate sponsorship contracts so you can buy new vehicles. In addition, Grid has 
 a highly accessible 12-player online mode, a new flashback feature to rewind the action after devastating 
 crashes or costly mistakes, and a novel approach to trading vehicles. It may lack basic features 
 such as adjustable weather and split-screen multiplayer, but Grid still has enough fresh ideas 
 to make it a notable entry in the racing genre.  

           Grid's US racing scene focuses on street courses in cities like San Francisco.      

 
  Grid splits its racing between three geographical locations, with Europe, the US, and Japan each 
 presenting an assortment of racing styles. Europe features track-based racing, with famous locations 
 such as the Nurburgring, Donington Park, and Le Mans on its roster. Europe also boasts a city track 
 in Milan, but it's the US that is more focused on street racing with courses in Washington, San 
 Francisco, Detroit, and more. Japan is clearly influenced by underground street racing and has 
 short, winding tracks that are perfect for drifting around. Each of these locations demands different 
 vehicles; Europe features touring and GT cars, the US has muscle cars such as Vipers and Mustangs, 
 and in Japan you get to drive tricked-out Nissans and Subarus.  

  The main aim of the Grid World mode is to increase your reputation as a driver and earn money to 
 buy new vehicles. You'll be paid for winning races, playing at harder difficulty levels, earning 
 sponsor bonuses and being part of a winning team. As with many racing games, you need a selection 
 of vehicle types to enter different racing events, and you can buy cars either brand-new or secondhand 
 on eBay Motors. It's a rare example of in-game advertising done right: Some pre-owned motors run 
 the risk of being too banged up, whereas others have proved themselves capable of winning races 
 previously. One thing that Grid doesn't focus on is upgrading vehicle components; instead of buying 
 new engines, you just sell your old banger and buy something better.  

  The simple upgrade system and accessible racing style mean that Grid is more of an arcade-style 
 racing game than a sim. That said, the game is still challenging, and the believable AI opponents 
 will happily smash you into walls. In a nod to realism, head-on collisions will often take you 
 out of a race completely, though one of Grid's new features offers you a way back in. The flashback 
 system, which can be selected from the pause menu, lets you rewind time and resume gameplay at 
 a point before the mistake was made. Your chosen difficulty level determines the number of flashbacks 
 at your disposal, and there's a cash incentive at the end of each race for not using the feature. 
 Racing purists may baulk at the concept, but it's completely up to you whether you choose to use 
 flashbacks in the game. In situations when you'd previously have to restart the entire race, you 
 now have a second chance to try a corner, and the decision adds an interesting gambling element 
 to the game -- should you use your last flashback now, or save it for the final lap? Grid also provides 
 concessions for hardcore players who want to make the game harder, with a pro mode that restricts 
 you from restarting a race at all. Enabling the pro mode changes your entire approach for each 
 race, given that every lap becomes a do-or-die test of nerves.  

  Grid's controls feel light, responsive, and even quite forgiving, but the damage model and challenging 
 AI can make for a difficult first few races. Minor bumps and crashes will do little to impact the 
 performance of your vehicle; bumpers will fall off and windscreens will shatter, but the innards 
 of your car will perform as normal. However, major incidents will have a more drastic effect on 
 your ability to race. Your vehicle might pull to one side or lose speed and acceleration, or even 
 worse, it could fail completely.  

           Grid combines accessible arcade racing with a deep and rewarding career mode.      

 
  Once you're aware of these dangers, Grid becomes an enjoyably edge-of-your-seat racing experience. 
 With the traction, braking, and stability assistance enabled, the game lets you perform some extraordinary 
 braking manoeuvres, but you still need to be careful. While there's no option to have a racing 
 line drawn on the track, a red light next to the map advises you of when to brake for corners. 
 But Grid's greatest achievement is the driver AI, which does a fantastic job of replicating the 
 behaviour of competitive and somewhat accident prone race drivers. Grid's drivers move in a choreographed 
 formation at the beginning of each race, but they begin to take risks and make mistakes as they 
 try to get to the front of the pack. You'll frequently find yourself misjudging a corner and spinning 
 out, only to see a pack of rivals pile up the next corner down. There are also distinct racing 
 styles between teams and drivers; race leaders will guard their position closely, whereas those 
 at the back will cautiously slow down and go around you if you spin out in front of them. Whichever 
 difficulty level you choose to play at, they're a clever and challenging bunch to race against. 
     

  Grid offers a huge number of different racing disciplines to try, from standard GT and pro-tuned 
 races to drift competitions around winding Japanese circuits. There's even a demolition derby, 
 with a track that has two crossovers where airborne cars can smash into each other at right angles. 
 Each season of the Grid World mode ends with a Le Mans 24 Hour Race, and though it's normally condensed 
 into a 24-minute period, it feels only slightly less demanding than the real thing. Caffeine-addled 
 players can choose to follow it in real time by setting up a full 24-hour race outside of the career 
 mode, but you still get to see the full day and night cycle whatever period of time you choose. 

  For multiplayer racing, Grid offers support for up to 12 players connected via Xbox Live or a system 
 link. All of the racing events from the single-player game can be played online, including demolition 
 derbies and Le Mans, but the game modes are fairly limited, with only ranked, player, or private 
 matches to select. If you're creating a private match, you get complete control over the race types, 
 race length, and damage options, but in the ranked and player matches these are voted for by all 
 of the players in the lobby. It's good that vehicle options tend to be limited to one or two different 
 models in each race because it makes Grid a fair and balanced racing game to play online, but it 
 would benefit from a few additional modes and features. For example, there are no team-based races, 
 you can't save replays, and there are no online TV channels to watch live races from around the 
 world. The lack of split-screen multiplayer also comes as a blow, especially if you're not in a 
 position to play online or link systems.  

           The interior camera view offers a realistic perspective on the action.      

  The 
 new version of Codemasters' Neon engine, named Ego, imbues Grid with some particularly impressive 
 visuals. The backgrounds aren't always sharp, but the action moves at such a frightening pace that 
 you'll rarely have a chance to notice. There are some nice stylistic touches, such as camera tilt 
 as you take corners at speed, and the interior camera offers a spectacular view of the car you're 
 driving. On the technical side, Grid runs at a solid 30 frames per second with no slowdown during 
 pileups. The one notably absent feature is weather effects, given that the game features nothing 
 other than warm, sunny conditions in which to race. The Le Mans track may feature 24-hour day-and-night 
 rotation, but the lack of rain or even day/night options for single races is a large omission. 

  Grid's presentation is similar to Dirt's, and that's certainly no bad thing. Menus are laid out 
 simply and are easy to navigate, and the game throws up plenty of hints if you're not doing something 
 correctly. You're frequently reminded to apply sponsor logos to your vehicles, play at a higher 
 difficulty if you're constantly winning, and an intercom system is used to remind you of objectives 
 during the race. The latter feature can actually become quite annoying if you're trying to concentrate 
 on a difficult race, but voices can be turned off in the menu system if you find that you don't 
 need them. As well as gorgeous in-game graphics, the stylish presentation of the menu system is 
 enough to make you stop and admire it every once in a while. From the teammates who circle your 
 garage to the statistical updates in the loading screens, this is a game that's blessed with incredible 
 attention to detail.  

           Drift races score you on style as well as speed.      

  One area that Grid falls down on is its audio. Engine noises don't always sound as meaty as they 
 should, especially when you're using the in-car view, and some of the cars' engines are difficult 
 to distinguish from one another. Musically, there's a superb intro theme courtesy of UNKLE, but 
 the music in the menus is bland, and the few in-game tracks add little to the atmosphere. The Xbox 
 360 lets you play your own music over the top, of course, but Grid would benefit from a more exciting 
 and memorable soundtrack to add to the thrill of high-speed racing.  

  As both an extension and a rewrite of the Race Driver series, Grid is certainly a successful progression 
 of Codemasters' art. It may not feature the customisation of Forza 2, and it doesn't have the diversity 
 of online modes found in Project Gotham Racing 4. But as an alternative to arcade racers such as 
 Need for Speed and Juiced, Grid is an accessible and rewarding first step in what we hope will 
 be an ongoing franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (88 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: knayh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
 greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game greet game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  I'm not exactly what you would call a die-hard racing game, but while browsing the pre-owned section 
 of my local Gamestation store I decided to pick this up - and I'm so glad I did. Here's why.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The first thing I did when loading up the game for the first time was check 
 out the career mode to see what it offered, as I'm sure a lot of people will and already have done. 
 I was a little surprised to immediately be thrown right into a race with absolutely no idea what 
 I was doing, but fortunately a quick hammer of all the buttons to work out the accelerator button 
 was found quickly and I was off, so despite a very quick start to your career it's easy enough 
 to quickly work out what you're doing right at the beginning of the game. The career mode is very 
 well put together, the idea being that you basically earn as much money as possible through sponsorships 
 and races to afford new cars, enter better races and attract better sponsors. Along the way you 
 can adjust the difficulty to suit your needs, the higher it is the more reputation (needed to earn 
 various licences to unlock more events) you earn. The controls as mentioned are very easy to get 
 to grips with, and the AI is also top notch. One thing I've always disliked in games like Forza 
 and Gran Turismo is that your opposition stick to a strict racing line, always in formation and 
 never making mistakes. GRID is more of an arcade-style racer than those but with simulation elements 
 retained, so you get the best of those games but with aggressive opposition who think nothing of 
 taking risks throughout a race.
  
  Graphics
  
  I can safely say the graphics in GRID are the best I've ever seen in a racing game. Crashes look 
 almost artistic in their design and the backgrounds, vehicles and circuits are all visually stunning. 
 There are however no weather effects, so you won't ever find yourself driving in heavy rain... 
 or anything else other than glorious sunshine or a clear night while doing the Le Mans race.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound effects and music in this game are its weakest point in my opinion, 
 with generic music accompanying the menu screens and a crappy remix of a Queens of The Stone Age 
 track as it's theme song. The overall sound of the vehicles are very nice but all too similar in 
 a lot of cases, and the guy who talks to you via the intercom during races can get on your nerves 
 after a while due to repeating the same half a dozen phrases over and over again.
  
  Value
  
  I think this game still retails at close to full-price, but in my opinion it's worth 
 buying. Apparently the online multiplayer feature is lacking in certain features but for those 
 of us who have no interest in that sort of thing it's not an issue, but for those who enjoy racing 
 online it might be worth reading other reviews where it talks about it in a little more detail. 
 GRID offers a deep and enthralling single-player career mode though with many different types of 
 races, and many, many edge-of-your seat moments to keep you coming back for more. Give it a rent 
 or try the demo if you're not sure, to give it at least a vague comparison it's basically Forza 
 meets a touch of Burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockdisk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is deep, it challenges you. Wow I've been playing this game for over 40 hours and Im 
 still hooked. So many options and cars. Drifting feels natural. This is a game that 10 years from 
 now will still be on peoples minds. I have the PC version and I love it. This is'nt a street racing 
 game, yet it blends all of those aspects into the game. Anything you've seen in previous racing 
 game are in this game. I do not recommend getting this game on pc however. Unless you own a very 
 powerful computer. This game is that sick. The detail put into every car is amazing. It really 
 pushes the Pc and 360 versions to the max. This game will blow you away. If f you like any kind 
 of racing game buy it. This game is gold. Now I wont lie to you there are some flaws that hold 
 this game back. But its greatness overshadows the little flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpShorty
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This review is going to going to be short so I'm going to point out my opininions quick.
  
  This game is the most intense racing game I have ever played on the 360. First off, people might 
 think this game is "too hard" or "unplayable". Well, I think they're not trying hard enough.
  
  Once you play, it may seem a off from your usual racing games. The first thing people are going 
 to do is use the handbrake because they know they can drift swiftly and hit the wall just like 
 they did in Need for Speed...
  
  Wrong.
  
  What really matters in this game is the damage so you better watch where you are going. The damage 
 model looks pretty amazing and the damage system work really well. The damage is very sensitive 
 just as it is in real life racing.
  
  The graphics are 100% amazing. I have never in my life seen such a beautiful racing game. I don't 
 know what makes the graphics so different than Midnight Club or Need for Speed, but all I care 
 is that the graphics are simply great.
  
  The gameplay is great as it gets more intense when you race more and more. It might seem just a 
 simple race at first, but then you'll head on to drifting on the tracks and then racing on the 
 steep mountains. The races are amazing.
  
  Possibly the reason why I gave it a 9 not a 10 is because of the multiplayer. Don't get me wrong, 
 I love those drifting online matches where you can dominate with all those drift points you have. 
 It's just some people like to enjoy the game in a different way. For example, people go backwards 
 on the track for fun. They also stop their car sideways on the track until someone runs into them 
 and gets wrecked. Really, theres really no point if they bought the game just to do that.
  
  So that's all. It's a great game that you should definitely buy if you are a simulation fan. 
 If your more of an arcade racer, give the demo a try and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenfreak411
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for about 3 days now and can't get enough of it. Every time I get 
 on my Xbox 360. I can't stop playing it is so addictive. The racing is just right. The line between 
 arcade racer and sim is perfect. Even though it is an arcade racer. If you are sick of PGR4 or 
 Forza. Then this is the game for you. The graphic are beautiful and the lighting is just right. 
 It also supports the racing wheel. If you love racing and don't want the slow strategic racer that 
 is Forza then get this you won't be disappointed. Don't rent just buy this is the most impressive 
 game I have seen in a while. It is from the makers of dirt codemasters. GET THIS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  I like Forza 2 a lot. But in some ways, I think GRID is just more fun. Think of Forza as the serious 
 racer's game. Not quite a sim, but catering to the sim crowd. GRID is more than an arcade racer, 
 but also not a sim. I guess what I'm saying is GRID takes aspects of both racing genres, mixes 
 them up, and makes a fun and exciting experience out of it.
  
  Gamers weaned on NFS style racers will find GRID more accessible to them than Forza. But at the 
 same time, driving a car in GRID requires more skill and concentration than the wall-bouncing shenanigans 
 found in arcade racing. You aren't punished as much if you take a bad line here as you are in Forza, 
 and with the flashback feature, you can instantly undo any catastrophic errors you made... like 
 stuffing yourself into a wall.
  
  There are aspects of GRID I like over Forza 2 like the larger field of cars, and the increased 
 level of damage. Unlike Forza, you can end your race if you damage your car too much. I also like 
 the fact that AI drivers act like morons now and then. That sounds like a bad thing, but when you 
 watch real racing, human drivers do stupid things sometimes. It's nice to see a car ahead of you 
 spin off the track, giving you a chance at a podium position you might not have had before.
  
  I like the structure of GRID, in which you own a race team with a limited number or cars. You 
 make money by getting sponsored, and you can hire a teammate to race alongside you. While you still 
 don't get to drive in a racing series for a season like real life, you get the typical selection 
 of races to complete. Unlike other games, you don't need to win every race you enter to progress, 
 adding to the realism. And there are several disciplines of racing to try your hand at, from GT 
 racing, drifting, to demolition derby to name a few.
  
  The graphics and sounds are excellent, and the game is a real sensory treat. Some of the tracks 
 are ho hum, and there are a few too many street circuits for my taste. The choices of cars may 
 not be as extensive as Forza, but adequate with more than enough to keep you happy.
  
  Now, if only I could somehow merge GRID and Forza 2 into one game, then I think we would finally 
 have true driving game nirvana. In the meantime, GRID certainly satisfies as a fun and good looking 
 racer. For the more serious racing grognards, you better stick with Forza 2. Personally, I enjoy 
 them both... and in many ways, think GRID is the better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garuda414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  GRID is a very good game when it comes to circuit racing games. It has a great variety of cars 
 and types of races. The Demolition derby and Drift races are my personal favorites. Crashes are 
 really what shines in this game though. When you "accidentally" hit a car going 80 mph it is truly 
 a beautiful sight. Be weary though, if some parts of your car get damaged to much like your wheels 
 it will be a bit harder to finish a race. A nice detail is they mention your name from time to 
 time when updating you on your status. But the best part of this game is that it gives you a certain 
 amount of whats called a flashback based on your difficulty. The flashback feature allows you to 
 rewind time a little bit, saving a lot of stress. Theirs a large selection of offline races including 
 the famous Le mans race. Multiplayer also has a great selection of races with a nice ranking system. 
 Theirs usually a good amount of people online at all hours so don't worry about not finding any 
 matches. All fans of driving games should at least rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atony12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10: grid had the perfect blend of racing simulation and arcade racing. users can choose 
 how more or less of a simulation it is (driver assists, helmet cam, increased difficulty) and the 
 more difficult you set things the more rep you get each race.
  
  You will be racing in 3 different regions; North America which focuses on muscle cars, European 
 which focuses on touring cars, and Japanese, which does regular racing, drifting, and touge.
  
  You start off driving for other racing teams while you build up enough money to start your 
 own. once you have your team you can still race for others for quick cash but low rep or you can 
 just do things your self for big rep and big cash. You can customize everything about your team. 
 You will have to set all the colors and decals you want for your team and whats great about GRID 
 is that your color schemes will carry over to all your cars so you want have to go through the 
 tedious process again. you can make your own team name and once you start going to events you will 
 get lots of sponsors. some will be lame but others will give you huge cash as long as you complete 
 there objectives (finish the race, finish no lwoer than 3rd etc.) after awhile you will get to hire 
 a team mate to bring in even more cash. Everything about your team can be changed later also.
 
  
  GRID has a flashback feature that you will fall in love with if your a rookie racer. Basically 
 if you total your car or you just want to imrpove on that one turn you can. You go to the instant 
 replay and you choose the spot that you want to start over at. So if you spun out on that one turn 
 and lost all your hard worked field position you can try it again!
  
  Multiplayer 10: every race event you can do in career mode you can do online with up to 12 people 
 each server. If you have your team set when you go online you can race cars with your paint scheme.
 
  
  Graphics 10: GRID had amazing graphics and your game will never slow up. Cars and tracks alike 
 are shown beautifully. Crashes are probably the things that will really catch your eye. GRID has 
 an unbelievable damage model and physics. If your brush up against another car you might see some 
 if any scratches where you touched but if you smacked into a wall your car will be severely deformed 
 and in the worst crashes your car may be totaled and you will be forced to restart, retire, or use 
 a flashback. The crashes are very realistic though you wont see weird car physics (like in the 
 nascar games) but really realistic physics making the crashes very spectacular. The interior's of 
 cars are very well done. Every car is different both driving and appearance.
  
  Audio 10: GRID has great engine sounds (i know it sounds korny but it does) there is no music when 
 racing so you can concentrate on your driving and you will need every bit of concentration if you 
 want to win..... or survive.
  
  
  There is so much to do in GRID that hardcore race fans and those that just want an awsome game 
 that doesnt involve heads being blown off will play this for hours. There is still much ive yet 
 to cover on GRID but you will just have to buy the game and find out all the other goodies because 
 ive yet to find something bad with this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you, when I played DiRT, I was impressed! I loved that game because it was offroad 
 mainly which is my favorite type of racing. So when I saw that Codemasters was going to make a 
 new racing game and that it was street, I was a bit excited but I didn't think it would be better 
 than DiRT because it was street racing... Boy was I wrong!!! GRID is sick!!! Let me break it down:
 
  
  Graphics: Wow... these cars are beautiful! Even when they are destroyed they look amazing! The 
 environments look great too and even the skid marks are beautiful. Just an overall gorgeous game.
 
  
  Gameplay: Perfect mix of arcade gameplay and realism. It's got some Forza in it but it has some 
 Need for Speed in there too. It's not too heavy on either one and makes for a perfect mix.
  
  Audio: The cars all sound like they should and the tire screeches are spot on! Awesome sound 
 abounds in this game.
  
  Overall I think this is one of the best racing games I have ever played. I love that you can brand 
 your car and that you get to have a teammate that you hire and that helps you in races. If you 
 like racing games you owe it to yourself to try out GRID, it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Great game.. If you like driving and you know how a driving game should feel, that's the game for 
 you.. This game offers a proper driving experience.. The best you can find in Xbox 360. Codemasters 
 really have the best driving engines out there... Dirt and this game make codemasters show they 
 are the best.. Compared to outher driving games, I may say:
  
  - The NFS series are much about fast driving, great scenarios and car tunning... but the driving 
 doesn't feel connected and it's too much arcade for me.
  
  - While Forza 2 has a bunch of car options, it really lacks in driving feeling. Not this one, it's 
 a proper driving game, with the best gameplay you can find on the market. 
  
  Great combination between arcade/simulation, much fun for many hours with a nice online mode
 
  
  I sure recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Grid is very good graphics and is has a good multiplayer. I liked the career and its quite long 
 i like the races because you can choose your diffuculty before starting the race which i think 
 is good. you can also do driver offers and win money for doing it. its quite a hard game because 
 you have to buy your cars but when you buy them you can either buy them new or buy them of ebay 
 which is good because there cheaper. There is a lot of cars and tracks so it isnt just the same 
 tracks all the time. Grid isnt a repetitive game so its good. I rated it 8.5 because the graphics 
 are good and its a good career and multiplayer
  
  I HOPE YOU HAVE ENJOYED MY REVIEW IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESIONS SEND A MESSAGE TO ME AND ILL TRY AND 
 ANSWER THEM
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilscuro
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  That's all it is though, an arcade racer, the graphics are fantastic, the sounds are exquisite 
 the smashes are incredible, ram int a wall at speed and the cars realistically smash into pieces, 
 but the games driving physics are terrible, the AI of the computer controlled car's is awful, they 
 cheat and ram into you and take corners at phenomenal speeds, asides from the graphics, grid's 
 only other saving grace are the fantastic demolition derbies, hours of fun guaranteed there, but 
 if you want a long lasting racer, get Forza, which has infinite car customizations and which you 
 will still be playing long after grid's gathering dust on your shelf.
  
  Now if someone could make a racer with the grid's visuals and sound, combined with Forza's realism 
 and game play, they would be onto a surefire winner.
  
  Graphics nine / ten
  Sounds nine / ten
  Game play five / ten
  
  Overall seven / ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Being a racing game fan since the classic Gran Turismo days, this game definately delivers the 
 goods in it's own way.
  
  This game delivers quick paced and action packed races which keeps it interesting as it moves along. 
 I believe that the developers said that their goal is to try to bring back people's focus back 
 to the roots of a real race... an intense mood while going for the top of the podium. This game 
 delivers exactly that. 
  
  People seem to complain about the lack of customization which keeps the game pretty straight, in 
 other words, dull and may not suit your persona but in my opinion, the cars are already beautifully 
 designed and properly set up for whatever race you're going on. Which is even better I think, you 
 don't have to waste your time trying to tune up your car, and you don't need to have the knowledge 
 of a grease monkey to have fun in this game.
  
  This ain't no need for speed, or a forza 2, or a pgr4 but a game on it's own. The damage simulation 
 is awesome, (reminds me of burnout paradise.) The in-dash view is well detailed along with the 
 accurate sounds of rubber on suspension hitting tarmac. The replays are actually really entertaining 
 to watch, espeically the drifting. And as you can already see through the screenshots and videos, 
 the game already delivers a stunning look which sold me from day 1.
  
  All in all, great racing game, stunning graphics, sick rides, beautiful cinematics, and intense 
 racing feel that's focused on you, the driver. This game delivers it all, very balanced game. A 
 racing game that you can pick up and have fun, and put down. Quite realistic physics and handling. 
 Recommended to any race game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetona
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  GRID does many things right. For starters, it has a wide range of fun race types, including street 
 racing, drifting, demolition derbies, and even touge. It adds strong AI, and the best damage model 
 that I have yet seen in a racing game. It looks great, and runs with nary a hint of slowdown. However, 
 the core racing mechanics are simply not as good as those PGR4.
  The root of the problem is that the handling is too realistic for an arcade-style racer, but not 
 realistic enough for a racing sim. This means that the cars don't feel connected to the road surface, 
 and are not as fun to drive as a result. In addition, the handling feels inconsistent. In slow 
 corners, cars feel overly loose, and tend to slip when you hit the gas. In faster corners, the 
 cars want to push. What's especially jarring is that the fastest cars in the game suffer the worst 
 from this. The game's F3 car feels on top of the road in the way that a high-downforce open-wheel 
 car shouldn't, and it alternately slides or pushes for lack of grip. The ultrafast Audi R10, on 
 the other hand, handles good on some tracks, while on others it heads straight for the outside 
 wall. 
  There are a wide variety of race modes, some of which I mentioned above. They suffer to varying 
 degrees from the unusual handling of the cars. The standard circuit races suffer the most, while 
 the other modes use cars that do not have such understeer-because they're slower and have less 
 grip. Modes like touge and demolition derby are great fun. They are a combination of unique track 
 design, fun-to-drive cars, and in the case of demolition derby, crashing a lot. Indeed, the damage 
 model in GRID is outstanding. Doors will fly off; fenders will crumple; cars will go into wild 
 rolls. You can spend hours and hours doing nothing but crashing cars, and you may well have more 
 fun than actually racing.
  The racing itself is solid (aside from handling problems) , but it feels too easy, despite the fact 
 that the game has up to 20-car fields (a welcome change of pace from Forza and PGR) . The AI actually 
 puts up a decent challenge most of the time, but the rest of the time they'll spin out while ahead 
 of you and put you in the lead without having to work for it. The addition of a teammate in career 
 mode makes things even easier as they will finish well enough most of the time to double your earnings. 
 One high point of career mode is the 24 Hours of Le Mans, a sped-up version of the endurance race 
 that often results in the best, back-and-forth racing in the game thanks to a variety of corners 
 to gain or lose ground on the competition. 
  GRID looks incredible. Car models are detailed, environments are sharp, crashes look great, and 
 the floating-menu presentation is slick. Sound is less impressive, as cars don't sound as beefy 
 as their real-life counterparts. Then again, they don't handle like real cars either.
  I mentioned PGR4, which I think is a superior game in spite of it not having crashes or 20-car 
 fields. The real reason is that the cars in PGR4 have been calibrated for perfectly balanced handling. 
 They feel adequately stuck to the road, and it is really rewarding to get through a corner well. 
 Even if the handling isn't realistic, it's more fun than in GRID. Which brings me to the real problem 
 of GRID: It's an arcade racing game that cripples itself by trying to inject realism when all we 
 want to do is crash cars. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying how much I love Forza, Project Gotham Racing, Toka, and Gran Turismo games. 
 Knowing that Grid was being made from the makers of the very fun Dirt and the excellent Toka games, 
 I had high hopes for Grid. While the game does have a great variety of races, from in town tracks 
 to more professional tracks like the famous ring, the car variety isn't that great. Not bad enough 
 to hamper the game, just not as varied as their past efforts.
  What really keeps Grid from feeling as fun as another great arcade racer like PGR, is that the 
 gameplay is just a little too much on the arcade side. The cars have no real sense of weight and 
 the slides are far too light, with very silly RWD physics that don't feel right at all on the older 
 muscle cars. But these are minor gripes that only keep the game a little frustrating at times, 
 not enough to ruin the experience.
  There is still plenty of fun to be had with Grid and if you are a big race fan like me I'm sure 
 you'll find something to enjoy with Grid, just don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdderBoba44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Grid is an extremely enjoyable game to play as it immerses you into close fought, street style 
 racing. However there are some aspects to it which seem a little light which only restricts the 
 gameplay and enjoyment of the player.
  
  It lacks for example all the official series found in its predecessors- DTM, BTCC, OZ V8 etc. which 
 made it so attractive to many gamers. Only Le Mans is featured and the cars not updated to the 
 2008 spec. What you do get is a lot of street cars for street racing around American cities and 
 Japanese drifting arenas'. Both forms are fairly new to the series, and both are fun, but I prefered 
 the series for its licensed cars and it is very light on that aspect.
  
  This means that, coupled with the US/Japanese dominance, GRID is restricted, made worse by the 
 small number of cars in the game. There is only 2 open wheel classes, only 2 touring cars and Le 
 Mans categories are often restricted to groups of 5. This annoying for the gamers preferring the 
 European, simulation style racing as there are at least 15 japanese drift cars. Also very rarely 
 will grid field more than 12 competitors so the races are often light on competition. Even Le Mans, 
 which usually fields over 40 machines, rarely goes above 16 cars.
  
  This is not to say that Grid is a bad game. Actually it is incredibly enjoyable to play. It has 
 a broad range of aids to help newcomers but a large number of difficulty levels to test seasoned 
 gamers. The career tier system is easy to use and many of the classes of racing are very addictive. 
 Suprisingly the destruction derby is probably the funnest feature along with the touring cars, 
 easily outstripping the rather monotonous drifting and endurance racing.
  
  Graphic wise, GRID cannot be matched. The cars truly look excellent, and the scenery looks very 
 realistic making you feel like you are racing through S. Fransisco or similar. This does come at 
 a cost as loading screens are constantly thrown at you but its well worth the weight. GRID looks 
 great.
  
  Overall GRID is an excellent driving game making you feel like a true racer. However while aspects 
 of the game are fun, the restricted numbers of cars, tracks and features means GRID doesn't quite 
 match up to many of its competitors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok the good parts: great variety of racing, having your own team, graphics and the sound., and 
 fianly the rewind feature. Things that did not really phase me not being able to changes the settings 
 on the car ie gear ratio. Now for what makes this game POOP first off they are telling you to hire 
 a driver well before I actually could I found that very annoying. But the worst part of the game 
 is how the cars seem to ram you all over the place with no chance for true retaleation. Lots of 
 unnecassary screens. You always start in last place with no reason behind it. I also cannot believe 
 the huge amount of the rubber band effect that it just makes it impossible to gain a large lead. 
 I personaly feel that they added the rewind figure in a poor attempt to mold poop into a sculpture, 
 and dont believe all the good reviews they are just wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: video_blogger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Creating a realistic looking racing game that's accessible and fun without being shallow is a pretty 
 mean feat. Fresh off its success with Colin McRae DiRT, Codemasters has gone back to the drawing 
 board once again to come up with GRID; a game that uses advanced graphics and crash physics, to 
 go back to the basics of what makes driving games work, and they've done a pretty good job of it.
 
  
  GRID has positioned itself with the phrase "It's all about the race." Basically promising great 
 gameplay but also signaling, upfront, that some areas have been ignored for the sake of others. 
 So one thing the game is not about is offering a huge amount of cars. If you're a closet collect 
 reared on Gran Turismo, the list is going to seem a little small with just 45 different vehicles. 
 Likewise there isn't much emphasis on customization: only having a pattern and a three colour palette 
 for looks, but you cannot tune your cars performance.
  
  It may not make everyone happy, but making compromises doesn't necessarily mean popping out. Cars 
 are split into different disciplines, and then further broken down into individual models. From 
 drift racing to open wheel, each car has a different feel with noticeable differences between each 
 car within a class. Each event type is accessible straight away from the Race Day mode, while career 
 option puts you in charge of your own team, while working as a hired gun. Your objective is to 
 build reputation in the US, Japan and Europe; each with multiple tiers. Expect to flex some serious 
 muscle in America, and do you fair share of drifting in Japan. You don't necessarily have to finish 
 first or even place in every event, but finishing races well in the career mode gives you the respect 
 to move up in statue and the money you need to buy new vehicles. Competing under tougher settings 
 can net you greater rewards, encouraging you to tweak your difficulty setting from race to race 
 to manage your level of challenge. 
  
  Along with AI and driver assists there is one more crucial component to difficulty: the games flashback 
 system. Essentially, this feature lets you rewind time, take a look at what went wrong, and jump 
 back into the cockpit at any point to avoid a nasty crash or even take a turn a little tighter 
 to ensure you stay at the front of the pack. Lower difficulty settings allow you turn back the 
 clock multiple times, while pro mode cuts the fantasy feature all together. 
  
  When you head online, a lot of the single player elements follow. Races feature 12 racers a piece 
 and full on damage, although you can turn it off if you want. Events are on the slim side, with 
 just a few different options and you'll have to race in pro mode to place your times in the online 
 leader board, meaning flashbacks are lightly ignored in favor of consistency and skill. Don't expect 
 to get 100 hors out of the single player, but in conjunction with the online play, you still get 
 plenty of mileage for you cash. 
  
  Two of the most important considerations in a racing game are a good sense of speed, and the overall 
 feel. GRID makes a good run at both. While the sense of speed in never in doubt, handling can feel 
 a bit loose and touchy at first. At times, you'll be more afraid of straying off the track, into 
 surprisingly deadly grass, than being hit by another car. You'll also notice right away, that the 
 AI aren't worried about a few scraps and will be fairly aggressive right off the line. Fortunately 
 the crashes a entertaining in there own right acted as a sort of consolation prize as you get to 
 grips with the controls. Each class of car seems to have its own learning curve, but once you into 
 the groove, driving feels appropriately fast and dangerous and responsive. 
  
  The AI drivers in GRID are a credit to the game. They drive fairly, appearing to be aware of the 
 track situation. Like a human player, the guy in first can occasionally blow it all with a nasty 
 spin out. The difference being, that you would have the chance to save yourself by rewinding an 
 instant replay and taking a different approach to that killer turn. Damage is modeled, but is defiantly 
 more forgiving than a straight out simulation, letting you take a bit of a beating before affecting 
 performance. It's a necessary concession giving the games arcade edge and aggressive competition. 
 Still, high impact crashes can affect you top speed, steering or take you out of the race all together. 
 
  
  While tweaking you cars appearance and performance aren't really a part of the equation, you can 
 choose a color and pattern for you team in career mode, as well as apply sponsor labels as badges 
 of honor that provide a welcome rest between demanding events. Instead of expressing yourself through 
 your paint job, you'll manage various sponsorships to make shore you team gets paid at the end 
 of the day. Some sponsors give up cash regardless, while others only offer up money for a podium 
 finish. The most lucrative deals ask nothing more than first place. Making the right choices for 
 your skill level and that of your team, can dramatically accelerate earnings for your team and 
 put you back on track for a better faster ride. While GRID comes off as an arcade racer, there 
 is actually a great deal of strategy that goes into playing. It cannot be overstated how important 
 the realistic AI is to any racing game, and this is one area where Codemasters has it nailed.
 
  
  In the garage, GRID features a smooth and simple interface you can almost reach out and touch. 
 The game features a rolling start without tutorials, but you will be primed for new event types 
 via succinct video introductions. It's a very automotive mixture of function and style that slickly 
 gets you were you need to go. On the track, GRID passes the across the room test, as replays can 
 easily be mistaken for the real thing. The games detailed cockpit view, exhilarating sense of speed 
 and impressive crashes rank along some of the best racing games of the current generation. Audio 
 is also strong, both cars and crashes are exactly what you could expect from the sounds of there 
 real life counter parts. GRID features a handful of great songs tailored to getting you in the 
 mood to race, consist of mainly aggressive soundtrack of techno and rock. Chatter from your teammates 
 and manager conveys useful information and can become annoyingly repetitive. Other wise it's only 
 a small issue, in an otherwise stunning presentation. 
  
  With a sleek look and smooth running mechanics, GRID is a successful compromise of realism and 
 arcade playability that offers a variety of racing activities within a consistent frame rate. While 
 not innovative, the game brilliantly incorporates a race saving instant replay function and incorporates 
 a strong strategic element with its sponsor management. Customization and vehicle line up are limited, 
 but in line with providing a satisfying race which is exactly what you get from GRID
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcautoman1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Awesome game! The speed of the game is so fun. I love the wrecks. Drove my car to a win with the 
 tire about to fall off. How cool is that??? Get the game you will be very pleased with your purchase. If 
 you can, get it used and save some cash! The value of the game has not gone down much, that's a sign 
 of how good this game is. Don't take my word for it rent it or buy it you wont be waisting your 
 cash. This game has great graphics, good control and some good music. I like the menu system and 
 the way you can have a nick name that you hear. I hope that GT5 will have some of these features, it 
 makes this a fun game. I love racing games and this game has given me a new passion for them. I like 
 the challenge of it and it is not a short game so be ready to spend some quality time on this one, I 
 have and will not trade this one until I play the to the end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I rented Grid in the hopes of playing a simulation type racing game. What I got instead is more 
 of an arcade style game.
  Grid has all the normal settings and features you would expect from a racing game and has the career 
 mode, which i spent all my time playing. In said career mode it is broken down into 3 different locals. America, Europe, 
 and Japan. America focuses more on the muscle car genre, while Europe is more of the touring car 
 and Japan is drifting and underground racing.
  The main interface will remind you of dirt, with the newer races being unlocked with every series 
 win. As will the graphics, which are very nice to look. With a key feature being very destructible 
 cars. Which happens alot in this game since the AI controlled cars like to hit you and just run 
 you off the road. This is ultimately where i have a problem with this game. The AI cars even your 
 own teammates run you off the road and cut in front of you while leading, causing you to lose first 
 place or damage your car. And they seem to catch up very easily while you have a big lead.
  To make a possible long review short, grid offers goos graphics, sound and a decent selection of 
 cars. But suffers from too much arcade style play, AI that will make you mad all the time and not 
 enough car customization. All in all grid is a good game but one that could have been better. Codemasters 
 did good as they did with dirt but it is too "arcadie" for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgsrdabest
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  So GRiD. The first thing noticable about GRiD is that compared to other XBOX 360 games the career 
 mode is relatively long. Something you have come to expect from Codemasters games. First off in 
 the career mode you are expected to race for a number of teams to build up money so you can start 
 your own team. Once you have the required money you can race in 3 areas over various racing disciplines 
 within that area. For example street racing in USA, touring car racing in Europe and drift and 
 touge events in Japan. As you gain more reputation you will unlock more challenging championships. 
 So in a nutshell that is the world tour mode. There are also free races, time trials and multiplayer 
 game modes.
  
  The Good:
  Superb graphics
  Very realistic ai spins and crashes
  Demolition Derby races
  
  The Bad:
  Very few tracks 
  Not many types of cars compared to 
 other race driver games
  Races in the USA can become a little repetitive
  
  Overall a must buy for all racing fans and easily the best racing game available for the XBOX 360 
 and PS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenn0bi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  One of the better racers our there. Hopefully NFS can now disappear...
  Following Dirt Codies continues to push racing!!
  
  The racing genre needs more titles like 
 this than the poor franchises like NFS, PG, Midnight club.
  Grid has some interesting new innovations and stronge visuals. Handling needs some improvements. 
 PS3 is stronger than the 360 version though, is this a trend for the future?
  But overall a strong title deserving of its review scores...
  (haven't experience the DS title 
 yet interested to see there approach here) . Hopefully Codemaster can continue pushing this espcially 
 with titles like Dirt too. Looking forward to hearing more from them and DIS/Black Rock too. The 
 racing genre needs guys like this.
  It also good to see British leading the charge in the genre. Looking forward to 2009 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Despite the boringsome sound of the cars, that appear to be copied onto to other cars and lack 
 diversity (codemaster, why make a game so good, and forget about this simple factor, I dont get 
 it) Anyway, despite the sound issues, you forget about them after time because the game has so 
 many great factors that override it. I love the arcade racing style like that of NFS, and this 
 is what drew me to the game originally. Really, beside the older NFS titles which I have already 
 played and beat, this is the only one I felt interested in, despite wanting to hold out until NFS 
 undercover comes out in Nov. And I must say, "it will definately keep u busy untill then." 
  
  Racing that can be described as just plain fun, that is just what it is. The streets are realistic 
 and the cars as well. Graphically it is right up there with COD 4, and at times I felt like I was 
 right in the action. The replay feature is a great touch, and unlike other NFS titles you have 
 to wonder why the NFS series doesnt have replay??
  
  The races are so challenging I have barely beaten many above the normal diff level. I rated the 
 game a 9.5 cuz of a slight steering issue and the sound of the cars of course. Other than that, 
 and for me, it is the best racer on the market besides moto gp and burnout, which cannot be beaten 
 when it comes to the best of the best. 
  
  The only downsides to this game are the sound and the repetative nature.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Grid gives us a lot of selection of cars to choose from. The singleplayer mode is not bad and I 
 also like that when you crash you can rewind you started and prevent that crash. Honestly this 
 is one of the best looking racing game I have ever seen since Burnout Paradise. The bad thing about 
 this game is that there is no splitscreen mode although the singleplayer mode reedems itself from 
 being a disappointing game. Also if you are looking forward to a challenging racing game. This 
 is the perfect game for you. This game is just plain hard and sometimes when you do drifts you 
 may hit a wall or so, so becareful new owners! lol. The good thing is that there is online multiplayer 
 so if your bored, no worries you can play with a friend. The thing impressed me was that you can 
 look it on 3 different views which is normal, close-up, and driving as a person inside the car. 
 Driving as a person inside a car made me feel like I was in the game which totally impressed me 
 about the game. If your looking for a great looking arcade racing game with intense racing than 
 this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carfreak7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing racing games since i was eight
  This game is omfg wow..
  
  Gameplay: your average racing game except a few things like crashing into walls and slowly watch 
 the car repair itself together again by going back into time. That never gets boring.
  
  Graphics: are just plain beautiful
  
  Sound: At the beginning of the game it makes you really 
 feel that your in the game due to the your team crew guys telling you whats going on in the race 
 etc. The best part is that they say your name.
  
  Lastly: the feeling of this game is so quick, everything is so fast, you really feel your in the 
 car feels life like
  
  If your the type of guy/girl who likes to tune cars in racing game then play your prostreet, because 
 this game isn't heading that direction. Of this image that good games need for you to tune the 
 hell outta of. I think this image should die out its been out for too long and its kinda boring 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Codemasters is the greatest racing game factory, they always come with amazingly realistic racing 
 game. But, at this time, they come with highly entertaining arcade type racing game.
  
  Grid is truly different with other Codemasters's racing games. It is not too realistic, it is fun! 
 The Grid World mode is fantastic! racing from the bottom to the top through many racing's diciplines 
 across the globe. You can make your own racing team too! That's awesome!
  
  I'm a little surprised with the similarity of Grid with PGR 4, race on official race in the middle 
 of the city with full of drifting and crashing! but Grid offer more than PGR, the realistic graphics 
 remind me of GTA IV, and the racing gives me more fun than PGR.
  
  The best part of the game is the AI, the AI is realistic, they won't push too far if we on their 
 line (it looks that they won't damage their car and jeoperdize their racing) but, they can be aggresive 
 when we overtake them hardly. It take concentration to win the race, and that is the best part!
 
  
  the only thing i hate from this game is the Le Mans 24hrs on every end of each season. When driving 
 at night, there are no circuit lamp! it is hard to race when you can't see the track. One other 
 thing that bothers me, when i race on midnight Touge mode (initial D look a like) and crash into 
 the cliff, my right Skyline GTR Z-tune's headlight is gone but i can still see 2 source of light 
 on the ground.
  
  so, this is a game that forced PGR, Forza, and Need for Speed out of competition (my opinion) . 
 The game is absolutey fun! I hope there will be a sequel for this game. 
  
  next, i will review Midnight Club 4 Los Angeles, i hope this will be great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Upon trying the demo on the PS3 I was hardly amused by the stupidity of the controls and how easy 
 it was to spin your car into a flipidy-flip motion. So I decided to try it for the 360. Mildly 
 better, I was surprised by the fact that the sound in this game was great and that your car took 
 a lot of damage before it said goodnight to the world. It was also that when you damaged your car, 
 certain parts were damaged and it changed the performance and handling of the car. Woot. Not too 
 much of a variety of cars to choose from, but not too much to be bogged down with but overall, 
 they handle the same. If this is your first racing game you'll cannibalise yourself before you 
 get comfortable, but if your a true racing game fanatic, this is a new, fun, challenging game that 
 you CANNOT pass by. But when you play it long enough and get to where you can purchuese the REALLY 
 expencive cars... wait untill it's the LAST thing you should do, because they SUCK! Good god, that's 
 where I'm stuck now! I hate the Lemans races, avoid them it you can. Otherwise a great game overall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayFlipZideX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been searching the gamespot websites for some racing games. The only game that got my full 
 attention was this game: RACE DRIVER: GRID. Although I dont have this game yet, I know that theres 
 lots of features in this game. The game has an exciting career mode. YOu win races, win money, then 
 you can use the money to buy new cars. About 45 cars are playable and each of them have a very outstanding 
 style. GT CARS are include here. Although it doesnt really have full customization, you can still 
 change colors of the car, add some effects, and more. This game has very nice graphics, realy outstanding. It 
 features three different countries, USA, JAPAN, and EUROPE. This game can really make you feel the 
 surface tension of the road. Its fully supported with the Xbox 360 wireless racing wheel (force feedback) There 
 more into this game but thats all I'm gonna write.
  
  
  Overall, this game is very awesome. I highly recommend this game. You'll really enjoy this game. If 
 you dont, then I suggest that you go search some other racing game such as Forza Motorsport 2, PGR 
 4, Burnout Paradise, or some NFS games. Allrite, later on.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeastEator
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Grid is an excelent game. The graphics are top notch and the sound is pretty good also. only annoying 
 thing is than some of the voice acting can get repetitive but this isn't a huge issue. 
  
  The single player is where this game really shines. There isn't really much of a story but the 
 game definately gives you a reason to play. You are put incharge of your own racing team. You can 
 choose your team name, team sponsors, team colors, and even the team mate you want to race with.
 
  There are five different difficulty levels to choose from and a sixth one is unlocked when you 
 beat the career mode. This means that the game is never too easy or too hard and there are many 
 options to make the game more of a challenge such as having the camera angle locked to the in-car 
 camera (which is highly realistic and detailed)
  
  The multiplayer is great, with lots of different race types and will keep you intertained for hours.
 
  
  Grid is a great game for any fan of the genre and is the best racing game so far this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilamonster
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of racing genre games for the consoles and found myself naturally drawn to GRID. 
 After playing the game and doing a few races I found out that I was a really, really, bad driver 
 or the game is too hard. I went on 'easy' mode and I was easily getting my butt kicked and getting 
 frustrated as other cars were crashing into me. Maybe the thing I find the hardest is the damage 
 that your car takes. After playing Gran Turismo and PG4 where it didn't really matter if you took 
 some damage. Now it matters when you play GRID. Crash too much and you aren't going to finish. 
 I have the tendancy in the latter games to push and smash into other vehicles knowing that it wouldn't 
 affect my car or preformance in order to gain an advantage.
  
  I've grown frustrated with the drift races and will do them as a last resort. I can't seem to get 
 the hang of it and string together more drifts for more points. 
  
  Overall I think it is a great game. I just need to keep the car on the track and drive in a straight 
 line. However, if you drive to cautiously you won't stand a chance. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydentenno
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  First i was waiting for this game a while now, but let me tell you i was really disappointed when 
 i bought it. The graphics are woooooonderful the tracks are peeeeerfect and the sound effect is 
 amazing inn car camera is very nice and realistic but the game is tooooooooooooooo hard.
  
  I am a big fan of need for speed games and i always finish the game number one in ranking and with 
 a very big score, but on grid i finish every race 6th or 7th such thing doesn't happen to me in 
 car racing games.
  Drifting is awful the car handling physics are horrible and too hard not realistic.
  
  Its 
 nice for a game to be realistic, but too much is something we cant handle sometimes.
  in general the game is very haaaaaaaaaaaard, and its not worth $60 i would prefer to take my wife 
 out and have a nice dinner and drift and speed my car all the way to the restaurant hehehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Grid is a fun racer that should please all racing fans.
  
  the game has tons of races and most are a lot of fun especially when the AI drivers make mistakes 
 and the graphics are also fantastic. The races are fun but the physics are odd to be honest because 
 once you make a turn the car goes round fine but its some how feels weird especially if you play 
 forza pgr4 etc. The crashes are very impressive however at times the cars look like there going 
 through each other rather than actually smashing but overall its one of the best on a racer today. 
 The one thing you should keep in mind is this feels a lot like dirt which i think is a better game 
 but grid is solid for the racing genre.
  So lets go through the pros and cons of the game
  
  pros
  tons of events
  excellent graphics
  something for everyone on one disc
  amazing 
 crashes.
  
  cons
  odd car handling
  only 40+ cars
  crashes sometimes appear unrealistic the way each car hits the other
  
  so to sum it up grid 
 is a fun racer that will keep you occupied this summer with a few problems that some will overlook. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  I should preface this by saying that I'm NOT a huge fan of arcade racing games and I've even commented 
 on how reluctant I am to play them regardless of how many people recommend them to me. GRiD however 
 tickles me in a funny way which makes it special, I've not played a racing game such as this and 
 enjoyed myself in such a long time, kudos to Codemasters.
  
  Subjectively the game is an arcadey wolf in pseudo-simulation sheep skin.
  Objectively the game 
 is undeniably fun and the simple premise and mechanics behind the game makes sure this game delivers 
 the right and (for the most part) consistent formula every race.
  
  I sat down and really thought about the reasons WHY I shouldn't like this game, after all, I'm 
 a hardcore simulation racer 10 times over. Previous titles like Project Gotham Racing, Need For 
 Speed, Ridge Racer and the other odd-sum amount of arcade racing games just didn't feel right to 
 me simply after playing Gran Turismo 2, 1, 3, 4, 5 Prologue * (yes I know its out of order... makes 
 you wonder doesn't it?) and lastly the Forza Motorsports 1 and 2 series. When it came to it I distilled 
 it down to my simple desire of being comfortable with my abilities to race in a simulation situation 
 based not only on my performance but also my attention to how the car performs, where it lacks 
 and how I could improve it. Pretty much: I was responsible for every aspect of losing and winning; 
 that right about sums it up.
  
  My philosophy behind simulation games is applicable to actually most of my everyday living so naturally 
 I'd gravitate towards something where I'm reasonably in control of the destiny of my career. GRiD 
 fundamentally addresses these issues and not only provides a comfortable but challenging environment 
 it also does away with a lot of simulation "baggage" I've thought would never leave my death grip; 
 which is a GOOD thing. The game on its generous difficulty settings is neither too difficult or 
 too easy and with a few complaints aside about grid and pole positioning the game at its base setting 
 makes you literally fight for every foot of space with an aggressive AI system I've not seen a 
 quite awhile and it is quite exhilarating when you manage the wins in the most ardent situations, 
 which you'll be placed into a lot, against a merciless AI as you progress.
  
  Surprisingly the game is extremely lenient and forgiving which I'm extremely grateful for. FLASHBACK 
 is by far the most ingeniously and well implemented feature in ANY racing game I've seen yet; to 
 be honest: I thought B-Spec racing in Gran Turismo 4 was awesome but this takes the cake. Nevermind 
 the ability to re-watch your vehicle smash into glorious bits and piece into a wall at hundreds 
 of miles and hour, its a thankless feature that not only keeps the momentum of the game going but 
 also saves yourself the ridiculous hassle of restarting a race EVERYTIME you mess up in the heat 
 of battle. Too many times have I found myself in the lead just to have the AI tap my rear and have 
 me spin out and too many times have I under-steered to find myself cutting the grass and spinning 
 out in a pathetic mess but NO MORE! Countless seconds or racing can simply be replayed at ANY INSTANT 
 with the push of the Start button and simple to grave mistakes can be corrected... or sadly RE-DONE 
 (ke ke ke) on end -- or per how many you're allowed per difficulty- 4 flashbacks are all you're allowed 
 in 'Normal' difficulty with fewer the higher in difficulty you go up.
  
  The AI is ruthlessly difficult even on normal which I've found even in my Gran Turismo and Forza 
 series that makes or breaks the game. On even the most base difficulty you can simply overpower 
 the competition and smash your way through to finish but no so on GRiD. To your advantage or disadvantage 
 you're racing a vehicle IDENTICAL to every car your racing on the track as per its performance 
 index. This is where things are key: there are no technical advantages and or performance enhancing 
 mechanisms that can render your failure or winning. To WIN or LOSE is based objectively on how 
 well you can react and read the moments to break away from the crowd of all equal footing and simply 
 smashing your way through can have detrimental effects from taking key positions... but sometimes 
 its just fun to give the crowd a good LOVE-BUMP to see what happens!
  
  In regards to model damage I think the game puts EVERYTHING into perspective and it does it right 
 in this game, not to say Forza or any other incarnation or car damage didn't do it right but its 
 even more apparent in this game. I often found that when I smashed my way to the front in a race 
 with an especially difficult (almost cheating!) racing team I'd find that gaping whole and high-pitched 
 howling from my broken windows always caused the downfall on lap 3 of 3 as we take the last corner 
 into the straight away. The AI naturally leads you lead but at a cautious and carefully calculated 
 distance JUST to snatch it from you when you do mess up or are too slow or at to [insert excuse 
 here] . I especially hate the races where I've a slightly crinkled hood (which implicates a FLAT 
 FRONT/ LACK of a front bumper) and the opposing team is creeping up on both sides and I know I 
 can't do a thing about it because I'm at the disadvantage. It made me realize just how bad I was 
 racing... and thus the moral of the story is to never smash your way to first if you can't keep 
 it. I was also surprised on how well your 'HIRED' AI helped you -- based on how much you paid for 
 him. He'd usually hold back the hoard and with a nice tap to let him know you're there he'd still 
 make you fight for first if you're not careful.
  
  The whole aspect of the TEAM racing I believe is the driving force behind GRiD. Sure Gran Turismo 
 did this too and same with Forza but once again its even more apparent here in an ARCADE-simulation 
 and the layout of the game is not bad on the eyes either. One gripe I have about most racing game 
 is positioning on the track/ grid. I don't know how the game does it on this game (Driver ranking 
 perhaps? I haven't ranked up too high yet...) but I'm always finding myself NO HIGHER than 5th 
 place and in most instances I'm usually right before dead last which is somewhere around 11-17 
 with a minimum of 8 in pro tuned races and 18 in larger events. Touge events and drift (mind as 
 well include drag) racing events I've never cared for too much but they are disciplines you can 
 endeavor in but the most interesting racing event I found by far is the 24 hour Le Manns.
  
  When I first jumped into it I thought, "Hokay...24 hours of my life gone..." staring at the 
 game clock in the top left corner waiting for the infamous 3 beeps to signal the start of the race. 
 Pitting against different classes with no chance of winning the first few endurance races I thought 
 I'd at least get the achievement for it, which you do, and so I sat waiting rev'ing the engine 
 just before red-line. The 3 beeps sounds and we're off and suddenly the game takes on a new life 
 of its own! What the game does is instead of racing 24 HOURS straight it makes you race 24 MINUTES 
 and for every minute is an hour raced. Sure it sounds dumb but the GREATEST part comes in here: 
 night and lighting conditions change in real time and was once an easy chicane or straight-way 
 becomes a death trap every turn of the wheel you make. My first Le Manns had me digging into the 
 grass after following a track line only to find out it turned into a border line and losing my 
 pole position. Other times it had me downshift and drive like a scared little girl in hopes of 
 not over-steering and eating the opposite bank which entailed that the AI behind would take advantage 
 of this... which they did and had me tearing my hair out. The difference was LITERALLY NIGHT and 
 DAY! It made me chuckle at my previous endeavor with GT4's 24 hour endurance because it was so 
 EASY with the SUN being out for 24 hours of the race... which I thought was odd back then too; however 
 most of the time had B-Spec racing and sped up the endurance races which SHOULD take 24 hours into 
 4-6 (Its not cheating! I took advantage of the technology!! Honestly!) . 
  
  I've yet to see the weather effects implemented but there are however WET tracks which DO have 
 a large degree of effecting your racing... obviously. However its nothing too great I'm hoping for, 
 I'm honestly still in awe about the lighting changes of the 24 hour Le Manns... really, it HAS TO 
 BE RACED.
  
  GRiD has you approach the game from a standpoint that it looks easy but its far from it. You'll 
 find that those once forgiving tracks you first raced on are consistently more difficult as you 
 rank up and the teams you go head to head with are increasingly more difficult to simply pass. 
 They'll employ block maneuvers and I've even seen the instance where the leading team would sacrifice 
 its team mate so that you'll note over take the pole position. From its many disciplines the game 
 is something that will fill even a niche gamer and once again the game isn't that bad to look at. 
 
  
  Actually the game is quite the muddy dog. Accidents happen, parts fall off, dirt kicks around, 
 smoke plumes and off track paraphernalia react accordingly... to how fast and hard you smash into 
 them. I also like the occasional "Oohs" and "Awws" from the other than lack luster crowd, especially 
 when I force the other driver into a wall in a bottleneck- which NEVER gets old! (ITS GREAT TO 
 FLASH BACK THEM!!) Damage adversely effects your driving but I've not had too much problems with 
 a 'YELLOW' gear box or engine; sometimes but those are far and fear between. Now Broken hoodies, 
 bumpers, doors, and trunks are another problem not to mention broken Springs/ dampers/ shocks and 
 Steering. Blown engines I've heard over the commentary of the Team Lead but I've yet to experience 
 one and pile ups are a plenty- if you're not causing them yourself. I always found myself dumbfounded 
 whenever I saw an opponent over-steer/ under-steer and then fish tail when trying to correct only 
 to find myself take their position, chuckle to myself and then proceed to over-steer/ under-steer 
 and fishtail when trying to correct! 
  
  Things HAPPEN in the game and that is truly the life of it. GRiD strips away fixing up aspect of 
 the game in simulators and puts you directly head to head with opponents of the same cadre with 
 the simple objective of making as much money and reputation as you can for your time to climb the 
 ladders of success. Its such an easy formula and I'm taken aback about how simple AND fun it is. 
 The sense of competition still lingers even after I've overwhelmed the leader and the game certainly 
 delivers on the aspect of challenge. The game features many aspects many are familiar to the racing 
 genre from its camera positioning, to car details, to its driving perspectives, etc. etc. The game 
 is great to look at and the REPLAYS and refreshingly nice to look at, its a direct competitor to 
 Gran Turismo's setup however the sense of speed and urgency in GRiD's replay mode is evident. Its 
 like watching a Hollywood filmed race and its ESPECIALLY great to watch FLASH BACKS of satisfying 
 crashes, tumbles and rolls which the game gloriously LETS you do! I'm also particularly found of 
 smashing into guard rails and denting them and I'm a GIANT fan or the rubber tires flying and rolling 
 EVERYWHERE when you hit the tire-wall barriers. Cheesy, I know, but its the attention to detail 
 that I like about that.
  
  I've YET to try to online feature of the game... but I cringe to see what it will be like. Previous 
 attempts into the foray of online track racing have ended in frustration so I leave the review 
 of this game partially incomplete but perhaps (for the benefit of doubt) on a good note!
  
  I leave saying that GRiD has definitely changed my outlook for quality fun arcade games. I would 
 even say its an arcade-simulation, or a stripped down simulation racer, where you're just in there 
 to race. The game is entirely fun and I always get a chuckle when the manager (who's female) calls 
 me 'Stud' (You pick the name you want to be called when you first setup...) . From Maverick to Goose, 
 from Alex to Alexandra, GRiD could be the swan song to my affliction of simulation racing only. 
 I wholly recommend the game because its everything racing drivers have done before but it does 
 it EASIER and BETTER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Damage......... the feture that has been missing from racing games by foling us that we dont need 
 it , well ........... they are wrong !
  As a big fan of the previous game "DiRT" i bought this game with big expectations , taking the 
 fact that its using the same engine and has one of the best damage models to date without forgeting 
 that it will feature16 players online racing !
  
  After playing the game for few hours i was both happy and disipointed :-
  
  Graphics :- Great 
 car with AMAZING damage models with environments that will make you drop your jaw ! 
  
  Gameplay :- Not a place where the game shines , they are trying to make the driving fun while making 
 it realistic as possible and ending with a hard to handle cars and easy to drift off the road driving 
 .
  
  Sound :- Extremely good especially with a 5.1 surround sound , you will feel every gas push .
 
  
  Lifetime :- good enough single player races that have plenty of verity and very fun onilne that 
 you can adept to , witch will make this game you're Fav racing game until the next FORZA or Need 
 For Speed comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousThor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Grid is by far the best racing game on the 360. The races are challenging, the tracks are laid 
 out perfectly, and online is simply amazing. The career mode is fun to play. From sponsors to teammates 
 to different licences everything works so seamlessly. You can also tell a difference in the difficulty 
 levels as the AI becomes more aggressive and less forgiving. And watching your car go from a finely 
 tuned piece of equipment to a piece of .... is one of the better aspects of the game. And fo beginners 
 the flashback option makes the game that much more enjoyable while still keeping your car competitive. 
 
  
  Moving on to online I can say how much fun this game makes racing with your friends. Whether you 
 start in the back and work your way through the crowd or start in the front and run away from everyone, 
 this game keeps you on your toes. 
  
  This game is not perfect though as I had originally thought. It is missing a few things that would 
 have made the experience that much better. Some things that are missing are a pit stop. Who uses 
 the right, well in this game almost everyone would. Damage is fun to have but when playing with 
 people who arent there to race you car can get pretty tore up. Which brings me to the people section. 
 It is my belief that the host of a room should have a say in who stays and who goes, along with 
 a voting system.
  
  I also dont like that in ranked games that all races have to be voted on, and this is why. My friends 
 and I like to race all kinds of events but once you start certain races that everyone like they 
 feel up your room and then if you want to race other series you have to leave a room you started 
 because you cant win a vote to get out of the series you are stuck in.
  
  And lastly I dont like the fact that you can only use certain cars in certain races, I do however 
 like that everyone chooses from the same few cars, I just wish that you could choose the tracks 
 you want to race and the choose the set of cars you want to race on said tracks.
  
  With those complaints being said the game is still very fun and well worth playing long enough 
 to find a good set of people to play with online. I did however, lower my score from a 10 to 9.5 
 because of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurveer2008
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  First things first the lady that talks is annoying. When you race the cars don't have a real feel. 
 The replay feature just makes the game boring and easy to win I mean like who can go back in time 
 and change a race crash and still come out to win the race C'mon that is just retarded. Honestly 
 I didn't see any fun in this game before they were making the game i thought it would be fun. But, 
 hmm my thinking was wrong. Well anyway, i would recommend this game to anyone that likes racing 
 on tracks. The only racing game with tracks on it is forza 2. The game is like NFS Prostreet. Mostly 
 you can hardly customize your car. The guy that speaks through the microphone that tells you what 
 wrong I think people can see that. The game is all flash no substance. I love cars but this game 
 kind of grabbed me of not liking cars anymore. That all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockafella06
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  GRID the latest game from codemasters brings a new realism and level of fun to the current online 
 racing games avalable on the xbox 360, the single player mode is good fun and ranges from easy 
 to expert. its a simple tiered format simular to DIRT. this can be complete without too much difficulty. 
 the fun starts when you take it online, its got all the cars and tracks avalable in the single 
 player but the 12-player online races are even sweeter as the stakes are raised. the intensity 
 of the races knowing one simple mistake can ruin a race and the races of others. so its all about 
 being fast and careful, or you can take it to the destruction derby races and cause havok. i have 
 had this game since its release and im still playing it online most night, great fun even if your 
 not in it to win. my verdict on the game is its a must by for any online race loving 360 owner. 
 BUY IT and play me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffreytz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Being a track enthusiast in the "real world" I play a lot of racing games and Codemasters' Race 
 Driver series as been one of my favorites mainly for its accessibility and wide variety of racing 
 disciplines. I wasn't sure what to make of GRID from the previews and demo, but I'm happy to say 
 this is turning out to be my favorite in the series and right now has replaced Forza2 as my "daily 
 driver". 
  
  I really like the way the race selection is setup in GRID World, the license points system, and 
 the achievements are particularly well thought out in my opinion. I love the Le Mans option at 
 the end of each "season". While drifting is included in the game its not my thing in general, but 
 the game design lets you work around it if you choose. 
  
  The graphics are some of the best, with great replays and damage depiction. One area the game could 
 learn from Gran Turismo 5 Prolog is to have the replay cameras be dynamic based on the action. 
 In GRID the "TV" replay cameras are set for each part of the track (even the "in car" cuts) , where 
 in GT5P the replay cameras vary depending on what's happening at that point (i. e. is there someone 
 close on your tail, are you chasing someone down, etc.) . That said, the replays in GRID are very 
 entertaining especially when you've incurred (or caused) damage and if you want to see how you 
 were taking the line you can always manually select one of the fixed "play" camera views. 
  
  Control is overall very good (the demo might have you think otherwise, don't worry it's very 
 playable) and I've used both the regular controller and the Xbox Racing Wheel and both are great 
 (and much better options than the PS3 standard or dual shock controllers  I played the demo on 
 my PS3 and all it did was reinforce how much I dislike the overall design of the PS2/PS3 controller) .
 
  
  The "rumble" is a little lacking on the 360 controller, but I never expect much from that anyway. 
 I was a bit disappointed at the "effects" using the 360 Racing Wheel; while road feel, collisions 
 and damage are transmitted well, subtle things like driving over rumble strips/curbing don't invoke 
 much of anything (unlike games like Need for Speed on the PC using a Logitech pro wheel, which 
 accurately fed back effects like cobblestone roads) . Still, the overall force-feedback is good 
 and does enhance the game play.
  
  While I wish there were more "real" tracks from the States (there are a lot of made up "street" 
 courses) , the representations of the tracks that are included (mainly from Europe like Spa) are 
 fantastic. And I don't miss the "story" mode at all! With its slick presentation and blistering 
 action, GRID is a blast and a great addition to any race fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Grid I expected it to be more like a Forza kind of game. A game with lots of 
 tunability and a huge selection of cars and good physics along with lots of tracks. Sad to say, 
 this game was nothing of the sort.
  
  Grid is all about race cars racing. The only part that feels more like normal street cars is the 
 drifting which is hardly a race category so I don't see why it's in this game. If you don't enjoy 
 pure out race cars, pass this game.
  
  The worst part, no upgradable parts or tunability at all. Without having the option to tweak your 
 car with either parts or tuning the game almost feels pointless. You race to unlock higher leagues 
 and get more money so you can buy faster cars in the same class to do the same over and over until 
 there is no more.
  
  You hire a teammate to race with you in races. No matter if you spend millions on them, they invariably 
 end up in last place. The game is pretty realistic and the cars handle as they should for the most 
 part, but the sounds are really off on some parts. The Pontiac GTO sounds like a six cylinder which 
 it's quite obviously an American V8 sound it should've had. Many of the other cars don't sound 
 true to themselves and some of the open wheel cars which should have more of an F1 sound do not.
 
  
  But then, to totally ruin the realism effect they have going they put in an instant replay function. 
 You can hit the back button to see yourself racing from as far back as about 10 or 15 seconds up 
 to your current time. There is a function called flashback that lets you rewind to a certain point 
 and start from there. So for example, if you just wiped out and totalled your car in a corner you 
 can rewind it back and take the corner again and keep going. While this may save frustration it 
 totally kills the realistic factor the game had going. You can disable it, but the point is it's 
 there and that can alter times on a lap making them all inaccurate of true skill.
  
  Once you complete all the races in a skill level, you unlock a head to head challenge against the 
 leading team Ravenwest. These guys must be the most excellent and talented drivers because they 
 are able to take identical cars and drive almost twice as fast as you in the same car. You'll be 
 doing your best to keep up and they just pull away as if their car had some extra mods on it that 
 yours doesn't. Drafting doesn't even help you on straightaways, their car is just magically better 
 than your identical car.
  
  The game does some things right but it ends up being a total letdown. I expected this to replace 
 Forza 2 as the next great online car racer. Sadly, this is just another track racer (Albeit a decent 
 one) . If you were expecting a Forza 2 replacement, you're better off to wait for the Forza 3 as 
 this was the last racer I had hope in being anywhere close to the game Forza is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarshreder69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  This is the best racing game that i have ever played. It is like a mix between Burnout paradise 
 city and Forza motorspot 2. The controls are really good after a little bit. It is kinda hard at 
 first or i know it was for me to not to just want to use the e-brake for every turn but after about 
 15 minutes i got that hang of it. The carrer mode in this game is very fun and rewarding. You start 
 out with a rookie license in the USA, Europe, and Japan and you move up from there to more expensive 
 cars and bigger races. You do this by earning more rep. One of the best things about the carrer 
 mode is how easy it is to ge started. You just click on grid world and you can start racing immediatley 
 until you earn like $100,000 then you make your own team. The cars are also cool with a lot of 
 name brand cars and you also get to make a brand for your team that goes on everyone of your cars. 
 There is a lot of tracks to race on and a lot of diffrent modes that are kinda specific to each 
 region that your racing in. The online is also really fun and competitve. The damage system in 
 this is really cool cuz as your car gets more destroyed you will start to lose control of your 
 car and it will start to veer off into a certain direction and its cool but kind of annoying. Now 
 the bad. You can't upgrade your cars but it kind works becuz u use diffrent cars for each diffrent 
 kind of race so it works but it still sucks. The other thing is the advertising. You buy cars off 
 of ebay and nobody wants to do that. My last complaint is the lack of online modes and thats it.
 
  
  OVERALL THIS GAME IS A FUN CLASSIC ARCADE LIKE RACING GAME WITH A FUN ANDD REWARDINF CARRER MODE 
 AND GOOD ONLINE SO OVERALL. SO IF YOU LIKE BURNOUT PARADISE CITY OR FORZA THEN I DEFINETLY RECOMMEND 
 THIS GAME. SO I GIVE IT A
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timu080
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  First let me just say one thing this game ROCK's.
  
  This game is awesome in almost every aspect
  Ridiculously realistic driving experience
  Very 
 fun to play although you get a little frustrated 
  When you crash like 20 times in the same spot
  The thing I really liked in the game is like I 
 mention
  Is the realism of the game no more turns in 300 mph
  Like in Need for Speed, now every turn has difficulty of its own. 
  Now another cool and refreshing 
 thing is the Flashback
  The ability to go back in time to see where is your mistakes freaking awesome.
  The presentation 
 is fantastic and easy to handle
  Three nations each have different and unique tracks and cars
  Addictive Multiplayer that challenge 
 your skills
  Is there more to ask for?
  Now let me finish with this 
  
  We find the replacement for the NFS series 
  That's all 
  See ya
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredNoodle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest. After playing the demo and absolutely hating the handling of the cars, I thought 
 "no way in h3ll will I be playing this game". But after giving it a rent, I can safely say I haven't 
 had this much fun playing a racer in a LONG time.
  
  Graphics: Top notch, gorgeous, mind blowing. This has got to be the prettiest racer I have ever 
 played. Even the replays I enjoy watching. The crashes and damage modeling are fantastic. You won't 
 see any better.
  
  Innovation: Flashback works extremely well, I'm glad they invented it and it has set a new bar 
 for other racers to top.
  
  Gameplay: This is where it gets tricky. At first it takes some time to get used to, but once you 
 get past the fact that it is an arcade racer, you'll do better. It's not Forza or PGR. If you get 
 in the dirt or a little airborne the handling gets real crappy. I would have liked more of a PGR 
 feel to it. 
  
  AI: The one thing about this game is you always feel like you are in the race because the AI drivers 
 crash randomly and even when you are ahead of the pack you always feel like their right behind 
 you.
  
  Online: Much more improved than DiRT. Very basic and it works great, love it.
  
  Game modes: There are so many game modes here it will keep you busy for a while. Demolition 
 Derby, Drift competition, Open Wheel, Prestige cars, LeMans. The selection of tracks like Spa and 
 Nurburgring are all awesome.
  
  Overall: This racer you always feel a little rush. Its intense, fun, there's always something going 
 on. Action all around you. Going through crashes is so cool. This game is so underrated and I'm 
 glad I gave it a rent. Highly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because of the good reviews it got and because some people said it was just as 
 good or even better than Forza 2..... a mistake on my part.
  
  First, the car handling physics are horrible. Since when can you fly a around a turn with barely 
 slowing down in a muscle car?? All the cars are like this too. This makes the game unrealistic 
 and not very fun to play. Drift events are so-so.
  
  Graphics are not very impressive... Forza 2 is much better.
  
  Also, there is no car modification, 
 which takes some of the fun factor out of the game too.
  
  Not enough variety in race events.... gets very repetitive very quickly.
  
  One thing that is 
 neat is the in-car cam... if you watch the driver change gears he actually moves the shifter how 
 it would be on a real car.
  
  Overall, I would not recommend this game.... its not worth $60 If anything, you're better off renting 
 it and trying it out for yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game cause I didn't feel like paying 60 for it. I had previously played the game 
 at a friends house and I thought it was fun. The graphics are insane and the new replay feature 
 is extremely useful. I'm sure a lot of people like FM 2 but they just suck at it because it's a 
 simulation racer as oppose to an arcade racer like Dirt or NFS. This game has better graphics than 
 Forza but its easy like Dirt and its never stressful because whenever you take a bad turn and wipe 
 out, you can just use a replay and start the race before you crashed. I was really impressed with 
 that feature. Now some people might not like that feature because it makes the game too easy, but 
 don't worry because you get a higher rep for turning the replays off. You can even adjust the help 
 you recieve during a race like you could in FM 2. The tracks are in actual locations like New York 
 City, D. C., San Francisco, and more. The cars are great, and you'll be racing with sweet cars right 
 away. The customization lacks in this game, while FM 2 had decent customization, but you can still 
 customize your paint job, and your team name. So pretty much if you had trouble enjoying Forza 
 2, but you loved Dirt then buy this game! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I've played nearly all of the race driver and toca series from ps1, ps2 too 360 and this is the 
 best of the lot!
  
  The game layout is reali cool because its feels like ur in a racing carrer and better is that u 
 have ur own team to make with a name and look any way u want! Plus u get a team mate too who u 
 can sack or hire anytime u want!
  
  You get a range of different type of 4 wheel racing from open wheels, touring, musle, gt1, street 
 tuners too stock car! all have a diferent feel to them and realieam to them to give the racing 
 experence!
  
  Damage and the computer AI is awesome! all racers are controlled by the comp are reali realistic! 
 some drivers can spin out and crash into u! u can crash and roll and wreack the car! but lucky 
 theirs a flashback mode that when u crash the car or spin on a corner u can turn back the time 
 and re-start at a point b4 u crashed!
  
  But the bads points are that the races are quite short and its gets alittle boring after abit. 
 And its just missing that feel that forza and PGR4 has! but i can't reali explain it to u, u just 
 have u play it.
  
  Over all its worth buying or renting either way :)
  
  Mrcwood
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Lets see.... single player is good with pretty good rewards, however the cheats/codes ruin the entire 
 game where u enter the code and u unlock every single car.... they shouldnt add that it ruins the 
 game online and single player...
  
  Multiplayer is one of the worst communities and people ever worse then halo 3 and theres so many 
 cheaters online so in conclusion i do not reccomened a buy for this game but a rent only for the 
 single player
  
  SP: 8
  MP: 4
  GP: 9
  ===== 6.5 Real Score......... Worth Value: $29.99 Replay Value??= Yes=====
  
  -1 for $60
  
 -1 for MP
  -1 for cheats
  -0.5 for borignness parts
  +1 for good graphics
  -1 for bad camera views and invinsible hitting
  
  In the end only buy if sale or if u hardcore 
 racing fan that likes a cheating environment......... with cool effects........... Grade Score= 
 D+............. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The recipe for the perfect driving game:
  A large portion of insanity that keeps you hooked on the game for hours at a time.
  A big chunk 
 of realism.
  And a massive bit of speed on the side.
  Garnish with a large piece of fun.
  Serve with balanced AI difficulty.
  
  Now, alot of driving games fulfill one or two of these 
 criteria, but Grid is probably the first one that fulfills them all. I am an avid driving game 
 fan, and have played alot of the ones available for the Xbox 360.
  Test Drive Unlimited was incredibly realistic, and something about it kept you hooked for hours 
 on end, but was lacking in the fun department.
  NFS: Most Wanted had the insanity, the fun, and the speed, yet lacked in realism, and the AI just 
 didn't cut it.
  NFS: Prostreet had speed and realism, but wasn't as insane or fun as its older brother.
  Forza 
 2 had a fair dose of realism, but was incredibly dull and monotonous.
  
  So really, Grids biggest rival is the ageing Most Wanted. But Grid, has a bit extra in every single 
 aspect of its gameplay, that makes it ever so much more fun.
  Grid throws you into the action with a simple "Get-to-the-Finish" race as the very first level. 
 The thing is, is that it's not that simple. It's on one of the hardest maps on the game, in a less 
 than well-handling car. But all the way through the race, there are a number of crashes, cars practically 
 breaking apart mid-race, and long straights going by in about 5.8 seconds. It's like Grid is saying, 
 "Look how fun and insane I am. But sometimes I feel like driving you completely mad with anger".
 
  Which it can do. Very well. For example, The wonderful, innovative Le Mans 24 hour race. 24 minutes 
 of solid racing, with a wonderful Day-Night-Day transition, which adds a whole new difficulty to 
 the races. Hurtling down straights at 251mph, unaware of the approaching corner, which you inevitably 
 hit, at speed, can be incredibly frustrating after 12 minutes of driving. Fortunately, the brilliant 
 new "Flashback" system Codemasters has implemented into the game. This is basically where they've 
 decided to add Prince of Persia to the racing genre. With the use of instant replays, it is possible 
 to skip back to a point just before the crash you have just been involved in. Naturally, it only 
 gives you a certain amount of Flashbacks per race, so even then they have to be used strategically, 
 as the other AI drivers are more than willing to take you out of the race with a quick sideswipe, 
 sending you crashing into a wall at top speed.
  
  So in basic terms, what Grid has done, is take a good dose of all the needed criteria for a driving 
 game, and added a new feature or two into the mix. This, is the template all driving games from 
 now-on should use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Highlights: Fun, competitive racing; Wide variety of race types; Excellent damage modeling; Team 
 racing; Sponsor goals; Customizable voice over
  
  Shadows: Hard; Driving model is a little too responsive for a sim; Very high learning curve; Repetitive 
 voice over at times; Limited painting options
  
  
  
  To start things off, let's get one thing straight: GRID is hard. If you don't think it's hard then 
 you're either great at racing games or you don't have the difficulty set high enough. GRID's driving 
 model straddles a no man's land between simulation and arcade. While it certainly leans to the 
 simulation side, the handling is just a touch too responsive making it feel a bit like an arcade 
 racer. Just getting accustomed to GRID's nuances is part of its difficulty; knowing that you can 
 drive a little more recklessly than you could in say Gran Turismo or Forza but then suddenly the 
 realism switch will turn on and you'll go sliding out of control - only to have it switch completely 
 off and go into the realm of fantasy as your car hits a curb or barricade and goes spinning off 
 into the stratosphere.
  
  OK, so I'm exaggerating just a little here - but not much.
  
  But because this is a driving game, mastering those nuances is going to greatly affect your opinion 
 of the game.
  
  Actually, let's back up a bit: GRID is a simulation racing game developed by Codemasters. The same 
 people that brought us the rally racing game, DiRT. Using the same driving engine, GRID handles 
 much the same way although I think the responsive engine is much more suited for the asphalt than 
 it was for the earth. Like DiRT, GRID also features a gorgeous interface that's easy to navigate, 
 a pleasure to interact with, and loading screens that are informative and just as attractive. This 
 might sound like a minor thing but the interaction design here is really one of my favorite aspects 
 of the game.
  
  But why am I talking about menus when I should be talking about racing? When the game starts, you'll 
 be placed in the position of a driver for hire working to make money for other racing teams until 
 you have enough money to start your own team - which is a bit weird because when you do start driving 
 for yourself, your "team" will consist of only you. The game progresses simply by winning races 
 and taking home event trophies as you make your way to the top of the leaderboard. Single races 
 can be played for fun but you'll only make progress in the game by playing in the career mode known 
 as, GRID World. Here too you can race in single races for other teams where your reward is big 
 cash prizes. GRID also has a reputation system that tells how you rank against other drivers in 
 the world. Racing for other teams in single races will win you big money, especially if you complete 
 the bonus objective (things like getting a podium finish or simply beating another team) but it 
 won't impact your reputation points as much.
  
  GRID World Events are the bulk of the racing where each race is restricted to a single car class 
 and consists of 2 or more races where you're competing for points. The driver with the most points 
 at the end wins the event. Teams also factor in here as you'll get additional cash for getting 
 overall team wins. Events are broken down into three regions, each with 6 event races for that 
 license class. Oh, yes by the way, there are licenses. However, they're based not on passing any 
 tests but rather reaching certain reputation levels. Earn enough reputation points in a region 
 and you unlock the next license for that region. Eventually, you can gain enough reputation to 
 unlock the global license, unlocking more races and allowing you to race in any region.
  
  What really separates GRID from games like Gran Turismo or Forza is the variety of races. Touring, 
 open wheel, endurance, drifting, drift battles, downhill drifts, touge (which I hate) , city races, 
 tracks, daytime, nighttime, and even the infamous 24 hour Le Mans which lasts for 24 minutes - 
 taking you throughout an entire day and night, on poorly lit roads - which somehow, the AI cars 
 seem unaffected by lack of light on both Le Mans and Touge races. Heck, there's even demolition 
 derby races. Sure, GT and Forza feature hundreds of cars that will determine the race style, but 
 something about them gets bland and repetitive. Maybe it's only because it's still fresh but GRID 
 feels like you're never racing the same race twice. Each event is also limited to the class of 
 car that can be entered and this is what I feel is the hallmark of GRID. With the exception of 
 the Le Mans, in each race you'll only ever have 2 or 3 different car makes on the track at once 
 - despite there being up to 20 cars on the track in some races. And because GRID doesn't offer 
 any way to add performance upgrades to cars, each driver is on a level playing field. The result: 
 close competitive races where one mistake can cost you everything. What's more, the computer AI 
 is racing for the same stakes. You'll never find one or two cars that blow the rest of the field 
 away because they simply have the best car. If someone's winning, it's because they're racing well 
 and if someone's lagging behind well... either they suck, but more commonly it's because a car 
 spun out in a turn, blew a tire, or even blew an engine. Regardless of what car someone is driving 
 or even who is driving, who will win is never certain and no one is immune to happenstance accidents. 
 It's an incredible feature that makes your opponents feel more alive and because each race is competitive 
 with no certain outcome, the fun factor skyrockets. Winning races is no longer a matter of who 
 has the fastest car, but rather who's the best driver. Having to avoid car pileups because someone 
 crashed while your screen is filled with white smoke only adds to the excitement and unpredictability 
 of races.
  
  The great challenge of GRID is it's steep learning curve. Typically, racing games start you out 
 in everyday $20K drivers. The result is that you're able to get a feel for the driving engine as 
 well as learn the tracks at low speeds. Then as you get better cars you're able to drive the courses 
 faster as you're already accustomed to them. While GRID doesn't put you in a Nissan NSX from the 
 very beginning, you do start out driving Mustangs (old and new) , Vipers, and even Skyline GT-Rs. 
 Your typical Civics, GTIs, and Celica's are nowhere to be found. What this means is that you have 
 to learn tracks at high speeds; nor is it always clear which track you'll be racing since tracks 
 are listed by location and route only - no helpful pictures. During an event, you'll also race 
 tracks both directions and even change locations after each race. Mix that up further by different 
 races racing only on certain courses and each location having at least two tracks (normal and reverse) 
 and some as many as 6, it can take awhile to get accustomed to each race.
  
  GRID does offer a few driving aids to make things easier, and like Forza, turning these aids off 
 and making the game more difficult will increase your reward for each race. These options are limited 
 though: overall difficulty (basic, normal, serious, savage, extreme) , traction control, manual 
 or auto, anti-lock brakes, and stability control. I personally found turning off stability control 
 made the game a bit easier to drive as it reduced the super sensitive responsiveness of the cars. 
 What the game is lacking is a driving assist line to show you the best path and when to brake. 
 Honestly, the only other game I've played that used such a feature was Forza - and that became 
 a crutch for me. What it does have is a little light in the bottom left corner that blinks when 
 you're approaching turns too fast. It's a little too inconspicuous when you need it and at times, 
 unreliable, but it's certainly helpful and unobtrusive to more experienced drivers. In GRID World 
 races, there's also an option to turn on Pro Mode which will make you unable to restart races onces 
 begun. This game would kill me [on Normal] if it weren't for restart so I don't play on Pro Mode.
 
  
  There is another option to make races a little more forgiving. A feature called "Flashback." Although 
 it'll be available automatically when you crash your car to the point where it's un-drivable, it 
 can also be activated at any time in the pause menu. What it will do is let you rewind the race 
 a few seconds so that you can retry that turn you took too fast the first time and sent you careening 
 into the jersey barriers. Your difficulty setting determines how many Flashbacks you're allowed 
 and you're never required to use them. However, doing so will lower your both your rewards for 
 reputation as well as prize money so it's at your advantage to do without.
  
  Keep the patience dial turned to 11 and you'll eventually learn the tracks and how each car handles 
 differently. Once you cross that line, racing becomes considerably easier but still, ever challenging. 
 No two races ever play out the same and, depending on your difficulty level, even the best drivers 
 will have those occasional mishaps. Even when you're comfortable racing, it's the unpredictability 
 and challenging AI that keep winning races a satifying and rewarding experience - especially when 
 each one of your sponsors has to pay you big bucks.
  
  While the driving engine can be a little unpredictable at times, it is executed exceptionally well 
 and Codemasters' attention to detail in every other regard makes up for any minor deficiencies. 
 The damage modeling is fantastic and, in most cases, how your car is damaged will effect how your 
 car performs - though I've found that your car can take remarkable amounts of abuse and have no 
 ill effect whatsoever. Sometimes. This is one of those cases where GRID is remarkably inconsistent. 
 In addition to your car handling differently, pieces of your's and others' cars will fall off as 
 they take damage. These pieces don't just disappear either. Rather they stay on the course where 
 they landed, becoming themselves, obstacles that will impact your can when run over. Perhaps one 
 of the most overlooked details of other racing games, Codemasters decided to make GRID's tracks 
 themselves interactive by allowing you to crash directly through walls or having tire barricades 
 explode, with tires sailing through the air and rolling across the ground when struck. Glass will 
 shatter and eventually break out. Bumpers will hang down on one side, rubbing along the ground 
 with sparks flying off until the entire thing eventually falls off.
  
  And to top it off, your team manager and pit boss, as well as your racing teammate, will be talking 
 to you, updating you on race status the entire time... addressing you by name. It's a small thing 
 but it's just another one of those details that Codemasters seems to be so attune to. For the most 
 part it never gets repetitive or annoying, although depending on your teammate, they might be a 
 complete moron, a pretty decent guy, or hardly say a word. The only time I've really found the 
 voice over to get tiresome is during drift races. For some reason, the pit boss feels the need 
 to remind me at the beginning of every race that I need to get close to the flag to score points. 
 Or repeatedly tell me that I need to be physically leading the other drift battle cars, despite 
 leading in point score. Where this really gets irritating is if you have tendency to restart these 
 races often [as, umm, someone I know does...] , then you'll hear the same words each and every time. 
 Thankfully, a quick trip to the options menu will quiet him down.
  
  GRID isn't a long game and it doesn't have the extensive car collections that Forza has, never 
 mind anything close to Gran Turismo. I think the car count is somewhere close to 45. Which honestly, 
 that's really all you need. When a race only allows two or three car models, your not likely going 
 to be needing 20 cars of the same class. As I already mentioned, it also doesn't have any car customization 
 options like Forza or other arcade racers like Need for Speed or Project Gotham Racing. It will 
 let you do a few limited team related things; such as choose 3 paint colors a several (around 20 
 or 30) patterns. (If you want to paint cars, stick to Forza. If you want to race, well...) You 
 can also pick a team name, choose between sponsors as they become available, (with some limited 
 control over where sponsor names appear) as well as hire and fire teammates as you see fit. Teammates, 
 usually have a signing fee and will take a percentage of each win. The better the driver, the more 
 they're going to cost.
  
  Multiplayer is the standard fare. The online is a bit of a drag since when looking for a match 
 it'll simply plop you in any ol' race, regardless of your skill rank or where the current race 
 is at in terms of progress. This means it may take you a few tries to find a game that's close 
 enough to over that it's worth waiting for it to end or find one that hasn't begun yet. Somewhat 
 unique to GRID is that races are selected democratically. Rather than the host getting to select 
 whatever they please, each player has a small window of time to vote for their race preference. 
 The race with the highest votes is the one that's played. With the exception of getting matched 
 up with some people that had obviously been playing for a while - and were insanely better than 
 me - I didn't run into any problems while online. Framerates stayed smooth and lag was occasional 
 but minimal.
  
  When all is said and done, I'm feeling generous with this one. Once you're able to overcome the 
 steep learning curve [for casual gamers] , GRID is a tremendously rewarding and satisfying race 
 game that stays competitive and unpredictable. It puts the focus on the driver rather than what 
 car you drive. Like any race game, it'll benefit those that learn to drive well consistently and 
 take advantage of the opportunities that arise - not to mention have the wherewithal to react to 
 ever changing track conditions. But it's always challenging and despite its short career mode, 
 upping the difficulty level and the game's competitive online multiplayer, should keep you coming 
 back for more. Most importantly, it makes simulation racing fun again. Heck, even the replays are 
 exciting to watch. If only there were a way to record and share them online...
  
  Final score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXraven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Summary - So before I get started let me point some things out. This is truly the KING of all 360 
 racing games. No racing game I have ever played compares to this piece of work. It's truly a step 
 up for codemasters. No more boring TOCA games and this time an actually fun title that will keep 
 you coming back for a LONG LONG Time
  
  Graphics - This games shines so bright on an HD TV you'll think your playing a next GEN. Forza 
 except this time its actually fun. Colors are VERY well done and the lighting is defintley the 
 BEST I have seen in a racing game.
  
  Gameplay - Tight responsive controls, Amazing Single Player, and an in car view. This games got 
 everything you could want from a Fun and exhilarating game. The crash effects are AMAZING BTW
 
  
  Sound - Omg the sound is sooo good. The intro video plays a remix of a Queens Of The Stone Age 
 (an awesome band) and the techno type fast music in races usually near the last lap will have you 
 on the edge of your seat the whole dang lap... its truly incredible
  
  Multiplayer - Though I haven't played it online it lacks a splitscreen which I know why due to 
 the time reverse but it would have been nice to see some form of splitscreen.
  
  9.5 for having no splitscreen... sorry but ALL multiplayer games need this if your a console game... its 
 a given for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalgonMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  My God, this game is so fun to play. I ordinarily don't like racing games, with the exception of 
 the MotoGP series. I never had any feelings of coming back to play games like Grand Turismo, or 
 any of the Daytona game, or Project Gotham games. GRID, in my opinion, is so very realistic that 
 I was blown away by the graphics. The CGI rivals the stuff you see in the movies and is far better 
 than the crap you would see on the Sci-Fi channel, no joking! The cars aren't that hard to control, 
 either, which was a delight. When you bump into the other cars, or walls, pieces of your car is 
 either bashed in or comes off. This also effects how the car handles; very realistic.
  
  I thought Forza was a good game, but this blows that game out of the water. GRID is a must get 
 game if you like racing sims. I'm even thinking about getting the 360 racing wheel, however, using 
 the gamepad isn't so bad and I got used to it real quick.
  
  FUN FUN FUN game to play! I'm glad I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaryeire76
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  I just want to say what a game this is, a great pic up and race with mind bogling graphics with 
 an amazing repaly sequence after each race.
  They start in gto's but after a few races you ern a race license where you can higher a team mate, who 
 can race for you and ern you money as well b, but pic wisely because he might end up taking out 
 the grid and hisself and ern you nothing lol, you can also add graphics and colours for your team 
 cars, and use them in online races too which is good.
  The tracks are well made with loads of eye candy, from city streets to well known grand prix tracks, in 
 day or night, or just race in Le Mans to exsperiance a race where you start in the day then to sunset 
 then night, then to morning then back today, in the 24hr racing, its just tranquil driving at 263 
 miles an hour with the sun setting in your rear veiw mirror.
  The car veiws are good and the in car veiw is absolutly spot on that gives you an amazing feel 
 to how it would be like in an actual race.
  I recormend this to any driver as its more to do with you the driver and not how fast you can make 
 your car, if you cant get the lines then you wont win. which racing is all about, all cars are more 
 or less equal in there grades so jump in strap up for a brain mashing car smashing race game thats 
 easy to pic up vertually impossible to put down.
  my only dissapointment is u cant pic ur own tracks online and there is no pits for long races, plus 
 needs more cars such as DTM's V8's and F1 cars, outher than that i give this game 9 points and is 
 a must for any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaman48
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing the demo multiple times and never getting bored of it. I can say 
 that it was most certainly worth my money and I do not have a single bit of buyer's remorse.
  
  Probably one of the first things you notice when you start racing is the stellar graphics this 
 game shows off. When you get going at about 180 miles per hour you really get a fantastic sense 
 of speed and, for me at least, get nervous about making a single tiny mistake since you almost 
 feel as if you're really driving a car. I really can't imagine what this game would be like on 
 an HDTV instead of my crappy standard definition, but oh well, it looks amazing regardless.
  
  The game has two major singleplayer game modes, and they are what you'd expect. Grid World 
 is the single player career mode, and Race Day is the arcade mode where you get to choose any car 
 and track you want to race on and everything is already unlocked. The career mode in Grid isn't 
 something especially spectacular, but then it again it's not half bad either. You start out simply 
 completing driver offers in one of three regions, America, Europe, and Japan, and in which you 
 are racing for another team and get a relatively small sum for completing your main "objective" 
 in a race, which could be anything from place 3rd or higher to finishing ahead of another specified 
 team. After completing a few of these you get your own team and a 1970 Mustang with which you can 
 only race with in the Classic Muscle discipline races. Right away you can choose from 9 events 
 in each region to compete in, but all events require you to have one of a set of specific cars 
 to race, which is understandable and pretty much expected. In addtion to money, when you win races 
 you earn reputation as well, which is only used to earn higher licenses in specific regions in 
 order to compete in more events. Essentially, reputation is useless considering you get it from 
 doing the same things you do when you get money, but nonetheless, it doesn't hurt anything.
  
  The thing that is really actually the best about this game is the actual driving. The physics 
 are far from realistic, but there's just something about them that make this driving so much fun, 
 that combined with the excellent damage modelling, the fantastic and aggressive AI that will actually 
 wreck each other as well as you, and the graphics the game has make this one of the better racing 
 games I've played in recent years.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty much simple, you can do and only do the exact same things as in the arcade 
 Race Day mode (race, drift, demo derby, etc.) but with actual people instead of AI. The multiplayer 
 is what I have spent the most time playing, and, in my opinion, is the most fun aspect of the game. 
 Many people complain about people who wreck others right at the beginning of a race, but I have 
 yet to encounter one of these problems in an online race.
  
  The main gripe I have about the game is the lack of the amount of cars since I have been spoiled 
 by Forza 2's enormous number of car choices (only 45 cars in this game, hundreds in Forza) . But 
 that really is a small complaint and doesn't take away hardly anything from the fun factor for 
 this game.
  
  All in all, the game is excellent and is most certainly worth the money charged for it.
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorch3
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The best way to describe this game is an improved version of Dirt. If you're like me and found 
 that Dirt's driving physics weren't real enough and that Forza 2 didn't have good enough crashes 
 this game is the perfect middle ground. With the physics nearing those of Forza and the crashes 
 just as good as Dirt it makes for an amazing game. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent and makes for a very fun time. Many interesting race types like Touge 
 (like the canyon race in carbon only better) , Drift, and Demolition. Demolition showcases the excellent 
 damage types as cars dent where they're hit. The tracks are made perfect so that when the track 
 X's theres actually opponents driving the other part, which makes for some very spectacular crashes.
 
  
  The AI is quite good and playing in serious (one above normal) you'll notice that opponents won't 
 hesitate you spin you out if you cut them off at the last second entering a turn, yet they aren't 
 impossible as you tail them around a corner waiting for a chance to pass and they spin them selves 
 out. To me the AI is the most impressive feature of the game as it currently is the best in the 
 genre. You feel like you're racing with real people and the feeling is welcome.
  
  The graphics are great and the 1st person style view is amazingly detailed and you can you can 
 move you're head around to check you're mirrors and gauges, and you with the old muscle cars you 
 can see the engine vibrate along with other details. The graphics themselves are crisp and sharp, 
 and the crowd is amazingly lively and realistic looking.
  
  If the driving physics had been a bit better this game would definitely have been one of the best 
 games to date, sadly though if you're looking for a simulator Forza 2 is still a better choice. 
 In short if you enjoy road racing games do yourself a favor and pick this game up (or at least 
 rent it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1racerjb
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Excellent graphics and great sound are must haves for the discriminating sim racing addict and 
 GRID delivers on both fronts. Race in three major regions in over 30 disciplines, earning reputation 
 "points" as you compete. As you travel through North America, Europe and Japan, you by and sell 
 cars, take on sponsors, hire drivers and build (as well as name) your team.
  As in Race Driver games past, the racing comes in many flavors including (but not limited to) open 
 wheel, demolition derby, drifting and Touring disciplines.
  Codemasters really did a great job in all areas except I dont know why they left out pit stops... they 
 play an important role in racing strategy and should be in every good racing game, however the 
 fun factor of the races themselves make this oversight forgivable!!
  Fans of the series will love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gribb85
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  
  Straight from the off Grid shows you that it is a game not to be underestimated, with an announcer 
 that asks and then pronounces your name correctly to spanning a camera round your prospective garage. 
 It is a refreshing alternative to a genre that is fast becoming stale and all the more too predictable, 
 especially when sustaining the multiple publishers willing to enter into the fray. Thankfully Codemasters 
 have not wasted their time or their efforts and have created the best racing game of this generation, 
 an attempt which is not only vast in the disciplines featured within it, but also more importantly 
 making the racing fun.
  
  Racing within Grid is a world affair with circuit disciplines in Europe, city racing within USA 
 and drift racing in Japan. Races and events are split further within these territory's often boiling 
 down to different car types, and circuits but are a valid effort to mix up the racing. Each territory 
 offer cars that handle differently on tracks that have a distinctive feel and style of their, none 
 so much as drift racing. Which as I'm bringing it up, it completely different to anything Need 
 for Speed or Ridge Racer has offered up before. Drifting, or as Grid dubs it J-Racing, attributes 
 points to how the driver takes a corner, taking into account the position, angle, and speed of 
 the car. Bonus points are offered for how close the car is to the flag of the corner which sits 
 nicely on the apex to give a hefty bonus, this points can be chained together to earn multipliers. 
 On the higher difficulties it is not unusual for the top AI drivers to earn over million points 
 over a lap, so precision driving is needed at all times. Despite the fact that this discipline 
 can be extremely infuriating at times it is ultimately awarding, especially when your driving head 
 to head competitions. 
  
  In Europe the racing is all circuit based with cars often being exotic and tailor made for such 
 pursuits, with touring, GP, and single seater 'formula one' esque cars. Once again this is a region 
 which is entirely different to Japan with the emphasis on prototype, designed to race, cars. Where 
 Grid really separates itself from the field is the inclusion of some truly inspired track choices 
 with Spa-Francorchamps, Donnington, and Istanbul, there is many more but these choices alone make 
 Grid worth purchasing. Not only are their iconic, but these tracks have been increasingly marginalised 
 by other racing titles and to see them in HD glory is without a doubt something to experience, 
 which brings us to the coup de grace of Grid, the Le-Mans 24 hour. Placed at the end of every season, 
 your team or driver can elect to drive in this exhibition race which is split into several different 
 classes and lasts 24 hours with the timer perpetually counting down. The timer An authentic representation 
 of this race may seem ambitious in what is an but the developers have achieved something special 
 the faithful recreation of this long and challenging track, but unfortunately the experience is 
 let down by some questionable day to night transitions, and overall feeling of questionable execution. 
 The timer gets through the 24 hours way to quickly and instead of feeling like you have achieved 
 something monumental when finishing the race in a good position, you just feel like you do any 
 other race, it lacks the end of season glamour which an event like this should represent.
  
  Racing in America is split into much more congested city streets with as many racers placed 
 upon them on a much smaller surface area, replicating the Days of Thunder 'rubbin is racing' ethic. 
 No discipline sums up this mantra more than the destruction derby's racers can enter, which are 
 one of the highlights of this title. Unfortunately only having 1 track for this discipline and 
 2 different layouts is a bit of shame, but downloadable content would easily solve this problem. 
 There are of course other events, but they often muscle cars on the previously mentioned restricted 
 circuits and while entertaining, this area offers the least amount of variety. This does represent 
 a missed opportunity because having a racing game set in America, yet not including oval racing 
 seems like an oversight. One that could easily be remedied by having a few tracks thrown in, they 
 are just glorified circles so surely it wouldn't need too many man hours texturing. It does seem 
 odd to complain about a lack of turning left all the time with Nascar 08 released only this last 
 week, and it may highlight Codemaster's overall goal with this title, namely fun.
  
  Racing games often fail or succeed on one simply, yet hard to accomplish attribute, handling. Its 
 all in the handling, which within Grid always feels just the right side of bone breakingly fast, 
 yet still controllable in the right hands. It feels right and conquerable yet challenging, especially 
 with the later cars which can be bought with your earnings. Unlike many other racing titles, GRID 
 always feel right on the edge, with a sense of speed being the biggest accomplishment of this game 
 which remains fun and entertaining. This is especially the case when the slightest twitch of the 
 car can push your lovely car into a very stern concrete wall, which can utterly decimate your car. 
 This is another area which Grid shines with a spectacular yet, albeit it, unrealistic damage model. 
 Parts will fall off your car and litter the track on impact, if not the will make your speed devil 
 look shattered and tarnished while occasionally diminishing your acceleration or making your car 
 always steer to the left or right, depending on the impact. 
  
  There is also the team dynamic, where you are in charge of buying cars, deciding what events to 
 drive, hire team mates, and decide on your teams colour scheme. It my sound a bit shallow, but 
 these aspects provide a nice alternative to just racing competitors in different disciplines all 
 the time, a segway to the action if you will. Also Introduced in Grid is also an inspired Flashback 
 option, which offers drivers a chance to turn back time when they make a mistake in the race. This 
 may seem like a sacrilegious inclusion to some traditional racers, but as soon as you seen a previously 
 written off car slowly rewind to the point before your calamitous actions, you will be hard pressed 
 not to smile. An innovation which is not only simple but carried off in such great execution is 
 obviously the result of many hours work within the developers basement and is a nice inclusion.
 
  
  Overall Grid is a considerable achievement and may spur on other developers to innovate the driving 
 experience instead of merely adding a graphical upgrade. There is some puzzling ommisions such 
 as a complete lack of rain conditions, inability to choose A. I drivers in the replay system and 
 some occasional commentary quirks from your team boss, but these are other small kinks in the bodywork 
 of an otherwise impressive game. Grid does look beautiful but at the same time offers a new Flashback 
 system, which crash happy gamers such as myself will miss in other titles. Codemasters have created 
 an immersive and entertaining driving experience which is polished and faithfully dramatises motor 
 racing to portray its true nature. It is in this regard that Grid is unmatched on any platform. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theocharlier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Grid is a game with stunning graphics & physics that gives players who are not comfortable with 
 the genre hours of fun. The graphics make you glad you have the next-gen console and pricey TV 
 setup. I played this on a TV from the 90's and was stunned by the graphics. Grid introduces very 
 revolutionary concepts to the stale racing genre. In Grid, a damning crash can be replayed and 
 with the press of X, you can jump back in and try that turn (or whatever) again. The different 
 regions (Europe, Japan, US) keep game play varied for some time. Another plus is the physics of 
 the game. In Grid turns are not impossible to navigate as they are in many other racing games. 
 The team feature is fun, hopefully in a Grid 2 it will be expanded on. The major let down in Grid, 
 is the Le Mans race, which happens every few races. This marks the end of a season and is to me, 
 a very boring race. E-Bay is how you can sell cars for profit and it just feels out of place. The 
 voice acting is not the best and teammate commentaries are often repetitive. This game is fun, 
 but it gets old. The different styles of racing all end up being similar as you unlock new licenses. 
 This game is innovative, pretty to look at, and it delivers hours of good game play. The problems 
 are few, but noticeable. I thought this game deserved an 8.5 because of poor voice acting, lack 
 of true variety in the races, and the short seasons. This game has more good than bad. It is definitely 
 worth a rent, and for big fans of the genre, a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsnake79745
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  the racing in this game is eacxtly how they wanted it to be all about the driver. when your racing 
 either in an open wheeled and you can feel the grip on the tires or you are drifting downhill on 
 the tokyo hills this game just makes it feel real. lots of single player gameplay doesnt rally 
 pick up till about the 3rd season though. the AI in the single player is awesome it can either 
 make you made by randomly samashing you delibratly or putting on the brakes when you manage to 
 finally take them on a sharp hiarpin. the only problem with the games is the online play and the 
 tires. with the online play it seems that the only track to come up is the demolition derby track 
 in the US and with that it is fun but it is so repetative. also it seems like its hard to even 
 finish a race fairly or without gettting hit or spun out some of those tracks are jsut to complex 
 and tight for online players to cope with even without the occasional lag. also their is sevral 
 race tracks where it is possible to skip sevral laps to win the race and give everybody a DNF now 
 its not a big problem since it is only on a few select tracks but other then that its kept in balance 
 by the ability to kick people from the room in the after race room. also if you do by chance happen 
 to live after taking a 100 mile an hour crash into the tires it seems that alot of cars cant get 
 out of their no matter what you do to get unstuck and it stinks having to retire at the beggining 
 of the race when your car has the ability to continue. all in all the game was great and i can 
 see myself playing it for many more hours to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I think it's important that you keep perspective in mind when you talk about racing genres. This 
 is probably the single best arcade racing game I have ever played. Its not a sim, it's not about 
 racing the perfect line all the time and then blow 1 corner and game over. It's about good ole 
 metal banging door popping racing.
  
  This is the game I have been waiting for. I was a big fan of the TOCA series, and if you were than 
 you know the feel of the game.
  
  The game keeps yours time on the track. There is no tweaking of the systems here, or even spending 
 hours painting your car. Jjust race the best line and get to the front anyway you can with out 
 destroying your car.
  
  What's new since Toca:
  1. You can make a theme, and change it as often as you want, that gets applied to your car. You 
 can apply 3 different colors, a graphic layer, and number. This could have used a simple theme 
 saved spot so you can go back to an old idea you had.
  
  2. The game setup for career is about perfect, you decide what race to run, buy your car and go 
 race. You can earn alternate cash by running driver races where you race for another team and earn 
 cash for cars and rep to unlock the next tier. After each season, which seems to be 1/2 dozen races 
 you get the opportunity to run in the 24HR Le mans. A tough but fun race. There is no notification 
 when the season is about over, the Le mans just pops up. It you don't have the cash for a Le mans 
 car, just take a driver race.
  
  3. Instant Rewind ROCKS! Spend 20 minutes to blow the last corner, see a cool wreck. Just hit the 
 button and rewind, which looks cool, fix your path through the corner or watch the wreck. My only 
 complaint is that it's so cool I would have liked the ability to see from other car perspectives. 
 The camera is always on your car but you have all the regular angles.
  
  4. AI- Just plain fun. They wreck, swerve, and lose it under pressure sometimes. It just makes 
 for a fun experience when they can blow the last turn of the race too. I also like seeing smoke 
 up ahead, there's a wreck and having to work through it. It's like watching a NASCAR in car camera 
 on tv. 
  
  5. Difficulty- If you want more of a sim, move up the difficulty and hold your line. I like it 
 on normal and expert to really have to earn each race. Lots of nail bitting racing. Want to always 
 win, but want more of sim, take off instant replay, take off driver aids, and everything you give 
 up gets you extra rep, so it's a trade off.
  
  6. Just like TOCA the cars all feel and drive differently, but this time, they are smoother, and 
 the cars that should hug do hug. They still have the awesome damage that doesn't affect your driving 
 much till it's critical, but looks awesome.
  
  Overall, you create the experience you want, if your are a die hard sim person, skip this, everyone 
 else, it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SICshyte767
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I first saw grid in an issue in game informer about a month or 2 ago and thought ,"hey this looks 
 like it might be good i might have to rent it" luckily for me my b day is on June 6th so i was 
 thinking i might want to get tis game , but i was saving my money for a zunee and some new gh3 
 controllers so i said nah i got more important things to buy than grid , had my bdays at my moms 
 and she got me the zune and i got 50 from my gma and then went to my dads and he got me the gh3 
 controller but i needed to get 2 of them so me and my dad went to gamestop and got the other controller 
 , then we went home to chill out before we had to go race (gotta love dirt tracks) , i entered 
 my room and on the tv stand was an envelope with my name on it my crazy dad had to spoil me and 
 gimme a 50 , then i was thinking HMMM idk what to buy , was watching some tv and the commercial 
 for grid came on and i was like oh yeah grid !!!! , needless to say i got grid the sunday i had 
 to go home to my moms and started playing the heck outta it , at first the racing is sorta difficult 
 , like for example the first 24 hour le mans races are rough , the esperantes were fairly hard 
 to handle and i always totaled my car , but the game itself is flawless , its a great game up until 
 you get a teammate , then it gets 1000 x better , i have Gareth Thomas as my team mate and holy 
 cow half the time he beats me out , word of advice choose teammates wisely . the damage cant be 
 beat its so realistic and it gives you that gutsy feeling like oh god i don't want to hit the wall 
 i might total my car unlike other games out there (PROULOUGE) grid is actually realistic and it 
 holds a high level of intense racing action . i really like the branding and sponsor features its 
 awesome that you can customize your cars all racing games need this feature 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rts_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  i havent actually bought a racing game for a while and when i saw this game it looked pretty interesting 
 and i got it. first several hours i struggled with lowest difficulty and got really pissed off. 
 im usually get used to new games pretty quickly but not this one. it had a really steep learning 
 curve and im still not great at it. but you eventually get used to it and when u do, it feels really 
 great. basically a really nice racing game. only disappointment is that it doesnt have split screen 
 multiplayer which i really hoped for and customization and tuning are not there (only colors, patterns, 
 numbers, and sponsor logos) . and also theres not much cars. i believe there are only 45. but its 
 really widely varied and the selections are great. overall, the gameplay itself is awesome, but 
 they couldve put in splitscreen and more cars and customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maraos
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Let it be said that im not usually into racing games, especially incredibly realistic ones such 
 as Forza Motorsport 2. This is possibly one of the reasons I was really excited for GRID, it takes 
 the car buying/tournament racing of the Forza games and mixes it with an almost perfect blend of 
 casual/arcade style races. Another thing is the diversity in races between the 3 countries you 
 will be racing for, in GRID you can race in Europe, Japan, or the US and all 3 coutries offer different 
 styles of racing, mixing the game up and increasing the fun. The game is also one of the finest 
 looking racing games currently out, the environments and streets are done well and the photo realistic 
 crashes add a lot of depth to the game. The game lacks a significant amount of content however, 
 I was able to complete 3/9 of the single player in merely a couple of hours. There isnt much to 
 be said about the multiplayer, it does lack game modes however. Overall I would rate GRID a 9 for 
 being in my opinion the best arcade style racing game currently out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciedakilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Grid is by far 1 of the best racing games ive played. The graphics are fantastic and its also another 
 racing game which lets you damage your car. Even though there are only 45 cars in the game, driving 
 each car is worth it. Grid has even got 1 of the worlds fastest car called Koenigsegg, which is 
 not in many racing games. In Grid your also allowed to manage you own team, ranging from choosing 
 you sponsors to race for, to even choosing your teamate. If you dont want to race for you own team 
 or havent got enough money to buy cars for your team, you can race for others to earn money. Racing 
 for your team earns you a really lot more money ( usually ) and boosts ur Reputation a lot more. 
 This game inlcudes different races like for e. g. The 24 hour de la mans race. In this race you 
 drive on one of the worlds most prestige racetrack for 24 hours, ( ingame = around 12 mins, but 
 you can change the time limit for a whole 24 hrs ( real time ) race. Experience the race from when 
 you start off the starting line in mid - day till the sun sets and you race in the dark which makes 
 it more challenging, back to sunrise and race through the day and the results are decided by which 
 driver drove the furthest. You choose races from 3 regions which are european, Japan, or U. S. In 
 the U. S you race muscle cars etc, in europe you drive touring cars and race on prestige circuits, 
 and in Japan, in some races you drive to become the drift king, or you can race 1 on 1 with your 
 rival team from the top of a mountain to the bottom to the second leg where you race from the bottom 
 to the top. 
  
  I gave Grid 9.5 because it has got stunning graphics and good selection of things to do. But it 
 could have been better if it had more cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomanji
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I am a longtime fan of the TOCA RaceDriver series because it had many unusual racing disciplines 
 and had one of the best penalty systems out there.
  
  Unfortunately, all these strong points were removed and it seems that now it is not much more than 
 a better NFS type game. It is also a pity that all great tracks that TOCA had were removed. TOCA 
 was always great for all the real world tracks, but most of them are gone now. Fun disciplines 
 like the Super Truck racing, Lawnmower Racing, Karts, are also removed.
  That said, the single player campaign is entertaining and fun for the most part. The AI is quite 
 aggressive but this is OK if you play with no damage. The Graphics are nice but there are some 
 issues in online play. I had quite some texture problems where all buildings had the wrong textures 
 on. We will see if the patch this eventually.
  
  If you use the MS Steering Wheel then you will notice that GRID cars seem to have problems going 
 strait. It requires constant adjustments to go straight because they constantly steer in some direction 
 without moving the wheel.
  
  I guess for me the most disappointing is the strange online lobby. This starts with the fact that 
 there are no lap times to compare with your buddy's after a race. It shows like PGR only the total 
 race time. It is hard to understand the logic for this because when I race I like compare lap times 
 with my fellow racers to see if I have the potential to beat them. I think this is a huge drawback 
 in keeping up the game tilt for me, just because of this I will keep on racing Forza and probably 
 lose interest in GRID quite fast. Also once you did a race it goes to the selection screen and 
 once you make a selection there is no way to get back to adjust it. So you have it set to 10 laps 
 and only realize it after you clicked OK then there is no way to adjust this. Qualification races 
 are removed too and no more race flag system and no more options for mandatory pits.
  
  It is a huge drawback that the whole penalty system was completely removed. So again like in the 
 first version of TOCA people can cut corners and drive like idiots without any penalties. This 
 was one of the reasons I was playing TOCA3 a lot but now all these great innovations that did make 
 TOCA stand out are gone with makes GRID just one of the pack.
  As for the game itself, it had potential. It seems as if this was all that was possible to put 
 together in the time they had, hopefully GRID2 and eventually 3 will get back all the great innovations 
 that made the TOCA series a winner in my opinion. The only issue with TOCA was that no money was 
 spend in Marketing in the US so not to many people did check it out. 
  
  Let's see if CodeMaters gets it right again in GRID2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeigfried590
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game promotes itself as a driving game somewhere between a sim and an arcade game. It unfortunately 
 tries too hard to fill both shoes and thus fails fans of either genre. It is not enough sim to 
 please the hardcore racing sim fans, and is far too much sim to call itself an arcade racer.
  
  The player is constantly shifted from one vehicle to another, and any single race only lasts 
 2-3 laps, so you never get used to how a car handles before you are forced to race in a different 
 car. This is extremely frustrating and makes the game far less enjoyable. A really bad idea, executed 
 well, is still a bad idea.
  
  Add to this the just plain foolish drift racing and you have a game that is not boring but just 
 plain unplayable except by a very niche audience. If you like racing sims but have always wanted 
 a very slightly easier and less anal racing sim, then this is the game for you! Every other racing 
 game fan should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puterjunk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  As other reviewers have said, gorgeous graphics, and they put a number of cool features in for 
 good measure (sponsors, teammates, etc) . The flashback mechanism is also a nice touch - come on, 
 admit, we ALL restart races - this is a way to fix a bonehead mistake without having to run the 
 first 4 laps again. But there are a number of things they could have improved to make me give it 
 a 10, mostly around the 24 Hours of LeMans experience.
  
  1) Changing/configurable weather, particularly at Le Sarthe
  2) Longer seasons, so that every 
 10th race isn't LeMans again
  3) PIT STOPS - now, I know this isn't meant to be a sim, but seriously - 24 hours without tires? 
 Gas?? Repairs??? The way the AI plays bumper cars, I don't think you could do 24 hours with a functioning 
 car.
  4) Saving in the middle of a 24 hour race - I don't want to have to leave the console running because 
 I have to go to work.
  5) The ability to run a full 24 hours on the 60's version of Le Sarthe
  6) Changeable/muteable 
 menu sound effects - the 'clang' of the sponsor rewards is a bit jarring after a while
  7) More realistic speeds - the Audi R10 is a great car, but no way it's doing 260, even on the 
 Mulsanne straight
  8) Configurable teammate speech - I don't need them to keep saying "hello, I'm behind you - can 
 you see me?" over and over, or complaining about being in last place.
  9) More random starting positions in career mode - always starting at the back of the grid, when 
 the closest rival gets to start on pole every race, is a bit of a drag.
  
  Don't get me wrong - I've already spent tons of time playing, and will spend a lot more, it is 
 a very fun game. I just hope they make some tweaks before they use this platform for their F1 game 
 next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rberzins
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Grid feels like a really well put together game. When you get bored of PGR 4, turn to Grid. The 
 level of complexity is around the same as PGR 4 - I found Forza just too much of a simulation, 
 and Grid is much more playable i found.
  
  As a previous player of Codemasters Colin McCrae Rally series, it's very clear that Code have improved 
 and extended what they started with. Menus are very simple, general career style is similar, feel 
 of the cars is similar, but there is a much greater variety.
  
  Pros: Superb graphics, plenty of cars, locations and race types, AI opponents are realistic enough 
 to make mistakes or try and run you off the road, career moves ahead fast enough to keep things 
 interesting.
  
  Cons: Occasionally (99% of the time during race replays) frames get stuck because the graphics 
 get overloaded. The cars drive a little too similar to each other.
  
  If you like semi-simulation games, don't miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CY4N1D3_625
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and so far it's not all to bad. The crashes are realistic and performance 
 damage is also there, which takes this "arcade" racer, as most would call it somewhat into the 
 racing simulation dimension. Adding on to that statement, cars do handle like something you would 
 see in PGR or Forza; but only to a certain extent. My only beef is that there are no performance 
 tweaks one can do to further personalize their car. Maybe it's something Codemasters would want 
 to consider tossing in their next racing title. But all in all it's a great game and is worth your 
 60 bones. If you're a Forza zealot, you'll have already seen this, but by all means, don't rule 
 out owning this. If you're into a racing game that anyone can pick up without constantly spinning 
 out of control at hairpin turns, this one's also for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this outta the way... i fell for this game after my first online race where i came from 
 last place to win, and got the "beat codies" achievement denoting i beat a developer first time 
 out. eggcellent.
  
  now that said i'm a forza fan. i'm all about customizations, and online auctions, and sim racing 
 styles. i really didn't know what i was going to think of grid... and then i got my first 50x drift 
 multiplier. this game is extremely exhiliarating. the races are intense, and will always have you 
 on the edge of your seat. always, no exaggeration. codemasters intent to be ''all about the race, 
 and the competition'' has worked brilliantly!
  
  of course this is not to suggest that's where they put all their efforts, not at all. the game 
 also happens to be ridiculously gorgeous. the cars look better than forza. i wasn't sure that could 
 be done. the graphics are a bit stylized on their use of lighting and reflections, but they're 
 awesome looking none the less.
  
  the flashback mechanic, and the collision mechanics are jawdropping as well. busting a fender can 
 dig into your tire wear and drag your wheel to the left. as just an example this is the depth of 
 realism that only adds to your edge of the seat feeling.
  
  GRID is definitely worth your time. even if your a sim fanatic, it's nigh impossible to deny the 
 adrenaline appeal of codemasters latest offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoking83
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Was looking forward to this game alot and it didnt let me down in the slightest......... Ive played 
 forza 2, dirt, pgr3-4 but this by far has been the most enjoyable racing game ive had the chance 
 to play. Visually stunning easy to pick up handling, Nice season mode with the team building and 
 car purchases....... All in all a very great experience......... There is a good mix of gameplay 
 the Open wheel class. touring car GT1 GT2 demo derby and of course exotic racing if they had a 
 rally class this would be the best all round driving game out................ Not too much detail 
 like Forza, not too much of the same stuff like DIRT and more fun than PGR 4...... So go out there 
 and give it a blast Demo is available on the marketplace and no matter what you do there is definately 
 fun to be had in this game thats for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical due to the fact that other racing games as of late have focused more on 
 how driving is for real and forgetting about that it's a game and it's supposed to be fun. 
  That's where Grid excels. Graphic in the game is great, sound is so so but keeps you in the game 
 and the commentary at the start of the race aren't that helpful since you have to really drive 
 with no mistakes to win. 
  Tracks have a tendency to repeat themselves so you'll get to know them rather fast and the cars 
 are constantly being changed so they are different as no car feels or drives as the other. Your 
 score is measured after a few races when a season ends and you have a chance to participate in 
 24 hr Le Man series witch can be frustrating at start but once you get your team and better cars 
 it's quite rewarding to come first after a 24 minute race.
  Buying cars that you need for races is no problem in this game since you have sponsors that pays 
 rather generously every time you win and win you must. 
  Driving in the game is easy but winning is hard since everybody drives great and later when you 
 have a team-mate even he is gonna try to get you since there is no first and second driver status 
 and there is no watch my back stall the other opponents. 
  Mistakes can be made and also can be rectified by rewinding the replay and trying again but depending 
 on the level there is only so many of those and you get an bonus if you use less of them. Also 
 the harder the level bigger the prize so if you want big money sink your teeth into it and practice. 
 
  What was missing for me is a bit more car customization options and team-mate to team-mate communication 
 that could be contextual and than it would be perfect. 
  In the end game is great fun as it should be and it doesn't get old fast so hope you'll enjoy playing 
 it as much as I did. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nigel_Shiftrigh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Think of every racing game ever made, all the physics and graphic engines ever made, mash them 
 together, stir'em up real nice and you still wouldn't have what it takes to beat this experience. 
 GRID is everything that other developers including Polyphony Digital have been aspiring to make 
 since the dawn of time. Missing a few of the benchmarks that have come to pass thru the years; 
 but, makes up from the loss of those in new exciting ways like a camera that follows the vehicles 
 every move, a damage model that is easily unrivaled even by the likes of Burnout Paradise and a 
 sense of speed that may just have you wearing adult diapers because the last corner you just took 
 made a little tinkle come out. It's fun and friendly for all ages, easy to pick up and play, tons 
 of different race types and modes a must by for the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The demo was only a small taste of what the game is. Everything about the game is great, gameplay, 
 graphics, sound, driving.
  The moment I started playing it, I seriously got hooked. 
  
  Now, you definitely can't compare this to racing games like forza because I have forza and they 
 are totaly different kinds of racing. Forza is more on the realistic side, the physics, the upgrading, 
 and the racing is more serious. GRID is more of an arcade racing game, there is alot of crashing, 
 there is drifting, and its alot more point based. If you switch from Forza to GRID you definitely 
 need to get used to the feel of the cars but once u get it its way more fun than forza by far.
 
  Online is definitely better.
  
  Graphics are a solid 10/10. The environments and tracks look very good. There was one track where 
 I got distracted looking at the buildings and how good the car looked that I ended up crashing.
 
  
  Sound is also pretty solid 9/10. The crashing sounds very cool. The only thing that can get annoying 
 sometimes is the guy that talks to you during the race or your racing partner.
  
  Gameplay is alot of fun 10/10. Smashing through the cars to get to first place, drifting events, 
 online play, its all alot of fun.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anybody that likes racing games. Definitely a must buy. 
 And for those who are not really into racing games you should give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Firstly this game is very good and purely for the fact its an arcade/sim hybrid people are annoyed 
 that you can't mod any of your cars but that point never came up when people played any of the 
 PGRs and they were rated highly. There are aspects of this game that are arcade like the drifting 
 which you couldn't do in Forza but could in PGR4 and of course the standard racing which seems 
 different to other games maybe its the cars handling that just makes the car feel less 'real' but 
 still very fun. All the worries about online can be fixed with future DLC like with PGR cat and 
 mouse etc so thats not a problem really. It looks amazing and although the sounds of your pit crew 
 can be repetitive the fact that its there is new to any racer I've ever played. The damage system 
 is so amazing because I think I'm not the only one in saying that I've always wanted to smash my 
 car realistically unlike Forza and PGR which just felt like a let down. Obviously the lack of cars 
 is odd but who actually cars. After a while with other games the abundance of cars just felt unnecessary. 
 There is a fair amount of difficulty in this game but the flashback system is good to help all 
 those n00bs get their feet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duran_gabriel
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  When first i bought this game i didn`t play it becouse a was playing another game and I said that 
 maibe is not so good. But when I saw the graphyc I was amazed and that wasn`t all. When I first 
 entered the game it was a big WOW. From my point of view it is a better game then the other racing 
 games and for the first time in the last year i was waiting to wake up to play that game.
  When you wind six trophys you enter a chalenge, a hard one and on basic i played 5 hours to beat 
 the porshe, at that time it wasn`t interesting it was annoing, but when i finished that race i 
 was jumping all around :) .
  I recomed this game and it guarantee that you don`t go to sleep and you try playing more and more.
 
  A minus is that you can`t buy more cars for an avent and gives you the posibility to buy one car 
 a new one or a ebay one. 
  The 24 hours race ... wow it`s boring and annoing becouse after 10 minute of playing maybe you 
 crush and loose everithing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmlittle
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is targeted as an arcade racer. This is the first thing that needs to be understood about 
 this game. It doesn't try to be a Forza so don't look for upgrades or add-ons. Grid doesn't try 
 to be a Project Gotham, although it too is an arcade style racer, so there aren't lots of big manufacturers 
 bling-bling. What Grid is and tries to be is a fun and fast arcade racer with more than enough 
 damage modelling to leave every part of a car strewn on the tricky tracks. The damage modelling 
 does lead to handling problems. If you bang it up too much the car may die so you have to try to 
 keep it between the curbs. There is a nice rewind option that lets the player rewind to get out 
 of this situation and to a place prior to killing the vehicle. These are limited by the difficulty 
 you choose.
  
  There are a fair number of driving disciplines to get into from drifting to demolition derby. I 
 have not yet found out just how many tracks or cars that are available to the player but there 
 is a nice variety to keep it interesting. I also haven't had the chance to get onto Xbox Live yet 
 to try the multi-player but I'm thinking that the demolition derby and drifting will bring many 
 gamers together on Live.
  
  I find Grid a very fun and not too difficult arcade racer for those who like the genre. If you 
 are into realism look elsewhere this will likely disappoint those who seek the sim type racers. 
 All in all, it is worth the price and is a great change from the staple of racers on the 360. Give 
 it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackDjwh06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  GRID is a great racing game to come out. This is a game that gets the simulation drivers and also 
 the more of need for speed drivers out there. It can be played as a extremely difficult and realist 
 driving game with the xbox wheel or be played at a fairly easy driving game such as need for speed 
 type racing game. The damage effects are really cool and also the way other car can make mistakes. 
 It is always fun to have to worry about dodging a car spinning out infront of you while racing 
 to get up to the front. Then of course if you do hit the car there can always be the flashback 
 given to you if you want it. For using it you dont loose that many reputation points either. And 
 who doesnt wish they would get another chance during a race when someone else takes you out of 
 the race... its great. Also the team ownership deal with hiring new drivers and basically running 
 your team is something that plays a big part in making a good racing game. It keeps you with something 
 to gain and something to be the best at. also something to show for all of your hard driving. Hopefully 
 more games will build off of this one because I know for at least myself ive been missing games 
 where your garage gets bigger and gaining sponsers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh_fox12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I had the original TOCA race driver 2 on Playstation 2 and i thought that it was one of the best 
 racing games that was available on the console. This is apparent in this game. I'm not a fan of 
 PGR 4 i find it crap and the steering is terrible. On GRID you find that the car doesnt have a 
 great amount of understeer and it is easy to handle most of the cars.
  There is also a feature called flashback where one can rewind time in order to re-do a corner if 
 you have, lets say, wrecked your car. This may sound slightly unrealistic and maybe a bit of a cheat. 
 But it does come in handy. If you are in the lead and you accidently crash off the course it is 
 easier to go back to a suitable point and start from that point rather than having to restart the 
 whole race due to one individual corner.
  The damage is very realsitic and LIVE is better than i could have expected as it is fun to race 
 against other people from around the planet.
  OVERALL GOOD GAME..... GRAB IT WHILE YOU CAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzeelatino78
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game would do really good if they just made an update of comtomizing your car...
  more on how it looks and performance wise.
  ppl like to pick their signiature cars
  for instance
 
  mayb someone's favorite car is a mustang GT
  but since it offered in the beginning of the game
  it's not the fastest car
  with simple upgrades 
 and customization (like you could do in real life)
  that car could be just as fast as a ferrari (which is possible) (proven on an episode of viva la 
 bam with the pimped out limo)
  and some more customizable paint jobs (mayb some ppl could put their own stuff on their through 
 a website then submit it through pc to their x-box gamertag
  then uploading it to the game
  
  2nd
  maybe for more online matches and stuff
  a death match with nitrous
  no weapons
 
  like a car derby... just bigger and faster
  it could be teamed or every man for themselves
  and mayb even a open city tag
  and i would offer some 3 sec faster shortcuts 
  and work on 
 the turns a bit more
  its a little unstable
  and some more physics work
  
  agree with me plz on some ideas
  ty
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polloloco247
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok there are good things about this game , most of them you'll love'm , off course there are thinks 
 missing such as split screen and mechanical upgrades for your car but it's a good blend bt arcade 
 and simulation just need a little bit more of work at would be perfect , I like the way that cars 
 handle , also the graphics are splendid, car modeling , crash modeling there are enough tracks, 
 ok there are not enough cars but the ones in the game are good, im sure they will put some more 
 @ xbox live for downloading , to finish my little review i have say this is a fun racing game it's 
 not just and arcade game y hat some of simulation too, must buy if you are a racing fan, congratulations 
 to code master I will like to see a sequel in a future and maybe include more vehicules and bikes 
 what the hell,, and ok this is my first review here so sorry form my spell and everything i'm from 
 PANAMA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hdspringer98
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I started with the xbox360 demo version, mastered the 2 tracks and beat the World Record on the 
 SF track by a hair. 
  
  Now that I have the real game I'm getting tooled on the tracks that I'm unfamiliar with. Lot's 
 of great crashes and tight races. Finding it very addictive!
  
  I love how there is no trial run on the track... the game just dumps you into the chosen race and 
 forces you to deal with it. Of course you can restart if you're not in Pro Mode. I'm sure over 
 time I will learn the tracks quite well. 
  
  I like the varied handling of each type of car and find it to be a nice balance between arcade 
 and sim driving mechanics. I also have PGR3 and 4 and Forza 1 and 2. This is the most fun of the 
 group and I find it dead smack in the middle of PGR and Forza for driving. By far the most fun 
 of the group.
  Guests at your house will be laughing out loud at your crashes and awed by your amazing drift turns 
 as displayed with the excellent graphics.
  
  It would have been nice to see some minor degree of tuning capability for your ride but I can live 
 without that. Forza is fun in that regard but it's easy to spend hours trying to tune rather than 
 race with all those options.
  
  The car customizations for paint and skins isn't bad. Again, in Forza you can spend hours doing 
 this. In GRID you take 15 minutes and you've got a decent looking ride. 
  
  Loved the demolition derby, superb crashes.
  
  I've only scratched the surface with this game 
 but look forward to many months of pure racing fun. Key word being FUN.
  
  I'd give it a 10 if you could tune the car and have a few more customizations. Not to Forza levels 
 but a least let me pick some wheels. Beyond that, it's about as good as a racer gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatefreak22
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  hey guys i am here to review GRID. It is a VERY unique racing game that justs feels like it has 
 all it needs and is just right. the storyline is pretty similiar to DIRT but with much more to 
 do and just WAY better. The graphics are just AMAZING how detailed the game is from the buildings 
 to the helmet cam when u are inside the car.. the helmet cam justs gives the game what it needs 
 and with out it i dont think i would have enjoyed it has much.. It has the FORZA inside it and 
 the BURNOUT so it makes it a whole lot of fun. The damage u can give to the cars is very kool and 
 the option of the FLASHBACK so if u total u can rewind and try to make that turn or whatever right. 
 the multiplayer is so fun and crazy espically goin into the first turn where there is at least 
 one crash. it is a very hectic game that will leave u with much to do for a good 6 months. it is 
 a spectacular racing game that should NOT be missed by anyone who has a spark for racing games...... 
 i think that at least everyone should at least try it or in my opinion its a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  giving a 10/10 is so easy for grid, any score less than that would be under rating it. it is so brilliantly 
 made that we ought to thank the makers for giving us such an entertainer. falls exactly between 
 a simulation and an arcade. perfect blend of game play, the game i would say with the highest graphics 
 and detail ever made, so good the car detail is and so are the physics of each car in this game 
 that you would play it just to enjoy what you see on your tv. its a game you can easily show off 
 the power of the xbox 360, far better than any of the biggest racing names around :-) .. its gonna 
 be another sure hit series. i was amazed at what dirt was visually and always wished that they make 
 a street racing game and this is more than what you can ask for. its so good that i want all raciong 
 fans to own one because this is one game that is outstanding..!!!!
  gameplay-9.5/10 ( should have been made little more arcadish )
  graphics-10/10
  sound-10/10
 
  cars, physics and detail-10/10
  damage engine-10/10
  cameras and replay-10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: massivebollocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  This game seems to comprise everything that makes racing good on a console. It's got realism on 
 and off track and a large amount of "good" attention to detail (which is rare) .
  
  Race Driver: GRID has made the leap forward in racing and is both enjoyable and sim-like at the 
 same time. It figures in between games like Sega Rally & Need For Speed (for the enjoyment and 
 excitement of the race) and Forza Motorsport 2 for it's realism.
  
  I have played this game for about 5 hours at a guess. I get home from work and slap it on 'til 
 I go to bed as the achievements and gains you can attain from races are worth your time.
  
  Another good point to make is that things like sponsors and hiring and firing team mates have been 
 included within the game and it makes it all the more involving for it. Also at the start of every 
 race youj will be told which driver on the "GRID" is just above or below you in the championship 
 or which one won the championship last year and gives you a good target to aim for during the race.
 
  
  This is a game that truly draws you in. I am very impressed that a racing game can draw me in with 
 it's depth of play. There might not be hundreds of cars, there's 45, but that does not at all detract 
 from teh value of the game and the gameplay itself.
  
  One final thing. The attention to detail is what draws me to most games and in this one i'm impressed. 
 From photographers reaching over to take their snaps as you roar past, to being in the garage and 
 tweaking your sponsors, team mates and team colouring where your mechanic is tinkering in the background 
 in certain shots and race drivers walking past. Brilliant. All more to draw you in to the experience!
 
  
  Highlly Recommended!
  
  Cheers
  
  -Pete- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Race Driver GRID. The sequel to the game Colin McRae DIRT. The clues of a sequel are given straight 
 away in the name, both having two words followed by a four letter upper case word, namely GRID 
 and DIRT. This game uses the same engine as DIRT, called NEON (all these capitals are hurting my 
 head!) , and by the same guys who made DIRT (don't go there, please!) . Since Colin McRae is now 
 dead, the only option is create another fantastic sequel, without him! 
  There are 3 cities, 50 cars and a expansive career mode. Nothing out the ordinary. A slightly weird 
 camera angle, and a series of modes which all seem too straightforward. However, behind the simple 
 exterior lies. a simple interior. There is nothing too complicated. Flashback, a new mode which 
 allows you to reverse time a few ticks, has been placed for new players. Also included is super 
 management mode, which allows you to organise and race in events for set amounts of cash, but be 
 warned, if you loose, your paying!
  If you ever played any CM game, then this game and its review is self explanatory (as you can see, 
 I prefer playing the game over writing about it) , its awesome. You work your way up ranks, you 
 unlock new cars and challenges, and you win the championships. It is a simple as that. But its 
 the simplicity which makes this game incredibly fun. You may get bored of going round the same 
 track loads of times, but its all about the race. Its good fun.
  If you read my DiRT review, then it pretty much sums up the highs and lows of GRID. Its good, never 
 bad. Nothing in it lets it down. Now that DiRT is a 9/10 due the passage of time, this is the new 
 10/10. Buy it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, i wasnt dissapointed as i suspected i'd be. 
  From Dirt, which was alright, to this a masterpiece in gaming.
  
  The introduction to the career 
 was outstanding and the concept of the game is gripping in its own way. The fact that you can earn 
 extra money with sponser ships and how you must beat your way to the top in intense races. The 
 AI is extrodinary as is insane to beat on the hardest of modes, so i stick to normal... for the 
 time being. Still after you beat all but the first 3 oppositions the game does become tricky in 
 some curcuits. The drift concept is fun and has its own style but i also like the Touge races. 
 It made me feel like i was playing a better version of NFS Carbon on the canyon duels. It test 
 your pesision when your trying to over take and your composure when your trying to stay ahead, 
 especially when your opponent has the better car. 
  The damage is exquizid with fantastic car deformation and a real improvment to the physics compared 
 to Dirt. Dirt now seems like a test, a prolouge in some ways compared to Grid which is faster, 
 better and overall much more fun to play as it has a variety of races and options compared to Dirts 
 ralley style of racing, even though the game is a rally game it could have been better. The flashback 
 concept is helpful to as it improves your driving skills and gives you chances to finish the race 
 without doing it over and over again.
  Looking back at other racing games, next gen wise, it simply comes out on top. PGR was too acrade 
 like, NFS pro street is S**T compared to this, GT prolouge isnt as action packed as this and Forza 
 is a shambles compared to GT and more importantly Grid. Motorstorm, even though it is fun, its 
 too short and in some ways, slightly boring compared to this.
  Online can only be somed up in four words
  Competetive
  Fun
  Fast
  Challenging and
  Superb
 
  Just entering and continuing to play the best at the games is enjoyable, even though you tend 
 to fall behind quickly. There are those who just want to wreck your car and those you tend to play 
 proffesionally overall you wont be dissapointed.
  Already i have fell in love with this game and this is, in some ways, a tribute to Colin Mcrae 
 and what a tribute it is. Its kept some features from Dirt like your achievments or task's on the 
 loading screen. The way the race options work and the entire look and movment of the menu screens. 
 It truly is a masterpeice even though it could do with some improvment as in more veriety of races 
 on and offline and more customisation to you and your team. You could have an actual character 
 instead of a mask man all the time, no complaints im just suggesting here. Some nitros could be 
 included although that might lead to it becoming a more illegal street racing game.
  Overall theres not much to complain about and the things ive listed are so small compared to the 
 good stuff that you wouldnt even care as soon as you insert the game.
  However its not perfect but it is amazingly outstanding which is really really really close to 
 a score of 10 but for now im giving it a 9.5 for its class and brilliance.
  It looks like the starts of a new franchise...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul141
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  i have nearly all the racing games in this is the best yet. the cars are all brilliantly looking 
 and when you are in the garage the chrome in the cars looks real. I have all of the other racing 
 games on my 360 and this is the beat yet.. go to you tube and type in scougallator and rate my 
 vids 5 star u gays have nearly all the racing games in this is the best yet. the cars are all brilliantly 
 looking and when you are in the garage the chrome in the cars looks real. I have all of the other 
 racing games on my 360 and this is the beat yet.. go to you tube and type in scougallator and rate 
 my vids 5 star u gays have nearly all the racing games in this is the best yet. the cars are all 
 brilliantly looking and when you are in the garage the chrome in the cars looks real. I have all 
 of the other racing games on my 360 and this is the beat yet.. go to you tube and type in scougallator 
 and rate my vids 5 star u gays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The car physics are great and the graphics are very good as well, although i 
 prefer the graphics of PGR3 and 4. The different car cameras are very well done and the on-board 
 camera is great to experience the action in quite an intense way. The menu is really pretty and 
 straight forward. The race tracks are very well designed , varied and challenging. What i really 
 like about this game is the feeling that i am always racing different stuff and challenged with 
 something new. Races are fast and fun. I like the way the action is a mixture of arcade and sim 
 racing. I think Codematers got the fun factor just right. Multiplayer is great and online multiplayer 
 is fantastic. A word of warning is needed here. There is to many sados online. Their only objective 
 is to knock you of the racing track and damage your car. You can vote them out but for some reason 
 they keep coming back like a bad itchy rash on a hot day. Apart from these guys , online playing 
 is one of the best ever made. I would give GRID 10/10 but i don`t because this game has the same 
 Codemasters` old problem. AI cars tend to break to hard on corners and i crash against them more 
 often than i would like to. Apart from this, i think this game is one of the best racing games 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight first, when you compare GRID to a game like GT5: Prologue or Forza 
 Motorsport 2 you realise how behind the times they are with the whole aspect of motorsport. Don't 
 get me wrong, I like looking at beautiful graphics as much as the next man but all that beauty 
 can't cover a pretty poor attempt at racing. To be fair Forza 2 did a pretty ok job, racing was 
 generally fun especially with the faster type of cars. But GT5: Prologue clearly is someway behind. 
 I gave GT5: Prologue a 8.0 score, now looking back at it comparing it to grid I honestly wonder 
 if I would be willing to give it 7.0 because GRID clearly is the way forward in racing games.
 
  
  I've been a fan of the Race Driver series since its original birth on the Playstation 1 system. 
 Then the series was called Toca Touring Cars based around the British Touring Car Championships, 
 even back then it was clearly Codemasters knew what they were doing and Toca ended up being one 
 of the best racers on the system. Since then there have been many new entries and as seen a name 
 changed to Race Driver when it came to PS2. In my personal opinion the PS2 Race Driver entries 
 were a step back from the PS1 installments, especially the superb Toca World Touring Cars which 
 featured some of the best A. I any racer on that system had seen, with cars crashing, battling for 
 places and fighting like real races. Race Driver: GRID Reminds me most of this game which is every 
 bit a great thing.
  
  Now down to the game, GRID can be found for PC, XBOX 360, PS3 and Nintendo DS. Tho this review 
 is only currently concentrating on the 360 Version of the game, I will be adding a PC Quick Review 
 once I play that. Honestly there isn't much difference between the PC, 360 and PS3 versions. GRID 
 doesn't make any huge changes from the firmilar forumula fans will know of. Although CMasters have 
 taken lessons from the previous CMasters Racing title 'Colin Mcrae DIRT' in the way a lot of the 
 'GRID WORLD' mode feels. There are a great mix of races from destruction derbies to open wheel 
 racing even to Japanese Drifting. Most of it is done amazingly and the whole variety of the types 
 of motorsport is a blast, Race Driver as done this in the past and its still a very strong point 
 for the series. You can go Le Mans racing, you can go Touring in bumper to bumper touring cars 
 or you can go mad drifting around iconic areas of Japan. Theres somthing here for everyone. For 
 me personally Touring Cars, tho not the fastest motorsport in the game is a total blast with action 
 happening everywhere. Cars crash out, tires burst, Cars go spinning around corners. It is all total 
 action and CMasters clearly wanted to resemble what makes motorsport one of the most entertaining 
 sports about. 
  
  The game also features a fun multiplayer mode, although I sadly found most gamers not willing to 
 have a good race and play dirty, but thats not GRID's fault. You can thankfully kick these players 
 through user votes. Theres a great variety of tracks from US Street tracks to European Open tracks 
 to even drifiing around a unknown port of Japan is a moded beauty of a beast. Sadly for past fans 
 of the series some tracks have gone, a lot of the British Tracks have been removed with only Donnington 
 Park worthy of mention still in the game. Tho Donnington is still an amazing track to race at. 
 Some races will also take place on reversed versions of a track, tho this could be taken as a cheap 
 quick fix way of hiding a good amount of tracks, it actually really isn't as often reversed tracks 
 can offer a massively different challenge. Like most racers the true challenge is mastering the 
 tracks, and theres still a good amount of tracks to keep a gamer pleased.
  
  Some might say that GRID as taken the Burnout Paradise route and gone all Need for Speed. In all 
 honesty this is very far from the case. Unlike the pretty average Burnout: Paradise, theres still 
 a huge amount of the old Race Driver games within. Thankfully the bad aspects of previous Race 
 Driver games as been removed or vastly improved upon, racing is amazingly fun and different everytime. 
 Crashes are amazing and the action is endless. Its also a lot of the small details that stand out 
 for GRID, the ability to go back in time after a fatal crash and start from a certain position 
 is a great improvment and the small graphical details I just love, for instance speeding down the 
 straights in the Le Mans race and seeing dead flies on your window screen. Also hearing the crowds 
 reaction when crashing or almost hitting the barier and hearing the announcer say your actual name 
 throughtout the game... all of it is small but makes a huge difference. 
  
  There are many out there that don't believe CodeMasters can do racing games, yet if DIRT didn't 
 convince them then GRID will, because GRID is easily one of the best racing games to grace any 
 console. It shouldn't be compared with GT5: Prologue, because GRID is so much more fun. I'm loving 
 every minute of Race Driver: GRID!
  
  Only PGR4 did it almost as good.
  
  PROS:
  - Amazingly fun, Action Packed Racing.
  - Beautiful Game with 20 cars on the track.
  - Always 
 challenging with great mixes of differculty levels.
  - Anything Can happen.
  
  CONS:
  - A few Graphical glitches in surroundings of tracks.
  - Some occasional freezing or slow down 
 in heavy crashes.
  
  RACE DRIVER: GRID gets 9.5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
