-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guilty Gear 2: Overture
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/guiltygear2overture/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combining beat-'em-up action with tactics is a great idea.
 Visuals are distinctive and colorful.
 Solid and challenging multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Incoherent storyline and absolutely insane dialogue.
 Shallow beat-'em-up mechanics.
 Tactical layer so thin that you can almost ignore it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 89 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aksys Games
Developer: Arc System Works
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guilty Gear 2 may be an interesting experiment in cross-genre game design, but it's mostly a shallow 
 mess. 

  Good luck making heads or tails out of Guilty Gear 2: Overture. Given the way that the game sews 
 scraps of different genres together to form a patchwork quilt of action and strategy, you have 
 to wonder if even the developers were entirely sure what they were making. Both the revamp of the 
 series' 2D beat-'em-up beatdowns and the introduction of a tactical feature are just skimmed over, 
 leaving the action a jumbled mess of whirling punches and the strategy so shallow that you barely 
 need to pay it any attention. This frenetic experiment in mixing and matching is so all over the 
 place that it spins your head as more than it revs up your adrenaline.  

  Your head starts to rotate from the moment that the story begins in the single-player campaign. 
 What's happening here might make sense to fans who have previous knowledge of the goings-on in 
 the anime-flavored Guilty Gear universe, but anyone coming in fresh won't have a clue what's happening. 
 You play a hero named Sol Badguy, who is adventuring around on a future Earth with his sidekick, 
 Sin. Something bad apparently happens at the start of the game with mystical Gears that once caused 
 a big war, and you're called on to save the Kingdom of Illyria from evil invaders out to do evil 
 things.  

           Even with the tactical options, you'll find that commanding armies and the button-mashing 
 combat are awfully simplistic.      

  Even when you do start to get a handle on the story, the game throws more curveballs to keep you 
 reeling. Although much of the level scenery is laden with gorgeous fields, columned streets, colorful 
 trees, and immense statues, it is all so surreal in such a distinctively Japanese anime way that 
 you never feel like you belong in any of the surroundings. Strange audio adds to the hallucinatory 
 effects. Much of the overly florid dialogue will have you questioning your sanity. One of your 
 allies is insulted for having "sadistic ears." Magic is drawn from an alternate universe called 
 "the Backyard." Sol curses a problem in combat due to an "invalid access chord" and cries "Shut 
 up!" every time he delivers a basic sword swipe. The plot here is one great big "Huh?" due to either 
 a terrible translation from the original Japanese or an intentional desire to try to break your 
 mind.  

  On the flipside, the incredibly shallow gameplay greatly contrasts with the impenetrable story. 
 But even though such simplicity may provide a way to get into Guilty Gear 2, it doesn't give you 
 any reasons to stick around. Levels are something of a blend between standard 3D beat-'em-up stuff 
 and a strategic layer that plays like a single-player take on a multiplayer shooter game style. 
 You start from a master-control nodule called a masterghost, which is basically a headquarters. 
 The objective is to create an army through a management screen hilariously called the organ, and 
 then venture forth to conquer the enemy's masterghost on the other side of the map.  

  Of course, lots of bad guys are in the way, along with other, smaller control nodules called ghosts. 
 The idea is to move across the level step by step, taking control of ghosts on the way to raise 
 the mana needed to unlock unit types and buy more actual units for your army. As you progress through 
 the missions in the solo campaign, you gradually gain access to different types of monsters that 
 you can summon, each with variable attack and defense abilities. Each hero deals in different types 
 of creatures with different specialties. For example, Sol summons robots, whereas Izuna calls up 
 creatures inspired by Japanese folklore. Each creature is also given a classification denoting 
 its abilities. So you can summon melee units, armored units, ranged units, and so forth, to whip 
 up a fairly well-rounded force in most levels.  

  However, that description probably makes the game seem more involved than it actually is. Ultimately, 
 all you need to do is keep moving forward with your hero, killing enemy units by the bushel, and 
 taking over ghosts until you have built up enough of an army to assault the rival masterghost and 
 end the level. You'll take the odd break to consult the organ and send out troops to the right 
 place -- or put this function on automatic and worry only about conquering ghosts with your hero. 
 There isn't much thought required when doing battle, either. Although the game includes a pack 
 of combos that are mercifully easy on the thumbs to pull off, you never need to use them in fights. 
 Simple button mashing slaughters bad guys just as effectively as tossing out combos, so you never 
 have to bother getting fancy. With that said, the game isn't particularly easy. Even though you 
 can plow through dozens of enemy goons without breaking a sweat, you generally have to face more 
 than just dozens, and the mobs are so thick with foes that it's tough to keep track of what's going 
 on. Sheer numbers can take you down if you simply rush forward mindlessly, so you have to take 
 your troops into account and adopt a sort of "hurry slowly" philosophy toward taking ghosts.  

 
           Giving orders to units adds a tactical layer to all the beating up of bad guys, though 
 it's so flimsy that you can almost ignore it and still win levels.      

  Things get more challenging when playing multiplayer. Guilty Gear 2 doesn't seem to have a huge 
 fan base playing via Xbox Live right now, but the players it does have are incredibly skilled. 
 It's a huge jump to go from button-mashing solo matches to online matches against experts who have 
 mastered the full range of combos. There really isn't any way to train for this before going online, 
 either. The campaign doesn't hit you with opponents of even close to the average human level of 
 skill, and the training mode is also lacking in killer opposition. All you can do is get into exhibition 
 matches with buddies and build your skills together before heading online to take on expert strangers. 

  Everything about Guilty Gear 2: Overture says wasted promise. The action is mindless and repetitive. 
 Most of the strategy feels tacked on. And the storyline could have been written by a lunatic. Mashing 
 a beat-'em-up together with tactics is a great idea, but the execution here has obviously gone 
 horribly awry.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mahobudo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  First I'll stat this off by saying grant it I did get this game on my friends gamestop discount 
 with a coupon so no it didn't cost me much. But its worth what it is.
  Graphics. 7.5
  I think people forget that just a few years ago graphics on the ps2 and xbox looked amazing. And 
 with these new age next gen graphics one tends to judge games that just fall a bit better than 
 last gen as bad. This games graphics are NO WHERE NEAR BAD! No they aren't as Detailed or well 
 done as some especially high budget titles but they are still very crisp and nice. The only flaw 
 is the camera and its stubbornness other than that the game feels very good to me. The only flaw 
 in the graphics is that they are soo floaty and fantasy they remind me of .hack or a Mana game 
 more than a GG game.
  Sound 8.0
  .......... I speak Japanese... (not fluent) ... enough at least. So I appreciate the voice work and 
 cinema... however others may not.. the English is pretty terrible to say the least so I can understand. 
 And some of the main themes from the game dont really appear which is a bit annoying. Its not as 
 rock n roll as it is fantasy fare but it goes well. 
  Gameplay 8.0
  I love the game play in this game!!!!!
  The only way to explain it is if Final Fantasy XII Revenant 
 wings had dirty sex with Chaos Legion this would be their amazing child. One part action game four 
 parts RTS with summoning and points and maps to control as well as items and summon points. It 
 works very well.... as long as you start off setting it on wait mode and work through the annoying 
 tutorial. But once your through this it works VERY well and can be addictive especially multiplayer. 
 All I can say is I'm happy to see an action game where I jump off a ledge and I actually jump to 
 the area beneath. (... yeah you heard me Dirge of Cerberus.)
  Story 8.5
  This is where Guilty Gear 2 shines. For anyone who ever wanted to see the guilty gear character's 
 fleshed out or wanted to explore a bit of the legends of the world behind the fighting games this 
 is for you.
  Overall Its not a bad game. It wont win any awards but its solid especially for fans of its style 
 of gameplay or people who want to think outside the box. And hell its better than Dynasty warriors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fr0-n1nja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  guilty gear 2 overture is a different game from all the others in the series. guilty gear is usually 
 known as a 2D fighter but this one is a 3D strategy, action, fighting game. the gameplay is pretty 
 fun after you learn how to play it. it is pretty difficult at first until you learn all the basics. 
 once you get the hang of it the game is pretty fun online and off. the online play is pretty fun 
 unless you end up playing against some super master of the game that imported the game from japan 
 and played it 24/7. it is also hard to find a match online some times. overall i enjoyed gg2 and 
 i thought it was worth buying. if you are still skeptical then just rent it or wait for a price 
 drop. so many fan boys saw this game as a fail and never even looked back. don't be like them and 
 give gg2 a chance. 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  There only one aspect too this game that makes it even worth while to try, and that can be easily 
 avoided if you just check the internet, and that the OST. This game wreaks with disappointment, 
 and for the past month I've been trying to say more positive things about this game, but when i 
 try; it leaves a bad taste in my mouth...
  
  The game play is terrible and just down right embarrassing, and makes you think how much are they 
 paying these people? 
  The dialogue is terrible and I don't think it would make a big difference English or Japanese it 
 terrible. 
  
  Well you can at least say it still stays truth to it roots right? 
  
  Meaning characters or fighting? Cause this game takes a turn for the worst on both ends. The character 
 design is bad, and fighting... what fighting? 
  
  In conclusion this is by far the worst GG, and I was actually expecting it, cause most 2D fighting 
 games going 3D are terrible, so I wasn't suprise. Sadly this game is still going for 
  $40 -$50 bucks, when it should be $20 tops. 
  
  rent it or forget about it ;unless you want 
 to piss someone off this Christmas with this under the tree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  So we all know the Guilty Gear series as a really good 2D fighter game right? Well if you're expecting 
 this to be a fighter, guess what, IT'S NOT! That's right, Guilty Gear 2 is not really a fighting 
 game. So what is it? It's more like a mixture of the fighting and strategy genres. Buy to make 
 is simple... this game is like DOTA...
  
  ------------------------------------------------
  
  The goods:
  
  Interesting gameplay 
 that's fun and addicting once you get to know it.
  
  Great soundtrack
  
  Good Story
  
  ------------------------------------------------
  
  The bads:
  
  Not a great variety 
 of characters to choose from
  
  Graphics are "average..."
  
  ------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall I still enjoyed the game, especially 
 the multiplayer and story mode. If you're still not quite sure then I suggest renting it...
  ----------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centralpitcher
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Not much you can really say about this game other than the fact that 3D just ruins it all.....
 
  
  Why can't they just stick with 2D, SFIV 2D and will kick ass, maybe they should have waited a little 
 longer and took some notes on SFIV. Then maybe this game would be worth our time. I understand 
 that 3D is way more complex with the endless possibilities of fighting strategies, and your not 
 just stuck moving backwards or forwards. But some things should never change, there are two different 
 fighting genres, 3D and 2D. they should be kept the same no matter how new. 
  
  Over all it looks pretty but the visuals don't make up for the crazy controls, it just doesn't 
 feel right. The sounds of course are nice, and it is nice to see some old faces and some new ones 
 aswell. So 4/10 is a fair score. If your hardcore Guilty Gear Fan give it a shot but don't waste 
 your money on it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
