-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/guitarheroiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The best tracklist of any Guitar Hero game to date.
 Lots of master tracks from the original bands and artists.
 Online play is a fantastic addition.
 Higher difficulty level ensures experienced players won't get bored quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Higher difficulty level ensures most people's arms will fall off halfway through the expert career.
 Battle mode and boss battles aren't interesting additions.
 A heavy dose of in-game advertising.
 Some frame-rate issues .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 81 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 7,752 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: RedOctane
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero III ups the ante with more challenge and new modes, and though not all the new stuff 
 is great, the terrific tracklist and gameplay are sure to hook you in. 

  You wouldn't have been wrong to come into Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock with some sense of trepidation. 
 With original Guitar Hero developer Harmonix off the project and Tony Hawk creators Neversoft now 
 on board, it would be fair to wonder if anything that made the wildly popular rhythm game franchise 
 so awesome would be lost in the shuffle. The good news is that Guitar Hero III is Guitar Hero through 
 and through. The core gameplay that fans love hasn't changed outside of some basic tweaks, and 
 the long and varied tracklist is the best of any game in the series to date. If there are any chinks 
 in the armor of this sequel, it's that some of the newer mode additions and a few odd design decisions 
 do more to get in the way of the fun than anything else. Likewise, the extreme difficulty of some 
 of the game's more severe songs might end up turning off newer players. Those issues aside, it's 
 hard to argue with what Guitar Hero III offers from a content perspective, especially if you're 
 a longtime fan of the franchise.  

           Say hello to the return of the shred.      

  We won't spend a great deal of time trying to educate you on the ways of Guitar Hero if you've 
 never played one of these games before. The quick and dirty explanation is that you have a guitar 
 controller with five fret buttons and a strummer. Notes appear on the screen, you hit the matching 
 buttons, and rock is made. In Guitar Hero III, you'll be making the rock with one of the best soundtracks 
 to be found in any rhythm game. The soundtrack spans multiple eras and genres. Classic rock is 
 represented with songs such as Santana's "Black Magic Woman," the Rolling Stones' "Paint it Black," 
 and ZZ Top's "La Grange." Alternative rock from the '90s is present in a big way with tracks such 
 as The Smashing Pumpkins' "Cherub Rock," Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Suck My Kiss" and Pearl Jam's 
 "Evenflow" on-hand. Classic punk fans will dig being able to play the Dead Kennedys' "Holiday in 
 Cambodia," Social Distortion's "Story of My Life," and the Sex Pistols' "Anarchy in the UK." Modern 
 rock hits such as Bloc Party's "Helicopter," The Killers' "When You Were Young" and Queens of the 
 Stone Age's "3's and 7's" are also available. And for all the metalheads, you get major classics 
 such as Slayer's "Raining Blood," Iron Maiden's "Number of the Beast" and Metallica's "One." It's 
 an all-around fantastic list with only a few blemishes here and there. It's easily a much higher 
 ratio of quality over crap than what Guitar Hero II had.  

  It's worth noting the number of original tracks added into this year's game. Well over half of 
 the songs in Guitar Hero III are the original songs by the artists, as opposed to covers created 
 for the purposes of the game. A couple of bands, including the Sex Pistols and early '90s funk-metal 
 outfit Living Colour, actually went into the studio and rerecorded their songs for the game, which 
 is pretty cool. The one downside to having so many master tracks in this game is that it does make 
 the songs that are still covers stick out all the more. It doesn't help that the general quality 
 of the covers has also been downgraded a good bit since the last sequel. The woman covering Pat 
 Benatar's "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" doesn't really sound anything like the '80s songstress; 
 the version of Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" in the game features a uniformly unimpressive Ozzy Osbourne 
 impersonator; and the entire cover of "Holiday in Cambodia" has been pretty badly butchered with 
 some weird structuring changes, badly edited lyrics, and a guy who sounds more like someone trying 
 to parody Jello Biafra than anyone remotely authentic. Of course, the guitar parts in these covers 
 don't suffer much and in fact do a fine job of emulating the real-life songs. It's just the surrounding 
 pieces that rob the tracks of authenticity.  

  Of note as well is the fact that Guitar Hero II's focus on extreme shredding over simple yet memorable 
 riffs is even more intense in this sequel. The easy and medium difficulties are as good a starting 
 point as they've ever been (though even they are a smidge more difficult than previous installments) , 
 but the curve definitely takes a steep incline when you bump up to hard and expert. The jump in 
 expertise required for each setting is far greater than ever before, and at times it comes across 
 as just too much. As awesome as songs like "One" and "Raining Blood" are, they're so intense that 
 it's unlikely that anyone who didn't get all the way through expert in Guitar Hero II will have 
 a blessed clue what to do with these songs. And then there's that pesky song from extreme power 
 metal group DragonForce, "Through the Fire and Flames." It sounds a little bit like a Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons dork singing over a tape of the Contra soundtrack that's been thrown in a blender 
 and set to "liquefy," and it is so excruciatingly, arthritis-inflictingly difficult that you'll 
 be thanking your lucky stars it's a bonus song and not something you're required to complete to 
 advance. Regardless, there are enough songs that do require completion that aren't terribly far 
 behind in difficulty level that it might just be enough to scare some people off from finishing 
 expert altogether. There's an old adage along the lines of "You win more friends with accessible 
 fun than you do by breaking people's fingers with a fake guitar." Or something like that. Whatever. 
 The point is that Guitar Hero III feels decidedly geared toward the hardcore Guitar Hero fan, and 
 less for the newcomer.  

  Painful difficulty aside, the game is still lots and lots of fun. The core gameplay hasn't been 
 altered much, save for a few minor adjustments here and there. Hammer-ons and pull-offs, the techniques 
 used to hit crazy streaks of tightly packed single notes, are now easier than ever before (possibly 
 to offset some of the extreme extremeness of the harder songs) , and the notes that can be hammered 
 on or pulled off now glow brightly to signify as such. While playing, you'll notice that the game 
 also keeps track of your note streaks both with a counter and with periodic exclamatory text messages 
 on the screen that notify you when you've hit certain streak milestones. There are also some changes 
 to the way your star-power meter is displayed, as well as your score tracker, though these are 
 mostly just aesthetic changes.  

           If RedOctane were a band, Guitar Hero III would be that album that they made 'for the 
 fans.'      

  You progress through Guitar Hero III much as you would any of the previous games. The career mode 
 uses the same tiered-unlocking system as its predecessors, with encores at the end of each tier. 
 One wrinkle to this year's mode is the addition of animated cutscenes that sketch a minimal story 
 about your band's meteoric rise and eventual fall (literally) into hell. It's not much of a tale, 
 but there are a few moments of amusement here and there. One particularly interesting addition 
 to this year's game is a co-op career mode. This works much like the single-player career mode, 
 but you can play through with a friend who you can divvy up either lead or rhythm guitar/bass duties 
 with. Co-op play hasn't changed much since last year's game, but this new career progression is 
 a neat idea.  

  Unfortunately, it's a neat idea that's overly restrictive in practice. For one thing, there are 
 six songs you can unlock  only  in co-op career, which means that if you don't have a buddy with 
 a second guitar that can come over and spend an afternoon playing, you won't get those songs (at 
 least until someone eventually digs up the "unlock all songs" code for the game) . Also, no version 
 of the game ships with a co-op quick-play option. The only way to play cooperatively on a single 
 console is to play in the co-op career mode, and you have to unlock six tiers' worth of songs before 
 you unlock all the available songs. Interestingly enough, there is a launch-day patch for the Xbox 
 360 version of the game that adds a co-op quick-play option. However, if your 360 isn't connected 
 to Xbox Live, or you happen to buy any other version of the game, you're out of luck at the moment. 
     

  Elsewhere in the multiplayer arena, the face-off and pro face-off modes from the previous Guitar 
 Hero games return, and they're still generally excellent. However, the one new addition is anything 
 but. Titled battle mode, this mode replaces the star-power mechanic with Mario Kart-style weapons. 
 If you hit a specific note string, you'll gain a weapon you can launch at your opponent by tilting 
 the guitar. Weapons include broken strings, jacked-up whammy bars, amplifier overloads (which cause 
 notes to appear and disappear randomly) , and a reversal of the notes to lefty flip (and vice versa) . 
 On paper, this mode seems as if it could be amusing, but in practice it's just dumb. Most of the 
 battle-mode matches we played were over in 30 seconds or less because one player simply couldn't 
 recover quickly enough to get a weapon and fire back. It's basically a situation where whoever 
 gets a weapon first wins most of the time. Even when matches do go on for a bit longer, they aren't 
 really much fun anyway.  

           Get used to severe hand pain.      

  Battle mode actually finds its way into the career mode in the form of boss battles. Activision 
 went out and licensed a pair of notable guitar players: Guns N' Roses/Velvet Revolver legend Slash, 
 and Rage Against the Machine/Audioslave shredder Tom Morello. At the end of a couple of tiers in 
 the career mode, you go head-to-head against these guys in original guitar tracks that they themselves 
 recorded, during which time battle-mode rules apply. Nevertheless, the same balancing issue pops 
 up. Most of the boss battles can be bested pretty quickly if you get a couple of weapons in a row. 
 The last boss battle has you playing a heavy-metal cover of "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" against 
 a fairly obvious opponent, and that fight is considerably tougher than the other two, but it's 
 also the last boss of the game, so it would kind of have to be. The boss-battle mechanic just feels 
 tacked on. With only three battles out of eight tiers in the game, and only two of them against 
 real guitarists, it feels like a quickly tossed-together mechanic that, again, just isn't that 
 much fun.  

  Quite a bit more enjoyable than any battle modes or boss battles is the addition of online play 
 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of the game. Guitar Hero has never been online 
 before, and the ability to go online and take on the top axe grinders in the world is a huge bonus. 
 Online options include all the offline gameplay modes. Ranked matches let you play face-off, pro 
 face-off, and battle modes, and player matches let you do all of that plus the co-op songs. Sadly, 
 you can't do the co-op career mode online, but at least your friends can strap on a bass and play 
 online. There are some key differences between the three online versions of the game. The PlayStation 
 3 version doesn't include any manner of friends-list support, which means you can play only against 
 random players online. The Wii version lets you play both random players and friends, though the 
 friend options are limited to game-specific friend codes. The Xbox 360 version probably has the 
 greatest ease of use online, with all the standard Xbox Live accoutrements, as well as easy access 
 to downloadable songs (though, depending on your opinion of the pricing of said songs, that might 
 be a blessing or a curse) . The PS3 version should also include downloadable songs through the PlayStation 
 Network store; unfortunately, the Wii version isn't set up for any kind of content downloads. The 
 good news about all three versions is that they perform wonderfully online. Lag never got in the 
 way of the gameplay experience in any matches we played.  

  While on the subject of differences between versions, it's worth noting that each version of Guitar 
 Hero III comes with its own guitar bundle. Xbox 360 owners may not necessarily want a bundle if 
 they already own the Guitar Hero II guitar, but III comes with a new wireless guitar that features 
 a detachable neck, a much better whammy bar, better strap design, and more responsive buttons. 
 If you weren't satisfied with the GH II guitar, this is a good upgrade and potentially worth the 
 $100 asking price for the bundle. PS3 and Wii owners have never had a GH game before, so you will 
 need to buy a bundle to play with the guitar. The PS3 version costs the same as the 360 one, and 
 the guitar is functionally identical as well, save for a small dongle that has to be plugged into 
 the PS3's USB port to make the wireless action work. The Wii version costs $90, and has the most 
 unique guitar of all of the available versions, in that it features a connector for the Wii Remote. 
 The remote fits snugly into a port on the back of the guitar, and the remote essentially takes 
 over as the guitar's tilt sensor. It also does a few unique things, such as buzzing slightly when 
 you engage star power, and playing all the missed note sounds through the Wii Remote speaker. PS2 
 owners also get a bundle, though unless you really, really want a wireless guitar, there's not 
 much reason to go that route here. The new guitar's buttons aren't much better than the previous 
 PS2 guitars, and the sync process for the wireless controller is kind of clunky. It's a nice-looking 
 guitar, but it's not quite worth paying $90 for.  

  The change in developers has also resulted in a slight change in visual style in Guitar Hero III. 
 The look of all the various characters and environments has changed noticeably, and everything 
 has been given a more defined and exaggerated look. It might be slightly jarring to those accustomed 
 to the standard Guitar Hero visuals, but once you get used to it, you'll find the game to be pretty 
 sharp-looking. The guitarist characters look excellent, and even the secondary band players look 
 more detailed than ever before (though considering how dog-ugly the singer is, maybe he could have 
 stood to have a little less detail) . The PS2 and Wii versions look about on par with one another, 
 and look maybe slightly better than the last couple of PS2 Guitar Hero games. The Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 versions are considerably better-looking, even over Guitar Hero II on the 360. However, the 
 one thing that does get in the way with these versions is occasional bouts of frame-rate slowdown, 
 specifically when engaging star power while lots of notes are onscreen. This chugging is really 
 distracting and can occasionally throw you off while you're playing. Rhythm games, perhaps more 
 than any other genre, really need to not slow down, and it's disappointing that this one does. 

           These are the characters you remember, but they look a bit different now.      

  It's 
 also disappointing that Activision has finally decided to corporate up the Guitar Hero experience 
 with a fair amount of lame product placement and dynamic in-game advertising. It's one thing to 
 get branded guitars and get Guitar Center to sponsor your in-game shop -- it's quite another to 
 have several of the game's environments feature billboards that display ads dynamically, and logos 
 for Pontiac and Axe Body Spray that pop up all over the place. It even goes so far as to have Axe-sponsored 
 guitars you can buy in-game, and Axe-sponsored go-go dancers prancing about the stage while you 
 play. Gross.  

  An abundance of advertising, a few visual issues, some overly restrictive design decisions, weak 
 new modes, and a major upping of the difficulty level might seem like a lot of potential hindrances 
 for a game to overcome, and yet none of these problems are big enough to rob Guitar Hero III of 
 the same brand of addictive fun that made the previous entries in the franchise so engaging. Certainly 
 the fantastic track list goes a long way toward that end, but the gameplay is really what sells 
 it. Sure, the difficulty can be vexing, but the game never loses that sense of "just one more song" 
 addictiveness, even at the height of its challenge level. Once you start playing, you'll be hooked 
 for hours at a time, both online and off. It might ultimately just be more Guitar Hero, but that's 
 hardly a bad thing -- in fact, it's a great thing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (488 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dastour
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Three is a pretty solid game, with awesome songs that are challenging and fun at the 
 same time. The hardest Guitar Hero yet to some just beggining fans, but can also be hard for experienced 
 players too. The addition of co-op career mode make this one the best so far, but if there would 
 of been a full band set this would've been better than GH 4. GH 3 has some great characters this 
 time around but I guess that's why they called it Legends of Rock, LOL. The guitar battles in career 
 mode will put you up against Slash and Tom Morello, which are very fun especially the last one 
 where you play against a monster named Lou where you play the Devil went Down to Georgia. The game 
 itself is a battle to the end, but it's pretty short kinda of like GH1 but the song list will keep 
 you playing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassimoMoretti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is an interesting series, when you thought of video games a few years did you think 
 of dance-pads and plastic guitars? I know I didn't, well I am sure you know what guitar hero is 
 about but I will still spin the so called story. You are the guitarist of an unknown garage band 
 who tours around playing famous songs and gradually growing your popularity. It's not a great story, 
 but that's not the heart of these type of games. Actually the worst thing in the game is the segments 
 in the middle of the game after each 5 song tour. There are these weird cartoon cutscenes where 
 people don't even talk, they grunt like cavemen, and they try to tell some sort of story kind of 
 like a silent film. I don't get it!? It's not interesting and since you can change your character 
 and clothes your character is not even in these cutscenes. Oh well. The real reason people play 
 the game is for the simulation of having a controller guitar and playing rock songs. The only thing 
 I have to say about all this is, it's awesome! I come from a background of playing actual guitar 
 and I can't tell you how weird it is playing some of my favorite songs like "Paint It Black" on 
 a guitar controller with 5 colored frets. In the career option you are given 4 options Easy, Medium, 
 Hard, and Expert. I chose Hard and actually got pretty far, but went to Medium so I could complete 
 the game for the sake of this review. The gameplay is great it all works there is no problem there. 
 The only thing that sounds weird is that there are rock battles with famous guitar faces. Battles!? 
 Yeah it sounds stupid but its great fun. It's hard to explain it without it sounding stupid but 
 here I go. In the Career option every once and a while someone like "Slash" from Guns and Roses 
 will challenge you a rock battle and the battle will consist of you playing notes side by side 
 with the computer player. Eventually in the battle there will be note segments where you have to 
 hit the entire section of notes and then a command will appear which can affect the other player 
 and make it harder so they will fail. It's really easy in career but it's a lot of fun and challenging 
 in 2-player mode and XboxLIVE. Overall if I could recommend only one guitar hero game it would 
 be this one. Guitar Hero III has the best tracklist, best Bonus Characters and overall is just 
 the best. (8.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock demo, I was a bit skeptical. I only liked 
 one song in brief five-song demo (Rock You Like a Hurricane) and everything felt uncomfortably 
 different from Guitar Hero II which was what I was playing at the time. But after buying the full 
 game with a Target gift card, I fell in love with this game and is one of my favorite games of 
 all time. Unlike when I was playing the demo, everything has been improved. The setlist is perfect, 
 the small addition of a "story" actually adds more to the game than you'd think, the graphics are 
 much better, and online play is just icing on the cake. Let's start with the setlist. It covers 
 just about every genre of rock ranging from the simple riffs of Foghat's Slow Ride, to Poison's 
 Talk Dirty to Me, to the Rolling Stone's Paint it Black, to the jazzy chords of Santana's Black 
 Magic Woman, Legends has just about everything for you. And while there is a little more metal 
 this time around, it's still Guitar Hero's most balanced setlist. Career mode feels a bit better 
 this time around since in between each level, there's a cutscene showing your band rising to stardom. 
 Three times during the Career, you have a "guitar battle" with three "Legends of Rock" who include 
 Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine, Slash of Guns and Roses, and the fictional Lou (Satan) . 
 In these battles, you earn battle power instead of star power which grants you special attacks 
 against the opponent which can change the difficulty, break a string, and jumble all the notes. 
 Despite being cheap, it's still kinda fun, except when you lose when you're 99% through the song. 
 Co-op mode returns for the better since you get to unlock bonus songs for playing with a buddy. 
 Online is also new for Guitar Hero III and its nearly flawless. The only problem is that it often 
 takes too long to find an opponent only for them to quit. Some of the game's many achievements 
 are also too hard to unlock. (500 online wins? Come on!) Other than that, Guitar Hero III: Legends 
 of Rock is a nearly perfect music game that can satisfy the rock star in all of us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentom06
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I played in the gh series and I wasn't disappointed. I got it 6 months 
 ago and have been playing it pretty much none stop ever since. It's that good.
  
  Firstly it is incredibily addictive especially once you start getting to the harder difficulties. 
 You'll always be getting better and therefore always improving your high scores which just makes 
 you want to play more.
  
  I have put difficulty as "Hard" because although at the beginning it has a good difficulty curve 
 and you can pick it up after an hour or so, the transition from medium to hard and then onto the 
 later hard songs is anything but smooth. You may well find yourself stuck on a single tier, or 
 even song for weeks.
  
  One of the things that makes this game great is that you can listen to your favourite songs while 
 you play it! The problem with this is you may find the game less enjoyable if you don't like any 
 of the songs. They are mostly rock song with guitar solos (well it is GUITAR hero) so if you are 
 into rock you will love it, if not, you may not like it. Having said that I wasn't into rock music 
 at all before I got it and it introduced me to a whole new genre of music which I loved.
  
  The main exceedingly annoying thing in this game is the crappy guitar. If you plan to play longer 
 than it will take you to get to hard you may want to get the GH2 guitar instead. After that the 
 buttons start to get unresponsive when pressed, the strum bar constantly overstrums. It gets very 
 annoying when you know YOU FC'd (Full Combo, all notes hit without breaking streak) that song but 
 the guitar overstrummed half way through or it didn't register a button press.
  
  Overall this is a great game, very rewarding but if you plan on playing longer than a couple of 
 months, get the GH2 or GH: WT guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcookie44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:13 am PT
Review:  As a quick overview: I got my X360 in mid-November receiving guitar hero 3 and guitar hero aerosmith 
 one day later. Never having tried any Guitar hero game before I was pretty excited to try it out.
 
  
  Because i've heard og GH: III's extreme difficulty, I fired up GH: A first, to try it out. I skipped 
 the tutorials and just started playing Dream Police. (great song btw) I was actually quite overwhelmed 
 at how easy it was! so when the song was finished i started a medium career thinking "piece of 
 cake". It almost proved to be too hard already at that moment because there all of the sudden was 
 a blue button to press!!!
  
  So back to easy and keep playing. A couple of venues in I decided to try GH: III.
  So i changed 
 discs and played GH: III instead. And I actually almost haven't been playing GH: A since! The GH: III 
 songs are too amazing to leave and the difficulty is just right. Now that i play on expert I really 
 cant see what some people were complaining about.
  
  
  So rating the game: GH: III is an awesome game, with great songs, pretty good graphics, and a terrific 
 game play. It is surely my most-played game on the X360.
  
  All in all a great game. just too bad that i cant afford GH: WT ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: physcoboy2197
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  GH3 legends of rock was not devoloped by harmonix, no harmonix left that job to neversoft. So how 
 does neversofts first try hold... pretty good actually.
  
  GH3 has gotten a few changes since harmonix left. One of the most noticable new additions is the 
 boss battles. While these may sound cool, thay are pretty much broken. Most of the time these battles 
 end when someone gets a really good attack. Most of the time.. its all over before it starts. A 
 new addition that i personally like is the new art style. The characters have a better moveset 
 and have much more detail added to them. but even though neversoft did extensive motion capture.. the 
 character animations are still very stiff and robotic. Another noticible addition is the difficulty 
 level. When i played GH2 i easily passed and 5 starred all the songs on expert (except for jordan) . 
 But when i played gh3 i could barley make it pass the seventh teir on expert. While hardcore players 
 may like this, noobs will be turned off. The graphics are decent but they are nothing worth mentionong.
 
  
  All in all, GH3 delivers where it counts, With great music that you can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  If you have never played Guitar Hero 3 before, shame on you. For many, the common complaint is 
 the difficulty. In a sense, that is true - if you play on a difficulty that you cannot handle, 
 you will fail flat on your ass. But, if you take the time and learn to play the plastic guitar, 
 your skills will be rewarded. If you are interested in the Guitar Hero franchise, this is where 
 you should start.
  
  The music in this game is interesting. There are over 80 tracks (with free DLC) and a majority 
 of the tracks you will have heard before. There seems to be a big lean towards 70's and new music. 
 Leaving out the two decades in between, my two personal favorite decades was a big mistake. Even 
 with the lack of new wave, 80's/90's alternative, and grunge, there are only a few songs that I 
 strongly disliked (go to hell AFI) . 
  
  To answer the obvious, yes the songs in the game are tougher. Songs like Raining Blood and Through 
 the Fire and Flames will frighten beginners, but with are beatable with practice.
  
  This game features a co-op career, but it feels half-assed and cannot be completed through Xbox 
 Live. The new Xbox Live features also feel tacked on. There is a lack of a decent lobby or party 
 system. Plus, only two people can player together. The generic multiplayer is what brings this 
 game down from being perfect.
  
  Overall, the game has been made to be more playable. The game is more lenient towards when you 
 hit the notes and the hammer-ons have been made super simple. Balance this out with the heightened 
 difficulty and the game is just as hard as it was before.
  
  With the gameplay as smooth as butter, I highly recommend giving this game a try. Guitar Hero 3 
 is one of the most iconic games of our generation and one of the best games too. It should also 
 be mentioned that the achievements in this game are some of the most recognized and hardest. Experience 
 this game before the Guitar Hero franchise is totally washed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siefier25
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The past two GH's didn't really add anything new but more songs (as far as I could tell) , so with 
 GHIII they added online play.... and the ever annoying duels with famous musicians including the 
 devil.
  
  Now lets get down to the core of the game. Does it play well? Well, yes it does. The same controller 
 scheme is in place and the songs are a bit more challenging than before. The song list is actually 
 well rounded this time, especially since it has some of my favorite bands included:
  
  *Dead Kennedys
  
  *Rage Against The Machine
  
  *Poison
  
  *Muse
  
  And some others.
 
  
  Does the online work? Very well indeed. Dueling against others online is a blast, and even cooperative 
 is refreshing (especially since my roommates are better than myself and play on expert) .
  
  Now, on to the bad. Since while I'm typing this review, it would be a good idea to keep in mind 
 that I have been playing world tour. And since world tour showed that your characters can not only 
 look good graphics wise but they are customizable. They should of integrated this from the start. 
 At least with GHIII. It would be nice if they actually looked decent, like GH: WT does.
  
  Another thing that was annoying was the single player dueling stages. At first it was nice when 
 I played against Tom Morello in the beginning. However, after that, it got old. While you get into 
 a groove playing the Normal song list, the dueling stages kind of bog you down. It was a nice challenge 
 at first, but I really don't think its necessary to have it in the first place. GH II and GH: WT 
 play just fine with song lists, and encores. No need to face off with the greats. Perhaps if the 
 game utilized playing a real guitar against the greats, but otherwise it was just a waste of time.
 
  
  All and all GHIII is a good game, and the online is well done. Definitely a good buy if you do 
 not have World Tour yet or GHII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohead423
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun game. You can play as alot of freaky characters like the grim reaper and a guy from 
 the band kiss. Once you beat the game you unlock the song through the fire and flames. Its hard 
 and long. Its even hard on the difficulty easy and you can beleive that for sure. I hope you also 
 enjoy Guitar Hero 3 for the xbox360 and every thing else ok bye! =] wait not yet enjoy all the 
 awsome songs that are on it to ok so bye!!!! = {] he he mustache! bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla! fhdxsghb 
 vduilbf fgsblf gfbioldbf fhgesud goadcf gbelkudsc gyegodladucfbgwiyeuk gvoiubdyergwhu guyowhldnegoqwul 
 gykuewybvfoweul gbhsz dighosadj fuedsjvobgds fuvhgbdsujn ;lkjhgf likujyhtgfd lokiujhgfd ' ;lkjuygrf 
 ikujyhtgrfd kjuhgf ujhgfd ujhg kjhg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanktoptastic
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Only in my dreams would I ever battle Slash in a guitar solo before launching into Welcome to the 
 Jungle for an encore. Until now.
  
  Guitar Hero is brilliant. For those not tallented and practiced enough of us to be actually able 
 to make it through Mull of Kintyre, tounge lolling out to one side or not, this is as close as 
 it gets.
  
  There is a steady learning curve to lead you to your potential greatness but this does not mean 
 it's easy. Noooooooo. Cranking it sraight up to Expert is ill-advised unless you have experience 
 of other GH games. Don't let that put you off though. You'll get there if you keep at it.
  
  It looks pretty enough and there are some nice effects when you activate your lifeline by tipping 
 your guitar legend style (or hit "select") . There's stuff to unlock but to be honest you don't 
 need a reason to keep playing.
  
  What is most impressive is the tracklist. There are some trully awsome tunes to pull off through 
 the main game and more to buy at the in game store or on XBox Live Marketplace. Even songs you 
 do not like at first or are unfamilliar with soon occupy a place in your heart once you learn a 
 sweet series of hammer-ons.
  
  GH 3 features online and co-op play but be warned: If you intend to get this game book a week off 
 work unless you have the kind of job where you can sleep all day with your fingers twitching in 
 rhythm and while you mutter "one more and I'll get it" through your slumber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim1845
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Advantages: Great new wireless guitar controller and excellent soundtrack.
  Disadvantages: Battle Mode is really a game of luck and new characters aren't that great.
  When 
 Harmonix went off to go do Rock Band, the Guitar Hero franchise was handed over to Tony Hawk creators, 
 Neversoft. Guitar Hero has always stood up front as the most fun and therefore most popular party 
 game right out now. Guitar Hero is an easy thought of what to get this Christmas. Now, I know that 
 World Tour is out right now and I'm a bit late of writing about Guitar Hero's previous game and 
 I would be writing about that right now but I haven't got it. 
  
  - (Controls) -
  A couple of months after getting my Xbox 360, I wanted to get a new game, but without using the 
 standard Xbox controller and I found it. Guitar Hero uses its own controller with five different 
 colored buttons, a strum bar and a whammy bar. It's these features that make the Guitar Hero controller. 
 The Guitar Hero III controller is much different than the older GH controllers. The new GH controller 
 is in the shape of a Gibson Les Paul, so people that actually play a real guitar (like me) will recognize 
 its model.
  
  The new guitar controller has a bit more weight to it than the previous models, I think that makes 
 a huge difference to the way the player feels while playing. The strap is now longer and more easier 
 to adjust and can help you play songs easier, because if there's a much faster song, adjusting 
 the strap just above your waist will help you move your fingers quicker, because your arm isn't 
 all tangled up. 
  
  - (Gameplay) -
  When playing a song there are two different things you have to do make the song play - hold down 
 the fret buttons - strum the strum bar. There is also like the other games, Star Power. Star Power 
 is made by nailing a section of notes without messing up and doubling you score by 8x (without Star 
 Power it goes up to 4x) . Star Power helps a whole lot because when you are on a section of a song 
 that is really difficult for you and you are failing when you set of the star power it can lift 
 you up and helping stop failing. There are four different difficulties. They are easy, medium, 
 hard and expert. For GH III, there are huge changes to each of the difficulties. Easy is obviously 
 easy-peasy-lemon-squeasy and is a good place to start for the newcomer only using three of the 
 five buttons. Medium doesn't go to far ahead just using a few chords and an extra button. Hard 
 goes obviously a little hard than both of those difficulties put together using all five buttons 
 and a butt load of chords and then expert just goes over the top using everything that needs to 
 be used on the game, using five buttons, alot of chords and also the hammer-ons and pull-offs technique.
 
  
  Hammer-ons and pull-offs are when you have strummed a note and then to get to the next note you 
 don't strum but you press or "hammer-on" the next note up and then pulling-off is just the opposite. 
 Hammer-ons and pull-offs are a great new and improved feature to Guitar Hero. In the previous games, 
 GH I & II, the hammer-ons and pull-offs weren't very reactive when you went for a hammer-on, it 
 just wouldn't do it properly and would completely mess you up while in the middle of a super fast 
 solo. They have really tried their best to fix that problem and they really have.
  
  The background band that you have had on the previous GH games have improved on their appearances 
 but not on their stage presence, if you know what I mean. The band really don't move all that much, 
 not that you would be really looking at them while your trying to play the game, but nonetheless 
 they really haven't improved all that much.
  
  In the career mode, you are basically doing the same old stuff you have done in the previous GH 
 games. You tour the world, make money and buy extra stuff from the store, like, bonus songs, guitars, 
 characters etc. But what they have done to this career mode, is that they have tried to put as 
 much of a story as possible into it.
  
  They have added these cut-scenes that last about 20-30 seconds. The characters included in the 
 cut-scenes don't speak a word of English, actually they don't speak a word of any known language. 
 They basically talk like Sims. I think its cool that they have tried to add something more than 
 just, play 5 songs jump to the next level (gig) . 
  
  They have added another mode which is played in all career difficulties, multiplayer and online. 
 Battles (in career - Boss Guitar Battles) . Battles are where its you and 1 of the 3 guitar celebrities 
 battle out to see who is the best of the best. You throw things at each other called power-ups. 
 These power-ups can either shake your highway make you break a string (a button) or can make your 
 screen turn to lefty flip. Its an interesting idea, but in my opinion, it's really a game of luck. 
 On the last guitar battle of the game when you are against the devil (Lou) on expert, there can be 
 a section where it will just be a really fast row of greens coming at him, I throw him an amp overload (shake 
 his highway up) but because its the same button over and over coming at him it doesn't mess him 
 up the slightest but when I'm in the same situation I can't do exactly what he did and he's the 
 one who wins.
  
  - (Multiplayer) -
  Guitar Hero is a great game for multiplayer, fact. Guitar Hero is more fun when playing with another 
 person, be it local or online. There is co-op career where one of you will play guitar and the 
 other will play bass or you will play lead and the other will play rhythm. It's a really cool mode 
 but cannot be played online which is shame.
  
  The multiplayer modes are the same as GH I & II, you have face-off and pro face-off where both 
 players play head-to-head and see who has the most points. Only with face-off you can both play 
 on separate difficulties, but on pro face-off you both have to play on the same difficulty. A new 
 mode that has been brought to Guitar Hero III is co-op you can now do quickplays on co-op, but 
 its cool because as you are working together on a song, the Star Power is shared between you, so 
 when one of you wants to set off the Star Power, you both have to lift your guitars at the same 
 time.
  
  This is the first Guitar Hero game with online play and it is really fun to play when online. You 
 have four different modes to play when online, but they are the same modes locally. You have face-off, 
 pro face-off, battle and co-op. It's a shame that there's not something like an exclusive mode 
 for online or something like that. Online is really for when you want to play multiplayer but you 
 don't have someone to play with at that time. You also have player match and ranked match. Ranked 
 match is when your game is monitored and your game will be taken to the leaderboards. Half the 
 time you will find yourself just trying to get the highest on the leaderboard as you can, but you 
 will find that people are really good at this game and it will be really hard to get to the top, 
 so you just give up in the end.
  
  - (Sound) -
  The soundtrack for Guitar Hero III is the best so far. The best thing about it for me is that it 
 is just pure rock and metal. That may not appeal to must players, but it was a big thing for me, 
 nonetheless. Obviously you have the downloadable songs. There are, to my surprise, quite alot of 
 free tracks, I think you can get about seven tracks for free (trust me, that's good if its free) . 
 The greatest track pack for download is Metallica's Death Magnetic. It has great songs and its 
 also the entire album. I don't know how much it is MS Points, but it's 11.99 (I'm not entirely 
 sure on that I'm just guessing) .
  
  - (Famous Last Words) -
  On the hole, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is by far the best in the series yet. I know alot 
 of the fans will enjoy and say exactly what I said.
  
  Thanks for reading. Jim1845
  Summary: Best in the series so far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockertom94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The game itself is a brilliant buy but it become solid if you get to the expert carter mode. The 
 gamer score you get is about average and is worth the money if you already have a guitar, or you 
 could buy Guitar Hero World Tour. If you buy it ignore easy or you will become too use to using 
 3 buttons and wont be able to play hard or expert (trust me I Know) . The guitar is much better 
 then the guitar hero 2 guitar mainly because it is wireless.
  But to finish buy the game if you want some quick kicks but it can get quite expensive.
  So remember 
 my name i could get 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 has often been considered one of the best rhythm games of all time, and for obvious 
 reasons. Developer Harmonix created an extremely fun game that anyone can enjoy. After that... 
 IT happened. The split. Harmonix and Red Octane left each other. Red Octane had to find a new partner 
 and crime and Neversoft seemed to be a great choice. It may have been the best choice they had, 
 but it's clear who the rock rhythm game winner is.
  
  The game is certainly not bad. The soundtrack is very impressive with a wide range of different 
 genres for everyone. Everything from Pat Benatar (well a cover of her) to Slipknot is featured 
 in this game. There's also a good amount of songs. 73 songs are featured in this game. Not all 
 are terrific, but there sure are a lot.
  
  A good addition is multiplayer. This is the only good change the game makes though. Co-op is great 
 fun along with certain battle modes. The multiplayer certainly won't consume you like most games, 
 but it's a good addition.
  
  The games flaws are pretty evident. The lame story the game tries to tell is ridiculous. It tries 
 so hard to be funny, but it's pretty lame. The cutscenes distracted me from my overall rocking!
 
  
  Another issue is the games difficulty. The game can get pretty tough. New players to the franchise 
 may want to grab a copy of GH2 before jumping into this. If you can beat GH2 on expert, good for 
 you, you'll still need a LOT of work to master GH3.
  
  Other flaws like boss battles, lack of online co-op career, and iffy graphics prevent the game 
 to matching up to GH2 or.. of course Rock Band, but it's a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This game, is put simply, the definition of addictive. After only briefly playing Guitar Hero 2 
 (PS2) at a friends house, I immediately wanted to go out and purchase a copy of Guitar Hero III: 
 Legends of Rock for the Wii. Although I spent most of my time playing the Wii version, I have invested 
 a few hours into the 360 version, which is by all means superior.
  
  My first impressions of the game were a little over the place. It was fun, but I didn't imagine 
 how quickly I would become addicted to it. Starting off in easy and getting my first glimpse of 
 the set list, I was, at the time, a little disappointed by the initial few songs thrown my way 
 - but after moving up to medium and playing into the second section of songs, my opinion quickly 
 changed.
  
  The games graphics are extremely impressive considering most of the time you'll be staring at your 
 fretboard. Although the animations of the crowd and drummer are still quite laughable after moving 
 from the Wii version, the graphics themself were greatly improved in every aspect - and the special 
 effects alongside Starpower were quite nice.
  
  By now, most of you will understand how the game works, and for those of you who don't - here's 
 a quick briefing. You use a plastic guitar connected to your console to hit a combination of buttons 
 the game throws at you synchronised to music. It's a simple as that. There are a few things that 
 mix gameplay up, such as the use of the whammy bar to gain starpower on specific notes, Guitar 
 Battles against some "Legends of Rock" (Tom Morello, Slash and... The Devil?) and a few slightly 
 altered multi-player game modes, but for the most part that's it.
  
  Sounds too simple to be fun, right? Wrong! The simplistic nature of Guitar Hero is addicting from 
 virtually the beginning. Although less outgoing people may find it hard to get into, once you do, 
 it's a blast to play - at parties or simply to pass time. This isn't a game for everyone, but most 
 should be able to enjoy and appreciate it.
  
  The game does have quite a challenging difficulty level though. Getting used to the fourth (blue) 
 and fifth (orange) frets can take some serious time, but once you do, you'll be having even more 
 fun rediscovering the setlist in more advanced difficulties.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock has over 80 songs to pick from, a massive step-up from Guitar 
 Hero 2. Most of the songs are great, but some covers aren't quite as good as they could have been 
 - but most people won't even notice these. It is also compatible with the Guitar Hero 2 controller, 
 so owners of GH2 will find them getting even more value at a smaller price with Guitar Hero III.
 
  
  The Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero III also has a small amount of DLC available, a chunk of which 
 is free. So users with online access will find just a little bit more to be had here.
  
  Overall this is one hell of an addicting party game. Welcome addition to most gamers collections.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 9
  Replay Value: 10
  Overall: 8.5
  
  An improvement over the Wii version, but not drastically enough to justify a major change in score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the first attempt at being at trying to reinvent the series. After Harmonix, 
 the developers of the first two Guitar Heroes, left their publisher and joined with EA and MTV 
 Games, Activision put Neversoft, the company famed for the Tony Hawk series, on Guitar Hero, and 
 while Guitar Hero III is a far superior game to II, the series has become the one thing we never 
 thought it could-stale.
  
  At this point in time, I don't really need to go into great deal into how the gameplay in Guitar 
 Hero works. You have a plastic guitar, with five coloured buttons on the neck and a little plastic 
 strum bar lower down in order to strum. Coloured circles come pouring down the screen, and you 
 have to hit the respective button in time. In Guitar Hero III, there are a few subtle differences 
 however to how the game played in previous iterations. For instance, the timing is a little bit 
 fairer this time around, so you don't have to be dead on all the time now, which opens up the game's 
 lower difficulty levels to more casual players. Secondly, in the later levels of difficulty at 
 least, the game is incredibly difficult, easily becoming the most difficult in the series to date. 
 I like to consider myself a quite good Guitar Hero player, but the last couple of tiers of songs 
 are ridiculous on Hard, and I just simply can't do them. The later songs also rely heavily on extreme 
 hammer ons and pull offs, and just aren't really much fun for those who aren't the most hardcore 
 of the hardcore Guitar Hero players.
  
  Also, there are some songs which simply do not work well for Guitar Hero. While Kool Thing, Welcome 
 to the Jungle and Even Flow are fantastic songs in their own right, they have long single notes, 
 which go on for ages in some cases, and this is one of the few areas in which Guitar Hero III falls 
 apart. The song list does look as if it's just been slapped together, regardless of gameplay quality. 
 Add to that the fact that most of the other good songs can be found in the far superior Rock Band, 
 with far better note charts to boot, and you have a setlist that feels a little rickety.
  
  One way in which Guitar Hero III does however improve upon the previous game is on its presentation. 
 While the previous 360 game looked like a gussied PS2 game, this looks like a proper 360 game. 
 The stage shows look absolutely marvellous, and the animations and lip-syncing have been tightened 
 up considerably. There is however one thing about the presentation that really stings, and that's 
 the re-designed characters and mixed up character line-up. Clive Winston has been taken out, and 
 Pandora and Judy Nails have been absolutely butchered, and a J-pop rocker has been put in. All 
 of the characters are pointless once you unlock Slash, as the inclusion of such a huge rock legend 
 undermines a lot of Guitar Hero's style and character.
  
  While it is far easier to get into for new players, Guitar Hero III is far more difficult than 
 previous iterations, so much so, that you'll just give up, and the limited selection of music compared 
 to Rock Band means that while there are some great songs in GHIII, they are not the sort that will 
 slowly grow on you, demanding multiple replays. You'll either hate the songs at this point or love 
 them.
  
  Closing comments: Guitar Hero is starting to feel archaic, and with Rock Band out, even more so. 
 Guitar Hero has become stale at this point, as after three games, nothing has changed, and while 
 it can't drastically for the sake of player continuity, Rock Band's new instruments and myriad 
 of other fantastic features means that Guitar Hero really needs to step things up a bit and do 
 something to stop it from going completely stone cold.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  When I say this game feels like an arcade game, I mean that it lacks any form of a campaign or 
 story type mode, but it still has a weird sense of maintaining it's enjoyment through the simple 
 fact that it's fun to demolish your friends at Guitar Hero.
  
  Ever since Guitar Hero 1 I have been loving this game and beating every song on expert and 5 starring 
 it. I even managed to beat Jordan on expert on Guitar Hero 2 and 5 starred almost the entire game. 
 Then it comes to Guitar Hero 3 where they add notes for the sake of making the game more difficult, 
 and still I was able to 5 star every song except for Raining Blood and Through the Fire and Flames. 
 Now mind you, I was able to beat TtFaF after a grueling 2 hours standing infront of my TV and almost 
 smashing my guitar to pieces, but I did it. I'm sure there are a lot of people that were able to 
 beat it their first, or maybe second try due to the surprising opening riff. I must say though 
 that this is the version of Guitar Hero best suited for an arcade with a big stage type setup for 
 people to go up against eachother and show who's the best, just like DDR.
  
  Now I am aware that Guitar Freaks came first, the extremely crappy guitar game made by Konami that 
 never made it into MY home, but let's be honest, the Guitar Hero series did a much better job at 
 becoming popular mainly by the fact that it had a wide range of difficulties and a great range 
 of different music. Guitar Freaks only had 3 fret buttons that were square in shape and the guitar 
 controller was so out of proportion that the body seemed massive. Not exactly sure what kind of 
 'rock star' wants to use a completely unrealistic looking guitar controller. 
  
  Unfortunately there isn't much to say about this game because I already said it, this is the perfect 
 arcade game and nothing else. The battle mode in all honesty sucks and so does face-off mode. The 
 only good mode in this game for online play is Pro Face-off because there is a completely equal 
 chance to hit the same notes and combos and star power sequences. 
  
  Definitely deserves the 8.5 for the amazing final tier of this game with a couple of my favourite 
 songs, and a bunch of fun downloadable songs that had me playing the game for a little bit longer 
 before finally selling it. The only downfall in relation to songs was the fact that there were 
 about 6 that were only accessible via co-op, and I don't have any siblings who play video games 
 to play co-op with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Out of the three games I own (so far) in this Series this is by far the BEST one. I was really happy 
 that I spent the money on getting the XBOX 360 and getting this game to play on it first. All three 
 of my kids play both single player and co-op and also multi that we actually fight about who's 
 turn it is to play. I have a LIVE account and have met and made some interesting friends/people. 
 One guy is in Italy and doesn't speak English, It makes for a great keystone cop moment. I am thrilled 
 that there are so many choices in outfits, guitars, characters and of course the SONGS! Downloads 
 alone make up my biggest play list to date. I still can't beat the whole game on Easy mode yet, 
 can't get past the ending with Number of the Beast and Raining Blood. Those are the only two I 
 haven't gotten 100% on, YET! I have upgraded to Medium and am trying to play Metallica's New songs (Awesome 
 addition by the way.... so worth the points to get!) That my son laughs at me, doesn't matter though 
 It's so much fun just to TRY! I am 5 notes away from finally getting Through the Fire and the Flames 
 perfect on Easy mode. That is my current quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Well yes and no. There are a lot of the core elements from the first two (or three) Guitar Hero 
 games here that have been passed on to III. But I feel that it falls short of being great much 
 less being ground breaking. Much like Tony Hawk Pro Skater and Madden NFL before it, it is becoming 
 expected that another Guitar Hero will be churned out every year. With little change in game play 
 and even less in innovation, the waters are soon going to become stagnant for this series. Particularly 
 with the upstart Rock Band coming. 
  
  Guitar Hero III boasts a pretty good line up of songs, most of which are the original recordings, 
 and the covers are so good it's hard to tell the difference. I don't feel that the songs have the 
 versatility that the prior Guitar Hero games have had. Infact compared to the first and second 
 games, I feel this one is lacking something in the line up department. The background sounds are 
 still good, the crowd cheers and boos with the best of them. Missed notes sound different but that's 
 ok. It's still a grating sound. 
  
  While the 360's graphics are much better then that of the PS2 or Wii version, I feel that the graphics 
 actually got worse then they were before. The animation is stiffer and less detailed, but there 
 is still a lot of good color usage. The controls are almost exactly the same. They are a bit more 
 responsive, including the star power. The main issue I have with the new contoller is that the 
 buttons stop working after a while of wear and tear. Apparently this is a development flaw that 
 Activision has posted. I would recommend going with the exploder while playing this game. Another 
 issue is that Rock Band guitars (which I personally like more) don't work with Guitar Hero either. 
 
  
  There is more multi player modes, head to head, cooperative, and an attack mode. This is also found 
 in the "boss" battles which I feel takes away from the game. Guitar Hero was originally about playing 
 together, now it's taken a more aggressive approach. After a certain sequence of notes you are 
 granted a power and you "attack" by using the same motion as Star Power. This can make boss battles 
 particularly stressful. On line game play is smooth, easily accessable, but if you don't know your 
 stuff you will get trashed. 
  
  Another grip is that GHIII is much harder the the prior 3 games. Medium while doesn't include the 
 orange button, moves at a hard pace. Easy moves at a medium pace but only includes 3 buttons. Hard 
 is very difficult and nothing really prepares you for it accept for trial and error. 
  
  There are the usual unlockables in GHIII. More songs, more guitars, more skins, more imaginary 
 characters, the only thing added is that true rockers have been added as unlockable. You must beat 
 them in career mode to spend points to unlock them. These rockers even added their own motion capture 
 to the game. 
  
  Guitar Hero III doesn't really add much to the series. It's more of a safe update as they switched 
 developers. There isn't as much to download compared to Rock Band. In fact if you compare the two, 
 Rock Band really stands out while Guitar Hero is "so last generation". Its a good addition to the 
 Guitar Hero fan's collection and difficult to pick up for beginers partiuarly since the difficulty 
 is so high and issues with the new controller. One can only hope that GH4 will step it up a notch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be in a band? Have you ever caught yourself strumming an air guitar? Do 
 you want to play a guitar but think that it's to hard? Well then Guitar Hero 3 is a great game 
 for you! I got this game just recently and found it really hard to put down. When I got it, I didn't 
 really know what it was like because I never played the other two but this game is great.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has over seventy different songs that you can jam to and they all have a different 
 difficulty. Some are incredibly easy for beginners and some are extremely hard for the experts. 
 Whether you're good or bad, you can still enjoy this game. I thought that most of the songs were 
 great and you probably will too. There's some old songs that are from around the 80's and some 
 newer songs from 2006. There's a wide variety of songs and some are in different languages. Most 
 songs are catchy and I can often find myself singing one. There are some songs that I dislike but 
 the majority I like.
  Game Play/Songs: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to talk about is the storyline. This game mainly is about playing 
 your guitar but there is a career mode. In it, you basically just play through the songs on any 
 difficulty: Easy, Medium, Hard, or Expert. When you unlock a section in career mode, you unlock 
 it in quick play. In career mode, you earn money for playing songs and you can use this money to 
 buy things such as characters, songs, guitars, and many more things! Also, throughout career mode, 
 you can face bosses in intense battles on certain songs. When facing them, you play in battle mode 
 where you need to use items to mess them up.
  Storyline: 9/10
  
  Next, I'd like to cover graphics. This game doesn't really require such superb graphics and I haven't 
 really played the other versions so I can't compare. I believe that the graphics are pretty good 
 though. You can see the fretboard and everything has enough pixels.
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The sound is great too. Earlier on, when this game was first released, the only sound option was 
 mono but now they have fixed it and everything is fine. You can hear all the songs and there aren't 
 really any flaws with it. There are some sound effects in appropriate places too. In Guitar Hero, 
 if you don't hit the notes, you won't hear that sound in the song so it makes it more realistic. 
 You actually have to play or you won't hear the notes in the actual song. Also, if you use the 
 whammy bar on long notes, you can add your own personal style to the song by changing the notes 
 slightly.
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The controls are what you would expect. There are 5 fret buttons, 1 strum bar, and the whammy bar. 
 You need to push the fret buttons when you see the correct notes on the screen and you must strum 
 as well. This makes it more realistic. You can use the whammy bar to add your own style into the 
 song. To turn on star power (an effect to get you more points) , you must tilt the guitar up. This 
 gives more of a "rock star" feeling contributing to the point of the game.
  Controls: 10/10
  
  So overall, I think that this is a great game and I'd definitely get it 
 if I were you. if I got this game as a gift, I'd definitely keep it. This game may be hard to find 
 but it's definitely worth the searching. If you have the other versions, or have always wanted 
 to play a guitar, I'm sure that this is the game for you.
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndyTonza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  First, hard to learn. I had never played the game and i bought it a year ago. And now i can play 
 them all in any difficulty and i`m proud of that. Very good songs in the game and lots of DLC (Downloadable 
 Content) kinda hard achievements like: Guitar Hero = 5 star all songs on expert, Big `Ol pile of 
 wins = 500 online wins and those are just examples, the graphs are great and tne new cheat idea 
 is good so you don`t have to play the hyperspeed code every time you start the game cause it`s 
 already in the cheat-list after you have played it in there one time and you can just activate/deactivate 
 it with a single click of a button. And then there is some other bad sides than just it is hard 
 to learn, online play is sometimes kinda slow and once i was playing it on coop online and we used 
 star power the blue color what comes from it never ended but the multiplier was still 4x and that 
 is just an example there is some more tech problems but I just don`t feel like writing anymore. 
 Still the best musical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Those not willing to drop 200 dollars on Rock Band, or anyone who thinks they're a Guitar Hero 
 expert should consider this game a definite buy. Even those new to the music genre will probably 
 enjoy this game more than the previous entries in the series.
  
  Guitar Hero has the same concept and career mode as it always has. The core gameplay is still there, 
 which is expected. Aside from the few minor changes like animated cutscenes transitioning you from 
 one venue to the next, revamped visuals, and new characters, guitars, and finishes, it's essentially 
 the same game.
  
  Newcomers can rest easy since the easy difficulty is pretty forgiving, allowing for people to start 
 out the game without getting frustrated.
  
  There is one thing in Guitar Hero III that will stand out above Rock Band and its predecessors. 
 And that thing is its difficulty. Previous entries in the Guitar Hero series have maintained a 
 good balance in difficulty. The songs got more challenging without becoming overwhelmingly difficult. 
 In Guitar Hero III, that isn't so.
  
  The songs are all divided into 8 tiers, each with their own venue. The eighth and final tier is 
 where most players hit a wall, causing even the most talented GH players to get stuck. This balancing 
 issue as far as difficulty goes will cause some experienced players to back down a difficulty level 
 or so, just to be able to complete the career. Although Hard and Expert players may hit a wall, 
 this huge slant in difficulty is also the perfect challenge for people who think they're good at 
 Guitar Hero.
  
  Guitar Hero III is a great addition to the series, and with its new battle and co-op career modes, 
 its a great step forward. Although there isn't much customization involved, the wealth of content 
 can keep most players going. The difficulty can get a little overwhelming, even if you're an expert 
 player, but that doesn't mean that the practice mode won't help you with that.
  
  Gameplay: 8.3
  Sound: 8.5
  Graphics: 8.2
  Replay Value: 8.6
  
  Final Score: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerealkiller8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 does not change the gameplay in any way, but instead adds a whole lot of new songs, 
 a game mode, characters, online play, and a new coat of graphics. Veterans of GH will find that 
 GH3 is much harder than it's two predecessors. While this may be just a bigger challenge for veterans 
 of GH, it may cause frustration for newcomers. 
  
  As you may have heard, the GH3 package comes with a new sleek black Les Paul guitar controller, 
 with wireless capabilities and a detachable fret board. Its slightly smaller and heavier than the 
 others, and some players may still prefer the old X-Plorer controller instead. I have also bumped 
 into some problems with the new guitar, such as fret notes not being fingered on the screen. Its 
 tough to push in the fret board in securely, and it falls out sometimes, making it hard to play 
 with. 
  
  One of the biggest additions to GH3 is a new game mode called Battle. Basically, its kinda like 
 Pro-Face off, but instead of star power you get battle power. If you hit all the notes in the sequence, 
 you will get a weapon. You use it like star power; tilting your guitar up. There are several weapons 
 including lefty flip (the harshest and hardest to get through, even for seasoned GH players) and 
 amp-overload (the notes on your opponents screen become sketchy, making it difficult for them to 
 play it) . There are a lot more, but the point of it is to make your opponents rock meter go all 
 the way down to fail. Most of the time it depends on luck, hoping you will get a good power up 
 or that your opponent doesn't. 
  
  Guitar Hero 3 also has boss battles, which is where you go against rock legends in battle mode. 
 There are 3 battles you go through in career mode, including one final boss battle.... These battles 
 tend to get extremely difficult on higher difficulty levels, as the bosses almost NEVER miss a 
 SINGLE note unless you throw weapons at them. 
  
  Besides all that, not much is that new in GH3 besides an improved tracklist, some new characters, 
 and a newer challenge for players. That isn't necessarily a bad thing, because GH3 is a still fun 
 game, and the ability to challenge other players online is a great addition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackMrOrange
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  A very fun game for people who can't play a guitar (like me) , and still fun for those who can.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best, but who cares? You focus much more on the note charts anyway.
  
  Sound:
  A 
 diverse range of music from Foghat to Slayer, and a multitude of set songs and others you can download, 
 the audio in this game is great.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game mechanics (hammer-ons and pull-offs, ect.) have been greatly improved from GH2, making 
 it easier to play the game. There are plenty of songs to play, getting harder as you go.
  
  Buy or Rent:
  If you rent you don't get the guitar. So buy. NOW.
  
  If you can't play a guitar, 
 this game offers enjoyment similar to the guitar experience. (similar being the operative word, 
 a real guitar feels better.)
  
  NOTE: Playing guitar hero doesn't teach you to play a real guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 was a great game, don't get me wrong, though there were many things that I think 
 should have been included or put in to make it better, and other things like that. The Game has 
 3 things i care about. Music, Guitar, and the difficulty of games, and im going to explain all 
 of them down below and rate them.
  
  Music: The Set list wasn't amazing to me, and other would agree with me and other wouldn't. Some 
 songs i really liked but others would be some I would say like "why would they ever put this in 
 there?". What I found also annoying was that the guitar battles weren't very good to me, and they 
 was fewer then i hoped when i got it. Whats good about the Xbox 360 version is that you get Free 
 DLC for some songs like Dream On and The packs that you can buy on xbox. Overall I would give the 
 music a 7/10
  
  The Guitar: I cannot believe how much they made this game more playable with the new black guitar 
 they have made for this. The white guitar still works, but its not as good with whammy and pull 
 offs and stuff like that. But the black guitar changes all of that. This isn't about guitar but 
 the game makes pulls offs and ons so much easier in this game, it makes the solos of songs so much 
 easier to do. The black guitars whammy is better, the clicker dosent make as much noise, the buttons 
 are easier to play on and easier to tap and they look cooler. I give the guitar of guitar hero 
 3 a 9/10
  
  The Difficulty: I have beaten every Guitar Hero and Rock Band there is out right now on expert, 
 but im judging this on how hard it would be to other players. I find most of them 100% gold stars 
 until you get around the 7th and 8th play list where they star getting pretty tricky. Like the 
 song One, the beginning part of the solo like cant be beat from me without star power, but the 
 rest is easy, but that would be pretty hard to casual gamers. And few people on my friends list 
 have beaten Through the Fire and Flames. Songs like those are very hard, but are passable. The 
 Difficulty would probaly be (from 1 to bad (and easy) and 10 to very hard (and good) a 8 out of 
 10
  
  The graphics are better and the playablity is slighty better, but there isnt much to talk about 
 that. So if you add all the three main ones up, you get around a 8 and a Half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack90attack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in areas of it and haves a lot of plus's from Guitar Hero II.
  
  The Goodies and Badies of the game are:
  
  Goodies:
  
  -The guitar fret is now more up 
 to the middle screen, so now you can see the notes comeing even before and even more clearly
  -The battle between two players is very cool
  -The graphics of the game has more color to it 
 (play GH2 then GH3 and you'll see the diffrence)
  
  Badies:
  
  -The diffuctlly of the game sometimes gets to much hard, timing of the notes are uneven and mess's 
 you up even if you think your a pro at it
  -The battle haves a twist to it sometimes, when it reachs to a death match some times when both 
 strike at same time and the person who doesn't het mistakes is actually loosing?!?! this is got 
 to be a error in the game (I have had all my friends to check if I do any mistakes but i didn't 
 even do a signal mistake Wierd?? )
  -Most songs are not that Hip and Cool as guitar hero II did most of them are Oldies and are not 
 easy to the ear!
  
  My verdict:
  Needs more better songs, improvment of the games gameplay, more realstic characters! 
  
  If 
 you loved! Guitar hero II you should give a try at first, and don't think it is easy at first
 
  The more you go into the game the more it will get harder!!
  
  And don't buy a new guitar controller the GH2 contoller well do just fine :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a music simulation game, This is the first time that Neversoft have made a Guitar 
 Hero game since Harmonix passed the game over to Neversoft whilst Harmonix made Rock band. Now, 
 Neversoft have been making classic Tony Hawk games for several years, and a lot has changed in 
 appearance, sound but not in gameplay. You still get 5 coloured frets and a Strum bar.
  
  Firstly, I want to go through pro's and con's.
  
  Pro's:
  
  Well, its a entertaining game. 
 It might seem like "ugh, You only hit 5 buttons" but it does actually keep entertained for a while, 
 That is until you get stuck on a song. The online play (Xbox Live) is good because you can see 
 you're friends high scores and also play private matches with friends, Or ranked with random people.
 
  
  Con's:
  
  The light fades away once you start to get stuck on a song. On easy and Medium you can play 3 out 
 of 4 songs to advance further in the game, But on Hard and Expert you have to play all 4 which 
 means if you are stuck on a song, Tough, you have to play.
  
  The difficulty could have been set out a lot better, When I first played I even had trouble getting 
 through Medium. Like I said, this game is bad for starting Guitar hero on. If you get stuck then....... practice 
 over and over again.
  
  
  
  One thing I do not like about the game at all is:
  The Controller. Its horrible. Its the most unresponsive controller I have ever used in my life. 
 I have never once broke a controller, all my PS2 ones have lasted since 2002, But this thing died 
 in 2 weeks. The tilt censer is annoying too, It deploys when it wants to which can really be annoying.
 
  
  
  Overall: Great game, Just avoid the controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr618
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  On the list of extremely addicting games that really piss me off, guitar hero ranks number 2 (CoD4 
 is #1) . This is probably the most addicting game you will ever play.
  
  Graphics 6/10: The graphics aren't all that bad but they are far from great. Of course in a game 
 like this graphics barely matter. Though I must mention some interface changes from Gh2 makes this 
 one the easiest to play of the series (They made the charts impossible to balance it out) .
  
  Sound 9/10: The music in this game is the best ever. There are very few songs in this game 
 that aren't amazing. Unfortunately, it doesn't get a 10 because I couldn't recreate the sound effect 
 you get when you miss-strum on my real guitar.
  
  Gameplay 9.8/10: I hate gameplay, but not for the reason your thinking. Gameplay can make a ***** 
 boring game extremely addicting. This game is extremely fun to play and will have you addicted 
 within minutes of when you start playing it. If a friend of yours offers you a chance to play saying 
 something like, "It'll be fun" JUST SAY NO. Before you know it, your addicting and you just have 
 buy one for yourself. Drug dealers use these methods to get people addicted to drugs...
  
  Level Design 4/10: The levels in the background are just ugly. It looks like they tossed the crap 
 together last minute. There are actually 2-Dimensional figures in the level. As far as chart design 
 goes the charts are almost ALL wrong or off-sync during some part of the song. They will make you 
 play syth parts just to make the song more difficult (Perhaps you've seen the intro to TTFAF, that's 
 not played on a guitar) . You can really see the errors in the charts when you enter practice mode, 
 which by the way is absolute **** (You can play at either 100% speed, 50% speed, 25% speed, or 
 about 12% speed, all of which are useless for practicing. The only speed that could possible be 
 helpful for practice would be around 75%. You can get close to that in rock band, but not in GH. 
 Also there is no way to learn new tricks, imagine you have been given a guitar and order to practice 
 TTFAF, no matter how long you practice, you won't be able to play it, not without help at least) . 
 When it goes slow you see just how off-sync the charts get at times and it is infuriating to know 
 that even though you might be playing it right, the game thinks you are playing it wrong.
  
  Control 8/10: HOPO's are much easier in this game thus making it much easier to play. Unfortunately 
 there is no way to play the game for a few hours without crippling your hand.
  
  Overall guitar hero is a fun game that will leave you crippled and depressed (from failing) for 
 years to come. Or at least until the next game comes out. I honestly recommend you buy it. BTW 
 don't buy it for PS2 or WII cuz they don't have DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that running around your living room/bedroom with a plastic guitar would 
 be so popular? Well, not RedOctane and Harmonix when they made the first Guitar Hero game on the 
 PS2. But the game gained a massive following of fans, and it kept the old warhorse of a console 
 going strong through the next-gen domination of our beloved 360.
  
  Then a year later in 2006, they made a sequel for the PS2. This attracted the attention of 360 
 owners, who like me, desperately wanted the game to hit the next-gen. 5 months later, they listened 
 to our voices and made it!
  
  Then, 7 months later, they released Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock. It easily became the highest 
 selling game in the series, thanks to it appearing on all consoles (even the PC and Mac) . And now, 
 at long last, I finally get around to reviewing it! Usually, every game has a point to it. This 
 one doesn't really have a point to it. You just arse about the room, rocking out to classic tracks. 
 Well, in this version, there aren't as many classic tracks. It's more orientated around this decade. 
 The proof? Out of all the songs when they were first released (not counting the boss songs) , 2 
 of them come from the 1960s, 12 come from the 1970s, another 12 come from the 1980s, 11 come from 
 the 1990s, and 32 come from this decade.
  
  Like Guitar Hero II, most of the 2000s songs appear in the bonus section. But in Guitar Hero II, 
 I didn't really care, because the bands were good. They were mainly Harmonix bands, and if anyone 
 here has played a Harmonix game before (Frequency, Amplitude, etc.) , you'll agree with me, that 
 they've got talent. Unfortunately, Harmonix aren't involved at all with this version, because after 
 Guitar Hero II hit the 360, Activision bought RedOctane, and Harmonix got bought by MTV, so the 
 deadly duo had to part ways. This has sadly affected the bonus section in Guitar Hero III. But 
 fortunately, because RedOctane got bought by Activision, they have more money this time, so they 
 can get mainstream bands! So, in a way, it's a catch 22.
  
  Unfortunately, the extra money, and the likes of Lacuna Coil, Killswitch Engage, and the Kaiser 
 Chiefs didn't help the bonus section too much. Without the likes of Freezepop, Bang Camaro, and 
 Count Zero, you won't be wanting to push the blue fret on the songs menu too often. There are a 
 couple of good songs, though. "Avalancha" by Hroes del Silencio is a good classic to play. "My 
 Curse" by Killswitch Engage is a great song to listen to, but it's a bit of a git to play. "Nothing 
 for Me Here" by Dope is pretty catchy, and I like playing it, because of the chorus riff. The other 
 good addition to the section is "Through the Fire and Flames" by DragonForce.
  
  Now, if you've ever read Guitar Hero wishlists online on forums, you'll see that most of them contain 
 this DragonForce song. If you've ever heard the song before, you'll think that they're insane to 
 ask for that to appear in the game, because it's almost impossible to play. Yes, you're right, 
 but they did it anyway. This song has been labeled "the hardest song in the entire series", but 
 let me tell you that it isn't. That title still belongs to Buckethead's "Jordan" from Guitar Hero 
 II. Yes, "TtFaF" is nearly twice as long as "Jordan", and the solos are hard, but the "Jordan" 
 solos are even harder. If you want to play "Jordan" in real life, you have to be able to play 14 
 notes a second! In Guitar Hero, it's probably cut down to 6-8 notes a second. I don't know what 
 it is, but I don't wanna know!
  
  The simple point I'm trying to make here is that "Through the Fire and Flames" is harder to play 
 in Guitar Hero than "Jordan". I've done "TtFaF" about 10 times, I think, and I've only done "Jordan" 
 3 times. There's your proof.
  
  Now, you may not feel like pressing the blue fret to play the bonus songs, but I think you'll definately 
 want to press the orange fret to access the downloadable content.
  
  Now, compared to their rival game, Rock Band, the content is miniscule, but it's still good, especially 
 since you can get 5 tracks for free straight away!
  
  By popular demand, you can play the boss battles you only used to get in Career mode, and you also 
 get the Halo theme, as shredded by Steve Vai, and Steve Ouimette's version of the classic Christmas 
 carol, "We Three Kings". Other content includes the Velvet Revolver pack, and the Foo Fighters 
 pack, among other songs. As usual, the packs cost 500 Microsoft Points, and single songs cost 200 
 Microsoft Points, but this time, people aren't making such a fuss about it.
  
  Back in the Guitar Hero II days, people were enraged at the prices, but Activision stayed strong, 
 and in the end, they won. They can thank the My Chemical Romance pack from Guitar Hero II for that. 
 It won me over, along with tens of thousands of owners.
  
  Now, onto Career mode.
  
  This time, it follows a story (sort of) , and there are even cutscenes, but it's not that good. 
 The cutscenes are short, and they have no speech at all. The basic story is you (the guitarist) 
 spot an ad for a local band looking for a guitarist, you impress them like hell, and you're in 
 the band. Your first venue is someone's back garden. You're then bumped up to a pole dancing club, 
 where when it comes to playing the encore, girls with shirts saying "Bom Chicka Wah Wah" come out. 
 I'd like to say to Lynx that you stole that quote from Red vs. Blue! Stop using it! Anyway, it 
 goes "Bow Chicka Bow Wow!". Long live Tucker! By the way, before this encore, you're challenged 
 to a guitar battle by Tom Morello, who just happens to be there. Beat him, and then the Red vs. 
 Blue imitation girls come out, and you play Rage Against the Machine's "Bulls on Parade" along 
 with Tom. The third stage is your band making a video. You're just performing songs on a flatbed 
 truck that says Pontiac on it (I'm getting a bit tired of the product placement, guys) . The fourth 
 stage has your band performing in a venue in the U. K. called "Ye Royal Odeon". Cheeky gits.
  
  The fifth stage shows your band refusing your manager's idea of going on a chatshow to answering 
 a prisoner's request of seeing you play in his prison. I'm now glad that the band you play with 
 aren't sellouts. And for some unknown reason, Slash is in the jail as well with a guitar, and challenges 
 you to a guitar battle. Beat him, and the entire prison riots and goes into lockdown, where your 
 band (and Slash) plays "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N' Roses. The sixth stage sees you playing 
 at the Desert Rock Tour, which contains the best stage in the game. The seventh stage takes you 
 to Japan after taking your manager back because he pitched the idea. Then the eighth shows your 
 manager's true form after your band fires him for trying to put them on an American version of 
 Strictly Come Dancing. It turns out he's the devil (or Lou in the game) . You end up playing a set 
 in hell. Then after that, "Lou" challenges you to a guitar battle for your soul, and you play "The 
 Devil Went Down to Georgia", covered by the genius guitarist known as Steve Ouimette.
  
  If you beat this impossible battle (and I'm not joking here) , the final movie sees you flying like 
 a bat out of hell (seriously) . And then, the cherry on the top, you get to play "Through the Fire 
 and Flames" for the first time! I'd just like to note a few things here. 1: You don't have to go 
 through it if you don't want to. You can pause and quit it. 2: You can't fail the song here. And 
 3: Sadly, beating it here doesn't give you The Inhuman Achievement.
  
  That's Career mode over with.
  
  Now, something I need to complain about here is the bloody 
 product placement in the game! Lynx, Pontiac, Axe (the American Lynx) , etc. It's annoying as hell! 
 There's far too much of it! Every time you play at the Desert Rock Tour stage, a fan climbs onto 
 the stage, wearing a Red vs. Blue imitation shirt, and then stage dives back into the crowd. This 
 is annoying. Every time you play an encore song at the second stage, you have to go through the 
 bloody imitation again. And there's even an Axe guitar in the shop! That is the final straw! Come 
 on, guys! EA, a company who has heavy product placement in all of their games, have less of it 
 in Rock Band! That is how bad it is. It's more annoying than that achievement in Need for Speed 
 ProStreet that is sponsered by an American car insurance company.
  
  The other thing I have to whine about is the characters in the game. The guitar players are fine, 
 bar one, which I'll come to later. And the bassist is fine as well. It's the drummer and the lead 
 singers that I have a problem with. The drummer plays like a machine. And no, it's not a good thing. 
 Once he's finished playing, he always raises his hands up like he's finished the song, even when 
 there's only a half a second break before the next note! This is most noticeable when playing "Lay 
 Down" by Priestess. Watch the drummer before the guitar begins. It's bad. But not as bad as the 
 singers. In Guitar Hero II, he looked like he wasn't even singing. He just raised the mic to his 
 mouth and opened his mouth when it was time to sing. This time round, it sings, and it sings good. 
 But the problem is that he now looks like one of the Muppets! And it's worse with the other lead 
 singer, Bret Michaels, the lead singer of Poison. He just looks wrong. Don't ask me why. Maybe 
 it's the cowboy hat and the Steve Tyler lips. The guitarist I have a problem with is Judy Nails. 
 She was a favourite choice for most players in Guitar Hero II, but now, she has been given the 
 tragic video game treatment; i. e. her breasts have been enlarged. This is just wrong, and it's 
 distracting! :) Now, graphics-wise you shouldn't expect much, as you won't be paying attention 
 to the good-looking visuals when you're meant to be watching the notes flying down the screen. 
 But the graphics are very good. Playing this downstairs on my 50" Samsung 1080p plasma TV is even 
 more amazing.
  
  On the graphics side, I'm giving the game a high mark, but not a perfect score. My reason is because 
 of the demented singers, and the unethical (and distracting) treatment of Judy Nails. Now, sound-wise, 
 it's same old Guitar Hero. The guitar is always turned up more than the song itself, so it's all 
 out of balance. As usual, the sound volumes go up to 11 (enough with the Spinal Tap references, 
 we get it) . Now, the sound it makes when you miss a note is more annoying than before, so it might 
 motivate you to do better. But the most annoying sound of all is the sound that is made when you 
 fudge up a combo. It sounds like a guy doing something I don't want to know about.
  
  As usual, the crowds are louder than they would be in real-life, so you better tweak the sound 
 volumes before you get to playing to create the perfect atmosphere. Sadly, unlike Rock Band, the 
 crowds don't sing to the songs. They clap to the beat sometimes, but that's about it. Xbox Live. 
 It's a minefield that RedOctane don't know how to navigate around. Luckily, they haven't blown 
 up from the pressure. Online play is brilliant. There is no lag at all in the games that I've played.
 
  
  There is a slight issue, though. And that is not including a Pro Battle mode online. My reason 
 for complaining is because of the absoloute douches who trick you into playing on a higher difficulty 
 than them so that they can get an easy win. This has only happened to me once or twice, but it's 
 annoying as hell. The basic story is that I play on Expert difficulty. Nothing else. I join a Battle 
 mode game online, select Expert mode, seeing that the host is about to select Expert as well, but 
 suddenly after I select Expert, the douche goes down one and ends up on Easy. Then, because the 
 host always picks the first song (or only song in a one song battle) , he picks "Through the Fire 
 and Flames", and then I fail at the intro, and he gets an easy win. This must be stopped! If there 
 was a Pro Battle mode to go with the Pro Face-off mode, this would be even better online. As usual, 
 the bar has been raised again in the Guitar Hero series.
  
  This is the best one in the series, despite many problems with the new guitars, caused by the detachable 
 neck. The only beefs I have with it are the heavy product placement, the still demented characters, 
 and the mainly modern soundtrack.
  
  When the game is entitled "Legends of Rock", you'd expect a lot of legendary musicians, and a load 
 of legendary songs to go along with it. Sadly, it's not to be. There are only 3 legends in the 
 game, only 26 of the 69 songs come from the 60s, 70s, and 80s. And, note to Activision. Kaiser 
 Chiefs, are not legendary. And the Beastie Boys are not even rock! What is going on here?!
  
  Get your act together for Guitar Hero World Tour, because you've got a lot to compete with 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalki_Avatar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  So it took me a few months but I (and many others) finally beat Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock. 
 Needles to say, it was definitely one of the hardest in the series. It boasted a lot of really 
 fun tracks, and a few that really, REALLY sucked. I thoroughly enjoyed the game, up to a certain 
 point... Black Magic Woman, Bulls on Parade, Cliffs of Dover, these songs were a pleasure to play 
 on expert. Now, before I continue, let me say that I am no fan of dumbing down games. I don't think 
 you should make a game easier just to make it more marketable. But at the same time, it seems to 
 me that the same should be said for the opposite. Under no circumstances should a game be impossibly 
 hard. Save that stuff for the bonus tracks like the highly revered Through the Fire and Flames. 
 I could do without having to play Raining Blood and One over and over just to beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  GH 3 is a major step in the wrong direction for GH. In this age of HD graphics you would expect 
 this game to look attractive and nice, well sorry to disappoint you but this game is ugly, really 
 ugly and it dosn't help that the game has a terrible setlist. Although the game has some good song 
 most of them are terrible and shouldn't be included in any music game.
  
  Now some good points, this game has a very good guitar its small and has a removable neck for easy 
 transport. The only problem is that the guitar is useless because the songs are terrible and the 
 visuals will make your eyes blead.
  
  Another problem with the game is the Download content, you would think that they would sell good 
 songs well sorry to disappoint again, songs that should have been included as DC is or is going 
 to be on a spinoff game like GH Aerosmith. Dont buy this game look Rock band the songs are good 
 and the visuals are much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game make angry! If I want to play guitar I would get a real guitar. Don't get wrong but when 
 the game throw a queer song like through the fire and the flames for the last song it pisses me 
 off!! I went to the mayhem fest and Dragonforce made me fall a sleep. They should of put a older 
 band that was a long song or throw in a group of song from older bands. Or even a group of songs 
 that had a the most rated, heard, best song of the that decade. You Dragonforce is by far the queerest 
 band at the tour. I mean come on, come on, it a HARDCORE METAL FEST and the played the only song 
 that anyone knew. kocky fools they said that they made Guitar Hero 3 the best selling game in the 
 world. To me that sound like crap to me. Because it was not the band that made Guitar Hero franchise 
 famous. It was us, the consumers, us, the people of love the feel of playing a guitar without actually 
 going out and buying a guitar. If it wasn't for the consumer Dragonforce would not be able to be 
 put on the third one because there would not be one and they would still be nobody in the music 
 business. But a enough about that queer band the game was just fine. When World Tour come out I'll 
 be sure to get to just ROCK OUT !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefvsGordon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  The guitar hero franchise is one of my favorites and this game keeps the series alive. in my opinion 
 it is the best in the series do to its smoother controlls. hammer-ons are easier to execute than 
 guitar hero 2. the set list is a lot better too, including songs from disturbed, rise against, 
 the sleeping, endless sporatic, and metallica. this game also introduces boss battles which you 
 will have three of through out your playtime. multiplayer is awesome and that is what i got this 
 for since i have friends over almost everyday it is great for parties. and probably one of the 
 only games i can get girls to play. the usual multiplayer modes are in here with the addition of 
 a new battle mode which alows you to beat your opponent with power ups. the only few complaints 
 i have about this game is that some of the achievements are impossible for a casual gamer like 
 me. some of my favorite characters from guitar hero 2 are not in here but yet they kept some of 
 the worse ones. not a lot dlc. and the difficulty really takes a huge leap at some points. besides 
 this the game is extremely fun and will not get boring for a long time. i highly recommend that 
 u check and try this game out. it may look silly to some wearing a plastic guitar but u could care 
 less when u are having all this fun... hope u enjoyed my review peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald699
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Ok.
  
  Starting off, GHIII May look fun ..... Actually yes, its quite fun
  
  Here's the WORST WORST WORST Part of Guitar Hero III XBOX360
  well, If not for this difficulty 
 would be "easy" and like score 9.0
  Ok The DANMED Gibson Guitar has such loose connections that if u put a 100 kg weight over The fret 
 it wont flash. Right Now When I PRESS MY YELLOW FRET IT WONT SENSE IT.... Here's A Solution, it just 
 improved the guitar, but not 100% perfect.
  Take 10 rubber bands and from the part where you place your strap to the other part (it will pull 
 the neck down giving a better connection, However After about 7 days it starts to get choppy again 
 and you have to take out the rubber bands than the neck.
  Let the neck rest for about 5 minutes)
  OK, OK ILL STOP THIS FRET LOOSE CONNECTION THING.
  Apart 
 from that, The Set list was ownage.
  One - Metallica
  Number of the beast-Iron Maiden
  Hit me with your best shot - Pat Benatar
  These are just a small small bit of them.
  Its actually 
 for the guitar, not really worth the money.
  If the guitar did not have loose connections, it would be worth.
  (BTW) Brand new guitars dont 
 experience Loose Connection.
  It usually happens after 20 days of purchase.
  
  --Just another tip --
  If Your xbox has RED RING OF DEATH which means its overheated and cant 
 start,
  Its a job for the Towel Trick.
  I bet you this works.
  Ok first of all you need 2-3 towels. ( More also can, but more may heat it too much.)
  Ok first, Take 
 the cables out and the HDD and ALL DISCS OUT.
  Wrap the xbox in the towels and let it bake for 20-30 min.
  Than take the xbox out and put it 
 in a cold room.
  Let it chill for 20-30 minutes
  Put the Xbox HDD back and the cables, On it and , there, No more Red Ring of Death
  -----I will 
 not claim credit, This tip is not discovered by me -------------
  
  LOL THATS ALL BB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bosox4life32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is just a flat out blast. It's fun, good for crowds, and really gets your blood 
 pumping sometimes. While some people think guitar hero is too hard, i think that it just takes 
 work. i play expert now but it took me a long time to work up to that level of playing. The songs 
 in guitar hero are also great.
  
  But the one bad thing about guitar hero III is the guitar itself. It's wireless, good, it's fragile, 
 very costly. The guitar hero II guitar has its frats closer together than the new guitar and almost 
 never breaks. The achievements are either difficult or they're hard as hell, so if you're looking 
 for easy gamerscore, try avatar. Make sure you get every bonus song because Ruby (Kaiser Cheifs) , 
 Dont Hold Back, and Impulse (An Endless Sporadic) are a few of the best songs in the game. 
  
  Thanks for reading this guys, have fun. 
  
  GOOD NIGHT CONNECTICUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmonkey7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero III brings some of the greatest songs to its list and its truly electrifying to play 
 popular songs like schools out and black magic woman and recieve 100%. Single player is very fun 
 especially when you are in the story mode unlocking songs. It is a fun multiplayer aswell since 
 there are so many songs to choose from (apparently 70 according to the back of the case) . There 
 are plenty of guitarist and guitars to choose from too. The battle mode is kind of stupid, but 
 its not bad. There is really nothing for me to suggest for this game except maybe adding even more 
 songs to the already huge lists they supply in the games. If you are a long time guitar hero fan 
 this is definitely for you, if not its still worth the $50.00 or  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  welcome to my review on guiatar hero 3 legends of rock for the xbox 360. i have played this game 
 many times not getting bored of it. the game has loads of songs i know this game is not worth getting 
 if you dont now any of the songs career mode is allright but could be improved quite a bit mainly 
 it is to short and the battles are un thought about but the good thing is it plays well with others 
 and is amazing at partys with your mates so this wohld be great for partys. this is really hard 
 on most of the levels even easy can bee hard at times especially when your playing raing blood 
 playing through the fire and flames. so overall this game is great for party makers and people 
 who love playing the guitar and not for someone who dosent now any of the songs so thanks for reading 
 harryrjjj's review on guitar hero 3 legends of rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a good idea, and WAS a good game, but it was handed over to 
 someone that forgot it was about playing fake guitar.
  
  So, where to start? Well, first, I will note that I'll compare just about everything to its competitor, 
 Rock Band. But first, what exactly makes a rhythm game work? I mean, there's no "story," there's 
 no "combat" so what actually drives a rhythm game like this?
  
  There's the setlist, the actual gameplay, and the peripherals first and foremost. And some minor, 
 but still significant elements are the presentation, featured modes, among other things, so here 
 is a step-by-step comparison of Guitar Hero III and Rock Band
  
  Setlist: Guitar Hero III's setlist, in all honesty, is bland. Yes, it has a lot of master tracks. 
 But the only true "epic" songs so to speak that are in the game are "One" by Metallica, "Number 
 of the Beast" by Iron Maiden, "Sunshine of Your Love" by Cream, "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns 
 'N' Roses, "Paint It Black" by The Rolling Stones, "Knights of Cydonia" by Muse, "The Seeker" by 
 The Who, and three Def Leppard songs. Rock Band, on the other hand has " (Don't Fear) The Reaper" 
 by Blue yster Cult, "Enter Sandman," "... And Justice For All," "Blackened" and "Ride the Lightning" 
 by Metallica, 7 Boston songs, Green Grass and High Tides by The Outlaws, "Gimme Three Steps" and 
 "Simple Man" by Lynyrd Skynyrd, "Highway Star" by Deep Purple, "Run to the Hills" and "Number of 
 the Beast" by Iron Maiden, "Wanted Dead or Alive" by Bon Jovi ,and an astounding 13 songs by The 
 Who. I could keep going, but I'm trying to keep this shorter than a mile.
  
  Of course, some of us will be saying "LOL BUT FEZ YOU CAN'T JUST HAVE A GUITAR GAME BUILT AROUND 
 THESE SO-CALLED 'EPIC' SONGS, WHAT ABOUT THE REST OF THE SETLIST'
  
  What about it? Slipknot vs. Radiohead? Disturbed vs. better Disturbed AND Jet? Alice Cooper vs. 
 REM? Crappy AFI vs. Bang Camaro? Slayer vs. Megadeth? The Fall of Troy vs. Coheed and Cambria? 
 Bret Michaels Band vs. Stone Temple Pilots? DragonForce vs. Judas Priest?
  
  And before anyone says "LOL BUT FEZ YOU'RE JUST CHOOSING GUITAR HERO'S WORST SONGS, ROCK BAND HAS 
 SOME BAD SONGS." The worst band is The Yeah Yeah Yeahs, second worst is Vagiant, and third worst 
 are the crappy thrash bands. So yeah, to hell with Guitar Hero. Anywho:
  
  Where exactly is the better setlist for Guitar Hero. There are a couple of other good artists in 
 the GHIII list like ZZ Top, Santana, Heart, Stevie Ray Vaughn, Foo Fighters, Journey, No Doubt, 
 Muse, annnd, that's about it. The only artists I would publicly tote in support for this game have 
 been mentioned (Excluding songs that are in both games, at least) . As for Rock Band, the unmentioned 
 artists so far are Wolfmother, The Police, David Bowie, Black Sabbath, Rush, Oasis, Faith No More, 
 Nine Inch Nails, The Grateful Dead, Serj Tankian/System of a Down, The Cars, Jimmy Buffett, Shinedown, 
 Machinehead, and Dream Theater. With weekly DLC vs. monthly DLC, Rock Band   Guitar Hero
  
  Very long winded, I know, but I wanted to drive this point home. WHERE is the better list? I don't 
 see it anywhere. Next point.
  
  Gameplay: Guitar Hero overcharts everything, horribly. And that's even when you're not playing 
 lead AND rhythm guitar AND effects in one f***ing track. Add in some three-note chord abuse, playing 
 notes that don't exist, AND playing half the songs on the wrong side of the fretboard and you have 
 a maddening game. It is HORRIBLE. Then, on top of that, the HOPO's in Guitar Hero are broken. You 
 can hold a note for five seconds before it actually arrives and STILL play it. How does that work? 
 I have yet to conceive of a way to take a guitar, press down on a string, and the note plays five 
 seconds later. It does not work, and will not ever work unless I become a magician. Rock Band is 
 not perfect, there are like, 3 songs you play a piano solo, but almost nothing is overcharted.. 
 I will not bring the drums and vocals into the gameplay discussion because Guitar Hero obviously 
 can't compete.
  
  Peripherals: This is Guitar Hero's only strong point. The guitar is better than Rock Band's, hands 
 down. Most people I know don't like Rock Band's fret buttons, strum bars, wammy bars, the effects 
 switch, or, well, anthing about it. My only problem was the strum bar. But Guitar Hero's is more 
 responsive, has a sturdier strum bar, and doesn't break WAY too easily. So yeah, Guitar Hero has 
 something for it. Too bad having golden keys to a Pinto still leaves you with a crappy car.
  
  Presentation Guitar Hero comes off as immature. Everything is cartoony, poorly designed and 
 poorly animated. Even the pastel colors on the chart look like it was designed by 14 year-old who 
 thought it looked awesome. Rock Band's menu system and presentation is nothing to rave about, but 
 in game the models are very well detailed, very fluidly animated, and in general look very nice. 
 Also, my own custom character   Jimi Hendrix clone. Love ya Jimi, but I don't want to play as you. 
 Of course, it's a minor setback, but when the game I'm playing is douchebaggy and throwing a thousand 
 notes at me, it's even worse when I look around and find out that it's all a 14 year-old's idea 
 of what TEH RAWK AND ROLLL should be. Rock Band wins.
  
  Game modes: Both games have basically the same game modes, except Rock Band's world tour is miles 
 ahead of Guitar Hero's career mode. Of course, single player Rock Band is basically the same thing, 
 so whatever. They have virtually the same online modes, and they both play very fluidly, so this 
 was almost worthless to mention, but whatever.
  
  Activision had a great game to work with, but they stripped it to the foundation and put a shoddy 
 game filled with master tracks to look pretty in its place. Rock Band is miles ahead of it, and 
 if you buy it, you actually get access to 250 BETTER songs and you get to play DRUMS! :D
  
  Guitar Hero is absolutely overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  -------------
  The Good:
  -------------
  Bonus songs are a blast.
  Crazy, yet well graphically designed gutairs to choose and buy.
  Boss battles can be entertaining.
 
  Online.
  ------------
  The Bad:
  ------------
  Lousy songs from the 1960s.
  New character models may upset past fans.
  Boss battles not complete. Eugh!
  ------------
 
  
  With an amazing sequal, Neversoft has made YET ANOTHER Gutair Hero game. Although pretty fun, the 
 game is wieghed down by flaws, all around from gameplay, to sound even.
  
  
  
  The Gameplay hasvn't changed might. The notes scroll down a giant, yet somewhat dark and dim 'fretboad', 
 which is colored by the character you choose, and you'll have to strum the coresponding notes.
 
  
  
  
  There's also, not just online play, but also Boss battles, where during Career Mode, your are faced 
 to play againest another Gutairest (CC) , and have a face off. During this time, as like mario kart 
 style, if you manage to play a couple notes without messing up, you'll get an attack power, such 
 as breaking the oppenent's strings, or Lefty flips. Why did I say this is uncomplete? Mainly because 
 I only use it for practicing. Mildly fun, its a "either you kill him, or you die automatically". 
 The guy will hit all the notes, if you don't attack him, and eventually, it'll get to a point, 
 where he's playing 300 notes per second, and your dying from Sudden death, cuz he's hogging all 
 the notes.
  
  
  
  The Graphics have changed, both ways; Good and Bad. The characters you've all known and loved have 
 been changed, such as Judy has turned into a vamp, Izzy turned into a foxy daddy, and some of the 
 other characters, like Pandora, and Clive have been stripped out. Once more, they can wear new 
 outfits, as well as STYLES to give even moreAlthough, this can get used to, some of this "taking 
 away, and placing in garbage" may upset some of the old fans to tears.
  
  
  
  
  The Gutairs are all shiny, the character look a little more realistic, and the stage has more pryo 
 fireworks then any other game. Neversoft still insisted on having the comic style, so the band 
 is the same. The bassist is super skinny. The drummer is oversized, and the singer's head looks 
 like a block. In fact, he looks like a biker, with long blonde hair, and a bullet chain belt, hence, 
 I don't think he had to be as graphically detailed.
  
  
  
  
  Sound keeps it from being 10/10. The bonus songs are great, modern and all, but what about these 
 lousy 1960 songs?
  
  Pride and Joy?
  Black Magic Woman?
  
  
  Seriously? Those are acoustic songs for God's sake. When you pick up a GH game, you'd exspect to 
 get a crapload of Modern ROCK MUSIC, but no! You get a buncha of lousy songs that 150 year olds 
 listen to. And if that weren't even, sometimes when you play a solo, as in Bulls on Parade, or 
 Before I forget, there's no sound to your gutair, only drumming sounds. Just imagine how hard it 
 is to play like that is straining.
  
  
  
  
  
  With some changed characters, a lot of lousy songs, and some other not so good stuff, like the 
 difficultly being super high, making the game barely playable, its so hard! GH3 is still definetly 
 worth a pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 : Legends Of Rock is an interesting continuation of the series because it doesn't 
 really progress much from a franchise point of view. However, the whole game design is a lot sleeker, 
 clearer and generally just downright better.
  The tracklist is definitely the strongest of the series because of the increased difficulty but 
 as always, for me, I still wish that there was more, better and stronger tracks.
  
  The graphics are really not that impressive but something that I personally never really pay much 
 attention to. I wouldn't get this game on account of graphical content.
  
  The gameplay however is absolutely amazing. Very addicitve and there is a brilliant level of difficulty 
 that you can achieve here.
  
  The audio is obviously fantastic because the game is centered around it. All the songs are very 
 clear and are mastertracks of the originals.
  
  The lifespan of the game really depends on how deep you wish to go into it. And how good you are 
 at the game. You can get through the tracklist quite quickly but you'll probably play through the 
 songs lots and lots.
  
  Overall the game is definitely impressive and generally a lot more fun than the score given. I 
 personally love the concept of this game and if I ever see a guitar hero around, it's difficult 
 to not want to play it. Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I love to listen to music, especially rock. Guitar Hero III has an interesting idea, but just gets 
 way too boring, way too fast. There are different modes to choose from, like a career, multiplayer, 
 quick play, and so on. The one thing this game nails down is the audio. There are quite a few good 
 songs on the playlist to listen to, but to play? You can play the game with a guitar or with a 
 controller. Either way, you have to press the colors on screen or else you're band will get booted 
 off the stage. There are four different difficulty settings -- easy, medium, hard, expert. There 
 is one word that I can describe the gameplay: repetitive. The easy difficulty setting is, well, 
 easy, but also boring. Boosting up the difficulty level doesn't help, since it makes the gameplay 
 extremely difficult and frustrating. Pressing the button-prompts on screen gets extremely boring 
 after just a few songs. Another factor wearing the game down is the presentation. Character models 
 look ugly, along with some poor lighting effects, and there is clipping. For anyone who doesn't 
 like to play guitar or repetitive games, then skip this title altogether. Guitar Hero III isn't 
 an awful game, but should only be recommended to people who like repetitive gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblood54
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is a fun, non-stop wildly exciting game filled with tons of different songs and accessories 
 to buy. Some of the songs are Slow Ride by Foghat, Sunshine of your love by cream, mississippi 
 queen by mountain, paint it black by rolling stones, the seeker by the who, rock you like a hurricane 
 by scorpion, welcome to the jungle by guns 'n roses, black magic women by santana, before i forget 
 by slipknot,3's and 7's by knights of cydonia, raining blood by slayer, cliffs of dover by eric 
 johnson, and through the fire and flames by dragonforce. you can also buy some accessories for 
 your guitarist like guitars, finishes, new outfits, and even bonus songs. Also, some famous guitarists 
 are in this game that you can unlock and use, and they are Slash for gun's and roses, and Tom morello 
 from race against the time machines. Guitar hero 3 is truly a great and popular game and definitely 
 recommended by me and alot of other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people that I know hate this game in comparison to GH II. They say the game is "ridiculously 
 hard in comparison." While I agree, I think it is that which makes it better. I have played this 
 game for a long time, and probably won't stop until I can finally beat Expert or GH World Tour 
 comes out.
  
  Let's start with the pros. The animations and graphics are imuch improved, and the game looks very 
 good. The song variety is great, although there are a lot of songs that aren't master tracks. This, 
 however, is OK, since they still sound awesome. I wish that you could have customized your other 
 band cronies, but that's probably reserved for the next game.
  
  Now, the bad. There are some minor glitches, especially when using star power that make the screen 
 freeze and make you miss notes. This game will totally kill your fingering wrist on some of these 
 songs. I can play up to "Stricken" and "3s and 7s" on Expert, but I still have yet to get past 
 that. The difficulty in some of the songs is just painful. The achievements are a bit overboard, 
 but at least it keeps you interested. Also, the song difficulties seem to make no sense at times 
 (easy songs coming after harder songs) . The unlockable Guitar Center songs are widely unfamiliar, 
 but that was to be expected... at least a few of them were good though. 
  
  Finally, the biggest problem of the game. The boss battles. Whoever came up with this idea needs 
 to be pitted in a real guitar battle with Slash and Tom Morello in which if he loses, they beat 
 him with the guitars. These parts make the game absolutely no fun. That being said though, this 
 game is very fun and enjoyable... unless of course, you're doing a guitar battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play notes that are Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, and Orange you don't play all of 
 them on easy or meduim. The characters are Slash, Tom Molrello, Judy Nails, and other characters. 
 Most of the songs are from the 80's and now. 
  
  Some Songs: Welcome to the Jungle by: Guns N Roses
  Shunshine of your Love
  Rock you Like a 
 Hurricane by: Scorpions
  Mississippi Queen by: Mountain
  When You Were Young by: Killers
  Hit Me With Your Best Shot
  And More!!
  
  
  This Guitar Hero game has some of the best 
 songs any Guitar Hero game has ever had. The store features guitars, SOngs, Hidden Character, Styles, 
 and many more!!! YOu can also do some Multiplayer on Xbox Live and close by. There is also quickplay 
 when you can just play alot of songs that you can down load on Xbox Live and the songs you bought 
 at the store and the songs that you already played and succesed on Career Mode.
  
  The good of the game is that there is alot of Songs and the new feature called Guitar Battle.
 
  
  The bad is that the Guitar Hero battles are not that interresting and the Career mode should be 
 a bit little.
  
  Overall I rate this game 8.5 outta 10. If you are going to buy this game then you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsandra7223
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is all about being a legend of rock.
  And if your in hard or expert, Your a LEGEND!!!
  When Guitar hero 1 was made, the guitar hero
 
  game became a hit ! Then when guitar hero 3 
  came ,Pepole became legend's of ROCK!!!
  Right now i'm a legend, i'm on expert.
  Pepole play this game with one guitar to be a 
  guitar 
 hero.... To be a hero of guitar's....
  To be a master.... To be a hero.... To be 
  a rock star.... To be a LEGEND OF ROCK!!!
  And if your reading this.... You gonna be a
  legend... unless 
 you are ready are. Like on
  Guitar Hero Rock the 80's. That game is telling
  you that you can rock the 80's. You can rock the 
  90's,70's,60's, But that game want's YOU to 
 rock
  the 80's!!! Or like in Guitar hero Aerosmith, They
  want you to rock out with Aerosmith.
  But part 3 want's you to be a legend right now!
  Trust 
 me... keeping rocking out and you will be 
  a LEGEND OF ROCK!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  y
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_75
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games that you gotta love. Even if you suck at it, it's one of the best 
 party games out there. It is a little hard to get used to, and if you're like me you probably won't 
 get passed the medium difficulty. But it's just a blast. It's got a fairly decent playlist, alot 
 of songs, a few that i really like and some that surprisingly I liked. It's got a career mode, 
 complete with and epic story with a life-changing twist right at the end. You can fly solo or play 
 co op, but it really doesn't shine until you throw a massive Guitar Hero party. . .and then have 
 a couple of friends show you up by playing Through Fire And Flames on expert and getting a 95%, 
 jerks.
  
  My only gripe is that sometimes it doesn't pick up when I hit a button during a song, it's very 
 rare but it happens. Also I hope that in GH4 they have much better drummer animations, I mean he 
 could not be more off in some of the songs. Also, having a hardcore/screamo playlist would be a 
 life saver. The few tracks they put in this title are great, but we metal-heads need some more 
 love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has been a great series to us all, but when it found itself having a rival for our 
 money, Rock Band, suddenly this isn't technically a must have. It's one of a choice. Another thing 
 to consider is that The original game makers of Guitar Hero didn't make this game (long story, 
 go look it up) , and have now made Rock Band. With rock Band being an amazing game, how does Guitar 
 Hero III hold up next to it, or even by itself?
  
  Track List (6/10) : The track list here isn't really good. I'm tempted to say awful, but it isn't. 
 To me, Guitar Hero II had a perfect set list (for the game, as in not one false song) , but in III, 
 well we start out with 'OK' songs that are boring to play, and continue like that unti8l we hit 
 the end where we actually start getting songs of interest. The last few set lists are great, but 
 you have to get to them, which, especially when playing it on different difficulties, will become 
 a chore.
  
  Difficulty/Flow (3/10) : this is something that is just awful. The difficulty goes from really easy 
 (too easy) to ridiculously hard. The game is very uneven through the single player game.
  
  Achievements (6/10) : These are just stupid. First of all, you have to beat the game on every difficulty, 
 not just Expert, to get them all. While Rock Band let's you just beat it on a higher difficulty 
 and you will get them all. Then, to add to the annoying, there are some achievements that are nearly 
 impossible to get, such as beating a creator of Guitar Hero III on xbox LIVE. 
  
  Multiplayer (9/10) : The only reason this doesn't get a perfect is because Rock Band is so much 
 better and the multiplayer isn't really very new. But the new Versus game, Battle, is very fun 
 and really saves the day on multiplayer.
  
  'Linear Mode' (10/10) : The only reason this (being basically a campaign mode, but with a funny 
 name) is 10/10, is because there is Co-op. FINALLY!!! I gave it a 10 because this game isn't really 
 that bad, and I needed to curve it to a 7.0, it's deserved rating. I was a bit harsh on 'Flow', 
 but that's ok. Everything else stands very true. 
  
  The overall game isn't horrible, and for people who don't plan on getting Rock Band. If Rock Band 
 didn't exist, I would say it would be for Hardcore fans only.
  
  Overall: 7.0 "Passable" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Vappsen-
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  So now the summer have arrived, I've played the game more than I should probably, because the room 
 is hot like an oven due to the TV, Xbox 360 and my computer. But anyway, this game is so highly 
 addictive. Once you've completed one song, you want to complete harder and harder songs everytime. 
 After a while, I bet you're owning the songs on Expert, but not me... One thing is that the game 
 have some easy songs, but also many [i] y [/i] hard! (Or I'm just bad) Like, how is it even possible 
 to clear "Through the Fire and Flames" on Hard?!? But the gameplay is so good, the game is so fun 
 to play, you play the songs you clear and eventually you realize that the harder songs is possible 
 even though!
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  + Solid gameplay, highly addictive Rock&Roll.
  + Multiplayer rocks, off and online.
  + You'll 
 never own the game until you beat "Through the Fire and Flames" on Expert, so always a song or 
 two to spend many hours at, frustrating at times, but so awesome when you complete it, finally.
 
  
  - Lack of good songs (In my opinion that is)
  - Not an achievement game (But who cares, right?!)
  
  Overall:  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChelseaFC91594
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Not much else to say. I got it for Christmas in 07 and I play it still about 
 everyday. The challenge in the game keeps you playing and also the acheivment list. It's easy to 
 get like 100 or 200 gamerscore right off the bat but then you find it hard to get any acheivments. 
 I think right now I have about 500 or 600 gamerscore on it but now I can't get any more. It might 
 be because of my broken hard drive :P but I do have some acheivments still to get. I love playing 
 online on the game. Most of the players are nice people and provide you with a challenge. When 
 you search a game you usually get up against really good people. So I recommend that you play a 
 difficulty that you're very good at. I wouldn't ever rent the game though because it has a long 
 carreer and it's really fun, you might even get in trouble for not wanting to give it back ha, 
 but I would definately buy the game, it's really, really, fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  ... And that is disgust and repetitive nonsense and marketing attempts made by the publisher Activision 
 on this franchise. Although the score exhibits an institutionally "Good" overall rating, this review 
 is going to be brutally honest and directly stating facts.
  
  Gameplay:
  Even though the gameplay isn't the problem at this point the main focus of my gripes and non-stop 
 complaints has to be the lack of originality in the offset performance of Activision not incurring 
 any original artists on nearly all of the songs in the setlist with the exception of a handful 
 including Guns and Roses and Metallica. The gameplay is the same from the prior games and includes 
 strumming of chords to successfully progress and achieve 100% accuracy across the board through 
 each individual song and works well overall. The incorporation of multiplayer online mode and battle 
 mode was nicely implemented as well as you can play co-op with a friend of duke it out online. 
 I thought it was kind of cheesy to include "Mario Kart" style takedowns, but beggars apparently 
 can't be choosers.
  
  Graphics:
  A step up over the previous installments by far that's for sure. The movements on the singer and 
 lead guitarist really are emphasized and I only wish I could say the same for the poor drummer. 
 The man looks as generic as George W. Bush would giving a speech about the economy while being 
 sodomized and caressed intimately by large industrious chimpanzees and can only be compared to 
 textures of the Dreamcast nevertheless a next gen based console.
  
  Sound:
  With the exception of quite possibly the biggest hurtful cover artists which generally prevented 
 this from getting a higher score. (I'm sorry guys but I thought I'd let them slide with the 2 previous 
 game and get their act together for this 3rd game, but enough is enough) The music tracks overall 
 as a whole are addictively acceptable for a few songs here and there. While the sound is respectively 
 achieved the lack of good songs will prevent many from coming back for those HEFTY helpings of 
 2nds and 3rds.
  
  Control:
  As in previous titles there remains no change here other than the control over the guitar controller 
 in the boss fights and battle mode. The opposing player when granted and obtained can unleash powers 
 which cause your guitar chords to break, an earthquake to make your guitar shake, or lefty flip 
 to cause confusion amongst your ranks. 
  
  Overall:
  Like I said before I really tried hard to overlook the game's shortcomings but failed to inevitably 
 due to it's lack of original recordings and inconsistent online play which nicely performed can 
 become tedious after a while. The lack of good tracks mixed with no online co-op mode and cover 
 artists a-plenty really prevent this sequel from being great and overall good. I must say this 
 is truly the end of the line for Guitar Hero games for myself as it's become nothing more than 
 a marketing advantage and less original than what it emulates. Sequel after sequel are released, 
 spawning spin offs like Rock Band and "expansions" like Guitar Hero: Aerosmith and the eventual 
 "Metallica" and are nothing but ploys to make more money and not to benefit gamers needs. Give 
 this version a shot but afterwards possibly consider Rock Band or quite simply revert back to Guitar 
 Hero and Guitar Hero II where at least more than half the tracks are worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmackura
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is a great entry into the series. Being that this was my first GH i fell in love 
 with the concept, but quickly realized a few quirks about the game. The first few difficulty levels 
 are great and loads of fun to compete with friends. Once you move into the higher difficulty settings 
 (Hard & Expert) the solos in later songs create parts where the song beats you rather than you 
 beating your opponent. 
  
  It seems to me you have to play GH for hours on end to be able to even complete the last few sets 
 of songs on a harder difficulty. For a fun game that seems to be meant to be played with friends, 
 this seems a little extreme. I would like to see some more in depth tutorials to help those who 
 are casual gamers to become more proficient.
  
  Once Rock Band came out it offered more "party/ family" compatibility, with the singing and drums 
 this competitor blew GH out of the water. Now my family can participate and we can all play at 
 respectible difficulty levels because of the variety offered. Better song sets too.
  
  Pros:
  -Many good songs, new stuff mixed with a few good oldies.
  -Graphics looked good at 
 points.
  -Very Addictive
  
  Cons:
  -Lack of DL Content, too many small bands in "bonus song" section
  -Higher difficulty levels 
 are nearly impossible.
  -Graphics had a distictive PS2 feel to them. Very blocky stages and such, although character models 
 looked fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villihamson
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  i got this game around christmas 2007 and played virtually non-stop for 6 months, completed it 
 on easy medium hard then expert and was so addicted still am, but some of the songs are a bit strange, 
 i never heard of raining blood and to be honest it is an aweful song but for a game like guitar 
 hero. it is a b1tch to play, from this moved on to rock band completed that on expert and now wating 
 for aerosmith and world tour, i never played a gh game until i got gh 3 and thought i was gonna 
 be crap but love this game so worth the money, anyone can pick it up and play from easy up to expert 
 in a couple of weeks but with world tour having drums i think it will be more of a friend focused 
 game like rock band which i love and think they are going the right way in adding other instruments 
 because it gives u something else to get good at lol ; -) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVGM
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  When the first guitar hero was released, I had strange feelings about it. It seemed like DDR for 
 white boys. Of course it was, but that didn't make it any less fun. Now the times have moved on, 
 and the third installment was upon us. (And my XBL Gold was reverted back to silver)
  
  RedOctane was the head of the past 3 games (Guitar Hero 1, 2, and Rock the 80's) , however, Activision 
 and Neversoft offered to step up to the plate and take control of the production. Guitar Hero III: 
 Legends of Rock was later born. However there were some difficulties I see...
  
  Guitar Hero's HUD when playing a song has had a complete makeover. While most of it is simple and 
 acceptable, one thing frustrates me. The Star power bar is now a row of transistors that light 
 up when filled. This can pose an immediate issues as the amount of bloom makes it hard to identify 
 whether or not a transistor is completely full or not. of course the "STAR POWER IS READY" notice 
 will pop up, however that only applies to the first half of the bar (or section of transistors.)
 
  
  Guitar Hero has always been considerably reasonable. In the first few games, A transition from 
 easy to medium to hard to expert meant that it would gradually become difficult. However, you have 
 had enough experience with your attempts in the past to handle the newer difficulty.
  
  In Guitar Hero II, when playing in multiplayer, I used to enjoy how at some parts in a song, the 
 characters would start waving their guitars around or make similar actions at a certain part of 
 a song. Those are gone, sadly. The multiplayer in Guitar Hero III seems to just be two people on 
 stage, completely oblivious to one another.
  
  Guitar Hero III gave me a big middle finger when I attempted to play a few songs in the hard difficulty. 
 I may not be very quick to react, but the orange button always seemed a bit out of reach, yet not 
 impossible to get to, I was able to handle the first Guitar Heros without much trouble on hard. 
 Guitar Hero III's difficulty curve is completely wacked out of proportion. The transition from 
 changing from medium to hard is the equivalent of sprinting up a very steep, long hill. As opposed 
 from the easy to medium transition, which is much more simple, but depending on your skill overall 
 at the time, that transition can also be a bit jarring.
  
  Guitar Hero III features a new boss battle system with computer characters. It pits you off against 
 Tom Morello, Slash, and other characters. Basically its a 2 Player battle game. You need to cause 
 them to mess up bad enough for them to lose before the song ends or you DIE! It adds some difficulty 
 to the game's career mode, but not alot if you can time the attacks right.
  
  For the most part, Guitar Hero III is still another Guitar Hero game and nothing more. its still 
 fun to play alone and with friends, but if you have a decision, I'd try out rock band.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_korea
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  So I loved how guitar hero games played and was expecting the same for the 3rd installment of the 
 popular GUITAR HERO series. First time i booted on to the game, i fell in love. I loved the menu 
 layout and the overall design. Than i went into the game itself and if was so fun to play. There 
 are six notes that you have to hit with the corresponding buttons on the Guitar Hero 3 wireless 
 Les Paul guitar (can be different) . I spent so many hours playing this game. I also loved how the 
 cut scenes were animated and how they never show the guy you are playing. It gives a first person 
 account feel. I also loved how the hard the songs were. It kept me playing them over and over again 
 so i cant get five stars or even perfect on each of the songs. I love the guitar hero series. This 
 one didn't change my perspective one bit! (good thing) . I highly recommend this game for all of 
 you! Cant wait for the fourth installment in these series. GUITAR HERO 4!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero 2 were some of the best rhythm games out there, and that continues 
 with Guitar Hero 3. Guitar Hero 3 throws a bunch of new songs at you and a lot of new challenges. 
 Guitar Hero 3 has been raised in terms of how hard the game is.
  
  This game is not much different from the other two Guitar Hero's. You start out with a bunch of 
 easy songs, but every new set throws harder and harder songs at you. Some of the bands in Guitar 
 Hero 3 are Black Sabbath, Guns n' Roses, Dragon Force, Slayer, etc. Some of the songs are really 
 good, but a lot of the songs are either ok, or I never want to hear this again. 
  
  Some new features in Guitar Hero 3 are the boss battles. The boss battles are where you play against 
 another person or npc in a series of notes. You get these battle powers instead of star power, 
 in which you attack your opponent. The goal of this game mode is to get your opponent to fail.
 
  
  The graphics have been updated a bit from the first two Guitar Hero's, but they are still cartoons. 
 Some of the things run choppy, like the drummer moves like a robot.
  
  The sound can be good or bad depending on how much you like the music in the game.
  
  If you 
 liked the first two Guitar Hero's then you will like Guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  You love it, we all know that, but how many times can you buy a game for a somewhat improved graphics, 
 and brand new songs. Only recently did GH2 come out, and now, the corp. is pushing this game on 
 us. Not to be dramatic, this game isn't terrible, it's actually good, but like the pokemon series, 
 it lacks innovation.
  
  Gamplay - Been there, done that, but only this time, is the game even harder. Good thing, yah for 
 some; for others, bothering with the hard and expert difficulty levels is just a waste. THe addition 
 of battles does add a bit of flavor to the overall gameplay, but not enough for gamers cross the 
 world to feel a "freshness" about this game.
  
  Graphics - Sure they're better than the last iteration, but that's an obvious. Character models 
 look KOOL, backgrounds interesting, but the game is the game; and making it a bit prettier can't 
 change that. But it does look pretty; just look at it.
  
  Value - 13 characters... not enough for me, but who knows and who cares. Most of you time in the 
 game is spent in either career or co-op career, a neat little feature. Making money is the goal, 
 to spend on characters, guitars, and clothing. Lasting appeal, not much; but pretending to play 
 a guitar is always fun, right?
  
  Sound - Uncomparable to other games, but to the series... the best yet. With about 75 songs, there 
 is something for everyone.
  
  An excellent game for newcomers, an amazing unforgettable experiece... but that's only for newbies. 
 For everyone else, its practically the same old game beautified with new additions that don't really 
 change much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWulf666
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: (Single-player) Master tracks provide more entertainment than the covers we had to deal 
 with in Guitar Hero 2. Cutscenes actually form a decent story than random setlists with different 
 venues. Downloadable content is decent and constant. Wireless guitar in the shape of a Gibson Les 
 Paul. Guitar Icons with amazing battles. Co-op local provides a career for two rock-god wannabes. New 
 hamemer-on / Pull off engine makes it easier to do them. Graphics are steller. Singer is more of 
 a rock-n-roll man than in previous games. (Multi-player) Battle modes and sudden death are good forms 
 of versus as well as Pro-Face Off. Play with friends on your favorite songs in Co-op. Leaderboards 
 provide your record of wins, batles and high scores fairly well.
  
  The Bad: (Single-player) Some songs I can't believe even made it into the game, such as "The Seeker" 
 by The Who and "Through The Fire and Flames" by Studioforce (Dragonforce isn't their appropriate 
 name) . Some songs are just too difficult to play even are hard mode (One by Metallica, it just won't 
 give me that 5-star rating no matter how well I do, on hard!) such as Slayer, Metallica, Cult of 
 Personality and Dragonforce, which is only difficult because this game also makes you play the 
 keyboard, no joke. That's why dragonforce is hard/ near impossible. Early glitches game away hard 
 achievements for FAILING. Face Off should be eliminated due to the fact someone can kick your ass 
 if they are not the host. This is because the one who joins gets the parts of the verses with more 
 notes, majority of the time, making it easier to upon themselves.
  
  Overall, a great singleplayer and multiplayer game if you can deal with some frustrating and poorly 
 picked songs and irritating Face-Off mode.
  
  By the way, I do play the real guitar and find some things to be misrepresented and harder than 
 they should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey-steena
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a Guitar Hero (or any rhythm game for that matter) I was slightly apprehensive 
 when starting it up. The adverts were all over the telly, Xbox Live was awash with people strumming 
 their hearts out and Xbox forums quickly became choca with fans praising/complaining about the 
 songs.
  After firing it up I was instantly converted and immediatly cursed myself for not playing this 
 earlier. 
  For those not in the know, Guitar Hero has you strumming (or clicking) a plastic guitar shaped 
 controller in time with the music. Much like a dance mat game, icons fall down the screen, in this 
 case different colours and you have to press the correct fret button and click in time. In the 
 corner is a 'Rock-meter' which glows green when your doing well but fades orange and then red and 
 you miss notes. Miss too many notes and you fail the song. Sound simple but as you quickly find 
 out, theres a lot more to it then that. With the addition of chords (more then one fret button 
 at once) , hammer ons and the point multipling star power feature, this game becomes very addictive 
 indeed and has you playing songs endlessly to beat your high scores. 
  The game has you playing through sets of real licenced songs in career mode, as your 'band' gets 
 more and more successful more complex and difficult songs become available to play. The 'Legends 
 of Rock' sub-title goes with the songs which are all rocky numbers by mostly well known bands. 
 Everything from The Stone Roses to Metallica to Muse are included. Overall the game contains over 
 90 songs on the disc (with many more available via DLC) so theres a lot of notes to click.
  Xbox live is supported too, allowing players to go head to head for points or battle each other 
 using weapons power ups to put each other off. Coop play is also supported allowing for split screen 
 and Live couples to work together for points.
  Guitar Hero is a difficult game to review simply because it sounds crappy on paper but is incredibly 
 fun to play. It looks great, sounds great, has the most perfect difficulty curve for a game of 
 this type. The range of songs is large and varied. The new Les Paul Guitar is the best model yet 
 and comes wireless! My only criticism (and of others who play regularly) is that it can become 
 frustratingly hard at times, where the speed and amount of notes coming down the screen can seem 
 impossible. But dedicated practice can sort that out (Lots of dedicated practice lol) Its a game 
 that you can play for a while then leave and come back to months later. It has been in my collection 
 since last christmas and is still getting played.
  
  An Aural, Addictive Treat! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laxwarrior3975
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I used to be one of those kids that sat back and watched people play the game but when I was asked 
 to play, i would respond "oh, I'm not good at this game, you just play. I don't want to play anyways." 
 The truth was that I really wanted to play, I just was never good at it, no matter how hard I tried, 
 so I gave up. But one of my friends was kind enough to let me borrow his guitar and game, so I 
 figured this was my opportunity to actually try the game without being embarrassed of my skills.
 
  
  I began on easy, as everyone should, but realized it was too easy. So, medium came, then hard, 
 then before I knew it, I was playing "Black Magic Woman" on expert. So now that i have a good grasp 
 of the game, I think I can now say somethings I liked about the game and somethings that could 
 be added or improved.
  
  The guitar controller is probably the funniest controller i have ever used. You can actually use 
 it on other games, but its is HIGHLY IMPRACTICALLY. (star power=throw grenade in Gears of War :-P) 
 I think that the difficulty levels are prefectly balanced, although some songs are harder then 
 expected. ("Same Old Song and Dance"??? WTF???) The song selection is great, and the ability to go 
 online to the XBox Live Marketplace and buy songs as well. So, overall it is a great game.
  
  There are only a few things that I wish the game had ( and Guitar Hero 4 has already fulfilled 
 them!) First, i wanted more songs!!! You can only play the same songs so many times. And really 
 the only other thing i wanted was to be able to make your own songs. I thought that would be great 
 to do because i have so many songs i want to play!
  
  So, Guitar Hero III is a great game, a great buy, and if you can wait til Oct. 21, 2008, Guitar 
 Hero IV will be out and it will blow your mind!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has established itself in the heart of rhythm/music games and this installment is a 
 great follow-up to the series. There are some great, fun selections in the soundtrack, such as 
 Knights of Cydonia, Cult of Personality, Black Magic Woman, and Cliffs of Dover just to name a 
 few. Even if you aren't familiar with some of these songs prior to playing the game, you'll probably 
 find yourself enjoying them, as they work quite well for this game.
  
  The graphics are improved, but let's face it, graphics aren't the reason why we're picking up this 
 game. I would like to note that hammer-ons and pull-offs are much easier to see than in previous 
 games, which is much appreciated. 
  
  As stated before, the soundtrack is excellent. A few shaky covers, but all in all, great selections 
 that you won't easily tire of as you work your way toward becoming a rock star. There are even 
 more songs available for download, so you can expand your soundtrack even further, a major plus.
 
  
  The gameplay remains basically the same. The timing is more flexible this time around, so you can 
 afford to be a little early or late when playing a note. This especially comes in handy for nailing 
 HOPO sections. There may be the few elite who dislike this since it makes the game a little easier, 
 but most people will like it, I'm sure. And for all you elitists out there, I'm sure you'll find 
 that the challenge lies in the overall ramped-up difficulty of this game.
  
  The difficulty of the songs goes from manageable to HOLY COW pretty darn fast. I'm sure you'll 
 find yourself hanging out in the practice mode quite a bit more in this game than you did in previous 
 Guitar Hero games. 
  
  A new feature to this game is Battle Mode. Every so often, during your career, you'll have a Boss 
 Battle. You versus a rock legend, and rather than nailing passages for Star Power, you'll be nailing 
 them to gain attacks that you can send to your competitor to try to make them fail, while they 
 are busy trying to do the same to you. This mode is also available for multiplayer. The old multiplayer 
 modes are still there, but this is a refreshing way to take out your friends for a change. 
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of Guitar Hero, you can't miss this game! Even if you're still 
 working on your skills and aren't quite ready for the ramped-up difficulty, this game is still 
 a blast and gives you plenty of opportunities to improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDD1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  After purchasing this Last Christmas I first started on easy, and failed, but that only wanted 
 ti me to pursue my self to beating easy. After beating easy I still wanted more, so I worked my 
 way up to medium, within a week and I had 5* medium and easy, but did I give up? In a way... For 
 about a month I played medium until I worked up the courage to play hard. It was hard... But I 
 got myself up to the last tier and I was like... WTF
  
  Raining blood was very hard and One was hard but manageable, so I began to play expert, and before 
 you knew it I was on the last tier of expert, and I went back to hard and it was incredibly easy! 
 Then a week later i had 5* all songs on expert and hard. I thought I had nothing else to do, but 
 then I checked out the Guitar Hero community and discovered the joys of high scores, FC's and tournaments.
 
  
  The games set list is great, varied and well balanced in terms of skill, it truly sets the benchmark 
 for guitar hero games and will have me playing for years to come. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargodjocky2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  i have always liked the guitar hero series. but after games 1 and 2 i felt like i was getting the 
 same experience. just getting the buttons down. havin fun. but then they released guitar hero 3 
 and it was great. the tracklist featured great songs like even flow and cliffs of dover. the game 
 had great content on xlive and sometimes released great free singles or track packs. the game introduced 
 online play where you could either face your opponent in face off, pro face off, battle or could 
 team up in co-op where one player is lead and one is base or rythm. you choose the difficulty and 
 then pick your song, character, and guitar. that just brings me to unlockables. the game introduces 
 real rock legends slash and tom merrelo as playable characters, then you have your traditional 
 characters and few other newbies. the game has the best tracklist yet and has great bonus tracks. 
 the game really amps up the difficulty level. the game is hard (unless you play on easy or medium, 
 wich i dont do) but its good hard. it gives you a challenge the the previous games didnt really 
 offer. the game has some new modes that includes boss battles and battles. boss battles are like 
 battles. instead of star power you have battle power wich do things like cut strings and reverse 
 the notes. they are fun, but not that fun. what really got me was the great selection of songs. 
 they were great and more modern than other songs. the shops include songs guitars, characters, 
 videos, etc. all in all guitar hero 3 is the best in the series and really amps up the game and 
 ads more fun. the only bad thing is that the game is so hard on expert to play that when you try 
 one song, youll have to take a break from the soreness in your hand. well i really liked this game 
 and aerosmith is coming so i will have that review soon. thanks for reading and i hope you enjoy 
 the game. now heres a random quote: "can we get any sharks with frikin laser beams" docter evil 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterplayer275
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  some of the songs were to easy like hit me with your best shot or slow ride . then somee of the 
 songs were really hard like one raing blood and knigts of cydonia .i how in the thered one is alot 
 faster than the second . gutair hero had a lot of compation with rock band but i think gutair hero 
 came out on top . sure rock band had the drums and the mic but gutair hero had a lot better songs 
 . plus gutair hero now is only 79.99 and rock band is still 200.00 rock band still hasnt gone down 
 . i also like the gutair battles like the one with lou .it was fun with friends see ing which one 
 could get the highist on through fire and flames on expert . it was fun untill we beat it and then 
 we stoped playing it so its not really fun if you beat the game on eaasy medium hard and expert. then 
 thats when you should ethier wait untill another gutair hero comes out or you should buy rock band 
 thats the only time ill buy rock band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McFlu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 i would say is the best in the serious, so far. I love playin it, its extremely addictive. 
 The song list is excellent, i love all the classics and the newer stuff, though there were a few 
 songs i could this it could do without, but there in there to attract people of different tastes. 
 The game is pretty easy except for a few songs on hard, and a few on expert. When this game gets 
 hard, it really gets hard. Ive been playin this game and past guitar hero games for years now and 
 some of the songs still get me. It could use more downloadable songs, even though i dont really 
 buy any of them i wait for free ones, because personally when you buy the game and then they make 
 stuff for it afterwards you should get it for free, i mean if there still makin songs then theres 
 no reason they couldnt have been in it when it came out, but thats an argument for another time. 
 You can tell they tried hard to keep it fresh, the battles are fun, but seem a little added on, 
 not enough of it in the career. Still love playin though, especially with friends, and i hope guitar 
 hero games to follow will only get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilightlink96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III, every fan wanted it, hell i waited till the midnight release and played it for 
 hours on end. But for the substance and playing it after you've already beaten it, there is not 
 much to do. If you're starting this game on easy or medium, then it well be a hell of a play and 
 will play it for a lot longer than someone like me who started on expert right away. The boss battles 
 are fun at first but never really got into it besides having the last battle with Lou. And to some 
 people, it was just cruel to face them with Lou when there is basically 1 or 2 ways to beat him. 
 The set list is one of the best in the series, the only problem is there are only a few really 
 challenging songs, becuase of the new hammer on and pull off update in the series. Which was a 
 bad choice, it just made it easier to play the songs that looked like a blur of colors, also the 
 new easier to hit notes made it all too simple. The multiplayer was overall good. There were some 
 problems on joining matches, it would time out or say its already been filled. Which made joining 
 matches really frustrating. The achievements were the worst then any other game to date, they were 
 way too hard to get, I have 700 some points for it and had to play some stupid songs in a different 
 way. But don't fret, the best part of this game is becuase of one song. Dragonforce's own Through 
 The Fire And The Flames. That song makes the game worth while to play for hours and hours on just 
 practice alone. This Game overall is Very Good. I would say definitely look into it for any Guitar 
 Hero lovers. Rent Before You Buy for any one else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyissoweird
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game at my friend's house. I started out on Easy while he was an Expert 
 and he told me how I was supposed to hold a button in a row of the same buttons. That began one 
 of the first steps for me to start knowing this game. I played Easy for two days, then Medium, 
 then I bought the game. I am a little on Hard but I can get all fives on a Medium song, and I love 
 this game. I can't wait for the fourth.
  
  If you have played Dance Dance Revolution, you will most likely enjoy this game's easiness on the 
 feet (because you won't need that) and wonderful gameplay. It's very easy and fun and you can't 
 say "no" to it. All you have to do is press on the fake guitar or even a controller which can save 
 you money, the right notes. But watch out. It can be a little bit tricky.
  
  The graphics are great. The two real life characters that you get, Slash and Tom Morello are eyecandy 
 to look at. You can choose them to be your characters for the game or just the other characters 
 you get, like God and the Devil who both have different names but it's very noticable that they 
 are what they are in biblical terms.
  
  The tracklisting is great. You start out with the easy "Slow Ride" to get you started and then 
 you will struggle through, "Through the Fire And the Flames" by Dragonforce. There is a lot of 
 music from the legends of rock. Many of these songs have difficult but challenging solos depending 
 on what difficulty level you are choosing. You can also download songs with the Microsoft money 
 stuff (haha) and you can also get bonus songs from what you have completed.
  
  So, if you enjoyed the previous games or just feel curious, rent or buy this game. And if that's 
 a question for you, you should buy this game. Worth the money you could've used on a bike. It's 
 very good and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Well I played the first GH and beat it. Beat it on Expert for the heck of it. Then I bought GH2 
 for myself since I beat 1 at a friends. Beat it. Beat it on Expert after a few weeks. Then for 
 my birthday this year I got GH3 for the 360. I was totally blown away! I wake up with it crammed 
 right into my face! Literally. And after 10 minutes of trying to get the controller connected to 
 my 360 and changing my LIVE password to erase I was on.
  
  Plot: As most people know with the GH series there never really was much of a plot. It was all 
 just a game were you played songs and made money, moved on to make more money, bought stuff, played 
 more songs etc. But these things made you feel like the game was just going on an on with no real 
 story to it. But GH3 presents its own little story. I played 3 before at my friends so I knew that 
 it was with a story. But as you all know, whats so big about a band? The story is really this. 
 Your band is just some dudes who have a guy come in and ask you to play. You rock the socks off 
 him and you play a gig in a yard. You get noted for your the awesome gig. Your band signs a contract 
 with this dude named Lou who sends you to places around the world as your band gets more and more 
 fan bass. Eventually after finishing the gig in Tokyo the band is badly shaped with paparazzi news. 
 The singer demand to stop the contract with Lou but then he holds it up and they see that it says 
 the bands souls are his. They are sent to Hell or something like it. Then they need to play the 
 Devil (Lou) in a battle to win the souls back and then they all live happily ever after. The End. 
 Yep.
  
  Game Play: Those of you not familiar with Rock Band or GH should note this. GH is a rhythm game. 
 Your controller or guitar controller are what you use to hit the notes on screen that are color 
 coded and come at you in swarms. Sadly those who have never really played it before will get pry 
 badly bruised on Expert. There really is MAJOR crank in the difficulty in 3 with longer more tougher 
 solos on Expert. For once you will pry need to practice the songs in practice. But there are 4 
 difficulties to play each with certain fret buttons to hit for the difficulty. Easy, First 3, Medium, 
 Adds Blue, Hard, Adds Orange and goes faster, Expert, you gotta have some double joints like me 
 to play some of this one. You get points when you hit notes and you get multipliers for hitting 
 10 in a row up to 4x. Then you just get a long non-screw up counter. The more points you have the 
 more stars you have the more money you get at the end of the song. The lowest you can get is 3 
 and 5 the highest. Then there is things called hammer on and pull off notes. These are lighter 
 colored and after you hit the strum on the guitar once you can just tap the color and not fret 
 the rest. Until you screw up of course. There are LOTS!!!!! of these little pests in Hard and Expert. 
 Trust me. Through The Fire And Flames by Dragon force from 2006 is a good example of these on Expert. 
 Lol. :) You gotta drink 3 Amps or something to finish that song because it is NUTS!!!!!!!!!!! Then 
 you got star power which you can use the whammy bar on to get star power from on long notes or 
 get it by tapping all the sequence with star notes on it to get some star power. You can get a 
 LOT of it but it only lasts a while. It really does 2 things. Helps your score by double whatever 
 Multiplier your on and boosting you back into the Green part of the Rock Meeter by hitting notes 
 correct. This is a LIFESAVER!!! on Expert especially on Cult Of Personality in the middle and One 
 by Metallica. You really only want to use this on Hard and Expert since Easy and Medium are easy 
 to get high scores on with it. Then you get money you can buy stuff. You can buy new characters 
 like classics and stuff and even bosses from the story like the Devil and the other 2. Tom Merrelo 
 from Rage Against the Machine, and Slash from Guns and Roses. I'll get more on that in just a sec. 
 Then you can buy new songs, download them off the marketplace, buy new skins and colors for your 
 characters, guitars, and a few cool movies, along with some finishes for purchased guitars. There 
 are a few achievements for the store like Buy all Characters, Buy all songs, Buy all guitars, and 
 buy everything. The first 2 are easy only worth 5G but the other ones require 5 starring EVERY 
 SINGLE SONG IN THE STORY!!!! to buy the stuff like guitars and finishes. 
  
  The main new thing in the series is pry the Guitar Battles in the game. There are only 3 battles 
 in the story but you can split screen a friend or play someone over LIVE on these. These battles 
 are a nice new add on but are somewhat easy at first. Battling is like a game of Pro Face Off in 
 multi player. You have a rock meter instead of a score meter though. You still get notes and streaks 
 but instead of star power notes you have battle Gems instead. These work the same with star power 
 by tilting the neck of the Guitar up but instead they unleash an attack on the opponent. This can 
 be either lefty flip, whammy bar (wave the whammy before being able to hit notes) , power up steal 
 (I think only in LIVE) , Double notes (every note is a chord instead of a single. Not fun.) , Broken 
 string (tapping the button a bunch before being able to use it) , Difficulty up (not in Expert :) , 
 and the ever so nasty amp overload. This makes notes flash on and off screen making it hard to 
 see them at all. Now you can store up to 3 of these at a time. You can fire them at any time but 
 there are certain times when you might want to use them like if the opponent is going to get a 
 power up. A whammy ain't gonna hurt much. lol. Also you can fire more than one at a time so you 
 can fire a double note and a whammy and pwn your challenger as their meter drains into red. The 
 winner of these in story gets to buy the character and then play an encore song with them . These 
 are really fun but you can easily win after the first 20 seconds on easy and medium though. Plus 
 you can't play to the end of the song or you lose if the person fires an attack at you at the end. 
 You can get all three of these off LIVE for FREE!!!!!!!!! Nothing says fun like The Devil Went 
 Down To Georgia on Expert. Fun fun fun! 
  
  Graphics: GH hasn't really changed it's graphics to much after Activision took over Harmonix. It 
 has a more gritty look to it but still the same paper mache looking stages and crowd members but 
 with a few dancers on a few gigs and demons and prisoners on levels but their really istn't much 
 greatness in the design. It makes you feel comfortable with the graphics since you wont be paying 
 to much attention as you play the song. The character models are REALLY GOOD. Hands down. The Grim 
 Ripper (I know thats how it's been since GH1) has a better scythe guitar and cloak now and a few 
 of the characters look better now. 
  
  Sound: The only real sounds made are the few clink sounds if you miss a note or mess up a strum 
 and selecting things in the menus. 
  
  Audio: GH3 has the BEST soundtrack in a GH game. There is Metallica, Guns and Roses, White Zombie 
 (exploding onto the highway. lol I have that song on my iPod and the album) , Ozzy, Bret Michaels, 
 Disturbed, Tenacious D, Slipknot, Superbus (lol :P) Charlie Daniels, Rage Against the Machine (again) , 
 Wheezer, Iron Maiden (finally) , and a LOT MORE. The songs are just amazing and they are mostly 
 ACTUAL recordings of the songs. One is just the best song on the whole game since it is the most 
 dramatic Metallica song and it is just beautiful in the guitar parts. TTFAF by Dragon force is 
 the HARDEST SONG EVER!!!!!!!!! You don't play it in the Story but you play in in Bonus and at the 
 end of a story mode but in the end you don't have a rock meter. "We carry always!"
  
  Conclusion: I love GH3 and enjoy paying it on LIVE and the songs are just amazing, the graphics 
 are wicked, the game is a lot better now and solid than the past GH's and is just by far better 
 than Rock Band. You really will enjoy the guitar over the Rock Band one. Less bulk and easier hammer 
 ons and pull offs. 
  
  Best note streak: 556
  Best Score: 265,231 ( I'm geusing cause I got the achievements)
  Favorite Songs: TTFAF, One, 
 Raining Blood.
  Mode on LIVE: Pro Face Off, Expert.
  Current Story: Medium 5 stared, Easy almost done, Hard, Finished, Expert final 4 songs. 
  Bring 
 it on if you want to face me. Check my profile for my Gamertag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't a lot that's changed between the Guitar Hero games, even with the change of 
 developers. The notes still come down the screen, there are still lots of characters and songs 
 to choose from, and the game is still a blast. The new track list has to be the strongest out of 
 all three of the games with songs like "Paint It, Black", "Even Flow" and "Sunshine of Your Love" 
 among other great songs. All of the characters are back except for my favorite Clive Winston, but 
 I've learned to forgive Neversoft. The biggest change is the addition of two real life guitarists, 
 Slash and Tom Morello, although there are more deserving candidates than the latter. Both are playable 
 and are featured in the controversial Battle modes. Personally I think they can be improved but 
 they are imbalanced sometimes. Overall it doesn't make much difference. My only complaint is the 
 difficulty in the game. Easy and Medium seemed like a cakewalk to me so I can't really say on how 
 those may be to beginners. Hard is where it takes a turn for the worst. They ask you to do insane 
 button presses which make the last few songs close to impossible. I know there are people out there 
 who can do it but it takes a lot of practice to get through. Overall Guitar Hero 3 is a game worth 
 getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekRubin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II was an excellent title, no doubt at all. Thus I had high expectations for this new 
 title, for there was a lot they could do. I would be wrong to say that they didn't do quite a bit 
 to improve it over its predecessor; but even though some of the new featues are great, others really 
 fall short. If you love the Guitar Hero games, there should be nothing dissuading you from picking 
 this one up, regardless. In fact everyone who liked II would be doing themselves a favor by getting 
 III. My main points to pick at with this one really revolve around what it could have been. A lot 
 of potential remained unlocked, and a lot of new features underwhelming.
  
  First off, the most important thing at this point is probably the song list. The gameplay is already 
 basically set in stone, so a good song selection is very important. Here, the game definitely pulled 
 through. The song selection is high quality, with a lot of color and variation. There is everything 
 from Iron Maiden, to The Rolling Stones, to Stevie Ray Vaughan. If you love Rock (or even Music 
 period) , you are going to find something here that you like. I am a guitar player myself, and I 
 really appreciated some of the selections, such as Eric Johnson, who are not very mainstream but 
 are respected in the Guitar Community. They could have easily put a mainstream pop song in its 
 place, but they went for an excellent guitar track that added a lot more to the game than the mundane 
 sugarcoated alternative might have, regardless of if it is more difficult for the average mainstream 
 gamer to appreciate.
  
  The gameplay is familiar, but does have somewhat of a different feel. It's not signifigant enough 
 to throw off anyone whom has only played I or II though. The new controller is excellent; it really 
 feels like a serious improvement over the Explorer and SG. The buttons, vibrato, and strumming 
 switch all have a nicer feel to them. Also the interchangeable faceplates are a great little idea 
 as well, I like being able to add more personality to my guitar than just a couple of lame stickers.
 
  
  The graphics are great overall, and a definite improvement over II. The character models and animations 
 definitely stand out in particular, a lot of detail has been implemented to making your character 
 and band lively and interesting. The art direction is generally good, with a lot of the different 
 characters well designed. Unfortunately there are some exceptions to this. The singer in particular 
 has a very different model, and it's quite lame. To be frank, he just looks cheesy, as do some 
 of the characters and their costumes. Also some of the guitars, especially the ones you unlock, 
 are sometimes flat out stupid. There's one shaped like a womans leg in a fishnet stocking, and 
 another with a toilet and a rat in it. I understand trying to be fun and mixing it up with different 
 guitars, but some of those are just lame. I would rather have an emphasis on cool looking guitars 
 as opposed to guitars there to be jokes (which is fine) , but nearly all of the ones you unlock 
 from beating the different modes are stupid (there's even one shapes like a coffin) . There are 
 plenty of cool guitars to get though, like the Thunderbird and immortal Les Paul, and plenty of 
 cool finishes. It's just there were too many lame ones as opposed to interesting eye catching ones.
 
  
  The framerate always holds up well, and it's a slick looking game. They could have done a bit more 
 with the 360 Technology maybe, but it's really fine. You are paying attention to jamming on your 
 guitar as opposed to following the motions on stage of course. And again the gameplay still holds 
 up well, and the core of it is still intact.
  
  As I noted though there are plenty of additions that fell short. First off there is a new emphasis 
 on a story with these animated cinematics. They aren't really that interesting at all, and are 
 in fact not even worth watching during the first play through. Also the boss battle addition is 
 kind of cool sometimes, but in the end it would have been better left out. The system was a good 
 idea, but it fell short when it came down to it. The attacks that you are able to perform on the 
 boss battles in replacement for the star power really just feel like a distraction from the action. 
 I don't want to have to worry about looking at any screen other than mine, but you constantly have 
 to scan both, and you are forced to win by using these attacks over and over again until they get 
 booed off.
  
  Attacks sounded like a good idea, but I really don't want to have to keep watching the boss's screen 
 so I know when to time it right. I will have to look at their screen constantly, even while I'm 
 doing very fast passages, to see when they get to a difficult part so I know when to use the move. 
 Also in the end they feel like a hindrance overall; not only are they not at all satisfying to 
 perform, but it's extremely annoying to be affected by one of the attacks. They really in the end 
 just feel like cheap tricks, but at least most of those are fun to perform.
  
  Also it annoys me that the bosses all hit their notes perfectly, so the only chance you have of 
 beating them is not only surviving, but using a stupid bag of cheap tricks to get them booed off. 
 A survival mode would have been fine for me, where you would need to survive until the end to win, 
 that simple. Some of the boss passages are really fun to play though, and alot really could have 
 been done with this idea of having guitar duels with bosses. They aren't unbearable, but trust 
 me you wont look forward to them, and you will most likely wish they hadn't been implemented at 
 all, as I do.
  
  Other than these boss battles the game is basically the same in career mode. You play gigs, change 
 venues, earn cash. This is the same story as the other games in the series. There are some nice 
 new things to buy though, and as I already stated the song selection is excellent as always (it's 
 tough to tell if it has a better one than II or not, I haven't made up my mind) so the GH Fan shouldn't 
 be dissapointed here. The multiplayer is ok, I honestly would have liked to see more done here. 
 There's fun to have, coop is always fun as is vs mode. They really should have done more with the 
 Xbox Live potential. There's not much of an excuse this time because they've had plenty of time 
 and funding to develop this one, and they have a lot more powerful technology at their disposal 
 this time around. I do think it's a matter of time though before the series makes the big jump 
 into the online scene, it's too much potential wasted. This could easily be the most killer Xbox 
 Live game in existence if done right. I guess we just play the waiting game from here on out.
 
  
  
  The replay value is of course there. The core of GH, touring and earning cash to buy stuff, is 
 as I said, as solid as ever, and this alone will have you in front of the screen for hours. The 
 new songs (and some new downloadable tracks) should definitely hook in the GH fans, and they should 
 also enjoy the new updated graphics (even if more could've been done with them) . All of these things 
 alone are enough to hook alot of people, and the popularity of the game shows how true that is. 
 Even if it could've been more, it's definitely worth picking up if you love these games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4thecrap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Guitar Hero series since I played the first game on the PS2. I loved the 
 feel of the guitar as I played (laugh) Symphony of Destruction on Medium. Then along comes the 
 second game with it's amazing play-list and it felt great to five star Free-bird. My hopes were 
 set high when I first opened up the box to play Guitar Hero III. I started playing and I felt like 
 I was home. I got all the way to last set and... it was like I hit a brick wall which took my guitar 
 and beat me with it. The game seemed manageable up until that point and that's where I just stopped. 
 I've loved this game for a while but this installment just seemed like it wasn't Guitar Hero. I 
 think there was some overcompensation for the lack of Harmonix and this just kinda killed the game 
 for me. The game has multi-player this time around and it does kind of add to the experience, but 
 not much. 
  Over all I think this is a good game, but it just doesn't stack up to the first two as well as 
 you would think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dgbleach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  My review for the game Guitar Hero III: Legends Of Rock, for the console Xbox 360. I think it's 
 an almost perfect game... Of course, all reviews are just opinions.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  You play the role of a very good guitarist of a band, going through 8 venues and a lot of songs. 
 If you buy the complete game, that includes a guitar, your mission is to play the notes that comes 
 to you on the screen. You held down a 'Fret', and 'strum' the note, like a real guitar. The goal 
 is score as much points as possible by hitting all the notes you can. If you fail much notes, you 
 fail the song, and you have to play it again. If you are about to fail it, you can activate the 
 'Star Power', which makes the crowd go wild and makes it easier to pass the song. But this feature 
 doesn't last much, so is good to know when to use it. Some of the flaws are, you cannot create 
 a character. You have to use the ones that are already created, and, you have to be a real legend, 
 because the difficulty is more high compared to the other games in the franchise.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sounds are very good, except that the Tracklist is not very good, but still 
 is nice to have much hours of fun. Bands such as Queens Of The Stone Age, Slipknot, Metallica, 
 Iron Maiden, The Who, and many others are featured on this game. If you don't held down a long note, 
 the sound stops, like in a real guitar.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Very, very good graphics, and even more if you have a HDTV, which makes it look awesome. The venues 
 you play look very real, and the characters are very detailed.
  
  Re-playability: 10/10
  You can always pick up your guitar, and shred the songs you like. You can always play just for 
 fun, to get better at it or have even higher scores. You can play it for about one year. It never 
 stops.
  
  Overall: 9.8
  Very good game in my opinion. You can play it much, much times, enjoy the songs, get better at 
 it, having fun messing with the 'Cheats' section, which lets you make sounds with the guitar, etc. 
 etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is definitely a guitar hero game through and through. It offers a nice track list 
 with a ton of fun and well-known songs to play, with a variety of genres at its back. Every song 
 contains excellent note-charts that nail the feeling and vibe of the song.
  The first noticeable difference from Guitar Hero II is the forgivingness of the timing of the notes. 
 If you are a second late in hitting a note, no worries! This is both a pro and a con to the gaming 
 experience. For newcomers to guitar hero, this feature allows a much easier learning curve than 
 previous installments, making it a lot more likely for a newbie to get interested in the game. 
 Though this is great for the new guitarists, for hardcore fans, it's almost a set back... Most 
 songs almost seem too easy, especially when you can hit the notes seconds after they pass.
  But then again, Activision almost did this for a reason. Some songs (such as Through the Fire and 
 the Flames and Devil Went Down to Georgie) could never be passable unless they were a bit more 
 forgiving. So all and all, this feature is very tolerable for hardcore guitar heroers and the newcomers.
 
  The tracklist is awesome, no doubt about it, but it definitely isn't up to par with GH2, where 
 GH3 lacks those "epic" songs. Also, GH3 has doesn't have any short songs, every single one takes 
 about 5 minutes to finish, and when the songs isn't fun, it makes the game not fun. When going 
 through career mode, and you have to complete 20-30 songs in the beginning that are both really 
 easy, repetitive, and rather boring, it just seems like a bore. This is fantastic for newcomers, 
 as it allows them a nice learning curve into the game, but again, for the hardcore guitar heroers, 
 it's just a nuisance to have to play through these songs in order to reach the "fun" ones.
  The Xbox Live multiplayer is a great addition to the Guitar Hero experience. You can now play people 
 online in a very easily manageable fashion, and it's a blast to trash talk anybody and everybody 
 that you play. Though Live can sometimes stall in the "Finding a Game Session" screen for a while, 
 it is still an awesome addition to the game.
  No doubt about it, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a great game, and it will leave rockers 
 satisfied. A must buy for anyone itching to unlock their inner rocker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllHal0sADdiCt
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 AHHHHhhh....... I remember when people thought that buying a game that would actually 
 be like a real guitar was a stupid idea. not really. For everyone that likes to waste there life 
 playing video games, me included, this is the game for us weirdoes. alright, back on track. guitar 
 hero 3 is a dream come true, of course being in a family with four kids me included, i like rock 
 band better, but thats my oppinion. guitar hero 3 has a few things rock band does not have, guitar 
 hero 3 has songs that people playing rock band would get bored with. guitar hero 3's songs are 
 harder (yay!!) and dont have as much singing, hurrray for guitarists!!!!!!! sorry drummers and singers....... if 
 you want a short yet fun game, this is for you, if you want a game that you can create your own 
 rockstars, visit my review for rock band. i will say adiew (french for goodbye) by saying, BUY 
 THIS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a wildly fun and exciting game but it really isn't all fun and games when you 
 can seriously make your fingers and arms feel like crap. When I first heard of Guitar Hero 3 coming 
 out, I thought it would have mostly modern rock music, that's when they put in "Legends of Rock." 
 If you've played the other Guitar Heroes, you can just tell that the third one won't contain "Legends" 
 but gay-a** songs that probably no one has ever heard of unless you were born in the 40s. What 
 60-year-old wants to play Guitar Hero? That's what I ask. I may be overreacting here but seriously... 
 it would have been better off cutting off "Legends of Rock" and just keep it Guitar Hero 3 with 
 modern music that the 21st century teens would enjoy, not the seniors. The game does actually contain 
 mostly modern 21st century music but it lacks of the most famous of all. I play this game a lot 
 and I really like it but I'm not too happy with the 20th century music that goes all the way back 
 to the 40s. Guitar Hero "Rock the 80s" didn't contain good songs from the 80s at all, what they 
 should have done was take the "old" songs from GH3 and put them into "Rock the 80s" and then call 
 it "Legends of Rock" keeping GH3 with it's good ol' 21st century music. One thing that I liked 
 mostly about the game were the venues and graphics (they look a lot better than the cheap Guitar 
 Hero 2's Xbox 360 graphics) . Songs on GH3 are mostly too hard. There's way too much finger tapping 
 and constant strumming up and down. The venues' lights flash waaaaaay too much in which I think 
 can cause seizures throughout the colors and constant flashing. The four difficulties are too hard 
 now for even a beginner to start at. Guitar Hero 1+2 are both easy-to-learn for newcomers at GH. 
 Expert in GH3 is now impossible for most songs. You're constantly using your "Star Power" and you're 
 tapping your fingers like crazy just to get through the chorus. At the end of the song (if you 
 make it) your arms and fingers feel like s*** and you're probably not gonna go to the next song. 
 GH3 lost it's touch when it comes to having fun and instead it turns into a button-mashing mania. 
 I can play most songs on expert but I can see that this game was a really letdown when it came 
 to songs, difficulty, button-mashing, and a hazardous game for seizures. To top that, GH3's Les 
 Paul wireless controller was the biggest disappointment of them all. This piece of plastic isn't 
 even close to the real Les Paul. The "fret" buttons can get stuck down into the controller and 
 basically, this plastic toy is only for the kids. Teens might enjoy this controller a little, but 
 I for sure was deeply disgraced. The "wammy" bar looked fake, the "strummer" looked stupid, the 
 "fret" buttons acted like they were meant to be broken, custom skins made the controller look even 
 more fake, and the stickers, don't even start me. In all, GH3 isn't as good as you'd think it may 
 be (especiall with "Legends of Rock") . If you like classic rock music with more players and lots 
 of fun, Rock Band is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Rockband Is a game i became addicted too over this game. This game is all about hitting notes, 
 The star power does not even last you 20 seconds in a song which is beyong HARD to beat this game 
 in. You have to have super guitair unhuman skills to beat this game on expert or glitch it.
  
  No Download content at all that appeals to me.
  
  
  Facing the Boss in the game were 
 just quicky add on's which is glitchable and weak and lame.
  
  Im more dispointed in the direction this game has gone. If GH 4 does not out sell Rockband they 
 are in trouble.
  
  
  
  
  I prefer Rockband over the GREAT 4 player mode. The detail and the work they put into the game. 
 I prefer the Rockband insurments over the GH ones. For real the GH Guitar looks like a baby's toy 
 compared to the Rockband one. 
  
  
  Bottom line if you want to be noting but the best waste your time playing this game it gives ya 
 some fast finger skills but pretty fustrating. 
  
  If you want a fun great time with your friends and still get a good laugh and fun times Rockband 
 is the game you want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The same as the other guitar hero's but with a lot more songs, and boss battles which 
 are pretty fun. The game isn't all that much harder, i've beaten expert and gotten 5 stars on all 
 hard songs but i've been playing for over a year so it does take a while to get good at. Online 
 is for sure the funnest though because you get to own people or get owned but it's a lot funner 
 just because your facing a real person. There's also offline and online co-op and practice mode 
 to practice songs. There is a lot to buy in the shop from guitars, guitar skins, new songs and 
 lots of clothes. I would highly reccomend buying this game if your new to GH or if you've played 
 GH before. It's about 100$ with the guitar but it so worth it and is probably the funnest game 
 to play with friends (other than rock band) .
  
  Graphics: Decent, not really a game meant to have good graphics, but they're mostly cartoony
 
  
  Sound: Great but I don't reccomend playing on a Mono T. V.
  
  Overall just buy this game, it's better than Rock Band for guitar and probably songs but not if 
 your getting lot's of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a really great game. It has amazing music, a few real characters like Slash and 
 Tom Morello. It is interesting but really addicting if you're a huge music fan like me. It has a 
 good blend of styles and bands such as Guns N' Roses, ZZ Top, Metallica, and Matchbook Romance. It 
 can be REALLY hard as I mentioned before. In one song called Through The Fire and Flames, the expert 
 level on it is insanely difficult, and nobody has ever got an FC (FC stands for full combo, or 100% 
 on a song) on it, except for a guy who built this bot, and the bot got 100% because that's the way 
 it was programed (the video is on Youtube. The name of it is Through the Fire and Flames 100% (BOT) ) . You 
 will really enjoy the fact that now all the guitars have wireless connectivity instead of the chords 
 making the wireless ones more expensive. The XBOX360 version of Guitar Hero III allows you to log 
 in to your XBOX Live account and download songs, for money of course. Also, if you're a Halo fan, then 
 you'll love this, there is the Halo theme twisted a little for Guitar Hero III! It isn't a whole 
 lot different, it just has more guitar than it did before because before it didn't have any guitar. Some 
 other songs available for download are The Pretender-The Foo Fighters, and All My Life-Foo Fighters. You 
 can play Bass Guitar in Co-op play or in practice mode. There are guitar battles, where you try to 
 make the opponent fail using power ups instead of Star Power. I'll name a few power ups and explain 
 what they do. Broken String makes one fret button on your opponents screen pop up and you can't 
 use it until you push it a bunch of times. Then it gos back down and you can use it again. Amp Overload 
 makes your opponents guitar neck notes dissapear and re-appear over and over and you still have 
 to play them. One more powerup is called difficulty up, which makes you play one more level higher 
 example: if you play on easy and you get difficulty up, you have to play on medium for a short period 
 of time. But if you're on expert, the last difficulty, it turns into a double note which adds a note 
 on the neck no matter what. I really think that you'll like this game even if you don't play guitar 
 or really any instrument. It's a little expensive for the game and guitar, but it's totally worth 
 it. Thanks for reading and I hope you have fun with your new Guitar Hero III game!
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Underground9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  well lets say it's almost the best Rhythm/Music game 
  
  there some serious Rock Bands in this game like Rage Against Machine and Guns N' Roses thats type 
 a music. and there is a new guitar in game. this is much more smooth then the guitar in GH2. so 
 the new thing in this game is the Boss Battles and you need too fight slash and Tom Morello well 
 it was ok but not that ok nevermind that. i think Tom Morello is harder then slash but ii don't 
 know. but the really crazy song in this game is the DragonForce Song if you take it on expert then 
 it go so fast if you make one mistake you can not save it i tryed it ones. and there is a co-op 
 you and your friend can just play through the whole store but the worst thing wth this is you need 
 too unlock the songs with your friends time. its hard but you learn it but it takes time. theres 
 4 difficult Easy and Normal and Hard and Expert i think you should take the easy first if you new 
 too the series and if you get better then take normal if you get better then me take hard :) i normale 
 play at normal. If you like the GH series then go get this it's definitely worth your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddBowls
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is an awesome game. Guitar Hero was excellent and innovative, Guitar Hero II did more 
 of the same but on a wider variety of consoles. Guitar Hero III achieved... wait what did Guitar 
 Hero III achieve? It's the same old gameplay, same game, the only difference: boss battles, online 
 play. Boss battles we're okay definetely not worth buying yet another guitar hero for. Online play 
 was frustrating to say the least, if your winning your opponent quits, if your losing your just 
 plain frustrated. And lets face it playing with a friend spli-screen and yelling PWNED!!! in his 
 face after a shredding victory will ALWAYS be funner that pwning some 8 year-old playing on the 
 wrong difficulty half-way across the world. All in all, a great game, but haven't we seen this 
 already? My advice: buy Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icetray86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  ---------------
  Pros:
  ---------------
  Cool, new gutairs to buy.
  Some songs are pretty cool.
  KOC is a great song.
  --------------
  Cons:
  --------------
 
  Fret board is darker than ever.
  Most songs are lousy and are "slower" than in real life.
  TERRIBLE START.
  No big changes in fretboards.
  Judy Nails isn't cute anymore. And she hates 
 14 year olds.
  -------------
  
  
  I play GH II, and I bought this on my vacation in Florida. With me coming home, I was severly disapointed, 
 and never played it again. Then I played it a few more times and started to like it.
  
  
  
  That's the thing: Bad start. The first song is lousy, and you'll probably be randomized with 
 a lousy character, which will most certainly make you want to turn it off. But lets forget that, 
 and get down to the basics.
  
  
  
  First off, the characters you enjoyed from GH II have been replaced with idiots.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  The cute, adorable Judy Nails has now become a pig-ugly, 14 year old hating, hippie chick, wearing 
 some cheap looking makeup, and probably a few tattoos. She's actually doesn't look too bad, but 
 to call this Judy Nails is just wrong.
  
  
  She's gained a few pounds, got some peicings, and who knows what else. And she hates 14 year olds. 
 Sucks... but anyways,
  
  
  
  The Axel Steel dude or whatever, has now become an EVEN BIGGER Biker-like freak. He does look a 
 bit cooler, but insanly over-buff.
  
  
  He's face is also extremly skraggy, almost like he has no eyeballs.
  
  
  
  
  That black 
 hippie guy (Forgot the name) , now look AWEFUL!!!
  
  
  
  
  Well I think you get the point of what's happening here.
  
  
  
  Johnny is even more ugly.
 
  
  Judy Nails has gained a few pounds.
  
  Izzy is some sort of.... foxy dad or something.
  
  Lars has shrunk in size.
  
  Axel is bigger 
 and buffer.
  
  Casey is topless. (What the hell!?)
  
  And that other hippie dude, looks like a complete idiot.
  
  
  The only normal looking character 
 is this chinese girl, Mindori or something. Apart from that, all other characters you've known 
 have been removed, and replaced with Real-life Gutair heros, like Slash.
  
  
  
  
  
  For the graphics, maybe passable for PS2. The fretboard seems dark and dim, and the fret notes 
 look washed out. Everything else is shiny, but characters are so freaky.
  
  
  
  For instance, the singer opens his moulth wide and closes it, even when he's not singing.
  
 
  
  
  Other times, he just doesn't look like the voice for the guy who's singing.
  
  
  Or when a song is start, he just sudden walks out of a shadow, singing.
  
  
  
  
  And 
 considering his dog-like apperance, I don't think that he had to be very detailed, like the rest 
 of the band guys are detailed.
  
  
  The gameplay is the same, but the sound is aweful.
  
  
  For starters, most songs on GH3 are alot slower than they really are in RL. And most of 
 the songs aren't even that pleasent to play. And they're TOO LONG. I mean, you will nearly die, 
 playing a 30 minute song on Expert.
  
  
  
  
  
  With Terrible songs, dark fretboards, and a ruined Judy Nails, you'll want to stick with GH2. Although 
 fun at times, you won't get too much enterainment out of this.
  
  
  
  
  ____________
  INITAL SCORE:
  
  F+
  
  ____________
  FINAL SCORE:
  
  B+
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dude_98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game back in January having never even touched a Guitar Hero game before and instantly 
 went to Medium difficulty without too much trouble. I went through Medium without failing a song 
 in the first night i got it before progressing to Hard. It wasn't until the 7th set in Hard where 
 I started to struggle and failed my first song. People say the game is difficult to new players 
 but I somewhat disagree, while the game does require a lot of practice and much later on in to 
 the game with songs like Raining Blood and Through the Fire and Flames it does get insanely difficult. 
 If you start at the lower levels and play through easy - followed by medium you'll probably be 
 able to manage hard, and by the time you're up to the higher end of the Hard Career you'll probably 
 be able to manage the first few sets in Expert. My only annoyance with the difficulty is that Raining 
 Blood should not have been in Career songs, instead as a bonus. I was stuck on it for about 1 month 
 on hard and 2 months on Expert. It's the only song I have yet to get 5* on on hard and only song 
 I've got 3 stars on on Expert.
  
  This game has a great track-list and with download-able content it just gets better with the likes 
 of Muse and Velvet Revolver packs available to download.
  
  As good as the single player is - the most fun can be found in Multiplayer. going head to head 
 in Pro Faceoff can provide hours of entertainment at a time, bring in a group of friends and take 
 turns and you'll wonder what happened to the time.
  
  A few more minor things I dislike about this title: Battle mode is all about luck, and if you're 
 on a higher difficulty against someone on a lower difficulty you'll have a much harder time winning 
 to the point where a newbie can pick up the game on easy and most likely beat you playing on Expert. 
 The Guitar Controller starts to "break" after a short while, while there are numerous fixes for 
 some of the problems they shouldn't be there in the first place and why does the controller come 
 in two parts anyway? The Box is the same size as that of the Guitar Hero 2 box!
  
  Overall is this a very solid game and despite it's very flaws here and there you'll find yourself 
 coming back to it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Rock out, man! This GH game is all about rocking. You can rock out whatever way you want: with 
 your soul, with your feet, or even with your guitar! While not as flexible to singers and drummers 
 like the war enemy Rock Band, GH pleases pretty much the whole crowd with its amazing song list, 
 challenging gameplay, and, of course, "Through Fire and Flames." Da da da da da da da da daaaaa 
 da dadaaaaa. No, for real. You have to play that song. It's so great to listen to you; you'll love 
 it. Until you fail. Then it'll become a problem. This game is challenging, great, and, duh, music 
 to the ears. This is the perfect way to show your inner rockstar and rock out and... I'm going to 
 go play it! Wait, am I done yet? Oh, now I can play it! Yay, 'cause it's so fun you'll like it 
 gee so good everyone does buy it hopefully this review was helpful and it's fun, challenging, rocking, 
 and "Through Fire and Flames"ing! For those about to rock, we salute you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was an interesting gimmick franchise that happened to make a lot of money and was handled 
 by people who knew how to run with a ball. I'm sure this game will make a lot of people a lot of 
 money. However, since the release of Rock Band, Guitar Hero has been more or less busted back to 
 what it always has been -- an interesting novelty. Only now, it's outstripped by a product that's 
 entirely superior.
  
  The problem with Guitar Hero 3, ignoring the technical elements (your band looks awful beyond belief) , 
 is the fact that since previous installments were successful the third game more or less targeted 
 Guitar Hero players. The fun thing about the original was that it was a fresh concept you could 
 play with non-gamers as well. Guitar Hero 3 is not very accommodating to new players, and thus, 
 lost probably it's best aspect -- the social element. The game is much less accessible, the difficulty 
 has gone up for no apparent reason, and it's very difficult to progress from one difficulty setting 
 too another -- everything is either too easy or far too hard.
  
  All in all, since the reslease of Rock Band this game has been made obselete, but it's a shame 
 it was never much good anyway. It could have been just an interesting third installment if they 
 hadn't tried to target the hoardcore players and stuck to the accessibility the previous games 
 had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 31, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 was the worse out of all guitar heroes. I mean it had a bunch of lousy songs from 
 the 1960s. Sometimes it just gets plane boring because all you do is, strum strum strum, whammy 
 whammy whammy, hit buttons over and over. It's pretty boring in my opinion. I'll give it a 7 online 
 because online it's pretty fun when you get to vs. people. Alright, well, in guitar hero 3 it has 
 a bunch of lousy songs 150 year olds listen to. If you get stuck on a song there's nothing you 
 can do about it. When you're on raining blood on the very last part it's really hard and you get 
 stuck there and there's nothing you can do about it except play the songs you already beat which 
 gets pretty boring. If you like guitar hero, but want something way better and a little easier 
 get Rock Band. It comes with Drums, Vocals, Bass, and Guitar. Rock Band never gets boring at least 
 not for a while because you have four instruments to play. If you don't like Rock Band get Guitar 
 Hero 2 or 1. Those are fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to point out that the difficulty rating thing here is based off the career modes alone, 
 with the exception of the Devil Went Down to Georgia, which is irritating to listen to, not fun 
 to play, and broken in terms of difficulty. 
  
  Right then, to the actual points of the review.
  
  The first and second Guitar Hero games were 
 very fun - the few times I played the first one I had a blast, and the second game is probably 
 one of maybe 4 games I've clocked 100 hours on with the 360. 
  
  The third one on the other hand?
  It is a glitchy, derivative, lazy, boring imitator. 
  
 
  Graphics- 
  Everything is very shiny, which is fine - if it weren't for the fact that for each detailed environment, 
 there is tons of advertising (does anyone else see the irony of having Axe go-go dancers while 
 playing Holiday in Cambodia?) and the character models are crap. Some of the environments are nice, 
 but others are a bit lackluster or lazy. 
  
  They took out some of the good characters, turned on the "prostitute" switch for the female characters, 
 and made the rest of the characters look like complete idiots. The animations are not all that 
 better - the guitarists move about and are animated, but the identical crowd stands there, not 
 doing anything. The singer flails about randomly, and opens his mouth really wide and shuts it 
 over and over again. His head also looks like a block, and the hilarity of watching him is one 
 of the few redeeming qualities of the game. 
  
  Sound-
  Well, lots of guitar noises here. There are some good master tracks, some horrible setlist choices, 
 and some really stupid songs. (Raining Blood, Through the Fire and the Flames) . While it is nice 
 to have some master tracks, it is cringe-inducing how bad the covers are (and some of the re-recordings) . 
 
  
  The cover of Paranoid is reminiscent of the cover of Institutionalized from the previous game, 
 in that the singer just kind of talks without putting any heart into it or singing. The re-recording 
 of Anarchy in the UK also suffers from lousy singing, but the problem there is not with Neversoft 
 so I cannot really blame them on this one. The cover of Holiday in Cambodia is well... butchered 
 horribly, and it is a shame - great song leaving a bad impression on people due to the cover. 
 
  
  Stability - Not a ton of it. The game is very glitchy, with there being achievements that will 
 unlock through easy to accidentally perform glitches, the frets will occasionally stop working 
 or the notes will stop registering, and star power randomly activates. In addition, if you miss 
 a note and as it goes off screen and you hit the next note, the one you missed takes priority, 
 and the rock meter goes down. 
  
  At this point, you may be saying "You've only pointed out the fringe aspects of the game and not 
 gotten to the core, blah blah blah I think Dragonforce is original", or something like that. So 
 let us move along to the gameplay, which is the most important part.
  
  Gameplay - It doesn't hold up well to previous installments. It feels like the strum note window 
 has been tightened up, and that the Hammer-on/Pull-off window has been loosened, thus making the 
 game a whole deal less satisfying and more frustrating. There are notes in the charts that aren't 
 in the songs, bits where there are single hammer-ons or pull-offs that don't have any business 
 being where they are, and songs where there should be hammer-ons or pull-offs but aren't. 
  
  The note charts are a huge problem. Neversoft tried to pick songs that would be difficult, 
 not fun, and it shows. Section 7 of the career mode is an obvious example of what I'm about to 
 mention - the 3-note chord fetish. For some reason, this game has a few billion 3-note chords, 
 many of which really don't feel like they belong where they do. In previous games, a 3-note chord 
 sounded heavier than normal notes, and they made sense for the most part. GH3 throws waves after 
 waves of them at you in an attempt to confuse you and cripple your fingers. Sometimes they don't 
 sound any different (Paranoid, Number of the Beast) . Sometimes they aren't fun to play (3s and 
 7s, Before I Forget) . And on one occasion, there was a shift from a two note chord to a three note 
 chord just to go one note higher. I forget where that was, but it would be easy enough to find 
 again.
  
  Star Power has been rendered useless, as it lasts for about 15 seconds with the base amount and 
 maybe 45 seconds with full. It also is less effective, as you lose rock meter faster than you gain 
 it, even with star power on. 
  
  The difficulty here is something to note - maybe it is just that I've finally gotten decent at 
 these games, but GH3's career was a lot easier to get through than GH2s. Before getting to Devil 
 Went Down To Georgia, I had only failed 5 times - not five songs, five times overall. The Boss 
 Battles are the only really difficult part, which was where I had failed the majority of songs 
 which I failed . The career also seemed a lot shorter, because a lot of the songs were not very 
 memorable. Most of it was just endless chord-work, nothing really fun to play. The only songs which 
 I can remember playing are My Name is Jonas, all of section 5, Cult of Personality, and all of 
 Section 8. The rest all seem kinda hazy. 
  
  There is just one more point I need to make here.
  Boss battles suck. They were a bad idea, and 
 they were executed badly. The first two are brief, mildly amusing interludes that just seemed like 
 a mini-game that had a slight amount of novelty, but nothing you'd really want to play again. I 
 have no problem with the first two, because they were short, easy, optional, and despite myself, 
 I found myself having a bit of fun with them. 
  
  The third boss battle pops up, and I am at loss for words that this website won't censor. It is 
 75% luck and 25% skill, adding up to 100% crap. By the time you get your second battle gem, the 
 devil has gotten four of them. You get the harder song track (for the most part) , and battle powers 
 are completely ineffective against the devil except if you have multiple at the same time. Amp 
 Overload and Lefty Flip seemed to not do anything, as the devil still hits all the notes. There 
 is a delay between when you use an ability and when it actually takes effect, which is infuriating 
 because if you use them too soon, they won't do anything, and if you use them too late - again, 
 they won't do anything. 
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock (if it is legends why is Tenacious D in this game?) 
 leaves a bitter taste in my mouth. It has none of the fun from the previous games, and introduces 
 a huge mess of problems that hopefully will be rectified with Guitar Hero 4. 
  
  But they probably won't be. Not with Activision and Neversoft running the franchise into the ground, 
 with all the problems mentioned before, the mostly pop music soundtrack of GH: OT, the fact that 
 GH: AS uses the GH3 engine, and that GH4 is ripping off Rock Band. 
  
  In short:
  The good: Hilariously bad animations. Has online (which I have only played a few times, having 
 had problems and no fun with it) . Co-op career is nice. 
  
  The bad: Everything else.
  
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  The original Guitar Hero for PS2 was an amazing game that everybody instantly fell in love with. 
 Sure, the graphics were abysmal, gameplay was bad, and hammerons and pulloffs didn't even exist 
 making the game much harder than it should've been. But everyone loved the game. Guitar Hero II 
 came out and it was even better than the original. Amazing songs, such as Free Bird and Hangar 
 18, and harder unknown songs; like Trogdor and Jordan. Guitar Hero Rock the 80's was fulfilling, 
 and had some nice songs on it. But Guitar Hero III is sort of a dissapointment. I expected it to 
 be the greatest music game ever, and it fell short of my expectations. First of all, the song list 
 isn't that great. Sure, it has Guns n' Roses, Metallica, Weezer, and Muse. But do you really think 
 you are going to be replaying the songs Kool Thing, Anarchy in the UK, and Hit Me With Your Best 
 Shot over and over? No. The bonus songs in Guitar Hero II were what made it the best in the series, 
 with songs like Jordan, Six, and Trogdor. The bonus songs in Guitar Hero III seem lacking. Once 
 you get past Through the Fire and Flames, the only other really fun song to play is Impulse. I 
 picked up Rock Band to find it releases DLC every week, something that GH3 sometimes doesn't even 
 do monthly, and it includes drums, microphone, and guitar. Pick up on Rock Band before you get 
 Guitar Hero III. Overall, its a fun game that you will play a lot --- but it's not the best game 
 you can get. 
  I think Guitar Hero: On Tour will be amazing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  When I got this game and set it up, I wondered what all the fuss was about. I could hardly get 
 the guitar to work -- don't laugh, I was just learning. The controller still doesn't feel quite 
 as natural as it could, but once you get the hang of the timing necessary to hit notes, it's pretty 
 hard to resist. Some of the more upper-level techniques are so annoying, I don't think they should 
 have been mandatory in the game. But I'm not a designer, so I can't change things. 
  
  That said, the other major obstacle to smoothness is that there are only a few songs suitable for 
 raw beginners. We don't all have the earlier games and it would have been more fun to see a wider 
 song selection open to the new recruits. Still, the concept is a lot of fun. It's hard not to smile 
 as you finally hit a long chord, spice it up with the whammy bar and coax extra notes out of a 
 good solo. If you like music, this game will bring you some good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yami_Ethi
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 "Legends of Rock" is the ideal game for rock music lovers! It's a rhythm based game 
 that makes the player get into the songs and become the guitarist. 
  
  The remote guitar control is very useful and also makes this game more of a partying game (you 
 can even decorate yours with stickers etc.) . For the X box 360 version there are pretty many features 
 including Career, Quickplay and Online game for up to 2 players. There are 4 difficulty levels 
 which are very important as a good player will probably finish the easy mode in a couple of hours. 
 These levels give a continuation to the game and actually are the real challenge! Easy mode is 
 straight forward, while medium becomes already difficult. Hard is very difficult. These three would've 
 been difficult enough already, but Guitar Hero 3 also offers expert mode which is just madness! 
 After every song you play, you can view your scores and see how many notes you actually hit. Another 
 great feature is the Practice feature. This allows you to chose one or more sections of a song 
 and allows you to practice them in one of 3 lower speed levels. This is pretty useful as you will 
 want to practice them without re-playing the whole song. 
  
  The only thing that might annoy you is the extreme difficulty of some songs, you will get exhausted 
 if your fingers aren't used stretching or your right hand isn't used strumming that much. Another 
 negative point would be that you might not like every song in the game, and you will have to go 
 through it in order to complete the stage. This is why you should check the songs that are in the 
 game, before purchasing it. 
  
  So Guitar Hero 3 will be very difficult to you if you haven't played any of the previous Guitar 
 Hero games, but overall it is definitely worth buying if you like rock songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrfly07
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  as u can see this game is cool. career mode is awesome. characters are good. xbox live is cool 
 too. i get on and wioo my budies Ass. i highly recomand it too u all. trust me ul love it. plus 
 i got it for 53 on ebY Brand new b!#C$ u wish !!! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !N ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 111111111111 1111111 11111 1111111 1111111 
 111111 1111111 11111 1111111111 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1111111 11111 111111 1111 1 
 11111 11 1111 111111 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1111111111111 111111 11111111 1 1 1 1111111111 the number one 
 game in the world!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potts1350
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I had never played any of the Guitar Hero games before this one and on release day i bought it 
 because of the hype and because everyone said they liked it so much. I do not regret my decision 
 at all. What is so great is that basically anyone can play this game. The difficulty levels are 
 just right and after a month i was playing on hard/expert where the songs just got more fun, even 
 after playing them lots of times over and over again. Every time I finish another game I always 
 come back to this one. It just seems to never get old and is definitely worth the $100 I paid for 
 it. There are around 100 songs now including those available for download off of xbox live and 
 many of the new additions are great such as the boss battle songs, Velvet Revolver Pack, and the 
 metal track pack. Unlike many other games this game gets more fun and never grows old as you get 
 better and are able to play hard songs. Also the online multiplayer is very fun with the options 
 to either play with or against other players and see how you compare. I would recommend this game 
 to anyone because of the range it provides in terms of age and because of the fact that it's worth 
 the money because it's a great game to always come back too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craftieman05
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  This game could have been great. Had a pretty good song list and it is freaking guitar hero, you 
 really could not mess up the core gameplay. But somehow Activision did. I will be going over the 
 PS2 version and 360 version. The score reflects the xbox score.
  
  The graphics on the 360 version aren't that great. The only thing that makes them look okay is 
 the lighting on the characters. Also the thing that sets in apart is the lightning and stuff that 
 comes out when you use star power. I was dissappointed that the drummer was really stiff though. 
 Thought he would be more lively since it was next gen. The game feels more alive on the xbox but 
 kinda feels dead and without a soul.
  
  The graphics aren't horrible on the ps2. They are like a little more watered down versions of the 
 next gen's graphics. I was actually impressed the drummer actually played along with the songs, 
 even if it was robot like. For the most part it was dead though. I could say that about the whole 
 ps2 experience.
  
  I actually did not like the game play. I did not like how they changed it. They increased the window 
 for hitting notes and Every time I hit the strum bar it counted for 2 hits. The reason why is becuase 
 of the way I play the controller. I act like I am holding a pick in my fingers. I didn't have as 
 much of a problem with this when playing with the les paul controller or kramer controller but 
 it still happened. It didn't happen at all on the demo. But i didn't get the new controller becuase 
 I had the sg controllers from the first 2 games. I got so P*$sed off becuase it was doing that 
 and then soon found a fix for it. But that still didn't feel right. I had problems with the xbox 
 xplorer controllers.
  The battle mode is not all that great, it was a cool idea though. They should have made to it were 
 you play a kinda jam song instead of a real song. I think that would have been cool becuase think 
 about it. In real life if you are doing a guitar battle you are going to be pulling out all the 
 stops to show up the other player. The first two boss battles were kinda cool becuase they weren't 
 real songs.
  
  The thing I loved about the guitar hero games was that it was somewhat realistic and didn't make 
 me play by hold the strum bar with my fingers or play by moving my thumb down. It let me play it 
 comforably. GH3 tried to make me play by holding the damn strum bar. I always thought of the strum 
 bar as the strings and that holding it and playing didn't feel right and didn't feel like i was 
 playing a guitar. Considering the strum bar is a pick is just crap too becuase a pick is not that 
 big. I don't know overall it just doesn't feel all that realistic.
  
  Lastly the overall song charts or not that fun. they focused too much on making it hard as hell. 
 I mean I love a challenge but come on. It wasn't even that fun. The other games all had their challenging 
 songs but at least they were fun. That dragonforce song is fun just becuase you can't beat it or 
 get past the first part. But it wears off after a while. 
  
  I would recommend the xbox version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a good guitar game this is the one i recomend. At first it can be tricky, but 
 once you get into it, it starts getting really fun. You can choose from tons of different characters, 
 and tons of songs. There are also lots of guitars you can use, and different finishes for each 
 of them. Alot of the time you might get stuck on a song. So what i do is go into practice mode 
 and do the part of the song that is screwing with me. So dont get discouraged if you cant get it 
 the first time. To get good at this game you will need to have good finger strength and good hand 
 control. If you dont have those things it will be quite a challenge to play. If what you want is 
 to get good control on your hands this game can help alot. This game is also one of the best two 
 player games. But be careful cuz going against each other in battle mode can be quite hecktic. 
 So go out there and Rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_a_frewb
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Having never played Guitar Hero (only Rock Band) before I bought this, I was a tad skeptical. However, 
 my fears were completely groundless once I started the medium campaign. That's right. I said medium. 
 I tried starting on hard, but failed Slow Ride 5% into it. Anyways... But yeah, the game turned 
 out to be solid and fun, without the calibration and hardware problems of rock band. The really 
 major flaw with the game, however, is the somewhat weak tracklist. Most of the songs are so so, 
 like Hit me With Your Best Shot, Barracuda, My Name is Jonas, etc. I hated many of them, like Holiday 
 in Cambodia, Sabotage (I hate that song especially,) Number of the Beast, etc. Most, however, were 
 either fun to play, or just fun to listen to. Many of the songs have been favorites of mine, e. g. 
 Cliffs of Dover, One, Pride and Joy, and Before I Forget. And the addition of the bonus songs was 
 a really good idea, I'd even heard a couple of them, but most weren't really that great. But whatever, 
 the better half of the tracklist is worth playing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0bondacob
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm being generous when I give this a 4.5. I have many issues with this game. 
  
  I'll start with the online. For starters, I can rarely join someone when trying to play and I always 
 get this message that says "Lost Connection" or something. When I finally get into a match, they 
 either quit after 2 songs, or they choose easy at the last second when I choose expert. Horrible 
 experience and leaves me pissed off.
  
  Career mode in this is average. Nothing special except for the dreaded boss battles. I think Neversoft 
 chose this as a way of metaphorically giving you the middle finger. Horrible idea that was also 
 done horribly. First of all, they aren't actually songs (save for The Devil Went To Georgia, which 
 is impossible) . I want to play Sweet Child O' Mine with Slash, please why did you do this to me? 
 Battle mode sucks because (as long as you both are on the same difficulty and can beat the song) , 
 it all comes down to who can use Death Drain first. Death Drain is also the most retarded idea 
 ever created. Neversoft obviously didn't want to spend time thinking battle mode through so they 
 just tossed it up together and put it as an option. The songs are not that good save for a few 
 songs. This does NOT include Through the Fire and Flames. This is probably the most over hyped 
 song in the world right now. I hate anyone who says they are a good band. If you don't believe 
 me just go to Youtube and listen to three of their songs. It's the same song with different lyrics.
 
  
  Basically, this game sold on name along and I'm mad that I dropped so much money for a plastic 
 guitar for a mediocre game. Guitar Hero II is still more fun and I have had that since it came 
 out. I'll just go play my Gretsch guitar and pretend that I never bought this. 
  
  Final Verdict: A rushed game that the developers had no care for. Probably will be the next Madden.
 
  
  An extra note: Guitar Hero III is not really that much harder. They increased the time window of 
 hitting notes, and made Hammer Ons so much easier just for TTFAF. They balanced this out by overcharting 
 expert songs and creating "fake" notes that never existed in the real song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJpenguin
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  As I right this, I am currently half way through the expert career. I have played every song to 
 the death, mastered advanced techniques, my fingers move at a pace which suprises me. But despite 
 the intensity of my modesty, It's almost embarrassing how many achievements I have.
  
  At this point you might say, so what? Well, I think achievements perfectly summarise what is Guitar 
 hero's most prolific strength yet greatest weakness, It is bloody difficult...
  
  This was my first Guitar hero game, and from the outside it looked like a rubbish game, I was hooked 
 on COD 4/Halo 3 when this was released, and i couldn't understand why anyone would pay nearly double 
 the price of a normal game for what looked to be a massive game of simon says?
  
  Now clearly, in the business world, numbers speak louder than words and I don't need to tell you 
 Guitar hero was a success. There's big money in the FPS market, and it needs a lot less effort, 
 but if you want the respect of your market, you need a quality product, innovation such as guitar 
 hero is what hooked me in the end. I tried the demo, even with a controller, 4* ing Even Flow on 
 Medium felt great, when i got the game itself it felt like a step backwards, learning how to strum 
 and press the buttons made the simplicity of the controller much more alluring.
  
  Let me just give you a run down of the basics, You hold a plastic guitar, pretend you have some 
 shred of talent, a moving fretboard comes towards you at a speed ranging from no legged grandma 
 to cheetah on motorbike. Coloured circles appear on the screen, and you being the submissive type, 
 you press the coresponding buttons on your guitar and strum the strum bar at the same time.
  
  It's hard to describe just how addictive this was for me, I started on easy, and thanks to 
 a frankly painful tutorial process, i was up and running in no time! The thrill comes from playing 
 a song, then looking back, thinking 'Did i just do that?' It's wierd but satisfying. 
  
  Part of this satisfaction comes from the song list. There are over 30 tracks here, of which over 
 20 are ones I love playing, they span over 50 years of what can loosely be defined as 'rock' you 
 have such 'classics' (not that i would know) as 'Paint it black' by the rolling stones, right the 
 way through to contempory hits from the killers and AFI. There's even some slayer thrown in for 
 metalheads. The track list is brilliantly composed, fun to play, and strikes an interesting balance 
 for both young and old. Which is Ironic considering how the old songs are becoming hits again (such 
 is the power of guitar hero.)
  
  The graphics are... ok the game goes for a stylised approach to the characters, but then trows in 
 slash and tom morello looking pretty realistic, it's inconsistent and makes me wonder if the artistic 
 direction is neccessarily the right way to go for this type of game. However, the stage and the 
 band (with the exception of the abhorrently awful drummer) looks fantastic, the lead singer especially 
 has great lip syncing as well done to the Dev team for hiring bret michaels to do some movement 
 for it.
  
  The presentation is also well done, the whole game parodies the 'rocker lifestyle' with some geniunely 
 funny loading screens, over the top character animations, and messy (but professionaly messy) menus.
 
  
  I mentioned earlier about the difficulty, and the game has learning curves right the way through. 
 You start by just getting used to playing, easy passes you by and you learn to cope with more notes, 
 by the time medium arrives, you start hitting notes faster, taking a little while to get used to 
 the blue fret. Then a sharp rise in difficulty towards the end forces you to go back and get better, 
 then you have hard mode, and the orange fret takes days of getting used to, then days more to master. 
 At which point you brace for impact as expert approaches, then find that those songs you struggled 
 over on hard mode, are harder than most expert songs (although clearly you wait for the nigh impossibility 
 of the raining blood song) Then there's dragonforce.
  
  The thing is, this difficulty isn't neccessarily a bad thing, challenge is good, but when you ramp 
 it up to 12/10, it can be overwhelming, and, let's face it, 'practicing' guitar hero just feels 
 wrong. While the payoff of increased difficulty is increased satisfaction, if you want to get to 
 the right level you need to prepare yourself for the long road ahead.
  
  The single player kept me hooked for long enough to finish medium, but multiplayer kept this game 
 in my disk tray long enough to overshadow COD 4, playing on XBL was fun with a friend, but it still 
 has a way to go, there was almost no lag in any game i played, and the options that were there 
 were sufficient to keep me playing, I did notice some notable emissions from MP though...
  
  Firstly, Co-op songs need to be fine tuned, reptillia, for example, had the most boring bass 
 part in the history of forever, I'm frequently reminded that bass is there to keep rhythm, but 
 this is a GAME, so make it more interesting. Secondly, Co-op career cannot be played online, so 
 how they expect you to get some of the co-op achievements i don't know, good luck having your daughter 
 play anything above easy seeing as she cant reach the blue fret. 
  
  Also, after every match, you're returned to the main menu, meaning no offense to neversoft but 
 WHAT THE HELL? I pretty much only play private matches, why can there not be a lobby system in 
 place. Speaking of lobbies, A nice addition would be a lobby that could hold 2-4 people, with perhaps 
 a round robin system, and people alternating who they play against?
  
  So, to summarise, Guitar hero is addictive, fun, and tremendously innovative. But the intensity 
 of the difficulty, coupled with some multiplayer ommissins stop me rating it too high. As a side 
 note, it will be interesting to see how the series moves on, I can see long time vets getting tired 
 of the same old same old, with aerosmith on the way it doesn't look like that's about to change 
 anytime soon. Also, the difficulty spike means that neversoft will need to keep the difficulty 
 at this intensity for those of you who can play Through the fire and flames, I think a new difficulty 
 needs to be incorporated.
  
  But get guitar hero, it's cheaper than rockband, is a lot of fun, and should keep you hooked long 
 enough to get your money's worth
  
  8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  So, if you are new to the GH series, this is where to start. The songs progress nicely, with some 
 tricky songs thrown in where you least expect for good measure. There is one niggle though... The 
 battle mode.
  
  Overview
  
  GH3 is structured pretty much identically to the previous GH games.
  Finish Set - Play Encore/Battle. 
 The tedium is well and truly setting in now with this system. You start out as a lackey, filling 
 in for a guitarist, and eventually you work your way out of the drug dive you start in and work 
 your way up to huge megastadiums. The final set takes place in HELL. HELL.
  
  Playability
  
  The game plays the same as the previous iterations, strum the notes on the five-button 
 fretboard. There is no undulation, except for the boss battles, in which you launch attacks in 
 order to put the other guitarist off and fail, yawn.
  
  Replayability
  
  Is null, apart from the fact that finishing the co-op career sets unlocks various new encores, 
 none of which are stellar. The songs in the career do warrant some casual play though, with "Kool 
 Thing" being one of the few strong tracks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Venomz-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  In this game you will experience on being a rock band and also a guitarist. At first you'll choose 
 your character Johnny Napalm, Tom Morelo and more great guitarist from great bands! You will face 
 a guitarist also in a grand showdown! You can choose on what song you will play at the show! Paint 
 it black by Rolling Stones, One by Metallica, Welcome to the jungle by Gunz 'n' Roses, Before i 
 forgot by Slipknot, Raining Blood by The Slayers (Actually this is the most difficult to beat at 
 Expert mode for me) and more great songs! And if you beated already the game, You can also start 
 a new game in different difficult! Easy, Normal, Hard and Expert! And you can also play the songs 
 that you've already beaten! Some says that if you play this on the guitar it is more exciting because 
 if you only play this on the normal controller, Where is the challenge? where is the experience 
 on being a guitarist? So i'll say this to you, if you plan to play this game, You'll need a guitar 
 if you want the real "CHALLENGE". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDove
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  The success that Guitar Hero has enjoyed over the last year has brought the rhythm gaming to the 
 forefront of the industry. So when news spread that when original Guitar Hero developer Harmonix 
 had parted ways with Activision in favour of developing Rock Band, no doubt there were many who 
 may have been sweating at the possible demise of the much beloved franchise. But never fear for 
 Neversoft is here and has provided us with a follow up that stays true to the original formula. 
 There are also some noteworthy additions to the franchise that fall on both sides of the coin, 
 but in the end it is Guitar Hero and that is all the faithful wanted.
  
  For those who have yet to be swept up in this rocking sensation, Guitar Hero 3 is a rhythm game 
 where players are charged with picking up a guitar shaped controller that has five coloured fret 
 buttons and a strum bar. Players then use the guitar to play in time with the coloured notes scrolling 
 vertically down the screen which is all synced to a music track. Even though this is the third 
 installment in the Guitar Hero franchises, newcomers aren't left out in the cold. There is a learning 
 curve involved but going through the game's tutorials will introduce those players to all the need 
 to know and set them on the way to fame and fortune. There are four difficulty levels included 
 in the game, the easiest difficulty setting is a guaranteed recommended starting point for beginners 
 as it is never to taxing for players and when finished, players should be confident in attempting 
 the songs at the next difficulty level. But it is at the higher difficulty levels where Guitar 
 Hero 3 runs into some hurdles, as there is a major gap present upon completing medium difficulty 
 and attempting some of the songs on hard. You see the interesting decision taken here is that Neversoft 
 decided to come at the harder difficulty settings with veteran Guitar Hero players in mind. This 
 is a good thing especially if you have played Guitar Hero 2 to death, as it presents an insanely 
 new level challenge for you to conquer. Newcomers though may feel overwhelmed and at this point 
 it is easy to recommend that these players go back to Guitar Hero 2 and attempt the hard difficulty 
 there as it definitely fills the gap present here in Guitar Hero 3. Overall Neversoft has definitely 
 done their best in accommodating for newcomers and veterans alike and there is plenty here for 
 both groups to enjoy.
  
  Guitar Hero 3's presentation hasn't changed that much in this iteration. There is the return of 
 the career mode which has you complete set lists and earn money to unlock the abundant amount of 
 extra content available. In addition to the career mode is these little animated clips which show 
 you rise to fame as you complete set lists. It is not too sure whether these clips where an attempt 
 to add a story to the career mode or even an attempt at creating a unique personality for the game. 
 Whilst there is nothing bad about them, they don't pull of anything, so they are just there. In 
 addition to the career mode are boss battles which pit you up against a guitar legend. These have 
 you earn power-ups in place of earning star power which grants you attacks to cast upon the guitar 
 legend that you are up against and your main objective is to make them fail. It is an interesting 
 idea but it lacks polish and none of these battles are fun to attempt. The reason being is when 
 you complete these boss battles, there is the same sense of reward completing them as there is 
 completing any other song in the set list, so it ends up not adding anything to the experience. 
 The set list present in Guitar Hero 3 is one of the best available. There is just about anything 
 and everything you can think of. From Santana to The Killers no one is left out. In the end the 
 career is all you want it to be and has an abundant amount of content to conquer over all difficulty 
 levels and will have many going for months to come.
  
  The Guitar Hero 3 multiplayer remains pretty much untouched. There is the Co-op, face off and pro 
 face off modes that make their way over from GH2 untouched, but there is also the bland introduction 
 to the battle mode made infamous in the career mode. All these modes are available for play offline, 
 but one of the exciting new additions to the GH franchise for the 360 is the ability to play online 
 as well. All the online modes work really well as there is no latency issue present despite it 
 being a very big challenge to overcome. Neversoft have done an amazing job to make it work and 
 to make it very enjoyable. The battle mode introduction into the multiplayer component of GH3 is 
 very unbalanced. Most matches will end within a couple of minutes, due to the fact that usually 
 the first person to land an attack comes out on top as it is a daunting task for the other player 
 to come back from. Despite this there is still plenty of enjoyment to be had with remaining modes 
 as they play just as well as their predecessors do. So if you find it hard to get people over or 
 have trouble finding people that have the same skill as you, then the online mode is a welcome 
 addition and adds a tremendous amount of value to the experience.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 comes available for purchase as a standalone game as well as a bundle with a wireless 
 Gibson Les Paul shaped guitar controller. Although considering that Australia never had the ability 
 to buy another guitar separately for the 360 the bundle is worth the purchase even if you not looking 
 for that second guitar. The guitar controller bundle here is superior to the controller bundled 
 with GH2. The fret buttons are slightly angled making hammer-ons and pull-offs easier to execute, 
 the whammy bar performs a lot better, it is easier to store and its wireless. Overall the guitar 
 controller makes for a more robust and accessible experience as there are no strings attached.
 
  
  Neversoft has enabled many to sleep safely as it does appear that the franchise is in good hands. 
 That is not to say that they didn't attempt to add their own flavor to the franchise, but for the 
 most part GH3 stays true to the strengths of its predecessors. And with the welcome additions of 
 online play and future download content, Guitar Hero 3 packs in a tremendous amount of value and 
 makes it a very worthy entrant into the franchise. And that is all we wanted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schlozz
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  My reviews go like this, I write out good, mediocre and bad things about the game. Some of the 
 bad might not annoy you as much as they do to me and may only be minor but some people hate low 
 frame rates for example and I prefer to tell everyone about everything that is in the game.
  
  Good:
  Best song list in a guitar hero game yet. Mostly master tracks. More diverse songs 
 and breadth in genres. Online play is great fun. Les Paul guitar is also the best yet. Challenging 
 songs for more experienced players. Cool new look to characters, menus and stages. More bonus stuff 
 to unlock. Hammer ons made easier for new players. Co op career. Cutscenes that don't retract you 
 from the experience. Slash and Tom Morello. Motion capture is generally good. Fun at parties, especially 
 if some of you are guitar hero veterans.
  
  Mediocre:
  Boss battles aren't that fun. Strange note charts make some songs a lot harder than they should 
 really be. Extremely difficult songs towards the end of the game. Some songs just aren't fun to 
 play. The drummer plays like a robot. The career starts to feel old quite soon into the game.
 
  
  Bad:
  Ton of in game ads and sponsored unlockables, really awful if you consider how much money Activision 
 makes already.
  
  Basically if you liked any of the Previous Guitar Hero games or liked Rock Band GH3 is definately 
 worth picking up. Whilst the takeover to Neversoft developing the game may have detracted from 
 the Rock God theme the game is still very fun. Some songs are made a lot harder than they really 
 should be through bad note charting but if you like a challenge there is definately one here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe all the people out there who say Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock sucks, because they 
 are wrong! Guitar Hero 3, aside from Rock Band, is the best music game in the world. In the single 
 player mode, you are this guy (or girl) who joins a garage band needing a guitarist. From here, 
 you work your way up to having concerts in London, Japan, even Hell. But you don't just play a 
 song and leave, that is the way of a rapper, you are a rockstar! What you do is play an awesome 
 famous rock song, and if you do good enough on certain songs, the crowd asks for and encore or 
 a famous guitarist asks for a guitar battle! This brings us to one bad thing about the game, not 
 enough boss battles. You can only battle Tom Morello, Slash, and the devil himself (AKA Lou) . But 
 these are the only boss battles in the game, which is a very disappointing, feature. MORE BOSS 
 BATTLES! Anyway, everything else in the game is fun, and there are plenty of challenges and unlockables 
 and achievements to get in GH3. If you don't already own this game, go to the store and buy the 
 Guitar Hero 3 set, which comes with the game, Les Paul controller, and other stuff. This game is 
 a must have for any gamer! It's so awesome, I'm going to go play it now, I'm out!
  
  -Dalton Lee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  GH3 is a great game, but it lacks substance in "Story-Mode" with a lack of memorable songs, there's 
 not many songs in the Track-List that are worthy of the title "Legends of Rock"
  
  Most songs are by second rate artists (such as The Killers ,who are more pop than rock) and a huge 
 list of artists I've never heard of (which says a lot.) and with songs I whish I hadn't heard, 
 there's an empty space in the game for songs with "GREAT guitar", the game need bands such as Led 
 Zep' & Hendrix that were heavily guitar based, instead we get Dragonforce, which is just "f***ing 
 ugh" to play, and cause your arms to ache for an hour afterwards.
  The only "Legendary" bands are: Aerosmith, Alice Cooper, Black Sabbath, Guns n' Roses, Iron Maiden, 
 Metallica, RHCP, Rolling Stones Slipknot and The Who and these are the songs worth playing, still 
 the game should focus more on legendary guitarists like Jimi Hendrix, Jimmy Page, Keith Richards 
 etc. 
  Granted Slash was a reasonable step, but Tom Morello??? (WTF!!! His Battle-Song was pathetic!)
 
  
  The main thing that makes GH3 memorable is the multiplayer gaming modes, it's great for showing 
 off "skill" and playing on Live, except for when the person your against picks "Through The Fire 
 And Flames" 3 times straight (Yes that has happened.)
  
  In short Guitar Hero has great game play for those with a love of Rock, but after you've finished 
 it there is no replay value and when (and indeed if) you start to get bored you will get bored 
 fast and not play for a long time, however GH3 is not all bad there are still many great songs 
 that cover a wide range of styles of Rock based music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daidantai
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Compared to all the other guitar hero's, the one is by far the toughest one of em all. But don't 
 let that disappoint you. If you are new at the game, even if it is the toughest one of em all, 
 its also the best one for beginner players. The only bad part about the game is the battle system. 
 Its hard as hell in career mode and is not even any competition when your playing with someone 
 else. But besides that; its all good. The thing thats pretty awesome about this game is the downloadable 
 content for the game. Having songs from artist like Mastodon, Linkin Park and even Boston is pretty 
 damn awesome. I personalty love the Christmas special song called "We three kings". Its made by 
 the same guy that made the remake of "The devil went down to Georgia" so you know that is got to 
 be good. But there are allot of song to download so suit everyones needs. If you never played this 
 game yet, I strongly suggest you give it a try and see for yourself how addicting this game can 
 really be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I have wont this game and evan though i did not have the guitar it was still great i stayed up 
 all night trying to beat it just on easy it has alot of levels and bouneses to choose from to add 
 to that you have boss levels that are acually a little bit of a challeng if you dont know how to 
 attack. There are difficulties to choose from that get faster and harder to as you go up. Also 
 you can unlock charecter from the grim reper to lou the god of rock slash and more. Persinoly i 
 like the grim reper but not only to all that you can play online wit others and download new songs. 
 To me its all good with nothing wrong. Even if you dont like rock like me you will love this game 
 and after beating this game i still dont like rock but i love the game go out and buy it trust 
 me you dont even gotta spend your money on a guitar because its just as fun to train your brain 
 and concentrate without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrnothington
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Gh 3 I use to think was a great game. But now that I pay more attention to it the game reall sucks 
 in a way. In GH2 there was something that made it feel different and fun to play. I reamber playing 
 number 2 for hours on end with my friends. But GH3 sucks in comparison, it has alot of terrible 
 songs and the new game mode sucks. Playing as tom morello was pretty cool and the onlineplay is 
 sweet. But the game has to meny other drawbacks that make it the 2nd worst in the series, The only 
 witch that is worse is rock the 80s but atlest that one was still kinda fun. So GH3 is not a very 
 good or fun game as compaired to the ones before it and rockband. They never should have split 
 from Harmonix. Then again if that never happened then we wouldnt have the awsome game rock band 
 so I gess some things work out in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  GH3, what can I say?.. Its fun... but that's not nearly enough to make a game great. We all know 
 how GH works so I will skip straight to the meat of this review. On the pro side we have a superior 
 looking and sounding game (from it predecessor) . Using original recordings is a genius idea that 
 makes the game's sound authentic and real. Also, the addition of the Slash and Tom Morello characters 
 is fun and the setlist is friggin fantastic. Pearl Jam, Disturbed and Living Colour are standouts 
 in the best GH soundtrack to date, and the addition of Through the Fire and Flames is both comedic 
 and hand-breakingly difficult. 
  
  This brings me to the cons. First off, there is no reason that a game should ever ever be this 
 hard. The difficulty is so ridiculous that despite the fantastic setlist I find myself playing 
 GH2 and Rock Band much more often. Also the guitar battles are silly and add very little to the 
 experience. If fact, needing to win a guitar battle to complete the game makes completion nearly 
 impossible on higher levels. I have always stood by the statement that the final boss should representative 
 of the gameplay of the entire game. Having a battle be the final song, leaves the players who don't 
 play much multiplayer hung out to dry. 
  
  With all of that said, GH3 isn't bad, it just needs some more hands on it before launch to work 
 out the kinks. I'm sure that with future installments, Neversoft will understand the needs of its 
 players and adjust accordingly. I personally cannot wait for GH: Areosmith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjharn
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  The first thing you think when you get the latest edition of GH, is how cool the wireless guitar 
 is. It makes a great impression on you, and you start to expect big things from this game before 
 you even play it. 
  
  And for the most part, the game in general is pretty good. The career mode starts off with some 
 really slow, boring classic rock songs, which is understandable. You definitely don't want to start 
 off with an insanely hard song, but having said that, the song list is pretty weak and, strangely 
 enough, lacking good rock songs. This song list, ironically, seems to have less hard rock songs 
 then previous Guitar Hero games, despite having "Rock" in the title.
  
  Also, the career song list itself is pretty short, and can easily be beaten in less then three 
 hours, depending on your skill level. The only really difficult songs in the career set list is 
 "Raining Blood" by Slayer, and the end boss fight ("Devil Goes Down to Georgia")
  
  But the place where GH3 really shines is, of course, the multiplayer. Whether your playing online 
 or just sitting next to a buddy playing, its fun. There are a few different modes, including boss 
 battles. Multiplayer boss battles play out just like the single player ones, including the attacks. 
 Although this is entertaining for a while, there is really no reason to stay around and play this 
 game for long periods of time. Once you have played any of the songs more than 10 times, it quickly 
 becomes old and you wont want to play it anymore. 
  
  All in all, while GH3 is a fun game, I find myself wondering if it is really worth the full sale 
 price ($89.00) , and if I will ever play it again after putting it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I love Guitar Hero and I'm sure so does everyone else, but it just gets old too quick. It's great 
 for parties though, cause pretty much anyone can get hooked on it. I think it'd be better though 
 if you could create your own guy, but that's just me...
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  Pinguin 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  First off I have to say that the set list on this game is much better than last time. I would, 
 however, have to seen a few more tracks from more current bands.
  
  As for graphics? The lighting is much better than the Wii and PS2 versions. But the graphics isn't 
 why someone buys a game of this type. The graphics here are good but nothing special
  
  The sound is great. Extremely clear and the tones are very well represented here. If you have surround 
 and/or regular speakers you're in for a treat.
  
  Game play is critical in a game of this type. The mechanic is pretty much the same as last time 
 but the difficulty has been racheted up. The down side to that is you're gonna get a little frustrated 
 at first. The upside is that once you finally master that really tough solo you'll feel you've 
 really accomplished something.
  
  Online here works great. No lag, easy match making, and lots of DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is an amazing game which is worth playing. Even though it's worth more money than 
 a normal game because of the guitar, I still believe everyone should get it. The game has four 
 difficulties, easy, medium, hard and expert. Guitar Hero III begins to toughen when you begin to 
 play on hard. Before that, it's really simple. I liked Guitar Hero III because there's no end to 
 what you can do. You could play hours on end in the campaign, and when you finally beat it you 
 can still play online or buy another guitar and play your friends. The game itself can get boring 
 but only if you've played it for an extremely long time. I think Guitar Hero III is a game that 
 is worth playing because it's fun and I also think that it's worth buying a second guitar because 
 it's so much more fun to play with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I didn't really want to get this game at first. My brother wanted to get it and I told him that 
 it probably isn't too great. Now I stand corrected. It is a good game. If you're into stories, 
 action, adventures or any of that stuff, you won't find it here. But you will find some great songs, 
 a very unique way of gameplay, and hours and hours of replay value!
  
  The sound in this game is great. They are a lot of songs that you hear on the radio, and some great 
 songs that no one has ever heard of before! The graphics is where this game is lacking value. They 
 aren't too great. But online play makes up for all of that.
  
  There are pleanty of unlockables to be found so you will be playing for hours and hours trying 
 to get every character, costume, color, guitar, and song! It is quite a goal to shoot for if you 
 want to collect them all!
  
  I reccomend this game if you like DDR, but don't like dancing. It will keep you entertained for 
 a long time and the multiplayer is great. The game is also great at parties as mentioned on the 
 Gamespot review. This game is worth it. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subby27
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:16 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is probably in the top 3 best games i have ever played. I don't own this game myself 
 but i borrowed it for about a week off my friend and i never got off it. It has some really good 
 songs as well as the best "ultimate song" ever. "Through The Fire And Flames" was made for guitar 
 Hero. If you like music and don't mind playing the guitar, then you would be crazy to not go and 
 buy this game. Guitar Hero is one of those games where you just can't put it down. You just don't 
 get bored of it, because it is so challenging. But if somehow you do, there is a career and a multiplayer 
 career that are really good, and you can even do some boss battles. This is one of the best games 
 out at the moment so anyone thinking about a new game, get Guitar Hero 3, or you can wait a bit 
 longer and get Guitar Hero 4 or Guitar Hero Aerosmith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SylvanC94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me start out by saying that I suck at Guitar Hero. My brain apparently doesn't have the 
 right circuitry to be able to make my fingers move in the way that I want them to, at high speed.
 
  
  Having said that, I can't stop playing this game! I have played GH1, and I own GH2 and GH3. This 
 game definitely has the best song list, which concentrates more on metal tracks which I think is 
 better suited to this kind of game. It's filled with cool solos that are really rewarding to pull 
 off.
  
  The difficulty is an issue. Being a mere mortal, I have only completed the campaign on Medium so 
 far. I can 5-star all the songs on Medium (except one) , and yet when I move to Hard, I can barely 
 pass any off the songs. I know it's supposed to be hard, but dang, it's pretty humbling. I wouldn't 
 consider this to be a deficiency, however. In reality, the challenge just makes me want to practice 
 even more, and it makes it even more rewarding when I do pass songs on the higher difficulty. I 
 don't think I'll ever get to the Expert level, but I don't feel like I'm missing out on anything 
 by sticking with Medium and Hard.
  
  The gameplay is solid, and the graphics do a nice job conveying the feel of shredding in a skanky 
 night club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Better graphics, harder, Judy Nails is hot, a lot more songs, more downloadable songs, 
 online play is awesome
  
  The Bad: It's TOO hard, not as good cover songs as previous installments, doesn't do anything really 
 new, GHII songs are compatible, boss battles rely on luck
  
  ... For 99.9% of the people. GHIII is the same as GHII yet we get online play (which is just as 
 awesome as you'd think) and tons more songs yet it is probably the most disappointing GH when it 
 comes to cover songs. You get songs like One, Number of the Beast, School's Out, Cult of Personality 
 and more, but they aren't show stoppers like in GHI and II. GHIII, however, has the best song list 
 for more indie music and lesser known covers like My Curse, Stricken, Before I Forget, Through 
 Fire and Flames, Prayer for the Refugee and more. This is also the first GH to be IMPOSSIBLE TO 
 BEAT! While the game is hard enough on Hard good luck beating the last few sets on Expert. It'll 
 take you months to master these songs if at all. Through Fire in Flames is probably impossible 
 for most GH buffs on Medium or Hard. Luckily, after hours upon hours of practice, I BARELY scraped 
 through the song on Expert. Some new features are the updated graphics... they're finally next-gen! 
 The game has great physics with bouncing and swaying clothes, high-def textures so denim looks 
 like denim. The characters also get more of a sexual upgrade (thanks Neversoft!) Judy Nails is 
 as hot as ever yet they left out Pandora and added a preppy Japanese chick. There are a few great 
 new characters like Slash, Tom Morrello, and Zeus the Rock God. Speaking of Slash and Tom you now 
 get boss battles. These don't play out like you think. The first few are easy, but the last one, 
 playing Devil Went Down to Georgia, is just pure luck. You have to hit sequences like when you 
 get Star Power but instead you get weapons. These include breaking your string (you have to press 
 a button really fast) , raising the difficulty, blowing your amp (all the buttons flash on screen) 
 or doubling the notes. This is fun, but some may NEVER beat it on Expert. Minus all of that you 
 can now play a Co-Op Career which is really fun as well and is pretty self explanatory. Overall 
 GHIII is more for indie and lesser known band fans. If you want famous songs then you're out of 
 luck. Thankfully the game has lots of downloadable songs now. I just wish the GHII songs were compatible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I can't stress enough how disappointed I am with GS's decision to give this game a debilitatingly 
 average 8.0 rating. Here's what they said good about the game:
  
  -Terrific tracklist
  -Awesome detail
  -Higher ratio of quality over crap songs
  -Co-op options
  -Addictive gameplay
 
  -Overall better than Guitar Hero II
  
  Here's what they didn't like:
  
  -Insane difficulty on Hard and Expert
  -Ugly singer
  -Boss Battles and Multiplayer Battles
 
  -Ads
  -Dragonforce
  
  Instead of verbally damning the game due to it's difficulty, I have yet to see any reviewers praising 
 the game for it. Nobody has stepped up and actually stated that the difficulty level increase is 
 actually an improvement, which is what I believe. Once you get passed Medium, Hard mode is what 
 it should be: HARD. Not "Medium with the orange button", but HARD. I will admit, some songs are 
 hard as HELL (no pun intended) especially the ones you literally play in Hell, such as Raining 
 Blood. YET, this only ads to the experience of learning something new. Guitar Veterans will eat 
 these challenges up and enjoy every minute of them.
  
  Their review also did a verbal bashing of Dragonforce, saying: "It sounds a little bit like a Dungeons 
 & Dragons dork singing over a tape of the Contra soundtrack that's been thrown in a blender and 
 set to "liquefy," and it is so excruciatingly, arthritis-inflictingly difficult that you'll be 
 thanking your lucky stars it's a bonus song and not something you're required to complete to advance." 
 Now I know that not every person in the world likes Dragonforce and people have their own opinions, 
 but it sounds to me that they just dislike it because they complain about it being the hardest 
 song in the game. This is strictly BIAS. I know that even if you don't like Dragonforce, you might 
 like the challenge the song gives you. I know for a fact that people think ths way. They also mentioned 
 that it might "shy people away from completing Expert all together. Maybe this is incentive to 
 complete it, instead of repellant?
  
  Annother thing they did not like about this game are the guitar battles and Boss Battles. Some 
 find them engaging and some find them nauseating. I for one think it's a step in the right direction 
 for the game and it adds a newfound level of competition to this game. The old modes are still 
 there, so why take off so many points just because of one feature that they happened to not like?
 
  
  Sure the song covers aren't the best they ever have been, but at least the guitar work is still 
 fun. They didn't give enough praise to the developers for including more original song tracks than 
 the previous game, which only had a few. If the tracklist made this game so amazing, why still 
 a 8.0?
  
  Oh yes, the chracter models. I love the detail, but dislike some of the new designs. Johnny Napalm 
 couldn't get any uglier if he tried (they gave him a monkey-esque look) . Judy Nails looks like 
 a skanky version of herself and pandora, given humongous cleavage. She does look more like her 
 name implies, however. Being able to play as Slash and Tom Morello is interesting, yet they have 
 no alternate costumes to enjoy playing with. The additional characters are fine, an Lou is self 
 explanatory.
  
  Yes, there are ads all over this game. TNT is hosting the playoffs at night, Pontiac has a stage 
 on the back of a Tractor Trailer, and Axe has a guiar based off their new Clix spray (which is 
 nauseating in large doses) . I doesn't take too muc away from the enjoyment of the stages. While 
 I do appreciate the desert stage, the Tokyo stage, the trailer stage, and the prison, I feel that 
 Lou's Inferno and the first two beginner stages could use more than a few dancing girls in tight 
 pants and more creative design.
  
  Overall:
  
  LIKES:
  -Insane difficulty
  -Guitar battles
  -Awesome tracklist
  -Playing as Slash
  -Easier ability to do hammer-ons 
 and pull-offs
  -More original songs
  -Addictiveness
  
  DISLIKES:
  -Some stages are not as creative
  -Some characters are fugly
  -Ads galore
  
  I think that 
 this game made GS feel inferior, so they couldn't give it at least an 8.5. For more on their feelings 
 of inferiority and their hatred for non-newb friendly gaming, check my Disgaea: Afternoon of Darkness 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really fun and reccomended over the first and second, but Rock Band is better, unless 
 you are only playing by yourself. The soundtrack is one of the best of the series, I was personally 
 proud they brought a Tenacious D song to it (The Metal) but it has others also like Miss Murder, Cult 
 of Personality, Barracuda, and Slow Ride. The carrer is good and long. But it has some dumb not funny 
 cut scenes. But the duels are (to me but not to others) really fun and intersting, fun to play online 
 too. The online is also a new addition, and has no lag that I've saw. There is a pretty good bit of 
 choices on the game types online. The multiplayer is still there and is still nice to play with 
 a friend. But they recently announced that GH4 would have other instruments like the mic, im pretty 
 sure it will be better than American Idol. But I do also need to mention the difficulty increase... ITS 
 HARD! Thats how you describe it I cant beat Slash on hard. But it is still fun to play and you definatly 
 need this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero had something with people when it came out. The songs had a tolerance limit with the 
 difficulties. When the second one released, the tracks became progressively harder. But the song 
 list increased and the game had better music. I can vouch for Trogdor, ThunderHorse, and Jordan 
 as being classy enough to be on a Guitar Hero listing, even if they weren't done by actual bands. 
 But Guitar Hero 3 has even harder songs, followed by a greater metal and rock orientation than 
 what Guitar Hero 2. Is it good? Well, have you seen Devil Went Down to Georgia, Raining Blood... or 
 even the hardest song of songs out of a Guitar Hero game: Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce?
 
  
  As usual, the game utilizes the standard 5-button fret and strum bar combination, with the whammy 
 bar for chords. Easy utilizes a 3 button combo at very slow, easy to learn speeds (Green, Red, 
 Yellow) . Then, it progresses to Medium and uses those three with Blue at faster speeds. And then 
 Hard with Orange... and Expert plays the game at fast speeds with numerous notes. Of course, the 
 challenge here is being able to move your fingers and hands in conjunction with each other for 
 these songs.
  
  This game does promise a more challenging compilation of songs worth jamming out to. Also, a note 
 toward Through the Fire and Flames. For those who have played Jordan by Buckethead on GH2... this 
 song lasts twice as long, and there isn't a particular pattern to follow with the song for the 
 most part. It's just pure metal, so it's challenging because the song has no pattern to follow. 
 But because it's a pure jam song... everyone loves it. For the challenge or because it sounds amazing... this 
 song alone can advertise GH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  So where do we begin with GH3, this is my very first Guitar Hero game on any system so I didn't 
 know what to expect. I pop the game disc into my 360 and I'm treated to some nice animated cinematics, 
 then I'm thrown into the fray...
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Nothing special here, everything looks nice and polished, it's colorful, but 
 it's nothing I haven't seen before.
  
  Sound - 9/10 - This game has a pretty impressive song list, it has a variety of classic rock, mixed 
 with some pop rock, as well as some metal. As for the guitar/bass parts during the song, you'll 
 want to crank the sound up to hear what you're actually playing (if you want) , it's noticeable 
 in most of the songs, in others you'll need to crank the volume up.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10- Here's where GH3 shines. Now, I've used both the guitar and controller, and it's 
 pretty safe to say that the controller is better to play with (omg!) . That doesn't mean the guitar 
 sucks, it just means that you have more access to the notes on the controller then you do on the 
 guitar (it's a matter of centimeters really, but it counts during hard and expert songs) . Now here 
 are the difficulty settings, Easy, you'll be required to use the first three notes (Green , Red, 
 and Yellow) during all the songs. Easy does nothing to prepare you for Medium, because it adds 
 blue into the mix. Hard makes you use all five notes, and Expert just becomes insanely fast, you'll 
 have to use all five notes, and strum like crazy. But as always, it's easier with practice.
  
  
  
  Overall, if you haven't played Guitar Hero at all, I'd recommend picking this installment 
 up, IT'S GOT A SEXY GUITAR!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that i was very much a latecomer to the whole Guitar Hero phenomena. Of course 
 i'd heard about the franchise ever since its begining, but I never took that leap into actually 
 being a part of it. That was until this 3rd itteration of the series...
  
  The main reason I came to purchase Guitar Hero III was the pure quality of its track listing. Past 
 Guitar Hero games have really not excited me in any way, shape or form in the past.... But when 
 i saw names like Metallica - One (probably my all time favourite Metallica track) , Santana, Pearl 
 Jam, Smashing Pumpkins and The Killers to name but a few, I knew this was the Guitar Hero for me.
 
  
  Another fantastic quality about this game, is that it is very much of the pick up and play quality. 
 The tutorials will run you through the basics (only taking about 10 mins max to complete) and then 
 it sets you off to play as much or as little as you want. Unlike a lot of other genres (RPGs, FPSs, 
 RTSs) that ask you to sit down and play for a few hours at a time, Guitar Hero only asks for a 
 few minutes...... but the choice is still there for you to spend hour upon hour strumming away.
 
  
  The game really gives you that rock star feeling, crank up your volume.. sling the guitar over your 
 shoulder and rock till the wee hours of the morning. However, i wouldnt recommended this game to 
 anyone who gives up easy... because the difficulty curve is like a cliff face. Easy is... well easy, 
 and franklly far too slow and boring after you get use to things, Medium is just right....... but 
 after that, you will feel like you need to grow an extra finger for that elusive fifth orange button. 
 But thats what this game is about, its about practice, practice, practice....... unless you are 
 Slash or a member of a rock band yourself, dont expect to be able to play Hard or Expert without 
 a lot of practice sessions under your belt. (to be honest im fairly content being Medium) .
  
  The controller itself, is very cool. Another reason why i got Guitar Hero 3 is that its controller 
 is much more refined and guitar feeling/looking than Guitar Hero 2's x-plorer controller which 
 looks like something for a 5 yr old. There is however problems with the whole detachable neck thing, 
 mainly that if you hold things in the wrong way etc, buttons (mainly the yellow for me) will flicker 
 on screen... and can so screw up your scores/streaks. 
  
  Multiplayer is also just as fun as playing alone, though there are plenty of people out there who 
 use underhanded tactics such as pretending they will play on a higher difficulty, then when you 
 match them they switch to easy and choose a vile song, such as Dragonforce (chickens) . 
  
  I also think its worthy to note, for anyone (like myself) who enjoys achievements, that the achievement 
 difficulty is through the roof. The game will only award you piddly 5g for managebale things, wereas 
 the real points are locked away in crazy things like 5 starring everything on expert and completing 
 Through the Fire and Flames on expert. 
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is a gem of a game to be enjoyed by practically anyone, young and old. You'll 
 be playing this game for weeks/months to come trying to perfect those songs, playing new DLC songs 
 (of which the Halo theme is a big highlight) and getting to those higher difficulties... so the 
 higher price (with the controller) than usual shouldnt put you off joining in the rock revolution!
 
  
  NB. Rock Band has of course stolen a lot of GH3's thunder, but if you live in Europe and the extortiante 
 predicted price tag of Rock Band has put you off... i would definately say that GH3 is still worth 
 a serious look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I first got this game back in December on the Nintendo Wii, as that was the onyl system that I 
 had at the time and played it until my hands bled. But when I got the 360 I got a copy to try out 
 the 360 version and wow I did not know what I was missing!
  
  The 360 obviously has much better graphics than the wii and the sound wuality is much more supurb 
 than the wii as well. Although the graphics on this game are not the greatest, sort of choppy at 
 best, but still the game is not about graphics it is about the exciting agmeplay!
  
  The game has a grip of great songs that people know and are familiar with which makes it much easier 
 to play than GH2 because I can hum the songs and envision the notes without even havign to turn 
 on the volume as I know exactly what each song should sound like.
  
  This game was much better than GH2 as they got more original songs due to the game being more popular 
 and the artists are willing to give rights to have the original song in the game instead of remakes 
 of the song, which made the agme extremely enjoyable to hear the actual Ozzy Osbourne in this game 
 as opposed to a botched version of him in GH2 done by someone else like a bad karaoke of him.
 
  
  This is an extremely fun agme that I would recommend to anyone, it is fun for all ages and will 
 definately not dissappoint you in any way. Love the game and you will as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASSASSINLORD
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  If you decided to play this game from the controller, i ca give you only one advice-DO NOT EVEN 
 TRY!!! From amazing, it will become dull and stupid. Now, when (I hope) you bought a guitar controller 
 LETS ROCK! there are some modes inthe game, but if you want to open all songs , guitars and characters (how 
 about the GRIM RIPPER?) choose the career. At first, you, with yours band will play in cheap night 
 clubs but after everything even demons will enjoy your songs from best bands in the world-Slipknot, 
 Sex Pistols, Skorpions...............
  The gameplay did not changed-yo press the fret buttons, and move the strum bar. On long notes, the 
 wammy bar.
  After awfull GUITAR HERO 2 appered this brilliant-it shines with its wonderfull graffics. The only 
 one thing, what is not ideal is difficulty-You will brek your fingers on THROUGH THE FIRE AND FLAMES
 
  mine reveiw is over, so TURN IT UP TO 11!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisinteract
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Well, It's Guitar Hero So If YOU Play One Or Two You Know What your going to get from this game 
 but If your new to it all then all You Need know is that the Guitar Is way Cool To Play (Hurts 
 after a few songs mind) . But Don't Get the Game Just For the Guitar as It soon looses it's appeal 
 To none hard-core Guitar Hero Players. With a great selection of songs already on the Disk and 
 some Great tracks to download it keeps getting Better!
  
  Online Play Is kind of a weird One really, As I have only play a few times Online I feel it best 
 to leave that out of the review But I'll Have a go,
  So It's just Like Single Player only with another person in the world looking just a stupid as 
 you do when you play... That's Enough said bout that then lol. Oh It has a two player Co-op too.
 
  For a game like this it's best to play in a room with all your friends have a few Cans Of larger 
 and get ready to Rock (look Like A total Prat) With your guitar.
  
  All In All A Great Game. If your willing to spend this kind of money you already Know You Want 
 it. So Go On and Rock Your Head Off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  It's Guitar Hero. Plus some mildly annoying, non-relevant boss battles.
  
  My only real problem with it is that it's not that many songs, and most the songs that are there 
 are'nt really that good.
  
  The boss battles are a bit fun, but mostly annoying, and on the whole they don't add anything to 
 the game.
  
  All in all, a pretty decent game, but nothing special, and it does'nt add anything to the series. 
 I can't really recommend the game to anyone who does'nt have special interests in either most of 
 the songs or the game-play in general.
  
  Compared to the other two guitar hero games, it's pretty tough once you get past Normal difficulty.
 
  
  The new wireless controller, however, is VERY good.
  
  Once again. It's Guitar Hero. Not much more, and not much less.
  
  Nothing much more to say 
 about it, really. A rather bland game, with (mostly) bland songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  GH3 is the fourth true game in the Guitar Hero series. You play by pressing fret buttons on the 
 neck of the guitar-shaped controller and strumming to match notes descending on the screen. The 
 soundtrack this time around is the biggest, and is slightly better than GH2's soundtrack. Some 
 song's include Paint it Black by the Rolling Stones, When You Were Young by the Killers, Sunshine 
 of Your Love by Cream, The Seeker by The Who, and the list goes on...
  Some of the songs I really hate on the soundtrack are Miss Murder by AFI (or GAY-F-I lol i just 
 made that up!!) , and a couple others. But there are more good songs than bad ones.
  Alot of the bonus songs you buy in the store aren't great either, but you don't HAVE to play them. 
 The big song of the game is Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. I think it's gay, one of 
 the cheesiest songs I've ever heard. But Guitar Hero has the ability to improve the quality of 
 every song you play somehow. My big complaint is that near the end of the Hard and Expert career, 
 the songs get too hard. I still can't beat Raining Blood on Hard or Expert.
  
  I don't know if this game is really worth 110 dollars.... but if it gets down to ninety, or you 
 always have friends on your 360, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: Huge replay value- you'll be coming back to this years from now, improved visuals, excellent 
 soundtrack (my favorite of all Guitar Heroes) , an extraordinary party game, pretty fun multiplayer 
 addition online.
  The Bad: Boss battles are annoying, some songs can get incredibly difficult and just plain annoying 
 (Through the Fire and the Flames on Expert Level) . 
  --
  Guitar Hero is a really popular series... if you haven't heard of it, you probably live in a box 
 that you never come out of. Even all of the "cool" kids play this game. Yeah, Guitar Hero is a 
 game in which you have a plastic guitar and you rock it out to all of your favorite tunes on the 
 big screen. Basically, you look at the screen and colored keys come down at you. At the right time, 
 you must press that key on the guitar and strum it to successfully nail it. This sounds easy, but 
 as you move onto harder difficulties, you'll be surprised how fast things roll. There are various 
 notes through the course of a song. Some of them are shiny.... These notes are called hammer ons 
 and pull offs. These are notes that you don't have to strum. You can just press the color key to 
 nail them. They usually come immediately after a note that you have to strum. The other notes have 
 a spiked shape. These notes must be all hit successfully for you to generate energy which can be 
 activated as star power after gathering enough of it. By lifting your guitar, you can use star 
 power, which doubles your score as you hit notes temporarily. This power is critical, especially 
 in harder difficulties, since it oftentimes saves you from failing the song.
  As you play, on the bottom right of the screen there is a thing that keeps track of how well you 
 are doing. The red means you are about to fail, the yellow means you are playing average, and the 
 green means you are excelling. Obviously, the more notes you hit, the better chance you have of 
 being in the green. A cool feature in this game is the fact that it keeps track of how many notes 
 you can consecutively nail. If you hit a hundred, a message will appear on the top of the screen 
 saying you did that. Also, at the end of the song you play, it will tell you how much percent you 
 completed along with your longest note streak (amount of notes consecutively played right) . 
  The soundtrack in this game is fantastic. I really like all of the songs, and I can tolerate all 
 of the songs... none of them are bad. The greatest part of it all is the abundance of types of rock. 
 The music has classic artists such as The Rolling Stones and Aerosmith, as well as recent music. 
 Even if you don't know much rock, you'll enjoy the tunes. 
  The game has a variety of modes, such as career, multiplayer, and quickplay. The career basically 
 has you beat all of the songs and it is the method of unlocking all of the challenging songs found 
 later in the game. There are also bonus songs you can get while saving up money on your career. 
 The main annoyance in the career mode are boss battles. Although it was a cool idea, these battles 
 are just irritating and a waste of time. You basically play a song and obtain power ups rather 
 than star power to try to screw up the boss you are facing, which is generally a famous guitarist. 
 
  Lastly, this game has great replay value. Guitar Hero 3 offers four difficulty levels which are: 
 easy, normal, hard, and expert. Easy involves using three keys, normal involves four, and hard/expert 
 use all five keys. This Guitar Hero gets very hard towards the end, and it's the fastest paced 
 one yet. Mastering all of the songs is very challenging, even if you play the guitar, but luckily 
 there is enough things in this game to keep you interested. Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is an awesome 
 game that should definitely go into your collection.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I love Rhythm games in general. I am a pro at DDR, Stepmania, Beatmania, Dance Maniax and other 
 rhythm games, but Guitar Hero 3 is not only the second best rhythm game I have ever played (DDR 
 is the first) , but it is the greatest guitar hero of the series.
  
  Appearance - 8/10 - The graphics were very nice on this game. The little circles you hit look clearer 
 and it is easier and it is a LOT easier to tell which notes you can tap. Also, the new characters 
 are well disigned and the new guitars make this game more customizable and better looking.
  
  Sound - 9/10 - Sound usually doesn't play a major role in the game but for this game, it does, 
 and that is a good thing. The sound for this game is over 70 of the greatest rock trakcs known 
 to man. It is impossible to not find a song you like from their list of songs. from the late 60's 
 all the way to the prestent this offers a lot of variety.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 - It's guitar hero. It is extemely fun. The new wireless controller is awesome. 
 Do I need to say more?
  
  Xbox Live - 9/10 - The xbox live is just like the multiplayer from the actual game. You can do 
 face-off pro face-off, battle (which is only ok) and eveven co-op career. So if you are lonely, 
 Xbox Live is awesome on this game.
  
  Overall - 10/10 - This is just a hands down great game that anyone and everyone should have. The 
 new wireless controller makes it better and you should get it. So yeah. Guitar Hero rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Hrrmm, where can I start?
  It's a very good game!
  
  Lets start off with the graphics.
  Okay okay, there hardly great. But does that really matter? Your lucky if you get a glimps of whats 
 happening behind, because you are focusing on hitting all the notes in time! ;) So i'd give the 
 graphics a...
  7/10
  
  Now, the gameplay. Yeah, er, one word. GREAT! Depending on what difficulty your on, it can be really 
 easy, or really hard. Your choice! On the Easy difficuly, well, its pretty easy! On that difficulty 
 you only use the first 3 frets, Green Red and Yellow, so you can get 97-100% quite easily on most 
 songs. Medium - well, you use the first 4. You can usually still do that quite well. On hard and 
 expert though, sheesh! You only have 4 Fingers on the fret board, your thumb is behind the neck 
 of the Guitar. And on Hard and Expert the notes zoom past really fast AND you have to sue all 5 
 frets, so your hand is moving up and down the fret board super fast!
  Gameplay: 10/10!
  
  And the learning curve? Ouch, quite high ;) Considering you have to strum each note aswell, it 
 makes it hard to learn how to do it all at the same time.
  But once you can do it, you wont be able to get off the game!
  Learning curve: 1 Hour, 15 Minutes.
 
  
  So overall, that is...
  
  Graphics : 7/10
  Gameplay : 10/10
  Learning Curve : 1 Hour, 15 Minutes.
  
  Now that adds up to a pretty good game if you ask me! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doglipstik
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the best game to come out for any console, theres not only the great gameplay 
 but theres also lots to do. It has a amazing single player there is four difficulties in the game, 
 all for different types of guitar hero, in the third game there is a new feature called battle. 
 You get to battle against the most well known rock stars in the rock and roll genre, Slash, Tom 
 merello etc. The multiplayer on the game keeps it even more addictive and interesting, you can 
 face your friends online in battle or normal face off. With buying the game it comes with all new 
 sleek black wireless guitar to make you feel like you really are playing the guitar. There is a 
 co op career, where if you have two guitar controllers you can play together either as bass or 
 guitar, unlocking new songs that can only be unlocked when playing co op career. You can customise 
 the characters and guitars played by your character and buy completely new characters. In the store 
 you can buy new songs to play and there is also downloadable songs for the online player. Overall 
 this is a must buy and the best of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3, the 3rd game in the series (although there was rock the 80's but that's a whole 
 different story) and probably the best so far.
  and here are the goods and the bads of the game.
  
  
  *THE GOOD*
  
  . Brand new graphics 
 for a brand new game, epic looking graphics that will blow your mind.
  . New guitar and better looking!
  . The hammer-on system has improved a lot, and now you can 
 actualy tell what are hammers-ons, and what arn't.
  . Better movement in the characters, due to there mo-cap system which sends a real persons movements 
 into a computer (they have loads of white balls stuck to them lol)
  . More downloads. Yes they have more downloads and might is say, some of them are even better than 
 the last game.
  . Awesome soundtrack
  . great online play, featuring co-op mode, pro-face off, face-off and the new battle mode.
  . 
 Twice as many songs as the last game. 
  . Harder than the last game, which makes it challenging. And i like challenges.
  
  
  *THE 
 BAD*
  
  . Online co-op isn't a story mode, which only leaves you to play only 7 songs max.
  . very limited 
 downloads. although some of the downloadable songs are good, there's not that many. 
  
  
  and there you are. as you can see, more good than bad. But personally i love this game and i can't 
 name any more faults. 
  looking forward to next game, and even rock band!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is pretty much what you would expect of a Guitar Hero game. You have a new wireless 
 controller, but the game play is exactly the same as the previous ones. However, unlike the others, 
 this one has an absolutely amazing song book. From Metallica to Guns N' Roses there are so many 
 more original versions of songs on this game it is so awesome. This has shown that now in Guitar 
 Hero we no longer have to deal with second rate cover versions of classic songs. The Sex Pistols 
 even re-recorded one of there songs just for this game. The only thing that I can complain about 
 in this game is the battle mode. This mode gets to be really irritating when with just one attack 
 you can loose a battle without even seeing who is the better player. Especially on the hard and 
 expert levels matches tend to last barely even a quarter way into the song. But overall this Guitar 
 Hero delivered what any fan of the series would expect, EXTREME, MIND BOTTLING ROCK N' ROLL AWESOMENESS!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is one of the games out there which ive never gotten the chance to play. Then comes 
 number 3 as well as my oppertunity and what a game it is. The first song i played was 'Slow ride' 
 on medium and i was thinking, wow. Then i moved into my career and unlocked all the songs after 
 a while before i realised the true intensity of the game.
  
  The gameplay was original and much more fun. I always thought 'Amplitude' for the ps2 was a great 
 musical game but now i have an all new perspective. Medium mode took it out of me with all the 
 high scores me and my friends have tried to set but now seeing its my first time im setting my 
 own standards. Hard mode is great (ive glanced at number 2 and i see some difference) as well as 
 the choice of songs for this game. Trying to flick up and down a fake guitar couldnt be more PAINFUL 
 and fun at the same time. Only managing to get far in most songs on hard i moved back to medium 
 where after a few long guitar hero days, seeing how addictive the game is, i tried a song which 
 some have mastered on expert mode... true guitar heros.
  
  Dragon Force!!! the most painful thing to ever hit a video game... and i thought wii sports was 
 hard work. Seeing how i cant finish this on medium and barely get to 10% on expert i decided to 
 head back to medium for more practice.
  
  Besides my lack of skill for this game its just pure brilliance. None stop fun and none stop guitar 
 hero. With the time flying by juring this game you just cant help but to say "Just one more go 
 to beat my last score" before you 
  know it your at it for another hour. This is purley one of the best 70 or so pounds ive spent and 
 on what a game. I know this might be getting repetetive but if youve played it you know what im 
 talking about and if you havnt youll know what im talking about. Lets see if Rock Band can match 
 ths, cant wait for number 4 already... hope they make it.
  
  Hope this helped... anyway im off to get ready for years of athiritis due to this game... thats the 
 only down side.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing Guitar Hero II, I almost fell in love with it. It was very difficult to 
 get all the achievements (I still have six songs left to 5* on Expert) , and was very satisfying 
 in the end. When I heard about the criticism and praise surrounding Guitar Hero III, I ultimately 
 had to get it. Guitar Hero III has its quirks, but it ultimately fails to disappoint. If you enjoyed 
 previous Guitar Hero entries, you'll still get a kick out of this one.
  
  I assume you know how to play Guitar Hero, so I'll skip that part and move onto my impressions 
 of this game. Let's start with the positives. The tracklist is excellent, arguably the best of 
 the four Guitar Hero games available now. Unlike previous Guitar Hero entries which were chuck 
 full of covers, this one has more master tracks than it does covers. And the covers themselves 
 aren't that bad, either, especially Barracuda. There aren't any notably bad songs in this game, 
 unlike Guitar Hero II which had the universally panned songs "Red Lottery" and "Yes We Can". This 
 game has some seriously good songs, like "When We Were Young", "Bulls on Parade", "My Name is Jonas", 
 "One", "Cult of Personality", "Closer", "Even Flow", "F. C. P. R. E. M. I. X."; the list goes on and on.
 
  
  Online multiplayer is also pretty cool. You can play older modes like face-off and pro face-off, 
 you can play a song cooperatively, and you can play the new Battle Mode, which, if you know the 
 notechart to the song, isn't half bad. The attacks actually add a layer of strategy to the gameplay 
 i. e. when you get an attack, factors like what part of the song you're on, what lies ahead, and 
 what attack you have make strategy a key element in Battle mode. The only bad thing about multiplayer 
 is that you can't play Co-op campaign with someone online.
  
  Now the negatives. The three-note chords in previous Guitar Hero games were rare and usually didn't 
 affect the quality of the notechart. In Guitar Hero III, at least on Expert, the three-note chords 
 appear in almost every song, and in some of the songs, especially in Before I Forget by Slipknot, 
 they almost kill the notechart.
  
  Additionally, some of the notecharts have hammer-ons and pull-offs which shouldn't be, and normal 
 notes which should be HOs/POs. In the Belly of a Shark's notechart immediately comes to mind.
 
  
  The game is also a bit easy. Some say it's extremely difficult. However, the new engine makes it 
 easier to hit notes, especially HOs/POs, which made Expert for me very easy. Yes, there are some 
 seriously insane songs on there like "Raining Blood", "The Way It Ends", and the legendary "Through 
 the Fire and Flames", but for the most part, the game's actually pretty easy. I only have two songs 
 left to 5* on Expert (Raining Blood and One) , and I've had the game for only a week.
  
  Finally, the money system is not good. I thought 5*ing an Expert song would give me the money I 
 would normally earn from Medium and Hard as well. But this game doesn't do that; it forces you 
 to replay the campaign more than once to get everything (unless you like cheating) , and even once 
 you've 5*'d everything on every difficulty in solo career, you have to do Co-op career as well. 
 Sure, there's more to buy, but the money system makes it pointlessly harder to buy everything.
 
  
  However, despite these faults, Guitar Hero III is not a bad game at all. The achievements are far 
 more interesting in this game than the previous one, which make the game fun to play over and over 
 again. There are some things which are a mixed bag, like the art style. The new bassist and singer 
 models are great, but they removed some of my favorite characters like Clive Winston, Pandora, 
 and Eddie Knox. I also don't like Judy Nails' new look, and Midori is cute, but doesn't really 
 fit in with the Guitar Hero theme. One of the new outfits that I DO like is that of Lars Umlaut, 
 the ugly guy with the KISS getup. His new outfit is much cooler than his previous ones. Additionally, 
 the new interface and the new notes look cleaner than in the previous games.
  
  Boss battles are also a mixed bag. On one hand, you've got Slash and Tom Morello to play against, 
 and they're fun to beat, but Lou isn't that fun. More specifically, he's almost impossible to beat 
 unless you know an easy way to get past him on Expert.
  
  Overall, though, the core gameplay is still intact, and the game is as addictive as it was back 
 in 2005, and that one reason is why it's a worthy buy. Sure, it has its quirks, but Guitar Hero 
 III still retains the core gameplay of previous entries and adds some nice new things like online 
 multiplayer. In short, if you liked other Guitar Hero games, or rhythm games in general, buy it. 
 It's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellphone654321
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero 3 is a amazing game. It has come a long way since guitar hero 1 and 2. Guitar has kept 
 the five fret buttons and plastic guitar which has been made one of the most popular games out 
 there. The graphics have improved quite a lot since the first one. The songs are much better and 
 range from welcome to the jungle to hit me with your best shot. 
  There are 4 modes in guitar hero career mode co-op, quickplay and multiplayer. career mode you 
 play each song indavisuly untill you get to the end there are 4 levels of which you can choose 
 from easy medium hard and expert you play through the songs on each level and then play a encore 
 song and keep going through the game. You try to see how high you can get your score and you get 
 star power which doubles your score 
  On co-op mode it has its very own storyline and you play this mode with a friend and you get to 
 pick if you want to be bass rythm or lead guitar. It is enjoyable to play with friends and you 
 play some songs that are only on 
  co-op mode.
  Quick play is pretty much single player mode the only diference is that you get all the songs right 
 away but they dont count as scores.
  multiplayer is when you play against a friend. There are three diffrent types of modes face off, 
 pro face off and guitar battles.
  This is one of the newest additions to guitar hero is guitar battles. You play against the games 
 assinged guitar battles during career mode play with a friend or online. During a guitar battle 
 you pretty much see which person is better at the guitar but it is called a guitar battle so instead 
 of star power you get battle power and use power ups to make the person your playing against fail. 
 It can get Annoying on story mode but there pretty fun.
  The online play is enjoyable and you can do everything on line but carrer mode
  Guitar hero 3 
 is great and if you have played the other ones great get this one to if you never played get it 
 is probally one of the greatest games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends Of Rock is a very fun game it is the first one in the series that I have 
 played. I liked it because I found a way to play video games all day without my dad getting mad 
 at me because he thinks I'm learning to play guitar now I just need to find a way to get out of 
 school.
  
  The gameplay in this game is great there aren't very many modes but I like the modes they do have.
 
  
  The graphics for this game are great the characters are very funny like the guy who is supposed 
 to be Gene Simmons is fat that was great.
  
  The Soundtrack in this game is great too it is a music game so that is to be expected I also liked 
 that you can battle Tom Morello because I am a huge rage against the machine fan.
  
  I recommend buying this game if you like music because it is great to hear all the old songs that 
 you haven't heard in a while and there is a bunch of downloadable content on Xbox live right now 
 and I would imagine there is more on the way so it is definitely worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  I started playing Guitar Hero after playing the Guitar Hero III demo on the Xbox Live Marketplace 
 came out. I went in to it thinking, 'Haha, I'm gonna hate this stupid crap...' But no, I started 
 having a lot of fun. A few days later the game came out and I picked it up on launch day (that 
 was totally coincidental) . I bought the bundle, of course. I started to love the game so damn much... I 
 begged my mom to get me Rock Band a few months later, and with that came much more playing. I got 
 into Jimi Hendrix, Priestess, Black Tide, Led Zeppelin, Soundgarden, Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Alice 
 In Chains, Metallica, Dragonforce, Velvet Revolver, The Ramones, The Clash, etc... All because 
 of Rock Band and Guitar Hero III. It's a pretty epic party game. As a matter of fact, that and 
 Far Cry are the only two games to come close to the status of Halo in my (almost) weekly LANs.
 
  
  I'm going off, so let me just explain. This game is fun if you want to play along with your favorite 
 songs and don't really want to play 'the real thing'.
  
  The game features classic songs like 'Paint It Black' and 'Talk Dirty To Me' as well as newer songs 
 like 'My Curse' and 'Lay Down'. Band selection is wide, genre selection is wide, you''l find at 
 least one song you like. It features classic Guitar Hero gameplay in the note scrolling fashion. 
 The battles you encounter (Tom Morello of Audioslave/Rage Against The Machine, Slash of Guns And 
 Roses/Velvet Revolver, and the effing Devil.) are neat at first but then become hard when you notice 
 that they don't miss a note on Expert, forcing you to act as a power up beast, using them at key 
 parts of the battle to cripple your opponent. 
  
  And another thing is that the 'Legends' of rock should really be 'Legend', considering everyone's 
 heard of Slash and almost no one knows who Tom Morello is (I like RATM and Audioslave, I know who 
 he is) . And where are the other guitar gods? Jimi Hendrix, Steve Vai, Joe Satriani, Jimmy Page, 
 Kurt Cobain, hell, anyone else? No, just two (three if the devil counts)
  
  My only real problem is that when you advance from Easy to Medium to Hard, you will go with ease 
 until the last two or three venues of the career on Hard and then get kicked in the balls by tough 
 hammer-on/pull-off sequences and three fret chords. You'll need practice to get good enough to 
 actually get far into the game (if you play on Expert, I hate you) . I've yet to beat the game on 
 Hard because three songs are killing me on Hard (Slipknot, Muse, and some other song)
  
  Someone may tell you to play a real guitar instead. Yes, you should try if you're good at Guitar 
 Hero, but don't think you have to, it's just a suggestion. If I enjoy Call Of Duty, are you going 
 to tell me to join the army? No, so I don't understand why people say you have to play a real guitar 
 after playing this. People talk down to Guitar Hero like it's actually making CDs stop selling 
 and stopping guitars from being played, when actually it's helped sell tons of CDs and made bands 
 really famous (I'm looking at you Dragonforce.)
  
  It's fun, and it should amuse you at least until you hit your guitar limit in this game. Then you 
 can either practice until you get better or quit. This game has a fault or two but should be a 
 purchase at some point (unless you are one of those 'real guitar players', and in that case, play 
 to some one who cares.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthehomer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of rhythm games given my lack of said rhythm and therefore I was never 
 interested in the first 2 guitar hero titles and scoffed at the various glowing reviews. I saw 
 one that said GH3 was "the best game" ever - a rhythm game? Impossible, I thought, the world has 
 gone mad
  
  Fast forward to a week ago and I hear Guns & Roses coming from my flatmate's room, only to discover 
 he has bought the game himself on his PS3. I give a small snort of disgust as if to question his 
 sanity in spending so much money on such a limited game. He responded by passing me the guitar 
 to let me have a go. 
  
  I sucked. I sucked badly - failing the song on the first few attempts and was all too ready to 
 discard the whole experience as a waste of time. Then, all of a sudden I had a "moment" which in 
 hindsight I wonder if most people who play this game have. It was whilst playing the Pearl Jam 
 track when everything suddenly fell into place. I "got" the concept, I "got" what it was trying 
 to encourage me to do, I let go of my all too conscious feeling that I was trying to replicate 
 classic guitar riffs with what looked like a Fisher Price toy and just went with it. I tapped my 
 foot, I swayed with the beat, I anticipated the music and began to "play" rather than just try 
 to hit the notes as a mechanical exercise on a child's plaything.
  
  For someone who has never played an instrument to any degree of competency in his life, this did 
 feel as though it was the closest I would get to replicating the experience of what's its like 
 to play clasic guitar tunes to a realistic level. And it is in this aspect where Guitar Hero truly 
 suceeds.
  
  All games by their very nature are designed to replicate the experience around which it is based 
 as closely as possible, be it racing driver, football star etc. But there is always the barrier 
 between gamer and real life that dliutes the illusion. Guitar Hero is the closest I have seen yet 
 to come to closing that gap. Despite the limited nature of the guitar compared to the real thing 
 you do feel as though you are "playing" the instrument and there is without question a level of 
 skill involved if you are too be any good at using the controller effectively. Frankly on the expert 
 difficulty setting it looks practically impossibe to such a degree I wonder if it wouldn't be easier 
 to learn the track on an actual guitar.
  
  Once I "got it" I truly became addicted to GH3. I actually looked forward to returning from work 
 and practising for a few hours. I'm a grown man and yet I got excited at the prospect of playing 
 on this plastic guitar, it took me right back to being 10 years old and air guitaring to Dire Straits. 
 I know I look like an idiot head banging along to some cartoon graphics and plucking away but I 
 don't care - I havn't had this much fun with a game in years.
  
  I don't see this as a quick fad either. I have never wanted to best a game like this one. The feeling 
 of "being in the zone" and nailing a track 100% is exhilerating and the one missed note that takes 
 you out of the zone is usually followed by a string of expletives that do not mesh with the original 
 lyrics - and so back I go for one more try, for as long as it takes..... just to reach that zen 
 like point of perfecting the track.
  
  For me the graphics and presentation are merely perfunctory, they do their job fine but they are 
 not the point. The music is obviously all important and for the most part the balance of tracks 
 is pretty good with some absolute classics to belt out - I especially like The Seeker by The Who 
 and La Grange by ZZ Top. The utter insanity of playing Through the Fire and the Flames (even on 
 the easy setting!) is a constant challenge and thrill. Personally I would like to see less death 
 metal but thats just my own preference (I would also love to see some Pink Floyd on there!)
  
  All in all GH3 does pretty much exactly what it says on the box and I couldn't be more thankful 
 for that. You'll look and feel like an idiot, but you won't care as you will be too busy having 
 a ridiculous amount of fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvman79
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III has raised the bar once again. Besides the graphical quality upgrades, the multi 
 player competition lets you compete against real players, not just your off beat friends.
  
  Graphics and Video
  - Good cartoon pictorial of your band, seems like you get a new band 
 member every town though.
  - The videos in between the cities is rather weak. This needs to be better improved.
  
  Story
 
  - Simply put, boring and waste of HD-DVD space, better off without it.
  
  Gameplay
  - Easily learned, but the tutorials are annoying but helpful.
  - You truly need to understand 
 the basics of electric guitar, feel much more real than Rock Band because you don't get the cheats 
 of the little bars.
  - Although the choice of music is not as good as Guitar Hero II, the game is addictive.
  
  
 Music Choice
  - Ok, some of the songs actually make it worth while strumming the guitar because you really need 
 to understand Hammer-On and Hammer-Offs.
  - A lot of songs, especially towards the last 15 tracks, are just button smashing. No real fun 
 in my mind. Hitting the same cord 53 times in a row real fast just to hit a similar cord 53 more 
 times is not real music.
  
  Overall
  - A must buy, even if the songs are sometimes pointless because you can download additional tracks 
 (pricey?, maybe but at least you can preview it before you buy it (Rock Band, did you read that?) 
 Go online, truly its a lot of fun, just get your skills up before you go. 
  
  Problems
  - Personally, I have problems connecting online when playing ranked matches. Not sure why.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aumelen818
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  After much mental debate I finally picked up this thing. One of the hardest decision was the price 
 tag on the game. I understand it comes with a unique controller. but it still made it difficult 
 to justify me buying it. However, I was glad I did.
  
  The concept is pretty basic. It's like Dance Dance Revolution but with your fingers. You have to 
 match the cords with your guitar. Sounds simple. But it's really not, haha, least not for me. 
 
  
  The easy difficulty is actually good for beginners, like me. You only have to worry about the first 
 three buttons on the guitar. And the notes are usally well spread out. But, once I tried medium 
 difficulty was tossed a challenge. Moving my finger to the forth button was not easy for me and 
 you have to play more notes which can be pretty close together.
  
  I'm sure there are many players out there that can take this thing and do very well. Then there 
 are people like me which will need to do the practice sessions repeatedly to get decent on anything 
 higher than easy. There are some advanced ways of playing the notes but getting my fingers to move 
 and strum at the right time is, at this time, beyond me.
  
  Audio: The track selection is good. I really had a fun time playing and listening to the music. 
 Some of the tracks were recorded by the original artists. While some were performed by cover bands. 
 Were they as good as the original artists? I really didn't think much about it.
  
  Graphics: something you aren't going to notice as you'll be very bust watching the colored noted 
 float down. You can also purchase different guitars, clothing, guitarists, etc. But I was so busy 
 trying to play, the only time you will notice your guitarist is after the song is over. There are 
 also some cut scenes after your complete a level. The graphics do not impact this game in anyway.
 
  
  Replay Value: high. And I mean really high. The more you play the better you are going to get. 
 Which equals to even more fun as you strum along to more complex chords. There are also many tracks 
 you can download via Xbox Live that will help in keeping this game fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmyle
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  This series will NEVER get boring. Of course, GH 3 is better than the older Guitar Hero games, 
 but that doesn't make the old ones any worse.
  
  With the release of Guitar Hero 3, the sales for the series are reaching far above a million. The 
 games from RedOctane are coming on a regular basis, and in 2007 we saw not only Guitar Hero 3, 
 but also Guitar Hero 2 and Guitar Hero Rocks the 80's. And now we're waiting for even more!
  
  I have never been disappointed by the soundtrack to Guitar Hero games. There's always loads 
 of challenging, popular and classic songs. Guitar Hero 3 has by far the best line-up so far. We 
 get Metallica, Slayer, Cream, The Rolling Stones, Iron Maiden, Guns & Roses, even Living Colours 
 and Queens of the Stone Age! What more can you ask for? Of course, some of these songs are performed 
 by cover bands, and it's not very hard to hear, but that doesn't make it any worse. A classic will 
 remain a classic. 
  
  The list of new features is a true wet dream. There's loads of goodies for you here.
  I'll start 
 out with the all new co-op career. There's now a COMPLETE career for co-op, with extra bonus songs 
 you wont get until you play through the career. The two players switch on playing lead and bass 
 or rythm. 
  Then, we have the battle system. Some might think this is a boring addition. I don't disagree. 
 It's fun at first, but this is something I got tired of wquite soon. To me it's enough with a pro 
 face-off!
  I haven't gotten to try out the online gaming yet, but that is also something new. The whole game 
 has gone online, and you can play with old and new friends over X360 Live! Sounds awesome!
  
  The Les Paul wireless is the guitar for GH3. I personaly prefer the guitar from GH2, much comfier 
 as I can rest my arm while playing, but the new controller is no less awesome for that. 
  
  I've been playing as Slash since I got the game. The first thing I did was finish the game on easy, 
 and buy Slash. If you don't know who Slash is, then go away. Now. He's a legend. Of course, Tom 
 Morello is always there. I like playing as him as well, but no-one can beat Slash. Hear that!? 
 NO-ONE!
  
  Even the graphics in the background are awesome. There's a clear improvement from Guitar Hero 2, 
 and I love it. In fact, at times I end up looking at the graphics instead of playing. Honestly, 
 it's that awesome.
  
  Conclusion? If you don't like the game, I don't like you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richard2day15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game has a whole new feel to it, songs and even characters. The coolest new thing is that 
 with the career, you get a story that goes with it, pretty much go from zero to guitar hero. The 
 aspect is the same but oddly still addictive. With tracks that you will want to play till you memorize 
 them, how couldn't love this game. The graphics are a great improvement and really bring the game 
 together. The new feature battle is a very big part of the game (but could have gone without it) , 
 you have to have a battle against Slash, Tom Morello, and the Devil himself with their own songs 
 and custom solos. The Achievements are extremely difficult which makes for allot of game play. 
 There is also a Co-Op career that you and a friend can play. After a wile this game may get boring... so 
 you can download some new tracks and keep your jammin' going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 1 was revolutionary for it's time and stands to be one of my favorite games to date. 
 Picking up that little plastic guitar and rocking out for the first time is a memory I'll never 
 forget. Along with the first time I beat the game on Expert and considered myself officially addicted. 
 However, that was a long time ago and a lot of hours of Guitar Hero ago and things have changed...
 
  
  I'm going to try to not tell you about all the reasons that I don't care for the GH franchise anymore, 
 but they'll probably come out here or there with lots of comparisons to the first and second games 
 along with blaming 80's addition and the company switchover for the crappiness. 
  
  Guitar Hero 3 brings about some pretty awesome visuals. Awesome as in clean looking and having 
 that "next-gen shine". But, to be honest, I don't like any of the characters anymore. My favorite 
 character, Eddy (GH2) is gone and all the girls have become hookers. Who wants to be a hooker in 
 Guitar Hero? The fret boards have been toned down a bit as well, there were several good ones in 
 the second game, now they are all just mediocre. 
  
  Now, one big thing they added was these boss battles and this battle mode in general. Did anyone 
 test this? I'm pretty sure if they did any testing at all on this mode they would have gotten the 
 feedback of "This is totally unbalanced and doesn't reflect on skills at all" because thats pretty 
 much what I've concluded along with everyone I play GH with. 
  
  The way it works, if you don't know, is that instead of star powers you collect power ups that 
 affect the other person you are playing against. These are things like causing one of their notes 
 to be unusable, or quickly swapping them into lefty flip for a short period of time. This is the 
 one that I have the biggest problem with, it seems that if the other person gets left flip you're 
 pretty much dead (if you are on a decent Expert mode song) because there are just to many notes 
 to adjust. I'm not going to complain about it for to long cause it'll get boring and repetitive, 
 but I absolutely despise everything that is battle mode. 
  
  Next, the difficulty. The first two games had a pretty good difficulty ramp that started off easy 
 and trained you so that you never really noticed the difficulty increase as you got to the last 
 tear. It was always challenging, but do-able and learnable. I didn't find GH3 hard at all, honest, 
 getting through the songs was no problem, but the amount of notes was ridiculous. I suspect that 
 they thought adding more notes would make the game harder, when it reality it made it boring cause 
 you just have to up and down strum for your life and you'll be fine. 
  
  The songs have gone to crap to. Much more mainstream, much less classics. Everyone can enjoy classics, 
 and the classics that are ont here are pretty good. But the nu-metal that was thrown in and some 
 of this other modern stuff was just no good. I still think about the songs in GH1 and want to go 
 back and play them, GH3, long gone out of my mind. 
  
  To wrap it up, I played the game for about a month and was way bored with it. It's just a game 
 that is out there because corporates know it's going to sell (which clearly it has) . A lot of people 
 will probably disagree with me and say that it is the best GH game to date, they probably didn't 
 start with the first one though and see what it actually took to put care into a game. Now, my 
 final note. Return this game if you have it and buy Rock Band. If you want to hear me ramble about 
 why it's better, hit me up sometime and I'll be glad to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  With all the media frenzy over this game, it's hard to miss it. You have a plastic guitar that 
 is attached to the console. Select the difficulty and simply match whatever icons that appears 
 on the ever going fretboard with those on the guitar. Do well and you get points, do poorly and 
 you'll hear the music start to skip, and if you're really bad then you'll get 'boo-ed' off the 
 stage. There are also some other modes, such as battling against another player attacking with 
 power-ups that you gain for doing well (attacks includes making the other player play in reverse 
 order, having to play left handed, etc) . You can also play together, as demonstrated in the South 
 Park episode.
  
  Pretty simple game, and if you're a rock & roll fan, you'll have a good old time strumming to some 
 familiar tunes. It'd be better if you can customize your own tunes on Xbox Live, because there 
 are some songs that I didn't like or some that I simply never heard of before. The graphics are 
 also lackluster, and due to the emphasis on fun rather than graphics, this game was also released 
 for the Wii... now onto my Wii version review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is in my opinion, the best one yet. The graphics are solid and the soundtrack is 
 awesome. If you like hard rock/metal songs like One by Metallica and Raining Blood by Slayer, then 
 this is the game for you. One very noticable change is the frequent use of hammer-ons. In GH3, 
 they show up as glowing notes (not like star power glowing but glowing) , so it's easier to hit 
 them. Since they show the hammer-ons, they make it a little more difficult by adding more notes 
 to hit in each song, which shouldn't be a problem as long as you can hit the hammer-ons no problem. 
 The story mode is pretty much the same as the first two except for the Guitar Battles which are 
 sweet. There will always be the debate of Guitar Hero vs. Rock Band, but I prefer Guitar Hero because 
 of the soundtrack and because it actually says I hit the notes in GH3 unlike Rock Band. If you 
 could create your own rocker in GH3, then it would be either a 9.5 or a 10 definately to me. Guitar 
 Hero III is the best music type game of the year (again) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is know for some of the best rhythm in games out there.. in my opinion, it would be 
 hard to find someone out there who doesn't like this game; and thats just because of how great 
 it really is..
  
  Lets start with graphics, i actually think that they did such a great job improving the graphics 
 from the last game to this one.. the only bad thing is that they took a comic book approach to 
 the cut scenes... Again, it was better than the cut scenes from the previous game, but they still 
 could have done a better job.. The character design is good, the guitar models are great, graphics 
 get a 8 out of 10
  
  ahh... gameplay, this is where the game shines... its really amazing how the reaction time from the 
 guitar controller to the game on the screen has no errors at all... they've also improved the smoothness 
 of hammer ons and pull offs in this game.. Seeing all of this leads me to give the gameplay a 10 
 out of 10
  
  Considering the difficulty, its split down the middle for the players out there.. the people who 
 are not that good at the game complain that its too hard.. then the people who are actually good, 
 they complain its too easy, so it really depends how much you practice... So, learning curve for 
 me, is from a 1hr-whenever... i say whenever because you can always improve your skills in guitar 
 hero...
  
  Online isnt all that good, they dont have the best servers, so you'll be looking for matches here 
 and there for a little while..
  
  Overall, i would give this game an 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is in many ways just an update for Guitar Hero II, but it's still a very good update.
 
  
  For once there's a story in Guitar Hero's Career Mode. You play as a young guitarist who joins 
 a small band. In time you get bigger gigs and in the end you are playing against the Devil himself. 
 Story is told through funny cutscenes and it's nice to have a story, although it still is a very 
 thin one.
  
  Graphics are the best in series history, but still in essence this game looks the same as the first 
 one did. Luckily the frame rate stays solid all the time, which is very important in a game like 
 this. Music is in bright stereo and now most of the songs are from their original performers. No 
 complaints here.
  
  Gameplay is what it has always been, but now you have a little better wireless guitar controller. 
 You play songs in Career mode and unlock more songs as you progress. Song list is the best in series 
 history and there's more to unlock by buying them from Xbox Live Marketplace. Songs are mainly 
 hard rock or heavy metal, so if you're not into that kind of music then this game might disappoint 
 you.
  
  Difficulty is vamped up even higher than in previous games, which means that in Hard mode you may 
 face a giant wall of challenge even in the first song. This also means that it's very rewarding 
 to make it the other side.
  
  Multiplayer is fun consisting of co-op Career and a few modes of competitive playing. It works 
 although usually your opponents are insanely skilled.
  
  Together with multiple difficulty settings, downloadable content and online multiplayer Guitar 
 Hero III Legends of Rock will keep you rocking for a long time. Rock Band is maybe coming, but 
 this is the definite Guitar Hero experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  first off guitar hero 3 is the biggest of all guitar hero games by far and that brings some good 
 and bad elements into the mix. first off the fact that it is bigger means more songs and with a 
 selection of over 70 tracks you're bound to get some awesome tunes in there... and you do, songs 
 like "lay down" by Priestess, "paint it black" by the rolling stones and my favorite "missisppi 
 queen" by mountain. these songs are are really good fun to play and pretty difficult on the later 
 levels but you still want to play them. on the other hand the fact that there is so many songs 
 means there is gonna be some stinkers and there definatley is songs like "Kool thing" by sonic 
 youth and "miss murder" by AFI are truly appuling songs.... i mean the game is called legends of 
 ROCK so why have immense bands like iron maiden and ZZ top lumped in with this inane drivel.
  
  the game itself is as you'd expect it to be, its looks fantastic, crisp graphic and vibrant 
 colours light up the screen when you really get going. the character models have all recieved a 
 rather large boost since the last games and some just look completley different alltogether... 
 mostly "judy nails" and "johnny napalm".... other charcters such as "axel steel" and "casey lynch" 
 look much better than they did in the previous games. the venues themselves havent changed that 
 much but the singer of the band is a big improvment... that mouth is awesome...
  
  the difficulty level has been ramped up like crazy with expert mode containing a number of overwhelming 
 solos and relentless riffs but hey! thats why its expert...... all in all i would say that this 
 is the best one of the series and hopefully and further games will improve on its formula!
  
  rock on, amigos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smackman82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Guitar Hero III, a game that has taken the world by storm. This game definitely has it's improvements. 
 The only thing I can say is, if you've never played GH or GH2, this game may prove to be extremely 
 difficult for a couple weeks until you've kind of gotten a few pointers from veterans of the series. 
 Otherwise, the experience players will find this game to be a very fun challenge.
  
  Guitar Hero 1 & 2 showed us how to play, Guitar Hero 3 will put your skills to the very test. Mostly 
 asthetic changes were made to the game along with more licenses from real bands, and the addition 
 of Guitar Battles.
  
  The music selection is showing some lack of imagination bringing forth more mainstream music such 
 as Aerosmith, The Rolling Stones, Metallica, etc. That's pretty much my biased opinion but others 
 may probably love that. Personally I would like to see more of a selection of music, especially 
 from bands that are a little less known. And quite personally, I'd also like to see more categorical 
 selections in the game. For example: I like metal and hard rock, so I'd like to be able to select 
 a single player campaign based on just those genres due to my excessive hate for emo and classic 
 rock.
  
  On the other hand, we have Guitar Battles, while interesting in theory, I think could've been implemented 
 better. Having to beat a guitarist as good as Slash or Tom Morello, especially since they never 
 miss a note, is quite a feat. A lot of those battles especially in EXPERT seem to really cheat 
 you and really rely on luck over skill.
  
  Graphically and Audio-wise, the game is great, no hang-ups, slow-downs, poor sound, or otherwise 
 found in the game. Hopefully in GH4 we'll start to see maybe a change in how the singer, bassist, 
 and drummer's look and act.
  
  So in summary, the game is great, even if I did complain a lot, I feel all those things are insignificant 
 because as a guitarist myself, this really pushes me to practice more often with the pick handed 
 stuff. But I will say this for one thing and I'm done complaining... STOP THE ADVERTISING IN GAMES. 
 If it made games cheaper, that'd be cool but it doesn't so please stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  I am a avid gamer and musician. I am also a singer, song writer. I play Piano, Drums, Guitar, Violin. 
 And this game is just poor quality and just a novelty. The guitar itself is just very child like. 
 Very poor, plastic quality. Very clunky. Even to play. It goes click, click. Very light, cheap 
 materials for such a high price. 
  
  The song tracks are horrible. There are vast amounts of amazing rock songs, rock ballads, even 
 heavy metal songs. This would have to be some of the worst music ever made. 
  
  Not to mention no patches, to play other games with guitar such as rock band. No options to just 
 play any songs. And to buy addon packs. Your looking at $10 each time. So if you buy 10 new addon 
 packs. Thats $100. Its like the price of another game. THere just trying to mlik the money tree 
 of this novelty game. 
  
  But a real electric guitar. And learn to play. You wont be disapointed. And it will be alot cheaper, 
 more satisfying. And you can play any song. And play guitar like it should be played. Not with 
 some novelty kids toy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbirdjapan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the 4th game in the series. The producers of this game must be proud because they 
 made one hell of a game. It has a short career mode but the game makes up for that with songs you 
 can download. I have had a ton of fun with this game even though I have only played it on medium. 
 I think the best new addition to the Guitar Hero 3 is the Xbox Live content. You can challenge 
 anyone around the world and have a rock off. I even beat one of the creators at his own game. I 
 am glad the creators get to have fun with their own game. This game is fun in all but they made 
 it way too hard. Through the fire and flames is almost impossible on medium. It is also kind of 
 expensive. 100 dollars is a lot of money. I got this game before Rock Band because Rock Band is 
 way too much. Guitar Hero 3 is an a amazing game that gives the rocker a feeling of joy when he 
 or she beats Lou. That is why I give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  One would think we would get tired of the Guitar Hero Series, yet they are able to supply a great 
 game yet again. 
  
  The game play is set up in a friendly fashion as you are better able to see your note streaks, 
 the powers, scores, etc. The graphics have been cleaned up a great deal, yet the drummer clearly 
 was not worked on if you watch him in the background.
  
  The characters look extremely comic like, which i personally dont enjoy especially when they dont 
 change out, or even change clothes. A clear bonus for the Rockband series over GH. 
  
  I am a dedicated Rockband player and still found the need to pick up a copy of GH3 as it is built 
 for the Guitar Players out there.
  
  Rockband = Drums / singing
  GH Series - Pwns in Guitar Playing
  
  If your looking to rock out the guitar section of music 
 gaming, this game is by far the best game out there at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III has by far the best setlist of any guitar hero game to date, and since this is 
 a musical game it becomes infinitely more fun with good songs. The difficulty has been increased 
 from gh2, but to compensate it appears as if (to me) that the game is much more lenient to your 
 timing for hammer-ons and pull-offs; if it's too lenient you can put in the code to make it require 
 exact timing (i forget the official name for the cheat and the sequence of buttons) . 
  
  The boss battles were an intriguing idea, but in this game they werent very good; the songs were 
 great, but by only having 3 they seemed out of place. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is very fun, and in my experience there has not been very much 
 lag.
  
  New wireless controller is a very different feel from the gh2 model, I don't really have a preference 
 for either one, as they both work fine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I've played and own all the games in the Guitar Hero series and too me this one is the worst of 
 the bunch but that doesn't mean it's a bad game I just think they could've done better. Gameplay 
 wise nothing much has changed which is great becuase I can get stuck right in to it without having 
 to learn all these fancy new gameplay mechanics. One thing that really messes me up is that the 
 Hammer on and pull off placement is just plain wrong. If you're a seasoned Guitar Hero veteran 
 you'll know what a hammer-on and a pull-off is. I often find myself messing my whole streak up 
 because a note that really should be a hammer on isn't (due to natural instinct I try to hammer 
 it and it misses) . A song called 3's & 7's istantly comes to mind with this as this is place where 
 the error is most noticable. The songlist has also been messes with in my eyes as while there are 
 some really good ones the ones that they ask me to play to perfect sound like absolute poop in 
 my ears. 
  
  My biggest gripe with the soundtrack has to come in the form of the removal of the indie bands. 
 In GH1 and 2 I would happily strum away to Count Zero and others but they've been kicked out and 
 replaced with rubbish which sucks as I really love the indie bands. They've also gone and made 
 the difficulty totally unbalanced. In the first two there was enough challenge to set your fingers 
 on fire but with skill you could beat them. While most of the tracks here a balanced the last ones 
 are extremely unfair to the point where I can't beat them. I've got a perfect star ranking of all 
 songs in the first two on Expert and I can't even beat this one? They totally speared the difficulty... 
 badly. I'm playing the game on the 360 and I notice that the guitar is larger and heavier which 
 is annoying as it's absolute murder on your arms compared to the first which where light and not 
 so much weight on your arms.
  
  In conclusion Guitar Hero 3 is a good game on it's own but as a Guitar Hero game (and a sequel 
 to what I view as the second best game of all time) it's a pretty half-assed sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  These kind of games (Rock Band, Guitar Hero, Dance Dance Revolution) seem to be mainly suited towards 
 groups of people having a blast together, and in my experience, this game provides. There is a 
 good lineup of songs, albeit with a couple of random songs no one has heard of I highly enjoyed 
 the choice of songs. Basically, the core of the game is press the colored button that matches the 
 colored circle coming down on the screen and strum when it hits the bottom of the screen... sound 
 fun? Not really, but when you play to songs you know and love, and become really good and are able 
 to nail the wicked solos it becomes very fun. Me and my friends all play to compete with eachother 
 and brag by showing off our skills when we get together. The reason this game gets only an 8.5 
 is because it isn't a game that can hold your attention for hours on end by yourself like other 
 games can, and well... it doesn't have any Led Zeppelin, which is worth taking off 0.5 for. When 
 you have friends around you, expect that it will do so, and crank up the volume. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  There are games out there that everyone wants to play. Sitting in a University classroom, a discussion 
 about music comes up and one guy shouts out, "I can't play guitar, but I can play Guitar Hero!" 
 In another instance, a girl giving a speech about guitars tells her audience that she started playing 
 them because "Guitar Hero was really fun." In case you didn't catch on, Guitar Hero is one of the 
 games that everyone wants to play.
  
  Guitar Hero III is the most recent iteration of the series and as someone with no experience with 
 the franchise before I can say that it is definitely enjoyable. The game is actually quite simple, 
 but that's what makes it fun for everyone. You hold a ukulele sized guitar controller that has 
 five buttons, each a different color. These buttons show up on the television screen and you push 
 them at the right time. Sounds simple, right?
  
  But the game amps up; forget playing on Easy using only three buttons, and while Medium is passable 
 with four, taking up each of your fingers, it's when you play on Hard or Expert and just start 
 to shred like a lunatic that you see the genius behind Guitar Hero. Consecutive button presses 
 start to occur and suddenly it's consecutive button presses with more than one finger and then 
 you're holding down one while hitting other buttons with your other fingers. Guitar Hero is rewarding 
 for everyone, whether it's a casual gamer looking to just slowly play on Easy, an average gamer 
 like myself who plays on Medium, or the truly dedicated who make Hard and Expert seem like chump 
 change.
  
  It's really fun to just play and what makes it even better is that the game easily has the best, 
 licensed soundtrack ever released. There are definitely some gems in here from the likes of Social 
 D, The Killers, Muse, AFI, Tenacious D and more. If you're making a music game, you might as well 
 include good music, and Guitar Hero III definitely brings the goods.
  
  There is the career mode to go through in the game, and as you progress you'll unlock more and 
 more songs. However, Guitar Hero really is a game that's more fun to play when other people are 
 around. It just isn't as fun to be standing in an empty room pretending to rock out. But when everyone 
 else is watching, laughing and jumping in to play, then Guitar Hero comes to life. Which is why 
 it's good to see cooperative play, or rather the coop career, in as well. Of course, only one person 
 can be on guitar and the other plays bass, which isn't nearly as fun, but mastering a song with 
 a friend is good fun, and practically essential if you want to unlock all the songs in the game.
 
  
  There's also competitive multiplayer for one-on-one guitar battles. These are fun as well, especially 
 to have bragging rights over someone else. But in the case of Guitar Hero, coop is definitely more 
 rewarding than earning bragging rights. However, these battles will also find their way into the 
 solo career in the form of boss battles. They're not as fun in the career since it isn't your job 
 to play well so much as it is to just mess up the boss character with silly power-ups. It just 
 doesn't work that well in the career.
  
  The game's graphics are decent. I absolutely hate the overly exaggerated art the characters simply 
 look awful. The rest of the game focuses on the actual guitar action taking most of your screen 
 and the ugly characters dancing around in the background. The sound on the other hand is top-notch. 
 It is well worth noting that many of the songs are the actual songs and not just covers. There 
 really isn't much else to talk about for the sound in the game since all you really hear is the 
 music.
  
  One extremely annoying thing to note is all the in-game advertising. Seriously, if we're going 
 to stick it to the man and rock, shouldn't we mean it? Just seeing ads for Axe annoys me. There's 
 no real reason for Guitar Hero III to have these ads, but it still has them.
  
  At the end of the day, Guitar Hero III is good fun. It's fun and accessible for everyone to jump 
 in and still manages to reward skillful play. The series has become a runaway hit and is well worth 
 playing for both fans and newcomers alike. For someone who just had their first experience with 
 Guitar Hero, I can say, the third game in the series is more fun than any other music game I've 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  All I gotta say is this game rocks. 
  It has the best track list yet and it is very challenging on hard and expert. You can download 
 a lot of content and for you Halo fans out there (myself included) you can dl and play the Halo 
 soundtrack for free. One thing I like about it is you can practice all you want and you can kick 
 but on the last two games to show off to your friends. It is the best game for parties including 
 Rock Band but some parts break unfortunately on that game and it is very expensive. Better plastic 
 guitar design and awesome graphics and challenges on the Xbox 360 version. I've tried it out at 
 my friends house and it is on my list including an Xbox 360 and Halo 3 which is another awesome 
 game I would recommend. At first, if your a starter, it might leave you kind of frustrated because 
 it is difficult at some certain songs, practice doesn't hurt and it so awesome once you master 
 the song, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulieisSmallie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  Well if you don't know what GH is then, its a game where you have a guitar controller 5 buttons 
 and you have to press the buttons in rhythm with the song while strumming or not strumming at higher 
 difficulties.
  
  Guitar Controller: 10/10
  The controller for GHIII is leaps and bounds over its predecessor in GHII, it doesn't feel cheap, 
 it has a whammy bar that actually works, the buttons have a better feel, plus its shiny. Oh and 
 did I mention wireless which is great because now you can jump around, spin, run around to you 
 hearts content. 
  
  Songs: 8/10
  The songs have grown on me the more that I play them. If you wanna see the whole list check here.
 
  There are quite a lot, and most of them are decent, some are down right awful *cough* Barracuda*cough* 
 but some are epic *cough* Cliffs of Dover. . A good mix of stuff, though I could have suggested 
 better songs, but so could every one else 
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is a lot harder then GHII especially the battles on the uppper difficulties (still can't 
 beat the 1st one on expert) . I am on the last set of the hard campaign, stuck for a while, but 
 working on it. Practice mode helps you a lot. There is the usually progression from easy to expert 
 though adding different tiers of difficulty. The hit detection has been extended in this game though 
 which doesn't make it as hard, when you have an extra 1/2 a second to hit a note from the previous 
 installments. But still quite difficult, on hard and expert. The campaign is the same as the second 
 one, progress from one venue to the next, unlocking new songs and making money to buy extra goodies 
 in the store that range from new songs, guitars, characters, to videos and costumes. MP is good 
 offline (I don't dare go online in fear of getting my butt handed to me) , co-op career is a nice 
 installment as well as the patch that allows quickplay co-op offline, and with all the songs and 
 different levels of difficulty you will be trying to 5 star all of them till eternity. Also the 
 addition of boss battles is innovative.
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics are nothing to rave about, the usual cartoonish characters, and crowds that consist 
 of only the 5 same people over and over doing the same thing. The fret board is better then the 
 second one though its easier to see the notes and combination of notes that are coming up, a problem 
 in GHII. The venues are well detailed and look nice, as well as lighting, and camera angles that 
 really build the atmosphere. Blatant advertising is an issue I don't have a problem with some ads 
 in game but when its everywhere it tends to get annoying, at least for me. Character detail are 
 nice, guitars look good, but straps seem to me missing, so they just float on your characters (some 
 at least) .
  
  Well I can't think of anything else to write so I give it an 8/10.
  
  Positives:
  Good songs
  Good Gameplay
  Good Guitar
  Decent Graphics
  
  Negatives:
 
  Advertising everywhere
  Impossible at upper tiers
  Crowds could be better
  
  Its a fun game, and I can see myself playing it for a while, but at $90 the price is a little steep 
 (unless of course you have a guitar from previous versions, but GHIII is really nice) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danman_23
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is easily the best guitar hero game ever created.
  This game has the best soundtrack, the best characters, and lots of downloadable and all of your 
 favorite Bands like KISS, Gun n Roses and more that will hook you for the rest of your life.
  EXCELLENT CONTENT and AWESOME SOUND.
  Awesome songs like Rock and Roll all Nite, Rock you Like 
 a Hurricane, Welcome to the Jungle, Number of the Beast, One ,Slow Ride, and 70 other great songs.
 
  This game also has the toughest songs in guitar hero history like
  TROUGH THE FIRE AND FLAMES, THE DEVIL WENT DOWN TO GEORGIA, and ONE
  This game is loaded with 
 unlockable stuff like Guitars, Characters, Songs,
  Outfits for the characters, and much much much more This game is deffently your one hundred dollars.
 
  Trust me it will rock your socks off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, obviously there's no story BUT -- If you like rock -- or playing guitar --- or that you'd 
 wish you could play some -- well guess what ----
  
  This game is for you !! It's as easy as that!!
  
  Before going into details I'll start with 
 some rates about the game:
  
  -Game Play: 10 (The game is just about that)
  -Music: 10 -- The songs are really good but they could have put more
  -Graphics: 7.5 -- Doesn't 
 really matter does it -- I mean it's a music game after all -- it's not like if it was Halo 3 or 
 Callf of Duty 4 is it?
  -Story: --
  -LifeSpan:8.5 well if you play online and with friends and practice alot you'll be spending pretty 
 much time in it about 50 hours easy (if you try to do finish all the careers -- including the time 
 practicing to beat hard and expert mode)
  
  over all I'd give it makes a total of 9
  
  
  The game is all about hiting some notes when they come, if you do then the song will play, 
 there's nothing much to it but you'll have alot of fun, especially if you play online or with friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is in my opinion the best in the series. The title "Legends of Rock" throws the whole 
 game off because there are barely any legends in that game. Nonetheless, it is still a great soundtrack 
 ranging from classics such as Paint it Black (The Rollingstones) , Welcome to the Jungle (Guns N 
 Roses) , and Sunshine of Your Love (Cream) to newer songs such as When You Were Young (The Killers) 
 and Reptilia (The Strokes) . The only problem with all the songs is that you must play co-op mode 
 with someone else to unlock about four or five other songs.
  
  The gameplay is awesome and the sound is great. The only aspect of this game that I and plenty 
 or other players have a problem with is the EXTREME diffulty on expert mode. Neversoft just added 
 more notes to these songs to "make it more fun" or something? The real songs do not that many notes. 
 It is almost impossible to complete career mode in expert unless your name is Jimi Hendrix. 
  
  Another problem. The lack of downloadable content. This game has been out since October and 
 it is already March. And still not much downloadable content. Rock Band owned Guitar Hero in that!
 
  
  Other than this, there isn't much else you can do. Afterall, it is just a guitar controller used 
 to play music from a wide variety of bands. Overall, this game is great and has no flaws other 
 than the lack of downloadable content and the unhuman expert mode. The Guitar Hero series never 
 lets me down.
  
  - Robert Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyan_Flame
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3.... the third game in the series and a great rhythm based game still! You'll receive 
 a guitar controller and get to play old and new rock, metal, and other kinds of songs!
  
  Gameplay- Well notes come down in separate colors..... as the come down to their circles you have 
 to hit the strum bar while holding the color of the note. It's a pretty fun system t work with 
 but gets insanely hard on the latter difficulties. Though the difficulty is completely uneven. 
 Hard and expert will take a while to get down.... leading to frustration.
  
  Graphics- Great and pleasing! Plenty of special effects and the characters look well... rock like.
 
  
  Multiplayer- Usually you can find a match in about 5 minutes tops... based on your settings.
  
 
  The game is pleasing to newcomers but WILL be frustrating if you've never played hard or expert 
 modes....
  
  I recommend you buy it though! This is definently a game to add to your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downward_sanity
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II was an extremely fun game, so when I heard Guitar Hero III was coming out, I thought 
 it was going to continue down that path. I was wrong. First off, the game should not be titled 
 "Legends of Rock". If you want to name a game that, get REAL legends! In this game there was very 
 few. Also, I was curious as to where the guitar solos went. Only about half the songs in it had 
 guitar solos in them. Even the Rolling Stones' song: Paint it, Black had no solo. And then, when 
 you weren't bored out of your mind with them, you were struggling to keep your arm from falling 
 off. Another flaw in the game was all the chords. Why so many chords? There were many more chords 
 than were in the actual songs. It seems they just put them in there for fun. Sure it makes it harder, 
 you know why? Because it's not meant to be played like that! I still have not beaten this game 
 on expert and probably never will, because it's simply just not fun to fail all the time. As soon 
 as you get to the last tier of songs, they turn to impossible mode. So that leaves me at a quagmire 
 at what to rate the difficulty as. And yet another flaw, is that Guitar Hero III looks almost exactly 
 like Guitar Hero II. I remember watching an interview with one of the people working on Guitar 
 Hero III and they said they wanted to keep similar things because that's what makes the game what 
 it is. Well that's fine, but I'd like to know what they actually changed. Overall, I think Neversoft 
 ruined a very fun franchise, with some terrible bands, lack of guitar solos, and lack of guitar 
 legends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3... I remember watching the many and terrible commercials for this game. You guys 
 remember it?" There can be only one guitar hero!"AND THATS ME!!" and they start playing air 
 guitar? Anyways, Guitar hero 3 doesn't bring too too much to the legacy of GH, just a handful of 
 songs and a new mode called "Batlle", which is like a test of who can best the other guitarist 
 using a variety of unfair advantages. Anyways, on to the Review.
  
  -Story-
  Well, there isn't a story per se... its more like a couple hours of playing Guitars hero songlist 
 and watching a few animated cutscenes of your "band". Not very ... innovative but its very interesting 
 and amusing to see what the future holds for these young men in there quest to fame.
  8.5/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  Its guitar hero... What else there to be said? 5 notes (colours) to 
 be hit on a conveyer belt that goes towards you in a variety speeds depeding on what difficulty 
 you choose. The same but you cant really imagine it any differently.
  10/10
  
  -Audio-
  The songlist of Guitar Hero 3 is probally the best I have seen yet (though I say that GH2 was good 
 too) . Of course they have been altered to make the guitar stand out in the song but that makes 
 no difference. Makes you realize that the guys in Disturbed and Slipknot have really crazy fingers.
 
  10/10
  
  -Muliplayer-
  Same face off and pro face off modes, a new Co-op career mode makes your buddy join you on a montage 
 of a re-arranged songlist and unlock a few songs that you couldnt get from playing solo. Though 
 this mode is only LOCAL still fun. Online, theres still the normal modes and co-op but no career 
 with your buddies. Fun, but maybe more?
  9/10
  
  -Visual-
  Beautiful visuals.. the many stages you play on are different and always fun to see. The character 
 models from the previous games are shown with more detail and a more modern look, cept for the 
 wannabe Kiss member Lars.
  9/10
  
  -Overall-
  This game boasts beautiful graphics, awesome audio and the same great gameplay of the previous Guitar 
 hero's. Playing this game will give you the good ol' cramp you used to get from playing Freebird 
 on Expert on Guitar hero 2. Crack your fingers to Guitar Hero 3, because be sure to know that this 
 game is a madness of notes when on expert.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, GH 3 has improved its visuals. They are much more cleaner and shinier than GH 2. But, 
 I have noticed sometimes during play when I activate star power that there will be a split-split 
 second lag. Not good for a rhythm game, eh? That aside, there isn't much wrong in this district 
 of the game.
  
  Sound-wise, this game has got the stuff. Although, I can't really experience the full effect since 
 I only have two of the three AV plugs in my TV. But, that's me and not the game. The song selection 
 is great ranging from classics to hits right off of the press. The only thing that could be considered 
 bad is personal choice. I, myself don't enjoy the metal screamo music some of you listen to. There 
 are also some songs that are just plain annoying **cough** 3s and 7s **cough**. Once again though, 
 they can't make a game that suit everybody's wants.
  
  The gameplay in this addition to the GH franchise is whole-heartedly the best. Hammer-ons and pull-offs 
 are easier to use and much more effective than before (and also used a lot more) . But, the difficulty 
 of this installment is through the roof. Even on Hard it took me forever to beat some songs. Now, 
 don't get me wrong. I don't dislike a challenge, but the achievements and songs are extremely difficult. 
 Which in some cases could turn some consumers off.
  
  Overall, GH 3 is a great game that is very addicting and fulfilling. If you look past some of the 
 flaws in this title, you'll find an awesome game.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Pros:
  Good graphics, great sound, awesome soundtrack, a challenge, online multiplayer.
  
  The Cons:
 
  Extremely hard, characters are unrecognizable, some cool guitars have been traded for others, 
 new game modes aren't that great, can get repetitive at times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Alright, I've been a fan of the Guitar Hero franchise since the first one. (I still have it, actually.)
 
  
  Well, Guitar Hero I and II were awesome games, so, I was surprised to find that when I played GH3, 
 I didn't feel the same as with the other two games. 
  
  Allow me to explain -- I'm not bashing, those who think I am, just log off and go play a game or 
 something. As I was saying, every time I played the other two Guitar Hero games, I played nothing 
 but those two games for about three months straight each. By comparison, I played Guitar Hero 3 
 about... four weeks. The game just got old really fast, even after conquering all the songs in 
 the game. (Note: I think it's freakin' impossible to get 100% on The Devil Went Down To Georgia 
 on Expert.)
  
  Well, I'm not saying GH3 was bad, as it had its moments... It just missed that thing that the other 
 two had back when the franchise was Harmonix/RedOctane .
  
  Oh well. I guess I'll try Guitar Hero IV, since this is now an Activision franchise, it'll wind 
 up having more spinoffs than Tony Hawk's Pro Skater did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex26cool
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  guitar hero 3 is the most addictive, amazing, challenging games I've ever played on and i love 
 it. in comparison the songs on gh3 are worse then gh2 however there is more of them and alot more 
 challenging than on gh2 so it is an improvement. a word of advise when you get your guitar plug 
 the neck in and never take out unless necessary because all 5 of my friends guitars keep braking 
 because of it. By braking i mean while your sometimes a button will collapse completely and make 
 it really hard get5 stars on a song. the new features to gh3 is battle mode which really isn't 
 all its cracked up to be especially if you are on a harder difficulty to your opponent because 
 your challenger will be able to get star power notes and your attacks will less affective on them. 
 on summary this game going to go games history books for the right reasons but you might get annoyed 
 with at first because it takes a while to get used to it and to be able to do the harder difficulties 
 but when you become the best in your group of friends you feel great and as if noone can beat you 
 but as you will find out on xbox live theres always someone better than you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iconic_D
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III Is A great Game with an awesome soundtrack.
  
  The Good:
  
  GamePlay
  
  Guitar Hero III's gameplay is pretty much the same as the others in the franchise, but now 
 there is a new mode of play called battle mode. (I'll get to it later) The object of the game is 
 to hit the notes when it gets close to the bottom. You press the colored buttons corresponding 
 to the colored notes on the screen. You use a controller that resembles a Gibson Les Paul Guitar 
 in black. (or a white SG Explorer) Thats pretty much what you do, oh and star power too. (Flinging 
 It Up) There is a new mode called "Battle Mode" where instead of star power, you get battle power, 
 which gives you different powerups to fling at your opponent. This is how you play boss battles 
 in carrer mode, with appearances from Tom Morello and Slash.
  
  Graphics
  
  GH III's Graphics have significantly improved from the last. I really think it could be the change 
 from Harmonix to Activision. The characters look a lot better, and way more realistic. The little 
 noteboard has better graphics and the buttons are more vibrant and easier to see. I really could 
 play easier on GH III then II. I don't miss a note because I never saw it. The Arenas are even 
 better too. (And characters don't look like midgets)
  
  Now, everyone knows that sound is the most important thing in GH, without the sound and music, 
 you've got nothing but ____ Hero. Personally, I believe the soundtrack in this one is better thant 
 the 3 before it. With some sweet songs like "Rock N Roll All Night" and "Through The Fire And Flames", 
 you've really got some great songs to break your fingers to. Even the messup noises are awesome. 
 The songs are perfectly executed and/or revised. The music is crisp and awesome, you'll think your 
 in a real rock concert with the famous band "The AAA's". You'll probably singing to the music and 
 dancing.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Gameplay: 1 thing, why not have the 2 other exclusive characters (robot and fat guy with shades) 
 for the wii and Ps2 on Xbox360 and Ps3 too?
  
  Graphics: Johnny Napalm and The Fat Rocker Guy are still ugly as ass. Sometimes "100 notestreak!" 
 in the middle of the screen is very annoying. Needs better guitar plaing animations, they look 
 like they are having a seizure.
  
  Sound: More songs, really. Get the guitar parts rIght on through the fire and flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cole_150
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  It would have been better but it seemed to have been aimed towards the "Wannabe Emo" population. 
 The songs in Guitar Hero 1 and 2 personally I think were better. The songs get old way to fast 
 and unlike 1 and 2 alot of them seemed to have been made up just for Guitar Hero.
  A good thing is that the difficulty is increased and it is much harder to beat the game on Expert. 
 Another up side is that there are more hammer ons and pull offs and for some reason they seem easier 
 to pull off. People are over-hyping this game by miles and here comes the worst thing... THE GRAPHICS. 
 You would think that a multi-million dollar grossing game could hire someone to make the graphics 
 atleast enough to kind of get the idea that they tried to make this game all that it could be. 
 The singers chin is the size of most peoples rear ends and he sings when there is a guitar solo. 
 The guitar players look like they are anorexic or Michael Moore if yu know what i mean. Those are 
 the reasons I rated it what i did and in coclusion I think unless your emo or bored dont buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so Guitar hero three had some of the series' fans worried when the game was handed over to 
 activision after harmonix split to work on rock band. Lucky for the fans activision came through 
 with a great game that is sure to be one of the most memorable rhythm games of all time. 
  I personally, loved the gameplay but i did not love the track list. A lot of the songs i have never 
 heard of before, some of which i liked while others i hated. I think GH2 and GH3 both were tied 
 for best tracklists because both games had tracks that i loved, liked, and hated, Freya. This doesn't 
 mean i liked GH2 as much as GH3 because i didn't because the gameplay was not quite as smoothe 
 as in guitar hero 3. Also, the graphics are not comparable because GH3's graphics were 100% better, 
 except for the monkey-faced singer (lol) . Online play is also a solid edition to the series and 
 it allows players to see who's the best. Even though this doesn't affect my rating i still feel 
 this may be a problem, the achievements are a little hard to get on the 360 version. Another minor 
 flaw is that when you are progessing through career the songs in the first half of the game are 
 easier than previous games while the last two sets were considerably harder than the previous GH 
 games. This also is not a big problem but i feel it is important to point out even the smallest 
 flaws. Basically, GH3 has a good tracklist, great gameplay, and it is sure to have you playing 
 it for a long time. All in all this is a great game and a must have for rhythm game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 10
  Valie: 10
  Tilt: 9
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Guitar Hero III is a highly addictive game that can be played non-stop. There are many modes, 
 such as, career, quick play, online, and multiplayer. Career mode is extremely enjoyable and also 
 can be very difficult. You will start off by choosing your character from about 10 choices and 
 by choosing your guitar. Moreover, the gameplay is the same as the previous additions of Guitar 
 Hero with some improvements. If you go on a streak, hitting all your notes, you will receive star 
 power which will give you more points, than usual, for each note. During career you can be challenged 
 by other guitar players, which is one of the most difficult parts of career mode, because there 
 are power moves which can mess you up, such as, difficulty increase for a short amount a time. 
 The multiplayer is amazing, it is another campaign, except this time, it is you and another person 
 in the same band . So if your parter messes up, you will go down with him which will make the song 
 end, probably because the fans attack.. Overall, Guitar Hero III is a amazing game that can be 
 played for hours straight. With an outstanding selection of music, great graphics, and addicting 
 gameplay, you will definitely become hooked. It may not be a huge improvement from the previous 
 games, however, it still should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cypher787
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  well i was so excited when gh3 came out because one from metallica was in it that made my day for 
 me because thats my favorite bad most of the soundtrack is good and being able to download new 
 songs if you have xbox live is also a plus my only complaint about the game is the battle mode 
 i think the idea is good and its fun to play but if your like me and your a pretty consistant gh 
 player but not one of those people who play for 10-12 hours a day every day beating the final boss 
 on expert is unbelievably annoying to try to do i still havent beat this game because your not 
 beating a song to beat the game you have to beat a guy who doesnt miss a note to beat this game 
 maybe its just me but its so frustrating i stopped trying to beat him but like i said thats my 
 only complaint i love this game otherwise and cant wait for gh4 whenever that comes out see ya 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejandrosimms
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  As the caption states, Guitar Hero III will hook you right in. The songs are fun to play, and the 
 game play experience as a whole is solid. For average gamers, the higher difficulty levels, Hard 
 and Expert, are virtually impossible. The achievements for GH3 are equally as difficult to garner, 
 and most players will give up on them halfway through the game. I mean, come on... complete the 
 Career with a standard controller?!? Who buys Guitar Hero to play it with a controller? Gold Star 
 20 songs on Expert? If all you have to do every minute of the day is play Guitar Hero, and your 
 fingers were made of Jell-O, it may be possible.
  
  All this being said, just like all other versions of the Guitar Hero series, this game is immensely 
 fun to play while sitting around with your friends, if you stick to Easy and Medium difficulties. 
 As far as achievements go, if you are a game "completionist", don't even bother trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock was the best in the series! Playing as Slash is the best. Favorite 
 character in the game. The soundtrack is amazing, I love how they put songs such as "Cliffs of 
 Dover", "Devil Went Down to Georgia", and "Stricken" on. The only bad thing is Through The Fire 
 And Flames is overrated. I don't like it that much. Awesome online though, play Co-op all the time 
 with my friends. I recommend this game to anyone who doesn't already have it. It is better than 
 Rock Band in my opinion because I can use my controller to play instead of the guitar. It's just 
 easier for me. Some of the songs blow really badly, like "Kool Thing", "Raining Blood", and "Number 
 of The Beast". Difficulty has increased and they didn't focus on having tons of orange notes. They 
 started focusing on the number of notes and how the flow works. Once you get half way through Expert 
 your arm is gonna want to fall off. Very challenging for any newcomers, and even for veterans of 
 the games. Hope the four one [not the Aerosmith one] is even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It wouldn't be wrong for you to go into Guitar Hero III with some sense of awareness; Neversoft 
 has a reputation for churning out bad games by the truckload, but fear not, because Guitar Hero 
 III is everything you could possibly ask for: it has better music, better graphics and it has online 
 play. The increased difficulty is also something that veterans of the series will greatly appreciate. 
 From the overall craziness of "Through the Fire and Flames" to the finger-crampingly awesome solo 
 of "One", Guitar Hero III is overall a harder game than the previous entries.
  
  A lot of that comes from the bigger emphasis on three-button chords which leads to some small charting 
 errors here and there. It's not bad, but songs such as "Stricken" and "3's and 7's" could definitely 
 benefit from having a smaller number of three-button chords. They don't really add to the difficulty 
 a whole lot; they just feel kind of unnecessary. 
  
  One thing that doesn't feel unnecessary about the game though, are the graphics. Everything about 
 them has gotten a considerable bump. The game runs on the engine that powered Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 
 8 which wasn't actually touted as being a technical marvel, but it looks really good compared to 
 the previous games. Textures are sharper, the lighting's better and the animations are excellent. 
 The animations in particular are great. Every animation in the game has been motion captured, including 
 the singers facial expressions that look really excellent. Guitar Hero hasn't been about the graphics, 
 but they certainly look nice when you aren't totally focused on the fretboard. 
  
  Gameplay wise, nothing has really changed from the previous games. Basically, you have a guitar 
 shaped controller (a Gibson Les Paul for the Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii versions and a Gibson Kramer 
 for the PS2 versions) , colored circles run down the fretboard, you press the corresponding fret 
 button, strum with the controller at the same time and rock is made. In Guitar Hero III's case, 
 you will be rocking to the best songlist of any Guitar Hero game ever made. The songlist consists 
 mostly of great tracks, all the way from 1960 to 2007. From the cIassical rock song "Paint it Black" 
 by the Rolling Stones to the poppy "When You Were Young" by The Killers, Guitar Hero III manages 
 to nail the songlist. Anything you could ever want besides Led Zeppelin is in the game. Not all 
 of the songs are great though; Sonic Youth's "Kool Thing" and Slayer's "Raining Blood" aren't so 
 great. Of course, it's all a matter of preference.
  
  The good thing about the songlist is that over half of the songs are master tracks from the artists. 
 Living Colour and the Sex Pistols actually went back in the studio to re-record the songs "Cult 
 of Personality" and "Anarchy in the U. K." respectively. This is a great improvement over the previous 
 games, since a lot of the covers in the previous games were pretty lacking in terms of vocal accuracy. 
 The songs that actually are covers are, for the most part, really well done. One of the only blemishes 
 is Dead Kennedy's "Holiday in Cambodia," which has been badly edited and is overall a bad attempt 
 at recreating the lead singer's voice.
  
  The bonus songs have also changed a good deal. While Guitar Hero I and II featured a lot of songs 
 from in-house Harmonix bands, Guitar Hero III features a more European feel. Bands like Heroes 
 Del Silencio, Bloc Party, Kaiser Chiefs and Die Toten Hosen are in it, further solidifying the 
 European feel of the bonus tracks. The bonus songs can also congratulate themselves on having the 
 most impossible song ever to be featured in a Guitar Hero game in Dragonforce's "Through the Fire 
 and Flames."
  
  One of the interesting additions to Guitar Hero III is co-op career mode. Career progression is 
 pretty much the same as playing through it alone; you complete 4 songs plus an encore, but in this 
 entry, you get a short, animated clip to give the game a sense of a story, depicting your bands 
 rise to fame, to it going to hell (literally) . It's a neat little addition that's occasionally 
 hilarious, although they don't really have a reason for being there. 
  
  Although co-op career is a nice addition, straight up co-op play is strangely missing from the 
 game. It feels kind of limited to only being able to play co-op career, since you won't be able 
 to play all of the songs unless you play through all six tiers. Six songs are co-op exclusive, 
 meaning that you won't unlock them, unless you play through all six tiers, which is kind of a bummer, 
 since the co-op exclusive songs are pretty awesome to play. 
  
  One of the less interesting additions is Battle Mode, where the star power notes are replaced by 
 power-ups that consists of things like a broken string, where your opponent has to mash the button 
 a number of times before he or she get to use it again; a whammy power-up, where your opponent 
 has to wiggle the whammy bar before he or she gets to play again; an amplifier overload, that causes 
 the notes to disappear and reappear randomly; and a power-up that will bump your opponents difficulty 
 level up to a higher level, assuming your opponent is playing on a level lower than expert, of 
 course. The concept might sound interesting on paper, but in reality, it's not. Most matches don't 
 last more than 30 seconds, because the power-ups are so overpowered, making the mode practically 
 useless.
  
  An addition, which Guitar Hero players have been craving since the release of the first game, is 
 online play. You get to play all the modes, including the less-than-stellar Battle Mode, and it's 
 a fun, lag-free experience. On the PS3 however, friendlist support isn't existing, which is kind 
 of a bummer, since finding games on the PS3 version is pretty hard.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero III is everything the fans could wish for: it features great music, online 
 play and an increased difficulty and although newcomers of the franchise should probably start 
 out with the previous entries, Guitar Hero III is a great game that shouldn't be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyke_666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  This is the most addictive game i have ever played. how could i best describe this game?... hmmmm. 
 i supose its like a Driving game, i know that sounds just plain weird but its all about the way 
 it makes you think. in driving games you want perfection and you will keep trying for it, trying 
 t shave a few seconds off your last lap time wanting to hit a corner just rite and the feeling 
 of satisfaction you get from it when you do these things. well this is exactly how guitar hero 
 makes you feel, hitting just a few more notes to get that all inportent five star review, hiting 
 a rif or hammeron perfectly and the feeling of satisfaction that you get from these things. you 
 see they do have simeralities :P
  
  Gameplay: outstanding. this is one of the best games i have ever played and i think it will take 
 a lot to beat it. it has the all importent "Pick up and play factor" and it can challnge you rite 
 up to its very last song (wich i have still not masterd) 
  
  Replay factor: Too much of it. this game is highly addictive. if you dont have much time on the 
 Xbox then dont get this game because you will be thinking about it when your working or at shool.
 
  
  Graphics: who cares! okay now i bet if this game was just a black screen with the guitar in the 
 middle, you would still play it. this game is about the songs and the chalange not the graphics 
 :P
  
  Best bit: Dragon force - Through Fire And Flames - on Expert . this is the best song in the game 
 and the most chalenging. it has kept me entertained for two dyas straight with no sleep before 
 :P 
  
  well there you go thats my review on Guitar Hero 3. This broadcast was brought to you by Tyke and 
 his Computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxB4N3xX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun, the higher difficulty you play it on, the funner it gets. There are 
 lots of good songs, especially the bonus ones. There are quite a few characters to choose from. 
 The ability to download new songs on the Xbox 360 is a good feature. If you have friends over lots 
 and like to play party games than this is definitely the game very you. I got it for Christmas 
 and I am still playing it, that's how fun it is. The boss battles are hard and the online play 
 is fun too. The co-op career mode is fun, one person plays bass and the other plays normal guitar. 
 It is still fun with the normal Xbox controller but if you do spend money on it you might as well 
 spend the extra money and buy the guitar too. The God of Rock is my favourite character. I look 
 forward to the next installment in the Guitar Hero series and when it does come out I will be one 
 of the first in line.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MUSCLED-HAMJENA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good but it didn't meet all of my expectations. First of all let me talk about 
 the song list. Most of the songs, in my opinion, were pretty dang bad. Like, I hated "Kool Thing." 
 It was horrible. However, I did enjoy the fact that it became more difficult as you advanced into 
 the more modern songs. I liked the scenery in the game, and I liked how the hammer ons and pull 
 offs were so easy to hit in this game. Now, the multiplayer (Xbox Live) wasn't that good. It was 
 a little too glitchy for me. Once you find a lobby to shred in, it's awesome. I like the extreme 
 challenge in the cooperative career, I like how you can only do 1 difficulty rather than 2 different 
 difficulties. Before I got the game, I heard that the Gibson Les Paul guitar controller was going 
 to be white. I was dissapointed, but once I heard it was wireless I really didn't care about the 
 color. I didn't like battle mode, it was hard, sort of dumb, and almost impossible to destroy the 
 boss battles if you don't have more than 1 power up!!!! I did like the crazy hard achievements. 
 Whether the next game will be good or not, I'm gonna buy it, because I love the Guitar Hero series!!!! 
 Well, I hope you enjoyed my review, happy gamin!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 steps up from guitar hero 2 in many ways, from the online play which now features 
 co-op mode, alright!!! As well as the choice to face-off one on one. In GH3 your supposed to face 
 boss battles with "legends of rock" but u really only play 3 people, Tom Morello from rage against 
 the machine, slash, and the devil. The song list is about 70+ songs if i had to guess which vary 
 from classic rock to the present. The bonus songs are garbage except for a handful. The wireless 
 les paul is awesome and responds well, you even have the option to pop off a new faceplate which 
 has to be purchased separately. YOu can download new tracks via marketplace but if you ask me its 
 a rip off. The game is lots of fun until you ply all of the songs too much. The career mode is 
 better this time around and has a short sweet little plot to it. Medium difficulty in this game 
 seems like it should not be as hard to play sometimes, but to play hard difficulty seems insane 
 but i guess you have to practice alot. The achievements seem harder this time but they give you 
 something to strive for. All in all since i have yet to play rockband im saying that this game 
 is a good buy if you have that much too spend and enjoys hearing your efforts in the sound of sweet 
 guitar. But i prefer the satisfaction of playing a real guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bd0g5
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I love music so this is a good game for me. When a note comes up you have to hold the colour of 
 it and then you strum.
  This game is very fun. On the Xbox 360 version you have many achievements. This game has improved 
 Hammer-ons and pull-offs. In career mode you will encounter bosses. Tom Morello is the
  first boss you face. He is from Rage against the machine. His song is Bulls on parade. The second 
 boss is Slash. He is from Guns N roses
  His song is Welcome to the jungle. The last boss is Lou. He isn't a real person though. After each 
 song you get money. With your money you can buy guitars, characters, songs, and more. I have two guitars 
 so i enjoy playing co-op mode with my brother.
  The main song of this game is Through the fire and flames by DragonForce.
  If you don't like 
 music this game isn't for you. The long wait i had to get this game was worth it.
  
  I give Guitar Hero 3 a perfect 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III offers a huge jump from Guitar Hero II. For instance, the controller plays much 
 better. Strumming is smoother, therefore it's easy to play faster. The hammer-ons and pull-offs 
 work so much better. The songs are great, but personally I think they could've done better. The 
 main setlist is great and consists of great songs from the 70s, 80s, 90s, and 00s. The problem 
 is the majority of the bonus songs seem like they were just thrown together. Most of the bonus 
 songs just flatout stink. Don't get me wrong, not all the bonus songs are bad, but a lot are. The 
 graphics made a huge jump from the graphics of Guitar Hero II for Xbox360. The career mode is so 
 much better than that of Guitar Hero I and II. Now, it shows that you are part of a band and has 
 a story where you sign with a manager which turns it into a "Hellacious" ride through the life 
 of a rock'n'roll superstar. My problem with this game is that it was extremely hyped up and at 
 first I believed the hype. But, the game gets old after you beat career mode. The good thing about 
 the game for the 360 is the achievements which make you want to keep playing and keep it interesting. 
 Without that I'd be bored out of my skull with the game. Overall, the game is good, but not all 
 it's cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Ive had this game since the first week it came out. and i havent stoped playing it. i havent played 
 a game this long since halo 2. on to the review. the game is alot harder then 2, but you will eventually 
 get the hang of it. the songs in this game blow rock bands out of the water, my personal faves 
 are cult of personality and cliffs of dover. the hammerons under activisons control are thirty 
 times better then they were when red octane worked on it. and there are a bunch of GREAT downloadable 
 songs... FOR FREE. such as slash guitar battle, we three kings, halo theme song, tom morello. then 
 they have one good track pack out call the classic track pack. not to mention the online is amazing. 
 i thought it would be laggy and it would be impossible to get the timing right, boy was i wrong. 
 its perfect, well my arms hurt and its 330 a. m so imma go to bed.. lol peace. GH for life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFunman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero, one of the biggest game franchises around at the moment, reaches it; s 3rd title in 
 the series, not including the expansion pack to Guitar Hero 2. Largely successful since the first 
 title, many have waited anxiously for the latest installment. And while it delivers, it never really 
 lives up to expectations (or mine at least) .
  
  First things first, being a music game primarily, Guitar Hero has an excellent tracklist. From 
 classics such as One (Metallica) to newer hits such as When You Were Young (The Killers) , the tracklist 
 truely has something for everyone. Obviously, there are some rubbish songs in there too (Slow Ride 
 comes to mind) , but this is to be expected. However, the game then hits a snag. I myself could 
 listen to the majority of these songs repeatedly, but "playing" them, for some reason, does not 
 seem fun. For example, too many of the songs turn into green/yellow chord sessions, and while being 
 fun for a while, it can eventually start to grate after about the 20th time. That's not to say 
 these songs are bad, it's just that you won't return to them much.
  
  The difficulty level has also been vastly increased since Guitar Hero 2. While Free Bird was a 
 hard song, it was at least beatable in many people's eyes. The final set list in Guitar Hero 3 
 are easily the hardest songs you will play on any guitar game, possibly ever. Number of the Beast, 
 One and Cliffs of Dover can be completed quite easily after several tries, but Raining Blood requires 
 something special out of the player. Bring some ice for your fingers on that one, it's rock solid 
 and doesn't let up. Having said that, it makes beating the song all the more sweeter, but that 
 doesn't deny the fact that it is one of the hardest songs ever. Through The Fire And The Flames 
 is obviously the hardest song in the game (I myself can get to 0% on Expert) , but at least you 
 don't need to beat it to finish the game.
  
  The new modes in Guitar Hero 3 are also not up to standard. Guitar Hero 2's big selling point over 
 Guitar Hero was the introduction of Co-Op game play, and this improved the game drastically. Guitar 
 Hero 3's new mode is Battle Mode, and it is poor. Simply put, it is a guitar battle between you/your 
 brother or sister/best friend/random person online, where you play through the song, and earn powerups 
 to use against your opponent instead of star power. In theory, it sounds quite clever and exciting. 
 In reality, it's hard as nails, and almost never gives a player a fair chance to win. Firstly, 
 whoever gets the first powerup automatically has an advantage. Doing the solo on One is hard enough, 
 but when someone throws Lefty Flip at you halfway through it, it's a real mess. Secondly, it's 
 abused online. Because people can play on different difficulties to each other, you get some little 
 kids that trick a player into choosing Expert to match them, before switching to Easy when the 
 player has chosen Expert. It's annoying, and just another example of people doing whatever it takes 
 to win. And if you're on Expert, against someone playing on Easy, you cannot win. End of. And while 
 Battle Mode does bulk the game out more options wise, you can't help but feel it's tacked on and 
 unnecessary.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is also the first one to feature online play, and this is actually a welcome addition. 
 Beating someone you've never met at Cult of Personality is a genuinely good feeling, and adds much 
 needed life to the game. You can play all the game modes online, such as Face-Off, Pro Face-Off, 
 Battle and even Co-Op. And all (minus Battle) are fun to play. It can be slow to find a game, and 
 can lag occasionally, but is still playable and enjoyable.
  
  And having played the XBOX 360 version, I have to comment on the achievements. They are RIDICULOUS. 
 The obvious are there, Beat Expert, Hard, Normal, Easy, Get 5 Stars on Expert, Hard, Normal, Easy, 
 Beat Expert/Hard with a controller... Wait, what? Yeah, to get 1000/1000, you must beat the game 
 with a controller. A guitar game. With a controller. You can always glitch it (there are many sadly) , 
 but if you wanna do it legit, good luck. Other great choices include "Win 15 consecutive games 
 online with a controller" and "Beat Career on righty and lefty flip". And while being "challenging", 
 they also border on being "completly insane".
  
  But overall, Guitar Hero 3 is a good game. It just feels like a step back from the excellent Guitar 
 Hero 2. That said though, the tracklist is definatly an improvement, and Online is a welcome addition. 
 Having never played Rock Band, I cannot compare the two, which leaves this review at a sticky ending. 
 Go out and play Guitar Hero 3, especially if you thought No.2 was amazing (like me) , and make your 
 own decision. Several people I know have been turned to Rock Band from Guitar Hero 3, and I can't 
 help but think that this could be the game the series died if Guitar Hero 4 doesn't improve. Hopefully 
 it will, as Guitar Hero is one of the genuinally unique franchises around at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProvoCado
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  This is an upgrade from Guitar Hero II, no doubt about that! Better graphics, the game handles 
 better and the guys at Harmonix finally used the money earned from the two first versions of this 
 game to make a guitar that feels more like you're holding a guitar. 
  
  Well, I came to my senses and bought this game after thinking: "It's just Guitar Hero II with better 
 graphics and new songs" - and it is. Though it's new songs if you're getting sick of the old ones. 
 So why should you rush to buy this game?
  
  For starters, the "guitar" alone is almost worth buying the game. The Harmonix dudes have found 
 out that Xbox 360 can use wireless devices - they picked up the phone to Microsoft and asked how 
 to do it. Got some papers back with little doodles on and WHAM! a wireless guitar. In the process 
 they made a guitar that feels like it won't brake after ten songs. Not bad for the long-haired 
 hippies at Harmonix...
  
  The career mode is better, and you don't have to scroll through the whole list to get to the bonus 
 tracks (can be purchased in the store) and downloaded songs. Those little things like career score 
 and wider selection of cloths are easy accessible - another pat on the back to the guys behind 
 the game. More focus on co-op - even with a "career" on it own - probably annoying for some that 
 a few achievements are tied to this part of the game. The leader-boards are divided into Easy, 
 Medium, Hard and Expert - more motivating for those that doesn't spend ten hours a day in front 
 of the game. The movies are better (not just a car driving from place to place) and the best part: 
 Multiplayer!!! IIIHHHAAA!!! I did not expect this to be fun, but it is. It's the best part of it 
 all - playing against other players around the world, playing them into "hall of shame" while you 
 climb on the hall of fame list. 
  
  But... it is just not enough songs... A couple of my favourites, but there were more of them in 
 Guitar Hero II. And the song mix is terrible! Rock from 1970s and 2005 is NOT compatable - I repeat: 
 NOT COMPATABLE!!! So why do Harmonix put them in same list??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I have long since a diehard Hip Hop music lover. When I bought this game, at the start of the game 
 itself, I started to love rock music. The sound of the electric guitar makes my head bang and feet 
 to jump.
  
  Now, I love rock music too. Thanks to this game.
  
  It's very informative too. I never knew these names in music before. Now I know that these are 
 the rock legends. They well deserve to be called legends. Their music is simply amazing.
  
  The game has plenty of songs to rock. I started to download some more songs to the collection. 
 It has alot of downloads too at Xbox Live. You can also buy songs on the store. You get money from 
 playing and the money you earn will be need to purchase in the store.
  
  You get to play a legendary character and unlock in the store some unique characters you can buy 
 in the store.
  
  The game has a store where you can buy the above mentioned plus more guitars, finishes, outfits, 
 styles and more.
  
  This game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big Living Color fan, and when I heard they rerecorded "Cult of Personality" exclusively 
 for this game, I bought it without knowing or reading a thing about it.
  
  And, man, is that song hard to play.
  
  Hell, alot of the songs are hard to play!
  
  And 
 I don't even go to the highest difficulty!
  
  Guitar Hero 3 was definitely ramped up from the previous versions with a depper, harder, and faster 
 songlist than ever before. Thankfully, alot of the songs, are genuinely very, very good! Which 
 makes the sometimes overwhelming difficulty bearable, most of the time.
  
  Neversoft did a great job with this game, after Harmonix jumped ship when Activision bought the 
 rights to the franchise. The extra funding definitely helped them create a deeper songlist than 
 their previous installments.
  
  And, as it turns out, the deeper song list requires a greater skill level than the previous two 
 installments, which will bring joy to some people, and turn away others.
  
  The boss battles are interesting, not great, but interesting... actually, the most rewarding part 
 about beating a Tom Morello or Slash, is playing an encore with them once you beat them. Bulls 
 on Parade with Morello felt really cool.
  
  The visuals, while impressive, seem a touch dated in this day and age, especially on the 360, and 
 extra especially since it's main competitor (Rock Band) , manages better use of crowds, sing-a-longs, 
 and customizable players. Guitar Hero offers some customization, but not as much as it should.
 
  
  For some reason, though, playing this game, while challenging, seems to be one of those games where 
 I'm more concerned with getting a higher score, or nailing more notes, than actually enjoying playing 
 along with the music. Partially, because most of the music demands my concentration, and partially, 
 because the songs lean more toward tighter structure or irrhythmic licks than the other games, 
 making them more difficult, to be sure, but far less enjoyable than strumming along to the songs 
 in their previous installments, where I was able to enjoy the songs a little more without the difficulty 
 pulling my attention away from it.
  
  Overall, GH3 is a fun game. It's definitely as good as the last two, but outside of ramping the 
 difficulty level (which, depending on who you are, can be good OR bad) , it does little to evolve 
 the series in any significant way. Granted, a new studio was producing the game this time around, 
 and most likely, rumors of Harmonix' project with MTV probably sped up the timetable, but with 
 a little more attention paid to the little things, like better arenas, more believable crowds, 
 or completely customizable characters to play, would have made this game alot more than a bragging 
 right for people to say "I just got 100% playing 'One' on expert!"
  
  GH3 is good, but if as much attention was placed on making it fun, as was obviously spent on making 
 it difficult, it could have been a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Well I have never played guitar hero before so this is the first time. Well all I have to say is 
 that this game is addicting. I'm not a real big fan on the rock music yet you find me bobbin my 
 head and rocking out to all the music. The game does really get really hard so it's not at easy 
 to learn and sometimes it is really frustrating to play especially on those hard songs where the 
 notes are flying by you. i say this game is a buy to any fan of rock and to those like me whom 
 don't like rock attest try it because you might end up liking it. the game doesnot have a huge 
 story mode all it really is is going from song to song and a new concert on every song. the game 
 offer a battle system where you play and battle with other which isnt really so good but the normal 
 guitar battle is good. the guitar is also wireless and easy to get used to as long as you practice! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtwin5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III Legend of Rock for the xbox360 is in my opinion one of the greatest games in the 
 history of the xbox360 and videogames overall. It is alot like GHII and GH1 except with different 
 songs and better graphics. There are however a couple new features. One of the greatest new features 
 is that the game now has xbox live, which GHII did not have. Also, there is now a new multiplayer 
 mode called "battle mode" in which two players will have to hit sets of notes which used to be 
 starpower sets, to get an attack. Im going to try to name all of them. The attacks are whammy, 
 broken string, lefty/righty flip, double notes, powerup steal, difficulty up, and sudden death (sorry 
 if i missed any) . Righty/lefty flip switches the fret board around. Whammy makes it so you have 
 to use the whammy bar over and over to make it so you can hit notes again. Broken string makes 
 it so that one note on the fret board will not work until you hit it 10 or so times. Difficulty 
 up makes it so that, you guessed it, the difficulty level goes up, so if someone was playing on 
 hard, it would be expert for a little while. (this is basically pointless if your playing on expert) 
 Double notes makes it so that any note you hit will involve 2 or 3 notes. Powerup steal.. steals 
 a powerup. Sudden death drains your oponnents life down until you win. They tried to add a storyline 
 to the game, but you dont need a storyline for GH. There is also a co-op story mode which is the 
 story mode, with less songs anda different storyline. Overall this game is incredibly fun and like 
 i said, grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  First I want to state that I was very skeptical of this game since its debut release with GH 1. 
 I wondered what the fuss was all about and when I played it I was really bored and unimpressed. 
 But I started playing GH 3 and I got hooked pretty fast. The game is well polished and improved 
 from its predecessors. The games little antics and things like star power and guitar battle and 
 pretty track list add up to a great game that rhythm and rock/metal lovers shouldn't miss. I do 
 have some issues with the game though. One issue I have is that the track is good, but not the 
 best. There were plenty of songs that I feel shouldn't have been in there because there either 
 not that good or are just plain stupid. There are plenty of perfect song choices in there so I 
 guess its pretty balanced. Another issue I have is the DLC is pretty expensive to maintain. The 
 songs are to expensive as a whole so if they downed the price then It'll be fine. Other than that, 
 this game is great and shouldn't be missed by rhythm or rock/metal lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock is almost like Guitar Hero 2, you get to rock on all night long. 
 This time you can unlock legendary guitarists like Slash, and have battle with friends and legends. 
 There are a couple of awesome songs like Welcome to the Jungle, Mississippi Queen, Rock and Roll 
 All Night, Slow Ride, Paint it Black, and Rock You Like a Hurricane - but those are some of the 
 songs, you got 64 more songs to play - in total there are 70 kick @$$ songs.
  
  In the Battles you fight against Slash, Tom Morello and Luo (Satan) . But you can do multiplayer 
 face-off or battle it up with best friends. Which if you both have a tie you have to do Sudden 
 Death. It's actually quite fun, suprisingly.
  
  I recommend this game to anybody who enjoys music and likes to interact with the game. You rock 
 hard with the Guitar Hero guitar. Just don't do expert, because it's basically God Mode, you have 
 no idea how freakin' fast it goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  guitar hero 3 has so many songs there really is something for everyone. the guitar works like a 
 charm and although there have been some reports of shoddiness i havent had that problem.
  
  its too bad there arent any more real guitarists to play as because the additions of Slash and 
 Tom Morello seem kind of halfbaked without more choice.
  
  guitar battles dont really work at all. when i play against my friends it always goes to sudden 
 death and that ends too quickly to provide any real fun at all. battling over point scores or percentage 
 in face/profaceoff is a lot more fun because the gameplay is a lot more steady.
  
  graphics are decent but when they chug it stops you from hitting notes on time. it isnt common 
 but it really shouldnt happen in a non-graphics intensive game.
  
  most of the songs are not covers which helps and the additional songs to buy are a good addon, 
 but i would have prefered them to be included in the songlist, not by themselves.
  
  i would have liked a more detailed difficulty. instead of easy, medium ect. there should be a choice 
 for speed, fret buttons used and intensity of notes. i could learn to use all five of the fret 
 buttons if the hard difficulty wasnt so fast! you could argue that the tutorial could help this 
 but there is no indepth tutorials on how to utilise all of the buttons effectively. and this is 
 apart from the fact that your tutors are so painful to listen to that there is no point in checking 
 it out apart from the achievement points you get for it.
  
  i would have liked a better effort especially as this isnt the first guitar hero on the next gen 
 consoles but i still like and play it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  im writing this review becouse i am incredibly annoyed over neversoft, no longer can i rock out 
 in guitar hero
  WHY?
  well ill tell u why, the difficulty, its waaaaaaaaaaay extreme and just ruins the fun i used to 
 play gh2 for fun when there was nothing better to do i would play it for about 20 miniutes, but 
 no gh3 is nothing like that gh3 actualy requires you to practice for hours and hours on end, what 
 did neversoft think that everybody prefers to show off how good they are rather than having fun 
 becouse thats what it seems like, some songs i spent 4 hours practicing an i still cant do it, 
 if rockband was less multiplayer i would have bought that over this but you can assure this NEVERSOFT 
 I WILL NEVER BY ONE OF YOUR GAMES AGAIN, YOU RUINED WHAT WAS THE BEST GAME FRANCHISE OF MY LIFE, 
 I HOPE YOU ALL DIE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is probably the best out of all the guitar heros. First of all, it arguebly has the 
 best soundtrack (either this or guitar hero 1) . Second, it is the most challenging. However, this 
 can be appealing or just annoying. For players like me who are really good at the game and love 
 really tough songs, this game will be really fun for you. For players who aren't really that good 
 and that haven't even beaten expert on guitar hero 2, this game will get annoying and you will 
 get stuck on many of the later on songs in the game. My favorite part of Guitar Hero is how they 
 put that one impossible song as a bonus. This one probably is the harder than Jordan, it is Through 
 the Fire and Flames. I haven't even beaten this song yet and not many others have. It is a really 
 fun song to just play against other people and by yourself, but it can also get frustrating after 
 the 50th try at beating it. Also a new addition to the game is the online play. I didn't really 
 get why they didn't put it in Guitar Hero 2 for the 360, but now it's on 3. It's really not as 
 fun as I thought it would be. If you want a music game for multiplayer, go for Rock Band. Guitar 
 Hero 3 is more aimed for the single player aspect and Rock Band is more aimed at the multiplayer 
 aspect. Overall, it is a great game and if you loved Guitar Hero 1 and 2, you should go get this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm sick of hearing critics go on about how wonderful Rock Band is. The problem is most of us simply 
 don't have the $169 for the entire setup and most of us have guitars already. So why we wait for 
 Harmonix to make some cheaper bundles, we return to our old friend, Guitar Hero once more to bring 
 out the rock star in all of us.
  
  I began to worry about the series. That is was doomed to become like Kareoke Revolution and DDR 
 and turn into a sequel factory of shovelware especially after that rip off "Guitar Hero Encore: 
 Rocks the 80s" (recycled GHII graphics with half the songs for $50 WTF?) . Luckily, even with a 
 new developer behind the wheel, GHIII is as fun as it ever was.
  
  We all know how the gameplay works and this time around, it's no different accept for it does seem 
 like it isn't quite as picky when it comes to strumming. This is good because the difficulty is 
 much harder this time. This time around Easy is Medium, medium is hard, hard is expert and expert 
 is "Oh my God! You can't expect me to play this you bastard gaming hell!" If you're like me, and 
 you like the game but aren't great at it, Easy mode this time has all the songs as the medium and 
 higher modes have as well as lets you earn money to buy more guitars and such at the store. That 
 was my major complaint with GHII.
  
  As Guitar Hero's populairity grows, the tracklist seems to get better and better. Kiss brings in 
 "Rock N' Roll all Nite," The Stones give us "Paint it Black," Metallica finally joins in with "The 
 One," even Jack Black and Tenacious D bring "The Metal" (one of the few songs they have that wouldn't 
 automatically raise the game's rating to M) and even better, some of these songs are sung by the 
 actual artists, not just covers. Still, we are waiting on Led Zeppelin and AC/DC and where the 
 heck is my Green Day?!
  
  While there's no character creation mode, the cast of Guitar Hero characters are back including 
 my perrenial favorite Judy Nails. Many are sporting new looks and once again alternate costumes 
 can be bought for them.
  
  One thing that has changed in the gameplay, is a couple times in the games you will have a rock 
 off and play against Slash and Tom Morello. It's kind of Guitar Hero meets Mario Kart. You play 
 notes against them and pick up these items and when you shake the neck, instead of star power you 
 sort of attack them by making things happen like strings breaking or double the notes or the horrible 
 left handed buttons then once you beat them, you can buy Slash or Tom from the store and play as 
 them.
  
  Graphically GHIII looks better than its predecessor, not that we're paying that much attention 
 to the graphics anyway. Still there's more detail in the characters and environments and then you 
 have the lead singer of your band who's face looks like a collapsed lung. Also the game has attempted 
 to make a story by throwing in a few animated cutscenes showing the band's rise to fame. It feels 
 a bit unessicary and your character never appears in these scenes. We don't play Guitar Hero for 
 the story. Also more advertising has found its way into the game though it's not as bad as you'd 
 think. Probably the most pitifully blatant are the two Axe body spray guitar and the "Bom Chicka 
 Wawa" guitar. Did they really think we would spend in game money on a guitar that was one big ad?
 
  
  Another major improvement this time around is online multiplayer. GHII only had leaderboards but 
 GHIII has online multiplayer on the 360, Wii and PC but not for the PS2 or PS3 (???) . There's also 
 the battle mode for two players but that tends to be pretty short as it doesn't take long for the 
 battle items to mess someone up.
  
  The guitar for this rock session is the Gibson Les Paul and better yet, it's now wireless. The 
 design is nice (and I like what the Wii version did with putting the Wiimote inside it) but this 
 also made the game ten dollars more expensive.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero III is as fun as it ever was. It has a great track list and it's more challenging. 
 It makes for a cheaper alternative to Rock Band and shows no sign of jumping the shark anytime 
 soon. But if I ever see "Guitar Hero Country" or "Guitar Hero Christian Rock" then I'll start to 
 worry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspmax022
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  ok the game is great. thats the summery of my review but whats so great about it? well lets see
 
  the graphics are pretty good. the people on stage look kinda cartoon-ish if you know what i mean. 
 but nicely done. and the tracks like rock you like a hurricane, even flow, one, and through the 
 fire and flames are such fun to play. and the sound is pretty good. and effects go with it like 
 on before i forget, when ever the singer says "I" before he says "what ever he would say" the lava 
 would shoot up on lous inferno. the light would get bright and its just really cool. and the xboxlive 
 is basic and easy you just choose the option from mode, difficulty, and number of songs. and they 
 can be ranked matches or player matches, with are non ranked FYI.
  so in a nutshell this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 was the first Guitar Hero game not worked on by Harmonix, but by Neversoft instead. 
 Was that a bad thing? I don't know, because Guitar Hero 3 is the best Guitar Hero game I have ever 
 played.
  
  The graphics have really improved, the characters are more lively, the crowd looks more human (In 
 comparison to the earlier games "robotic crowds") and the note-hitting on the guitar looks plain 
 awesome. What I mean by that is that it really looks like the character you're playing is hitting 
 all the notes, giving you that nice realistic feeling to it all. Though one problem I have stumbled 
 across is that if you activate Star Power, and then get a close shot to the fingers that might 
 glow in this red, burning aura, then you would get some kind of GFX lag. If you have the rhythm, 
 this wouldn't be a problem, but it can be quite annoying if you do not know the song and rely completely 
 on seeing the notes.
  
  The gameplay has also improved. The biggest improvement has been made within the hammer-on system. 
 You can now play big solos with almost only one strum and the rest hammer-ons (At least in Expert 
 difficulty) which has made the completion of big bad solos a lot easier. 
  The game has also been made quite harder. Some of you might remember from the old games that there 
 was no chords in Easy, and there were not that many three-finger chords in Hard (There weren't 
 even any three finger chords in the first Guitar Hero) , but now chords are introduced already in 
 the first songs of Easy, and three finger chords are introduced in Hard. The game has been made 
 a lot more difficult, but I like the challenge. It is not impossible, and it is still not too easy.
 
  
  The song list is the most stable list ever. All the songs are great, and almost every song is recognizeable. 
 Songs like Rock You Like a Hurricane, Raining Blood, School's Out, Slow Ride, Through The Fire 
 and Flames, Le Grange, Paint it Black, Barracuda.. The list goes on. Any rock or metal fan will 
 feel totally satisfied with the list, and the chances are that even those who aren't that big rock 
 fans will listen to at least one band of rock after playing Guitar Hero 3.
  
  Also, there is a new multiplayer mode called "Battle Mode". In this game mode, The goal of the 
 game is to get your opponent to fail, also known as getting his rock-bar to the very bottom. they 
 will have removed the Star Power nodes and replaced them with "Battle Nodes". They work in the 
 exakt same way, when you complete a row of these Battle Nodes, you will recieve a weapon. This 
 weapon is used exactly as the star power, by tilting your guitar up, and its purpose is to make 
 it harder for your opponent to hit his/her notes.
  
  One of the big downsides for the Xbox 360 is its very hard achievments. I mean, you get 20 gamerscore 
 for completing the really challenging Expert career, you get 5 Gamerscore for buying all Guitars, 
 which isn't completeable if you haven't beaten all songs with 5 stars on every difficulty. 
  
  So, even with its lack of achievments, which really isn't where the game should be rated, this 
 game is the best Guitar Hero game yet. The concept is still the same, but it is improved, made 
 more beautifully and with a soundtrack so amazingly good, this game is worth getting for Guitar 
 Hero fan and Guitar Hero beginner alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3
  Okay so i got guitar hero 3 about 1 and a bit months ago, so im pretty seasoned in it, and i know 
 a good deal about it now also.
  
  first impressions, well at the start i found it just fun to pick up and play do slow ride on easy, 
 and feel good abotu it and i did, even though i prolly got 3 star but you still get that satifaction 
 from just playing the game.
  
  As i went on, the songlist got very good indeed, including stricken from disturbed and Holiday 
 in cambodia from the dead kennedys! I loved the tracklist in this game, they are all remastered 
 tracks too so that means you feel like your actually playing a real song on your gibson guitar.
 
  
  The animation has a bit to be desired though, the singer is just okay he seems to hold his own 
 during the song (while the camera is on him/her)
  the drummer is err, could be better klunky animation at times but i guess it can be excused. Your 
 guitarist is where the fun animation is in, different guitarists have different moves, star power, 
 and 4X multiplier moves. all fun to look at and make the game seem that bit better.
  
  The online, hrm im not impressed with this i found the search option a pain, as is searches for 
 about 20 seconds, then brings you up with a list of competitors, though half the time it will pop 
 you up with a message "Could not join session" and then makes you search again, its time consuming.
 
  
  The new battle mode is awkward...
  As you all may know its 2 players competing to try and make the other player fail, by using battle 
 power abilities. Now what annoys me is that some power ups are nearly harmless, while others should 
 be renamed "Lol your done now" 
  What i mean is, powerups such as lefty flip and double notes will kill you instantly (on expert 
 anyway) lefty flip confusing you horribly, while Double notes will not allow you to pull off hammer 
 ons in crucial places. so basically battle takes no extar skill, just the skill to us powerups, 
 and a little timing i guess
  
  However Pro face off and face off are both cool modes, nothing wrong with them
  
  Is that everything? 
 i think so... oh wait no 2P quickplay? that sux indeed
  guitar hero 3 9.5/10
  Jive
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a solid 8.0 because it has some really awesome songs and is a lot more fun than 
 Guitar Hero II. I like this game but there are a bunch of other games out there for a smaller price. 
 Gotta save the $$$$$$$$. My favorite songs on the game include Miss Murder by AFI, Welcome to the 
 Jungle by Guns 'n' Roses, Prayer of the Refugee by Rise Against, Before I Forget by Slipknot, and 
 Stricken by Disturbed. This game comes with a great setlist, but if your looking for graphics, 
 DONT BUY IT. I got this game for free and don't think it's worth the money. If rock music is your 
 thing, then this has to be your kind of game. I like how they added the online multiplayer and 
 coop campaign. These features were pretty darn cool for the new game. Part of the reason I don't 
 like the game is probably because I'm not very good at it and can't even beat hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  
  This game has a great setlist, alot of songs, a few downloadable songs, (velvet revolver pack, 
 foo fighters pack, boss battles pack, halo 2 theme :] )
  
  The tutorial is very clear and easy to understand, although the tutorial for hammer ons and pull 
 offs (ho's and po's) doesn't help much when it comes to playing a song that uses them. ho's and 
 po's are usually put into the song at a very inconvient time, like when there is a few notes and 
 then after that there is a sea of skittles that require you to strum ( sure theres a few ho's and 
 po's in the sea, but you won't be able to see them unless you can see in slo-mo.) 
  It is quite obvious to me that the developers of this game hate everyone and want them to suffer 
 in the undieing frustration that emenates from this game don't get me wrong, I like playing this 
 game... on easy ( i can play on hard, but i don't like to) . The only reason i play on easy is because 
 there are only !THREE! buttons to push (green, red, and yellow) . I don't have fun playing this 
 game on the higher difficulties on my XBOX 360. Guitar hero 3 is PHENOMENALLY harder on the xbox 
 360 and the ps3 than it is on the ps2 or wii. The medium difficulty on the wii is like easy mode 
 on the 360 with a blue button. The medium difficulty on the 360 is like expert mode on the wii 
 but without the dreaded orange button. 
  There is usually a lag issue between the les paul controller and the 360 itself, which can lead 
 to some very frustrating moments in the game.
  
  update:
  btw, i have gotten better at the game and im playing on medium now :) . just sucked when i wrote 
 review so sorry... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMan2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  GHIII...... I had hoped for the best and got... well, not much. First I love the GH series and have 
 played the games a LOT. GHI was revolutionary, GHII improved some gameplay mechanics, added some 
 great songs and increased the difficulty a bit. With GHIII... what would they add this time? I could 
 see the developers sitting around coming up with ideas on how to make the game bigger, better... more 
 rockin' And after all these big-brained people put their noggins together to come up with their 
 best effort, they give us, the loyal, paying audience.... advertising! 
  
  That's right... the biggest addition to the GH series is an aggressive in-game advertising campaign 
 featuring lots of billboards and other up-front ad placements. But that ain't the worst. No the 
 worst are the completely out-of-place Axe dancing girls complete with black, leather body suits. 
 I am dead serious saying that I have no shame wailing on a plastic guitar while cartoon characters 
 mimic the actual song itself but I am completely embarrassed to play a game with these ridiculous 
 dancing girls (and believe me, I'm generally all for scantily-clad, young girls doin' just about 
 anything) . 
  
  The other "innovation" the developers came up with was the boss battle. How does a boss battle 
 work in a rhythm game you ask? Not very well! Basically it's you and a highly-paid, semi-legendary 
 guitarist taking turns playing a guitar solo. And the fun part (in the developer's mind) is that 
 instead of star power yielding bonus points.... it disables your opponents guitar! Isn't that cool?! 
 Well... no... in fact, having your guitar not work as notes fly past is the exact opposite of cool. 
 And there's no joy in disabling your opponent's guitar other than knowing it will help enable you 
 to get past this stupid part of the game so you never have to deal with it again. Ever! I guarantee 
 that nobody goes back and plays these again once they've beaten them. Just plain stupid idea. But 
 hey... it did enable Activision to employ the highly-paid, semi-legendary guitarists!
  
  The good... more improved hammer-ons / pull-offs, a very solid list of songs. That's about it. I 
 just find it to be a bit... underwhelming, especially compared to Rock Band. RB brought so much 
 innovation and general fun and GHIII feels very serious in comparison. Also, it's punishingly difficult. 
 Which I don't really mind b/c if it's too hard you can always play at an easier level.... but I've 
 been able to beat every song from the previous games on expert and I'm pretty sure I'm never gonna 
 do that with Reign in Blood. Frankly, I don't expect to really even try.... I just don't play the 
 game that much since RB came out. 
  
  Activision spent a lot of money for this franchise and I'm sure they're cleaning up with this version 
 of the game... but I think without some major expansion in gameplay this game will be considered 
 second-rate compareed to RB within a few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III was my first foray into the world of braille guitar. In the very beginning, as 
 a guitar player, it is very strange to hit one button and hear six notes come out. As you increase 
 in difficulty, you get more of a feeling that you are actually playing, because you seem to hit 
 a button each time a note is played. If you have a good sound system, you can almost imagine that 
 you are playing the song live, which is the ultimate experience that the game aims for. Unfortunately, 
 there just aren't enough songs available with the game, or available for download. Also, the game 
 should have come with some of the songs from Guitar Heros I and II, for those of us who have just 
 started playing and don't want to be confined to obscure tunes.
  
  The biggest problem is that there's only so much fun that can be had trying to get better and better 
 at the same exact song that is played the same exact way. Maybe I get bored easily, I'm not sure. 
 I don't understand why this is the new mega-genre. I think Rock Band has more potential, but I 
 won't buy it because it comes with even less songs!
  
  The game, however, is thrilling until you beat it on easy, still kinda fun beating it on Medium, 
 then gets tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noothername
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Having played Guitar Hero 2 casually but with great admiration, I was desperate to get Guitar Hero 
 3 when it was released for my 360. I was very impressed by the job Neversoft did on building it 
 without the original code, and by the nice new sheen they put on certain elements of it. However, 
 I was less enamoured by the fact that there aren't many 'Legends of Rock' in a game which contains 
 the aforementioned subtitle. 
  
  On one hand, we can experience the characitures of Slash and Tom Morello, and indeed enjoy playing 
 the original compositions they produced for the game. But on the other, the sound track is just 
 a little too eclectic. Although I love the Bloc Party song, it's hardly a rock staple, and thus 
 not really in keeping with the game's purported genre. This said, I guess a slightly broader spectrum 
 of music taste has to be aimed at, and from a general consumer perspective this may ultimately 
 be no bad thing, especially with the availability of download-able content, pricey as it is.
  
  Another point of contention is the difficulty of the game, which, as has been well publicised, 
 has increased somewhat from the previous incarnations of GH. The gulf in between the medium and 
 hard difficulty setting in GH 3 is particularly noticeable in comparison to its ancestors, and 
 can make for some frustrating experiences for casual players. Much as with playing a real instrument, 
 however, it might be argued that the game is simply attempting to reward those who are willing 
 to put more practice and effort into mastering its harder difficulty settings and tricky songs. 
 The drawback of this reasoning, of course, is that such challenges might put off those who want 
 a more casual, but not un-challenging GH experience, and this is not without merit since this game 
 slots neatly into a party environment.
  
  Despite the areas of critique I have pointed out, and the largely superfluous /tactically broken 
 Battle Mode, GH3 is still a quality title, packed full of far more licensed songs than its forefathers, 
 and consisting of enough challenge to last even the most hardcore players until its (probably inevitable) 
 sequel. Those desiring a more laid back experience may have to stick to the lower difficulty levels, 
 or indeed keep plugging away on GH2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodtwon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  I have been having a blast with this game so far. The track list has quite a few more songs from 
 my generation of music (eighties and early nineties) . I particularly enjoy the battle mode, which 
 features special power ups you use to disrupt your opponents ability to successfully play through 
 the song, as opposed to star power which is used for increasing your score and the excitement of 
 the fans in GHII. The Les Paul wireless guitar that comes with the GHIII bundle is AWESOME as well. 
 I love the customizable faceplate and detachable neck! The stickers that go on the fret buttons 
 are a particularly nice touch I must say. I would have like to have seen more music from the 80's 
 in this game though. Especially the most popular stuff from artists like Aerosmith, Def Lepard, 
 Bon Jovi, Bryan Adams, AC/DC, Poison, etc. An even better idea would be an Xbox 360 version of 
 the PS2 Guitar Hero devoted to 80's music, featuring of course the most popular songs by the most 
 popular bands of that era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeb23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have never played this series before... I was skeptical because the reviews say this is the toughest 
 one and more geared towards experienced players... blah blah...
  
  I am no pro at this game but it is very addictive. Use the tutorials.. and make sure to practice 
 lots and go through the songs on easy first. I am getting better everytime I play and am currently 
 almost through the medium level. 
  
  I personally think that is what makes this game so awesome... is the challenge. Its hard! But thats 
 a good thing. I know people are thrashing this one on expert and all that stuff but to the average 
 gamer... good luck picking this one up and starting out that way! Thats the way it should be though. 
 The multiplayer is incredible as well. Hook up with anyone and challenge them or play with friends... 
 awesome awesome awesome game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your in a band. Make It Big
  
  Missions: Play 5 songs on each part then progress to the next place.
  
  Controls: Use a Small 
 Guitar. Press the buttons.
  
  Features: Amazing Song list, great multiplayer, battle mode, Through The Fire And Flames
  
  A. I.: 
 Its only really used 3 times when your in battle mode. Its damn good though.
  
  Loading Times: everytime between songs- 15 seconds
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. Could be better. 
 Not comapling though.
  
  Audio: Great. The songs are reproduced perfectly and sound great as well
  
  Multiplayer: Battle 
 mod. co op mode.
  
  Requirements: A 360, internet connection, guitar controller
  
  The Good: Better than the 1st 2 games. Amazing track list.
  
  The Bad: Lou
  
  The Ugly: 
 Through The Fire And Flames On Expert.
  
  Replay Ability: High. 5 modes to beat. MP-High Rank up on the leaderboards.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 A good Splinter Cell game that wants makes you want more. I personally can't wait for Conviction 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I want to keep this review short and simple. I have played through both games of the Guitar Hero 
 franchise, both on expert. So I can safetly say that while I may not be the best, I am not the 
 worst either. So when my brother picked Guitar Hero 3 and let me give it a go I couldn't have felt 
 more ready to rock out to my favorite tunes. I jacked up the difficulty to hard and began my career. 
 
  
  I wasn't to fond about some of the songs. I only remember playing a couple of songs that I actually 
 enjoyed playing. I even remember a few that I didn't think I would like, but ended up liking them 
 anyway. This is to be expected of the Guitar Hero franchise, some songs you like, and some songs 
 you don't, and some songs take you by surprise. Well anyway I was doing fine on the Hard difficulty 
 until I came to the last set of songs. Then it happend, all of my fears of the Guitar Hero genre 
 had finally happend. I put down my guitar, and walked away from this game forever. 
  
  You see, this game is now catering to the hard core Guitar Hero people. I was playing the last 
 set of songs on Hard and my fingers were falling off. In desperation I amped up the difficulty 
 to my Expert career and began to play. It just became harder, and at that point I knew I could 
 never play this game again. I don't want to practice all the time to become good like all those 
 other people. I play games to have fun and when I have to practice the same song 40 times on Expert 
 mode to beat it I think the "Fun" part has been left in the dust. 
  
  It seems that I should have seen this coming though. If the Guitar Hero games stayed easy, the 
 hard core players would have complained. On the other hand making the games to hard for the casual 
 crowd ( such as myself ) , leaves the casual crowd in the dust. It seems that Guitar Hero has made 
 its decision, and the hard core crowd was favored. 
  
  I hate to be the bearer of bad news. But if your a casual Guitar Hero player, you may want to avoid 
 this genre from now on. Unless you want to put in more time than it takes for Saturn to orbit the 
 sun to become good at it. So while this may sound like I am completely disappointed with this game, 
 I am. Deal with it, this game has left me and the casual crowd in the dust, and this dust tastes 
 bitter. 
  
  By now you have probaly noticed that I didn't go over the mechanics of this game at all. Because 
 I feel if you haven't heard of Guitar Hero at all, your not a true gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun and enjoyable game but it does have some flaws. The song choice is good but 
 is hampered by so many bad songs. One of the worst songs is raining blood by a bunch of screaming 
 idiots the guitar is just a bunch of random noises. Plus they take all the okay songs from the 
 bands, such as The Rolling Stones and The Who. They're one of the best bands in this game and they 
 don't have their best songs. the songs they have are great but could have been better. Also how 
 can you call this game legends of rock and not have hendrix or clapton who are one of the best 
 guitarists of all the time. Slash and Tom Morello are good but no where near legendary status. 
 Also why is there no stairway to heaven enough said This still one of the best guitar hero's out 
 there but definitely need better songs from The Rolling Stones and The Who such as Sympathy for 
 the devil and won't get fooled again. It is still a very addictive game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Well, it is the time for a new Guitar Hero Game. Honestly, I was not too sure about this game. 
 The company changed and i was worried it was not going to be as good as the others. I was wrong. 
 This game is as good as all the others and better in some ways.
  
  Graphics- Better. They made good use of the Havok engine. The graphics are more detailed, shinier, 
 and better looking. That is, on the 360 version. The Wii version and ps2 version look the same. 
 I was very pleased with the 360 graphics. If your TV gets angry, it may lag for all of 2 seconds.
 
  
  Gameplay- Well, its guitar hero, It is the same, The songs are new. They are great songs at that. 
 They are harder, and performed by the original artists! I still and always have preferred the guitar 
 hero one songs. The songs overall are a nice improvement. However the boss battles, make me mad! 
 Devil Went Down To Georgia is a beatable song, but not a beatable song. Some songs are so hard, 
 you need a lot of luck to beat them.
  
  controls- Its Guitar Hero, if you have a guitar then it is good. Guitar-good,
  Controller-bad, 
 Wii Controller-Impossible.
  
  Its yet another great GH game! Pick it up! But remember, pick it up for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  + Tight Controls
  + Awesome Soundtrack
  + Online
  
  The Bad:
  - Graphics 
  
  The Ugly:
  -- Achievements...
  
  Guitar Hero III is the third installment 
 of the series, and does a good job of living to the hype of what you wouldn't have expect from 
 it. With hardly nothing really new with the series, this seems to be more of a huge update than 
 a different game. Regardless, this doesn't mean its a bad thing since the Guitar Hero franchise 
 basically outbeaten Dance Dance Revolution. What good about the Guitar Hero franchise is that the 
 developers and publishers of this do not slam its fans with billions of game like DDR. The third 
 installment is different, and made it more eye apealing to the audience. 
  
  What really gets the game going is it's music and many types of styles. You got the typical metal 
 of the series got going since the first Guitar Hero to the raging fast music from Dragon Force. 
 This installment has it all, from 60's to present. What makes this good is that you may never get 
 old of just play all the songs. With 72 and more songs available, you can also go on Xbox Live 
 Gold and purchase more songs. The concert eviroments' do make sound that will have the crowd go 
 wild to them wanting to kill you for your horrible guitar solo. Standard, and do have a nice touch 
 to the gameplay.
  
  Guitar Hero does have a wide range for the difficulty. You basically play the game like a guitar, 
 but with colored buttons and a plastic strut, pending on your guitar. There is five colored buttons 
 and you have to match the colors on screen by holding it down and press down or up on the strut 
 to hit the note. Easy concept, but can be mind bending later down the road. The difficulty can 
 range down to the easiest game you played to insanity. I have to admit, I didn't beat the game 
 on Hard yet, but almost done with the Live at Japan part. An odd addition they added to the formula 
 is the Guitar Boss Battles. When you beat a section of the Career mode, you must beat a boss, three 
 bosses, and it can be a pain. At first, on medium, it was very easy, but on Hard and Expert difficulties, 
 it just depends. I can do Hard and some Expert, but it wil take a high learning curve to master 
 the gameplay.
  
  The color effects of Guitar Hero are really just average on the Xbox 360. The graphics could have 
 been better, but it really doesn't matter since your eyes are mostly fixed on a rolling carpet 
 of notes. It does look eye apealing, but the graphics look like it was pulled out of a Wii game, 
 no offense. Character models do look fantastic, but will not win any rewards. Since the developers 
 worked with Havoc to create physics in the hair and whatsoever, it does add a little realism to 
 the game.
  
  So at the end, Guitar Hero III is well worth, whatever it cost with the guitar, is worth your money. 
 Guitar Hero is just one of the best musical games out there today, and will rock on till the next 
 Guitar Hero comes out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halopwns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is an awsome game good songs and a nice chalenge for beginers of gh=guitar hero. 
 This game allows you to have a story mode rock with you friends or battle with you freinds. It 
 lets you choose your character to rock with. I wish i would have had a little moore songs. This 
 game is realy addicting thou. You wake up play the game think like an our has gone by u leave you 
 room and its night. This is a realy fun game for inyone. So take my addvice and buy this game its 
 worth it and if you dont have a gh guitar you can use the controler. You can also buy outfits for 
 you charater. You can unlock so rock lords like slash. Also you can boss battle with this one guy 
 slash and lou. Lou is the devil and he is realy hard so you might want to practice. This as a realy 
 awsome game the only thing i dont like and think it needs is more songs to play. That will be all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidan4000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  the first time i saw this game on ps2 i thought it sux , i never played it though but that day 
 there was a demo on xbl i wanted to give it a try because i wanted to know why people is crazy 
 about this game , i played the demo with the joystick and i had a lot of fun , it was like WTF? 
 this is awesome with joystick so how about buying the game with the guitar ? . enough of stories 
 now and let me start:
  
  Gameplay: not simple as pushing the buttons that showing on the screen , you will suffer from very 
 high difficulty if this is your first game , its my first game and i spent like 2 hours on tutorial 
 and easy mode , then like two days on medium and now im into hard mode which is really hard i have 
 only 3 songs lift before i finish it on hard , the secret here is to practice and being patient 
 if you are not patient and get mad fast then forget about this game , if you have played the first 
 two games then im sure you will not going to suffer any difficulty .
  the game have a career mode which has some comic style cutscenes they are not half bad , and have 
 coop mode and multiplayer , the coop is simple you play as bass or main guitar and your partner 
 play the other guitar , theres a boss battles which is annoying to death and shouldnt be even in 
 the game , i just love the songs of the battles like tom morelloes and slashes , the devil went 
 down to georgia is good one too .
  theres the online multiplayer which i dont recommend it to you if you cant get 5 stars on hard 
 mode , i played it once and you know what? i never played it again the most annoying part is to 
 play multiplayer battle , ohhhhh that really sux. 
  in the gameplay theres the star power which when you activate it will double your score , if you 
 have X0 it will become X2 if you have X4 it will become X8 and so on , this is very helpful if 
 you are in trouble and feel like you are going to fail the song.
  
  Graphics: nice graphics the buttons look sharp but the drummer look somehow weird and the crowd 
 are duplicated , believe me you will never care because your attention will be on the buttons .
 
  
  Sound: this is the meat of the game , ok to be honest i never listen to rock music i only listen 
 to european Melodic Death Metal bands and some Viking and Pagan metal bands , mostly swedish and 
 finnish bands . 
  why i picked up this game? because listening to song on your music player is not like playing it 
 , if you ask me , i enjoy playing these songs but can never listen to it on my media player but 
 thats a feeling that you can never explain till you experience it for yourself , in this game i 
 love only like 4 or 5 songs , Take This Life by In Flames is my favorite and Through The Fire And 
 Flames is great too , Stricken is good , and more songs that similar to that , overall the song 
 list is great and will never disappoint you , im a death metal guy and im still loving the songs 
 , so if you love rock music then dont worry about it .
  but theres still some stupid and i mean it STUPID songs like Anarchy In The UK , WTF? and theres 
 a song called La Grange , Bulls on Parade , Cities on Flame With Rock and Roll , and theres as 
 song that feels glitched its Rock and Roll All Nite by Kiss , when they say (wanna rock and roll 
 all nite ) then he says (i cant hear ya!!) the crowd should react with that and say (and party 
 everyday) but no , no one reacts that feels really stupid , go and youtube the song if want to 
 know what i mean.
  
  Value: high difficulty will keep in the practice mode for a long long time , but look at the bright 
 side when you master a song on hard it will just become a very fun game and you will never put 
 that game down.
  
  Overall: great game and worth the 133$ i payed for it , the gameplay is highly addictive and the 
 local multiplayer is great ,im a new comer and i love the high difficulty because it makes you 
 feel that you done something when i do 5 stars on a song , and once again do not buy this game 
 if you are not a patient guy, dont tell me that i didnt warn ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------
  NEW SECTION! Look at bottom! Played with guitar!
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  FIRST OFF I played this game with a controller and played through easy, most of the next difficulty 
 and the a few songs on the difficulty past that. So I played the game awhile. So this review is 
 NOT based on how you'd play with the guitar.
  
  Well when I heard about the game coming out I was interested but at the time Gamefly wouldn't rent 
 the series. Once it was out I found out they changed their mind and just recently was able to rent 
 GH3, obviously without a guitar. I have never played any Guitar Heros before this.
  
  The premise of the game is... well wild. After all this is about being a guitar hero! Your working 
 your way up from a garage band to the big time by playing music. You can select charters, buy stuff 
 from money you earn and unlock a TON of stuff in various ways (or cheat if want) . Along the way 
 you will have boos fights or in this case "duals" with guitar people like Slash. 
  
  There is three sets of songs to choose from. Career songs which is what you play during you career. 
 Bonus songs which is playable any time and mostly stuff from 2006. And downloadable content. Some 
 free some not, more on that later. When not in career mode you can play any of these online, off 
 line in quick play or even in career coop or just with a friend in general in various ways (dual, 
 bass/guitar.. etc) .
  
  There is other things in the game like a store to buy things in game, a video section to watch 
 things you unlocked and some misc stuff.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty good looking, the game has a wild "comicy" style to it. When you 
 see it you can tell its about a wild rockstar theme. 
  
  The buttons at least on the controller are pretty easy until you get into the higher difficulties, 
 then its just impossible, literally. The R & L buttons are fine for the 4 notes but A button being 
 the 5th note throws off everything. Your joystick is your whammy and UP is your button for things 
 like power ups and star power.
  
  Theres alot of things to love about this game. Coming into it I only like 3 songs and gave up on 
 it and though the list was horrible but playing through career changed my mind. You really get 
 into the music and enjoy the songs. You may even notice how many songs you actually know!
  
  Also its fun by yourself but more so with friends. Whether your battling each other or jamming 
 together this game makes the perfect "party" game! You just love cracking up the speakers. And 
 you will find yourself playing this game alot not realizing how addicting it is "Oh just one more 
 song play through".
  
  BUT its not without its downside. And some of this may vary on who plays it.
  
  For one the 
 Bonus songs are horrible. There is around 35 of them I think? 2 of which were foreign singers I 
 could stomach. The rest were from 2006 and all sounded the same and all annoying.
  
  The Downloadable stuff does offer some nice freebies like the Halo 2 song, and the boss battle 
 songs but the music packs may mention who the songs are by but without previews why would you download 
 it? If there is a preview and I missed I take it back. Either way the prices didn't seem worth 
 it since I can use my own MP3s on Stepmania for free and the same thing.
  
  The boss battles are fun the first time but are way to easy and pointless and boring after that. 
 Could have used more of a challenge.
  
  My biggest complaint is the difficulty. I know they made it uber hard for the people that are like 
 experts but I want a game I can actually beat at some points. Not everyone can play that hardest 
 difficultly and beat it. And trust me most people will never beat this game entirely. 
  
  Lastly theres no 3rd party guitars until I believe March? So if you want a friend to use another 
 guitar besides the expensive brand name one your stuck paying for it. 
  
  OVERALL:
  Get the game with a guitar because with a controller you'll never finish it. If you at least want 
 to try out the game and listen to the tracks then rent it because its pretty easy on easy with 
 just the controller. 
  
  I just hope they at least fix the downloadable content prices and previews. Or else the game might 
 die after a few months.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  GUIATAR
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Well since the review I 
 bought it with a guitar and tried it out that way. What a racket. This may offend people but your 
 not a rockstar just because you can use this guitar. I can play a guitar and this is nothing like 
 playing one. This was much harder and complicated. I can see why some musicians said they couldn't 
 do it either. And yes I practiced for a few weeks.
  
  So I sold my Guitar for $80 on Ebay and went back to the controller. If your going to get this 
 game find someone you know and try the guitar first. If all else fails go to a store. They probably 
 have it hooked up, or look for the Rock Bank display. Best Buy always has either one hooked up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Still the same great gameplay, battle mode is fun, new online and co-up, better songs.
 
  
  The Bad: Craptastic graphics, some of the content are also in the upcoming Rock Band.
  
  If you where one of the people, who brought your first Guitar Hero game on the 360 (like me) , 
 and wanted more after hours and hours of entertainment, then you didnt have to wait for long. 
 Guitar Hero 2 came in April 2007, and 7 months later, Guitar Hero 3 is here, which is sure to make 
 any Guitar Hero fan happy, especialy 360 Guitar Hero fans. But with Harmonix creating Rock Band, 
 and Neversoft making Guitar Hero 3, have the makers have Tony Hawk make the game a rock concert 
 you need to be in, or should you spend your money else where?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Basicly, Neversoft has pulled off a Tony Hawk, with releasing the same game, with some new features 
 and improvements. Guitar Hero 3s gameplay is the same as Guitar Hero 2, with some tweaks, and 
 entirely new songs. Neversoft as added a note streak counter, so you no longer have to count how 
 many notes you nailed in a row. The gap for nailing notes, have been expanded, so now you have 
 more time to nail these notes. But there is 3 additions that really make the game better than Guitar 
 Hero 2. First theres battle mode. 3 times in carrer mode, youll get into a guitar battle, where 
 you must nail notes, and use power ups to make your enemy miss notes, and fail the song. In story 
 mode, you fight agasint the devil himself, and 2 guitar legends. Tom Morello from Audio Slave, 
 and Rage Agasint The Machine, and Slash from Guns N Roses. These two are the only guitar legends 
 in the game, but they are awesome. Battle mode is easy the first 2 times, but the last battle is 
 going to be intense. But still, there needs to be more battles, and the difficulty needs to be 
 harder. But if you dont like it, you can battle agasint others online. Yep thats right, Guitar 
 Hero 3 is online. You can compete to get most points in songs, and do battles, and link your profile 
 to the great community, to get in online tournements , but strangely theres no online co-up. Co-up 
 is only offline, but the good thing is that you can complete the carrer in co-up, which is loads 
 of fun. The song list is better than before. More Rolling Stones, more Guns In Roses, in short, 
 theres a lot more songs your going to regonize this time around. But AC/DC & Led Zepplin is still 
 MIA. Unfortunely, due to Rock Band, Guitar Hero 3 has some flaws. You cant create your own rocker, 
 so you are stuck with pre-made characters, which this time around, has a few less characters than 
 in Guitar Hero 2, and since some of the songs appear in Rock Band, its something you have to look 
 out for. Guitar Hero 3 comes with a new guitar, thats wireless this time. The whammy bar is place 
 better, start and back buttons are easier to manage, and the neck of the guitar can be removed. 
 However this means, that you will encounter some problems, with buttons not registering. Overall 
 the gameplay is as great as before, but with Rock Band coming around soon, you might consider this 
 or Rock Band. But what there is, is still great. 9.0
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics have seen little improvement over GH2. Sure its not just a PS2 game, in HD, but thats 
 pretty much it. In fact it might be worse. The character models look ok, but their animations are 
 craptastic. Its very robot like, and it looks very awfull. Graphics arent needed in a game like 
 this, but something nice to look at would have been nice. 5.0
  
  SOUND
  
  Most improvement. The songs are better, and theres a lot of master recording, as a lot of the 
 real artists, have come in, and re-done the songs for this game. The battle songs, are orginal, 
 and can only be heard in Guitar Hero 3, which is a nice touch. 10
  
  LENGTH
  
  Still long and additictive. But adding co-up carrer, and online, theres a whole lot to do in Guitar 
 Hero 3. 10
  
  OVERALL
  
  This review is short, but thats because most of the game is covered in my GH2 review. But GH3 
 is still a great game. It dosent score 9.5, because theres some flaws, and with content from 
 this game included in Rock Band, you might consider saving your money for Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 has got to be the best guitar game ever made so far it is a lot better than guitar 
 hero 2 and you have more songs to play and battles, which I think is very good. 
  
  The graphics are amazing they are very good and the videos are excellent although you can't understand 
 what they are saying. 
  
  The sound quality is very good and every note plays as it should sound if you were playing a real 
 guitar, 
  
  My favourite is a song that you can download from Xbox marketplace is the halo team and ruby. 
 
  
  There are all sorts of songs in the store that you can buy and all the guitar finishes, 
  But 
 if you don't like the way your guitar looks you can buy a new one which is very good but some of 
 the fetchers are also in guitar hero 2 and the same but you get money even on easy, but with guitar 
 hero 2 you could only get money on medium, hard and expert. 
  
  So I would say if you love playing a guitar on your Xbox 360 I would recommend this game because 
 it is excellent. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game that will get your little a ss off the couch and have you ROCKING!!! I personally 
 really dont like rock i only like rap but this game made me like rock and encourage me to play 
 a real guitar! 
  The storyline is horrible you will get these sucky skits that the graphics are horrible and no 
 one talks and you really have to just make up whats going on.
  The career was a little shorts i only played it 5 times and im pretty much done but hey that was 
 on easy. So i have a new key to learn and new characters to unlock. Everything about the new guitar 
 works good but i have one flaw which is i always mix up the start and back button because they 
 look the same but that is just me. Oh yea its also hard to pause the game while playing since the 
 button is sooo far stretched.
  
  But one thing the game is fun and addicting! So i recommend it to rockers and non rockers of all 
 ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-bone214
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  There are so many good things about this game! The songs are great! The downloadable content is 
 a fun extra when you beat all the others. and the store allows you to buy new gitars and costumes. 
 This is a great game to have at parties and to play with friends in cooperative play or battle 
 mode. I will deffinatly keep playing this game for a while. There are a few bad things though, 
 like the in game advertisments that are always annoying, and the expert difficulty will make your 
 fingers bleed! lol. All in all, this game is great! definatly something that you should buy if 
 you have an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWolf119
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  At first, I didn't think it was a great deal. But after my friends started to recomend it to me, 
 I bought it and next thing I know, I couldn't let it go. The music is awesome (except for "My Name 
 is Jonas") , it goes from the 60's to this date, with bands such as AFI ( Awesome!!!) , The Killers 
 and Dragonforce (Man, "Through Fire and Flames" is a nightmare! I didn't get a single one right!) . 
 I haven't played online 'cause I don't have internet yet (Wait for me! I want chalenges!) but the 
 multiplayer is great, I have played with my cousin Mike for hours and we just can't stop (this 
 game gotta be a drug, it's to addictive) . But I don't get why they didn't put someone gothic (Would 
 it have killed you to put someone from MCR?) Still, the game, the grafics, the music and the guitars 
 are cool, so I really recomend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisman101010
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  okay lets just start off my saying this game beets rock band by a million points. it makes the 
 whole guitar lvl gaming to the next lvl, no acually it takes it to the next hundred lvls. this 
 game is great with all of its new songs, and boss battles, and downloadable songs, and online play. 
 thers a lot you could get from the store, annd you can get songs, and characters, and of course 
 guitars. so overall the game is really really good, and its great to play with friends. also the 
 online is really good. and awesome songs like welcome to the jungle, paint it black, and schools 
 out. and the diffuculty will keep you occupied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRiley13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is totally cool! The song are so cool to choose from and the design of the guitar 
 makes the feel of the game seem cool. It has a variety of character costumes in which u could create 
 or design your characters looks and turn that person into a cool looking rockstar. U will have 
 to practice alot if u want to to be ultra good at this cuz they have difficulty levels which also 
 prefer in your skills. The harder the level the better u r. This year u could put on alot of songs 
 u like into the game. In other words a custom song. This game will rock your nerves until u can't 
 rock no more. lol. Bye and thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtrfreak182
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  For a while was totally against these series but Rock Band turned me in. Following that I bought 
 GH2 and then i bought GH3 less than a week following. Yes, I am an Expert player and there was 
 no doubt these games were challenging to beat (I thought beating Jordan was impossible when I first 
 played it) . So just letting readers know, I am similar to these "rhythm games". I am also a well-experienced 
 musician who plays the guitar, drums, bass, keyboard, djembe, and trumpet. No onto this game specifically:
 
  
  When you first enter the game you know it has a lot to offer: Career, Co-op Career, Xbox Live, 
 and Practice Mode. Most are familiar with practice mode so I will not explain that too much (remember 
 google is your friend) . The new thing people will see is Co-op Career. We have experienced co-op 
 in gh2 however it was more of quick play than a real career. One major disappointment is songs 
 such as "Monsters", "Reptilia", and "Helicopters" can only be unlocked via Co-op career. Another 
 thing that is unfortunate is only the leading profile gets the achievement for beating it, not 
 to mention you don't get any more recognition for beating it on expert. A new thing added to both 
 careers is a small, very uninvolved story; however, it is there. Next is Xbox Live but I will explain 
 that when I explain multiplayer.
  
  Onto the songs, in the first few tiers people will already have mixed reactions. Newcomers will 
 feel like they walked into the middle of Matrix: Revolutions with the thought of "what the hell 
 is going on" even on the easier difficulty levels. More skillful players, like myself, will find 
 themselves half-asleep on expert. I'd also like to mention that even if you beat easy, walking 
 into medium will still feel like you're walking into quicksand. The transition from medium to hard 
 is no doubt the largest. On lower difficulty levels, the game continues to get more difficult; 
 however, expert players will find themselves more and more awake but not too much of a challenge. 
 This continues until the second to last tier (those who have played it would recognize songs such 
 as "Before I Forget" by Slipknot, "3's and 7's" by QOTSA, etc.) this is where the game hits you 
 where it hurts. It is not even for a good reason. You will find that chords that you played two 
 notes with a space in the middle (similar to a power chord on a normal guitar) you will be playing 
 two notes together and one spaced next to the set (similar to a C open chord) even on easy power 
 chords in "before i forget" similar to "3's and 7's" (i personally prefer the rock band chord charts 
 for that song considering they are about 90% accurate while the gh3 versions actually have you 
 playing guitar 1 and 2 at the same time.
  
  Later on in the game, you will find that songs get harder for the sake of being harder not because 
 the real song is more complicated. for example, 
  "3's and 7's" is very easy to play in comparison to "Rock You Like A Hurricane" on real guitar, 
 yet the chords they have set up in "3's and 7's" make it considerably harder. Another common theme 
 is that they will have you playing more than one guitar part at once as i mentioned earlier. this 
 can be seen even by an idiot in "Mississippi Queen" and "3's and 7's". What makes any musician 
 laugh is the ever-so-difficult TTFAF. the song you unlock by beating this monstrous game on any 
 difficulty. you will find on every difficult they have you playing (yes, that's right) KEYBOARD. 
 the intro to TTFAF is actually played on a keyboard and what is considered the rhythm guitar in 
 the game is what both guitarists are doing. This also applies for the second part of "Synth Death". 
 Another thing you will see in this game is that whammy bar notes are actually played by hitting 
 different notes, this is seen right before the first verse, and before all the choruses. so due 
 to improper note charting, some songs are more accurate on hard mode.
  
  Finally, multiplayer. The only major new addition, besides co-op career, is Battle mode. I had 
 mixed reactions but i will explain the gist of it. It is like a face-off except both people play 
 the same part throughout the entire song rather than stopping and letting the other person play 
 sometimes in face-off. The new thing is the concept of power-ups and battle power. Rather than 
 using star power to push yourself ahead, you use battle power to push your opponent further behind. 
 You will get power-ups such as: "Difficulty up, Double Notes, Broken String, etc." All of which 
 effect the note charts or the play style. You might even get lucky and give your opponent a taste 
 of lefty flip. These are also integrated into career mode similarly to encores. I will not give 
 any spoilers but I will say that I think 2/3 of them were very well done. The problem is, if you 
 don't like battle, you are kind of stuck with having to get through it. To finish up, Xbox Live 
 is how you'd expect, you choose a game mode: Face-off, Pro Face-off, Battle, or Co-op and go into 
 quickplay where after about a minute or so, it finds sometime to play along with. Depending on 
 the settings the host had setup, you will play a certain amount songs and each person chooses half 
 of the total, host chooses the one more if it is uneven. There is ranked and unranked for every 
 mode except co-op. In unranked, each person has control over their difficulty; however, in ranked 
 you must specify ahead of time.
  
  All in all a good game and I'm happy I played it. If you are looking to enter this gaming world, 
 I would suggest Rock Band. But if you're up for the challenge, Rock Band is almost guaranteed to 
 bore you out if you're only playing single player. Being that I own both, I can tell you. If you're 
 good you can beat this in a matter of hours. But if you go for the achievements and you take advantage 
 of everything it has to offer, it will laster you through the next generation of rhythm games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is an innovative and exciting game which offers the best that rock and metal has 
 to offer and will keep you entertained and playing for hours on end. In a game like guitar hero 
 story, graphics etc. are pretty much irrelevant as this entire game is based around gameplay and 
 sound.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Guitar Hero III has improved on pretty much everything the previous editions offered which included 
 elements such as Boss Battles, Encores, Co-Op etc. as well as offering endless amounts of items/characters/songs 
 etc. to unlock with the money you earnt from playing which I think has worked in the games advantage 
 and combined with all the gameplay originally conceived with the original easily makes this the 
 best edition to date.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound of the game would have to be judged and determined by the players tastes but I think 
 it offers a wide range from the Genres of both Rock and Metal and is not biased to one time frame 
 or particular sub-genre. I found myself never getting bored and constantly challenged by the different 
 game types and difficulties and never got sick of any of the songs as I thought it was an outstanding 
 collection this time round which easily puts the other games to shame and with all the songs available 
 to be unlocked or downloaded it offers the best experience bar none.
  
  I found this edition of Guitar Hero to be the best in the series with a song line up that could 
 be rivalled by none and with all the new features would honestly recommend that everyone gives 
 this one a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Well my friend got this game two days after release he finished it on easy co-op and then he gave 
 me a lend of it for COD4...
  It was my first time playing guitar hero ever and I hadnt played the series ever before...
  I 
 started to play it on easy when i got home and whithin 3-4 hours i had compleated easy mode... It 
 wasnt to hard to complete only one or two songs failed...
  I have recently finished medium which uses 4 buttons for all the songs (green, red, yellow and blue) 
 unlike easy which only uses 3 of the 5 fret buttons...
  I am now attempting hard mode which is alot more difficult than medium...
  the gme looks very 
 hard to pick up in the videos but is quite easy once you get a good hour into playing...
  there is an amazing tracklist including rolling stones, iron maiden, guns &roses and kiss and a lot 
 of othe great songs...
  
  ceck these videos out if you want to see GH3 gamplay...
  
  The games difficulty can go from easy... (these arent my videos)
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=ulPNQGwj_A4&feature=related
 
  
  and to incediblly hard...
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=-9ao_vOsZkg
  
  The online is great to play but i found it very hard to get a match over the last few days but 
 all my other online games are fine?
  
  heres all the songs youll play in single player...
  
  "Slow Ride"  Foghat 
  "Talk Dirty 
 to Me"  Poison 
  "Hit Me with Your Best Shot"  Pat Benatar 
  "Story of My Life"  Social Distortion 
  "Rock and Roll All Nite"  Kiss (Encore) 
  "Mississippi 
 Queen"  Mountain 
  "School's Out"  Alice Cooper 
  "Sunshine of Your Love"  Cream 
  "Barracuda"  Heart 
  Guitar Battle vs. Tom Morello 
  "Bulls on Parade"  Rage Against the 
 Machine 
  "When You Were Young"  The Killers 
  "Miss Murder"  AFI 
  "The Seeker"  The Who 
  "Lay Down"  Priestess 
  "Paint It Black"  The Rolling Stones
  
 "Paranoid"  Black Sabbath 
  "Anarchy in the U. K."  The Sex Pistols  
  "Kool Thing"  Sonic Youth 
  "My Name Is Jonas"  Weezer 
  "Even Flow"  Pearl Jam
  "Holiday 
 in Cambodia"  Dead Kennedys* 
  "Rock You Like a Hurricane"  Scorpions* 
  "Same Old Song and Dance"  Aerosmith* 
  "La Grange"  ZZ Top 
  Guitar Battle vs. Slash 
 
  "Welcome to the Jungle"  Guns N' Roses
  "Black Magic Woman"  Santana
  "Cherub Rock"  The Smashing Pumpkins 
  "Black Sunshine"  White Zombie 
  "The Metal"  Tenacious 
 D 
  "Pride and Joy"  Stevie Ray Vaughan
  "Before I Forget"  Slipknot 
  "Stricken"  Disturbed 
  "3's & 7's"  Queens of the Stone Age 
  "Knights of Cydonia"  Muse 
 
  "Cult of Personality"  Living Colour
  "Raining Blood" - Slayer 
  "Cliffs of Dover"  Eric Johnson 
  "The Number of the Beast"  Iron Maiden 
  "One"  Metallica 
 
  Guitar Battle vs. Lou
  
  And here is the co-op career
  
  1. Getting a Band Together
  
  "Barracuda"  Heart 
  "When You Were Young"  The Killers 
 
  "Bulls on Parade"  Rage Against the Machine* 
  "Slow Ride"  Foghat 
  "Sabotage"  Beastie Boys* (Encore) 
  2. We Just Wanna Be Famous
  
  "School's Out"  Alice 
 Cooper 
  "Kool Thing"  Sonic Youth 
  "Miss Murder"  AFI 
  "The Seeker"  The Who 
  "Reptilia"  The Strokes (Encore) 
  3. Overnight Success
  
  "Paranoid"  Black Sabbath 
 
  "Welcome to the Jungle"  Guns N' Roses 
  "Anarchy in the U. K."  The Sex Pistols  
  "Lay Down"  Priestess 
  "Suck My Kiss"  Red Hot Chili Peppers* (Encore) 
  4. Getting the 
 Band Back Together
  
  "Holiday in Cambodia"  Dead Kennedys* 
  "Black Magic Woman"  Santana 
  "Same Old Song and Dance"  Aerosmith 
  "Cherub Rock"  The 
 Smashing Pumpkins 
  "Cities on Flame with Rock & Roll"  Blue yster Cult (Encore) 
  5. Jailhouse Rock
  
  "My Name Is Jonas"  Weezer 
  "Black Sunshine"  White Zombie 
  "3's 
 & 7's"  Queens of the Stone Age 
  "The Metal"  Tenacious D 
  "Helicopter"  Bloc Party (Encore) 
  6. Battle for Your Souls
  
  "Knights of Cydonia"  Muse 
 
  "One"  Metallica 
  "The Number of the Beast"  Iron Maiden 
  "Cult of Personality"  Living Colour  
  "Monsters"  Matchbook Romance (Encore) 
  
  her 
 is the BONUS tracks avaliable to buy from your career money:
  "Avalancha"  Hroes del Silencio 
  "In the Belly of a Shark"  Gallows* 
  "Can't Be Saved" 
  Senses Fail 
  "Closer"  Lacuna Coil 
  "Don't Hold Back"  The Sleeping 
  "Down 'N Dirty"  LA Slum Lords 
  "F. C. P. R. E. M. I. X."  The Fall of Troy 
  "Generation Rock" 
  revolverheld* 
  "Go That Far"  Bret Michaels Band 
  "Hier Kommt Alex"  Die Toten Hosen 
  "I'm in the Band"  The Hellacopters 
  "Impulse" - An 
 Endless Sporadic 
  "In Love"  Scouts of St. Sebastian 
  "Mauvais Garon"  Naast 
  "Metal Heavy Lady"  Lions* 
  "Minus Celsius"  Backyard Babies 
  "My Curse"  Killswitch Engage 
 
  "Nothing for Me Here"  Dope 
  "Prayer of the Refugee"  Rise Against 
  "Radio Song"  Superbus 
  "Ruby"  Kaiser Chiefs 
  "She Bangs the Drums"  The Stone Roses 
 
  "Take This Life"  In Flames 
  "The Way It Ends"  Prototype 
  "Through the Fire and Flames"  DragonForce (unlocked by completing Career Mode)
  
  well theirs 
 my review for guitar hero 3 on the 360 thankyou for reading it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neublaze
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I gotta admitt I was a little nervous with Neversoft stepping in for Harmonix but they didn't do 
 a bad job at all. Great new songs and the battle mode is simply amazing! I was totally psyched 
 when my gorlfriend presented me with this game for my birthday. The boss battles was a great add 
 on as was the semi story they tried to add in. I have to say that if they were going to try to 
 add a story though they could have made it a little bettter by truly making you feel you were taking 
 a band from the bottom up. I also have to add that so far the downloadable song are much better 
 than GH II's. Lets hope they keep the good songs coming and possibly add a little more metal? Let's 
 hope for some OPeth? All in all the game was good and seemed just a little easier to me than GHII 
 with the hammer ons and pull offs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are way better then the ps2 version. The soundtrack is the best a GH has seen great 
 songs by Iron Maiden Guns N Roses, Slayer, Metallica and more. Gameplay is still the same as ps2 
 and thats good. Theres The God Of Rock, Grim Ripper that are not in the ps2 version. The whole Bundle 
 on Xbox 360 is way way wayyyyy better then the ps2 version so if you got a 360 go get this game 
 if you have it on PS2 throw it away get the better Xbox 360 version of the game. Overall its a awesome 
 GH game. And this game is the hardest out of them all!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Everyone Knows this.. Harmonix makes great Music games. After making 3 Guitar Hero games.. (1,2 
 Rock 80's) they have left to make another great series.. Rock Band who knows Maybe they will go 
 on from there and make a whole orcastra :P But Now the guys who make all those Tony Hawk Games 
 are going to have some huge shoes to fill.. will they do it. My Answer is yes! They only make the 
 game fresher, funnier, and More Enjoyable. You need that for series that intent to go on and on 
 year after year.. new people making the game means different ideas to include in the game. Some 
 Things are the Same, While others are different..
  
  The first thing you will notice right off the bat is the presentation.. The Whole look of the buttons, 
 Characters, store, even Meter had been altered to give it a new look. Its something minor but makes 
 a difference.. The Buttons look a tad bit different.. with a rounder look to them. The character 
 models have been changed.. Although the characters are the same some of them have gottan a make 
 over. Also The store has a more store feel.. It has been altred slightly.. The Meter has an advanced 
 look.. no longer is the power bar. a bar its now in little beaker things.. You will understand 
 by the picture below (Only at Freewebs. com/capehorn) These are all minor differences but just shows 
 how the new makers change the look.. But one major change.. you will encounter boss battles like 
 Tom Merelleo and others.. They sometimes will battle you in a rock off.. with items like whammy 
 break, and blown up amp.. They are fun and give the game a new look
  
  Most of the game stays the same. The animation of cut scenes, the actual gameplay itself, the bonus 
 tracks, and the fun! The cut scenes have a little better sparkle this time around.. but the overall 
 style is the same.. Also Numorus Bonus Tracks are avalible as well as the gameplay.. You still 
 have 5 keys Red, Yellow, Blue, Orange, and Green and the whammy bar and how you hit the notes are 
 gernerally the same.. you have some minor new stuff.. but that is it! The game intacks the great 
 fun with many people.. But that is also where i say this game is bad.. I am not going to lie.. 
 8.9 is a lot about Rock Band's Multiplayer.. it destorys GH in that area.. if you like to have 
 a bunch of guys over Rock Band is better.. But One player is GH stil..
  
  I have said it... Guitar Hero 3 Sound Track is the best ever in video game history hands down! 
 with great songs like Schools Out by Alice Cooper, Paint it Black by the stones, The Metal by Tenacious 
 D, Slow Ride by Foghat, Welcome to the Jungle by Guns and Roses , Rock and Roll all night by Kiss, 
 and many more you might not know at first but like.. There are a whole bunch of Bonus Tracks as 
 well as Downloadable Songs some free some with a small fee.. But already You have No More Sorrow 
 by Linkin Park, We Three Kings, and an XBOX 360 Exclusive the Halo theme song!! many more are on 
 the way in the near future.. this is so much better then Rock Band if you ask me..
  
  The Biggest Beef i had with the game is how There are no More of those quirky songs.. Like in Guitar 
 Hero 2 we had Trogdor by Strong Bad on Homestarrunner. com.. Also that it seems like there is not 
 enough "game" differences to make people buy this over Rock Band.. i understand its not easy but 
 maybe have you be able to put custom music on it, or make your own character to give more User 
 stuff in the game.. it would be cool to make your own guitar! Maybe have a better story, rise up 
 from the smaller to get into a huge american rocker.. its kinda like Rock Bands story.. but focus 
 more on the Guitar Player.. I would like to see more out of them because now they have some serious 
 competition.. 
  
  Overall Guitar Hero is still the great game we love.. with a makeover and looks better.. The graphics, 
 The stage, and the design is a step up.. the Songs beat out every other game before it.. and it 
 still has good online options as well.. Co-op is still intact.. and there is a lot to do.. But 
 More User Intergration would have made me give it a higher score.. it basically did the same thing 
 as before.. with a new company you think they would put more of a twist other then Boss Battles.. 
 However its prob. my favorite Guitar Hero game.. But its mainly because its the most recent
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Pretty much unchaged witch it GREAT! its still so fun to play it
  
 Graphics: a step up from Hero 2.. everyone looks better and the screens look better as well. everyone 
 got a facelift
  Sound: Best Soundtrack in Gaming.. what eles do you want??
  Value: With the Guitar its a lot of money.. but its really replayable.. so it may last you the 
 entire year.. and next year you won' have to buy the Guitar with it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  People who have never played Guitar Hero often have a hard time "getting" what's "so great about" 
 Guitar Hero. It's possible that maybe a developer who's never made Guitar Hero has the same problem. 
 It was Neversoft's job to replace the recently-departed team of Harmonix from Activision by making 
 the third installment of Guitar Hero III. Did they do it right? Well at first glance it seems they 
 did. This installment has arguably the best tracklist of any Guitar Hero game so far, comes with 
 an excellent Guitar controller, online, and Slash as a playable character. Sounds like a recipe 
 for success, after all nobody really wants Guitar Hero to change much. Unfortunately, Neversoft 
 didn't get that memo. They did try to change it up, and there lies the game's biggest issues.
 
  
  The gameplay of Guitar Hero III hasn't changed much at all from previous installments. Colored 
 circles appear on screen, you play them by holding down fret buttons to match the colors and strum 
 to hit each note at the right time. It is simple, elegant, and addictive as all hell. As mentioned 
 before the track list is mostly awesome, and every song is fun to play in its own right, all the 
 way up to expert. The game comes complete with a co op career mode that you can play through locally 
 but not online. The co op career comes with a few extra songs that you don't get in solo career 
 and, frustratingly, those songs are only playable to people with only one guitar when they're playing 
 online, otherwise you can't play it by yourself until you get another guitar and someone else to 
 play through the game with you. The multiplayer also features face-off, pro face-off, and battle 
 mode, all of which can be played online and locally.
  
  The multiplayer is mainly the star of the show, as playing solo gets boring after a while especially 
 after you've beaten every song on every difficulty, and the new online mode is great as long as 
 you're inviting people on your buddy list into your matches. Unfortunately I couldn't quite get 
 this feature to work well otherwise. 95% of rooms I tried to get into by searching for matches 
 didn't work, and connection problems were frequent when I did manage to get in. When I started 
 creating matches I was able to get games going much easier though.
  
  So far so good, but the problem with Guitar Hero III is in the boss battles. Sure, the first one 
 is manageable and the second you can skip on any difficulty so they're no big deal, but when you've 
 finally completed the painful task of beating Raining Blood, One, Cliffs of Dover, and Number of 
 the Beast on Expert, the game then asks you to beat the final boss, Lou, on Devil Went Down to 
 Georgia in order to get your shiny "completed on Expert" achievement. This is next to impossible. 
 The song itself is possible in boss battle form, but luck is a big factor in completing boss battles 
 on hard and expert.
  
  In a boss battle, your task is to make the boss fail at the song before you do and since they always 
 hit every note spot-on the only way you can do that is by using battle power, which is the same 
 as star power, only it alters your opponent's note sequences to make things harder for them. The 
 attacks include forcing a lefty flip so that the buttons become opposite what you're hitting, which 
 is probably the worst one of them all, double-notes which makes every note that appears a double-note, 
 and can be a real pain in the ass when they were supposed to be a jillion hammer-ons, and other 
 equally frustrating attacks. Some of these attacks render it completely impossible to complete 
 a song once you've been hit with one. This makes the final boss battle on expert almost completely 
 impossible for normal humans. Lou always gets the first battle power and your ability to defeat 
 him depends on your luck. If he gives you double-notes, you're screwed. If he does lefty flip, 
 it's over for you. With anything else he gets, it's possible to get by but you really have to be 
 good, and he can always come back with another battle power and get you with either of those two 
 fatal attacks. Honestly I would much rather have to beat Dragonforce on Expert to complete it than 
 this bull$#!&
  
  The graphics in Guitar Hero III are disappointing. The animations are stiff, the art style is often 
 atrocious and the drummer looks completely unprofessional. The crowd looks really dull and unnatural. 
 The graphics in Guitar Hero II were much better because they didn't go crazy with the graphics 
 they just updated them. I would've preferred it if they had just kept the art style and most of 
 the visual assets the same from Guitar Hero II.
  
  Sound is the most important thing about a game like this and the songs come through clear and crisp. 
 Great songs from plenty of different eras of music make the song list feel complete. Cliffs of 
 Dover and Dragonforce are awesome to playunless you're playing Dragonforce on expert where it 
 just sounds like *clink clank kachonk*
  
  The Guitar Hero franchise has always had huge replay-ability and nothing's changed here, especially 
 with the new online mode. I've logged in more hours than I'm proud to announce on this game and 
 I'm still not quite through with it, although I'm probably not going to play much longer with this 
 huge road block sitting between me and beating expert, called Guitar Battle vs. Lou.
  
  Guitar Hero III almost gets it right. There's still plenty of fun to be had for anybody who's new 
 to the series. The challenge is raised quite high this time around for people who are looking to 
 improve their skills from earlier installments. This may seem like complaining about not being 
 able to beat expert but I really do see it as a flaw. Neversoft didn't realize people would rather 
 rely on their own skill that they developed over the course of the game to beat expert. Throwing 
 in a boss battle that almost completely relies on luck to block you from beating expert just doesn't 
 feel right in a Guitar Hero game. This is not to even mention how frustratingly hard the last few 
 songs will be to most people on hard and expert.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  This Guitar Hero III is the best one out of all of them. From the LIVE gameplay to the downloadable 
 content, it's the best one and the most recommended to get. I also have the Wii one but it's not 
 as good as this one because it has better features unlike the Wii version and its not-so-great 
 NIntendo Wi-Fi gameplay. Plus other characters like the Grim Ripper makes a comeback from the other 
 3 GH titles plus the God of Rock. This game might be expensive (if you don't have the GH controller) 
 but it's totally worth it once you play online and purchase the downloadable music from the Marketplace. 
 Luckily, you still get the Les Paul controller and a sticker sheet with stickers like Guns N'Roses 
 and Red Octane, Activision, Neversoft, etc. All I have to say about the xbox 360 version is that 
 it's the better version to get because of the online gameplay and the downloadable content so if 
 you are deciding which version to get, get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The game has one thing going for it. It's a great party game. Career mode. Boring and short. Any 
 chance of getting any achievements on this is like playing a PS3 game and expecting an achievement 
 to pop up any second. It doesn't happen. What sucked? I beat the game in one day. I peaked on my 
 skill and now what? It sits. And collects dust until my in-laws come over and want to play. It 
 has it's novelty but it wears thin. Quickly. Theres no reason to play it again. Unless your deluded 
 and think your an acutal rock star. One of my friends on my friends list acutally played and won 
 500 online GH3 matches, and what did GH3 give back to him for all that time spent? 20GS. That's 
 it. What a sucker. And what's with Raining Blood on Easy mode being super hard, it thought it's 
 called easy mode so you can play it easily? Pretentious to think that Im going to play medium for 
 a lousy 15GS. Pretentious to think I am even going to play 100 online matches against people who 
 just end up quitting half the time anyway because I can play easy against their expert and kick 
 their butt. Makes no sense in multiplayer whatsoever. But I have it and friends and family get 
 some fun out of it. I just feel sorry for everybody who bought Rock Band. Enjoy your total 60GS 
 from playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitedead
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero. Whenever someone says the name you think of one, a button smashing rythm game or two, 
 Jimi Hendrix. Anyway Guitar hero 3 is basically the same as the previous 2 besides of the Smashing 
 new soundtrack, a few extra character/Venues and the inclusion of Online play. 
  
  Firstly the soundtrack, It has music from the 1960's - 2007. There's Iron maiden, Metallica, Killers, 
 Sex pistols, Guns 'n' roses, Muse and Red hot chili's to name a very few. With over 70+ songs and 
 some free songs off xbox live marketplace this is the biggest soundtrack out of the previous 2. 
 Also is the hardest song on the game which is Through fire and flames by the almighty Dragonforce 
 which is a challenge even on easy!
  Some problems are to do with xbox live, as even on high speed broadband there can be some delay 
 before you play. But if you dont play online/ dont bother with it, this is not a problem. Also 
 Battle mode online can be totally unfair as you can play as easy and beat an Expert easily as it 
 all depends on how many notes you hit.
  
  There's new characters including the ledgend G'n'R guitarist Slash, The devil manager Lou, The 
 god of rock, and Rage against the machine's Tom morrelo. There is not many new guitars except for 
 slashes, Toms and a few custom made ones. Theres a few new venues including, hell, A prison, A 
 japanese stadium and many small bars and arenas.
  
  There is a brand new guitar based on the gibson les pauls. It feels alot chunkier and less flimsy 
 then the previous X-plorer and SG. Its all Wireless and you need 2 AA batteries to play. Or you 
 can pay 10 pounds or around 15 dollers for a rechargable pack but its proberly not worth it. 
 
  
  
  This game is a great game for guitar hero 2 veterans althought this may be a little too tough for 
 beginners, But theres always time to learn... right? 
  
  It all comes down to this very simple question, Are you willing to pay 70/$100 for a game?... 
 I think so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deciphered
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The hardware is entirely unusable on the 360. The game only gets a 1.0 because I *can* use my old 
 axe with it, but Activision doesn't get any more points for effort on the game itself because of 
 how stubborn and corporate they are about acknowledging OR fixing the problems.
  
  Only the left player gets achievements in coop? Huh? What, really? That's not how it worked in 
 GHII... so now I have to redo all achievements with my gf just so we can both have them.
  
  The gameplay goes from unbelievably ridiculously easy to way too hard between medium and hard ... 
 again, unlike the previous game.
  
  Terrible.
  
  The effort it took to get this sold-out game, the gas, the money, even the oil from the ground 
 that went into making the axe was not worth the lack of effort Activision put into pumping this 
 out as quickly as they could for the holidays. I'm probably returning it just to cost them the 
 overhead of taking it back rather than let it pile with dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Outstanding soundtrack; lots of master track songs from the original artists; great visual 
 design; online play; tons of stuff to unlock and buy.
  
  THE BAD: Limited in design; no custom avatar or bands; presentation feels dated; difficulty is 
 uneven; lots of in-game ads.
  
  I have never played any of the Guitar Hero games until GH3. This wasn't because the game didn't 
 interest me. This was because the soundtrack didn't interest me. Now that GH3 is out, I finally 
 picked it up. The main reason being that this is easily the best sound track of the series, and 
 the core gameplay remains the same. However, the game is not without its drawbacks.
  
  GAMEPLAY  8
  The core gameplay in GH3 remains unchanged from past games. This can be a good 
 thing, or a bad thing depending on your point of view. Like past games, the single-player career 
 is spread out across 8 levels of venues. You must pass 3 of the 4 available songs to advance to 
 the next level.
  
  Songs available range from classic rock, to hardcore metal. Songs can be played in single-player 
 or co-op career modes. Face-off, battle, and co-op modes are also available for online play. Which 
 is a nice addition.
  
  New to this installment are the boss battles. These battles are a great idea, but sadly aren't 
 executed as well as they could have been. The first two battles feature the game's only licensed 
 guitarists: Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine and Slash from Guns N' Roses. These two are 
 living legends among guitarists, and a welcome addition to the game. 
  
  As the battle starts, you and the AI trade off playing notes. Instead of star power for hitting 
 certain notes, you're given various "Mario Kart" style power-ups to use against your opponent in 
 the hopes of making them mess up. If they fail, you win. Sounds OK on paper, but since you rarely 
 recover from a string of attacks, the battle just becomes a race to see who can get the most power-ups 
 first.
  
  While Tom Morello and Slash are great, they are the only real guitar players in the game. The only 
 other characters you can play as are fictional, and pre-set. While there is a good selection, the 
 ability to not create your own character is greatly missed. Because of this, most people are going 
 to play most of the game as Morello and Slash once they're unlocked.
  
  GRAPHICS  8
  The graphics have changed greatly from past GH games, and for the most part it works. The style 
 is now much more exaggerated and cartoonish, and gives the characters more personality. The levels 
 also got the same treatment, and look fantastic for the most part.
  
  The downside is that the character animations are just bad. Even for your character. Animations 
 tend to repeat a lot, and the drummer looks especially stiff. The crowd doesn't ad much to the 
 experience, either. Some of the stage effects look nice, but like the animations they repeat a 
 lot, and aren't in time with the music. You'll also see a ton of in-game ads for everything from 
 Axe to Red Bull.
  
  During the career mode there are some animated cut-scenes that help to advance the story between 
 levels. Although they look great, they are also very short. Less than 10 seconds to be exact. The 
 style of the graphics is a great improvement, but it's just a shame that the animations and other 
 effects didn't get the same treatment.
  
  SOUND  10
  This is easily the best soundtrack of any GH game. The vast majority of the 70+ available songs 
 are from the original artists, and they sound great. Great new additions include the Rolling Stones, 
 Metallica, Slayer, and Guns N' Roses just to name a few.
  
  Nearly every sub-genre of Rock and Roll is present in the game. Even bands who have been in past 
 games are back again with their original songs, and some of the best examples of their work. I 
 honestly can't find anything to complain about. Even the cover songs are much better than in past 
 games. Not even GH's biggest rival, Rock Band, can stand up to this outstanding soundtrack.
  
  VALUE  8
  The lasting value of GH3 is going to be in the online play. However, that won't 
 last too long beyond the co-op career. The battle mode is interesting, but not fun enough to keep 
 you coming back for long. Same goes for other online modes.
  
  The higher difficulty will please long time fans of the series, but new players might be turned 
 off at how tough the game is. Some songs like Slayer's "Raining Blood" are extremely hard even 
 on easy. And simple songs like "Slow Ride" are going to be difficult, if not impossible on expert 
 for some players. The achievements are also skewed to the expert player. Most of them will only 
 be unlocked on hard or expert difficulties.
  
  What GH3 needs more than anything else to improve its value is a presentation update. The ability 
 to customize not only your character, but also your band-mates would have been fantastic. This 
 option is a core element of Rock Band, and gives it a longer lasting value over GH3. The progress 
 of the career mode is also stale, and needs to be more interactive for the player.
  
  New additions like the licensed guitarists are nice, but not enough to make the game really stand 
 out from past editions. The real draw here is the outstanding soundtrack, but it's contained in 
 pretty much the same package as GH2. If you're looking for something new in the rhythm genre, then 
 you might want to try Rock Band. However, if you want the best songs, and are willing to put up 
 with a out-of-date presentation, then GH3 wont disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  4th game in & still a huge amount of fun & IMO the greatest track line up of them all. 
  
  I was a bit worried when I heard that Neversoft had taken over the franchise but my fears were 
 misplaced. This is fantastic. You know what to expect now - coloured circles come to trhe bottome 
 of the screen which you must hold on the guitar & then strum as the circles reaches the bottom. 
 Simple to get into difficult to master - like all great games. 
  Great anime cut scenes, great characters, great graphics that keep with the minimalistic look that 
 makes it so unique. great lip synching on the characters & tonnes of unlockables. Its just great!
 
  
  However it keeps away from the elusive 9 score due to boss battles, still not easing players into 
 the 5th button & the coloured circle placement doesnt [i] feel [/i] as natural as in the Harmonix 
 games. But you may only notice this if you played the originals. 
  
  Boss battles are dull, pointless & not much fun & I cant forgive them for the difficulty spike 
 yet again. Changing from 4 to 5 buttons & extra speed is not something thats easy to master. If 
 they introduced the 5th button towards the end of Medium difficulty I really think Id be able to 
 do it. But because of the sharp spike I turn into a ham fisted moron that can only complete 2 songs 
 by being lucky & around 60% of any other I try. Basicaly missing out on half what the game has 
 to offer. No matter how much I practice I cant do it. I just cant get used to that 5th button & 
 hand movement. But the game is still huge amounts of fun just completing & bettering my scores 
 on medium that id still highly recommend it.
  
  Edit - Re-rated
  
  If youve read my Rock the 80's review you'll know I can now use that damn 5th button. Ive returned 
 to this & after doing 30 or so tracks on hard I can say this game is better than ever! Im freaking 
 loving it. I cant believe how much more fun & great it is when you can put it on hard. 
  
  On medium to make it slightly easier you didnt play every note which made some parts feel odd. 
 But on hard you have to play every note which feels fantastic & so natural its unreal & the feeling 
 you get from nailing a really tricky solo is unmatched in almost any game ive ever played. I had 
 a huge grin on my face all the time I was playing it & felt a weird giddy excitement from doing 
 particularly well. Sheer unadulterated fun. One of my all time fave games now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is sure one that I will be having very high replayability on... it has a very huge fun 
 factor and competitive level that you'll just want to keep going... even if it is too hard, you 
 will be wanting to practice more to get better at this.
  
  If you ever played any of the other Guitar Hero games... then this is not too much of a difference 
 but the soundtrack still kicks butt so you will still be enjoying it... especially with exclusives 
 like the Halo theme song that will give you both a laugh and also great feel for an addition.
 
  
  Like gamespot also said, the soundtrack also has different songs for different moods... you can 
 go from some old school Kiss to some new aged Disturbed to even some Halo haha... it sure is a great 
 soundtrack and Im actually a bigger fan of hip hop than rock.
  
  Online play is DEFINITELY a great addition to Guitar Hero III... makes it easier to get your competitiveness 
 on the game... you can either face off, pro face off, battle, or co-op online... definitely something 
 you would want to do if you are getting this game.
  
  So to conclude this review, this is just a very enjoyable game to play, whether alone or having 
 a party with people... you sure will be picking this game up a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero began as a revolutionary concept. You could play a guitar along with your favorite 
 song, even though you really can't play guitar! The came Guitar Hero II. Same exact thing. And 
 now Guitar Hero III. Its got a wireless controller, but otherwise it is the same. Nothing new is 
 happening there. You still can't create your own songs. In order for this game to be good it needs 
 something other than a wireless controller. Just get Rockband. You will be much more happy. The 
 song choice is pretty good though. They are songs that everyone can enjoy. They arent all the same, 
 and they give the game some amount of change, rather than staring at a screen hitting notes as 
 they role on by. The sound is good (obviously) , and the notes match up to the beat of the song 
 pretty well. If they had something new to go along with this, then it would have been a much better 
 and more interesting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDrift2k8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  This game is absolutely awesome for gameplay. It never got repetative for me. Theirs alot of songs 
 included which keeps up the ammount of gameplay you get. Four difficulty levels make the game even 
 longer (Completing all songs on all difficulties) The career is great. Not much of a storyline 
 but what storyline can you do in a Rhythm/Music game?
  
  Graphics
  Not much to say about the graphics since your always concentrating on the notes. The characters 
 do look good I must say. All animated in a great way. Characters, items and environments all look 
 amazing.
  
  Content
  60+ Songs in the game plus the downloadable content off Xbox Live Marketplace adds more challenges 
 and songs to the game. As I said before, four difficulty levels to keep the excitement going aswell 
 as career mode which can get hard once you step up your difficulty.
  
  Multiplayer
  Im not going to write about the multiplayer much because ive never played it online due to the 
 fact that all connections for every single game is red. Not matter your connection.. 20Mb Broadband 
 = Red ping // Dial up = Red ping.
  I have infact played some online in player matches with friends which I truely enjoyed. This game 
 has the potential to be an absolutely amazing online Rhythm game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0RS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Harmonix sold the Guitar Hero franchise, I thought bad of it. In my opinion It was a 
 bad move and led me to believe that this would be a big step down from its predecessors. Nonetheless, 
 I bought it being a fan of the series, just to try it out.
  
  To start off, the Les Paul that comes bundled with the game is pretty rad. It is also a little 
 glitchy, though. Sometimes I've heard people complain that the frets did not work or in my case, 
 that the star power is too sensitive. It is altogether a great controller, though. I've yet to 
 experience the frets go out and the star power sensitivity is hardly noticed anymore.
  
  Boss Battles. A great addition to the series, in my opinion. I've had fun battling my friends and 
 the NPC bosses. It can be a bit difficult at times, though. But all in all, it's a great competition 
 piece.
  
  Achievements. Some are a bit hard for my taste. For example, the Inhuman Achievement. I know that 
 I'll never beat Through The Fire and The Flames on Expert, but I sure as hell give props to whoever 
 can, and I still go for it from time to time. All in all, a good set of achievements to give you 
 a run for your money and not just cheap goodwill-style achievements.
  
  Customization. Seeing Rock Band, they could've done better. I mean, Two different outfits isn't 
 really enough. Yeah, the colors are cool, but It all feels generated. I guess because it is. Altogether 
 okay, but could've been done way better.
  
  Online. Pretty great. It's like playing with someone, except they're not next to you. 
  
  Difficulty. 
 Quite a bit hard for the Guitar Hero Noob. Even some avid Guitar Hero players become perplexed 
 in Expert mode. But, I guess it's just a step up... It's not like they added another fret button... yet.
 
  
  So, this game was pretty much was better than I thought that it would be. I have to give props 
 to RedOctane and Activision for keeping everything in tact and not crazily different from the rest 
 of the series.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  gh3 is best in series for a reason it brings us all the things we love about guitar hero. throw 
 in 70 + new songs and add some new twists like a deeper career with cutscenes and boss battles 
 with the likes of slash and many more. the list of songs include MISSISSIPI QUEEN, WELCOME TO THE 
 JUNGLE, ROCKIN LIKE A HURRICANE, CANT BE SAVED, MISS MURDER, PRAYER AND THE REFUGEE, THROUGH THE 
 FIRE AND FLAMES and many more that u can unlock on higher difficulties. this game is awesome and 
 i recommend it to anyone who likes music.
  
  my 75th review and my final review of 2007...... nice see you all in 08 and have a great new years 
 ^ ^
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: novo_24
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 brings it all to the table this year. They left off where they started with guitar 
 hero 3 and did not let down. The song track of over 70 songs are pretty much amazing. If you are 
 a true rock fan you should know most of the bands and the songs. 
  
  For example: rock and roll all night-KIss, Paint it black-The stones, Stricken-disturbed, before 
 i forget-slipknot and many more amazing hits. 
  
  They did add a new battle mode where for example slash battles you and you both try to mess each 
 other up, its a preety good addition to the game. 
  
  Overall if you love rock and guitars then this is the game for you. And the graphics are amazing. 
 I know people say that graphics don't matter but i believe it just makes the game that much better, 
 why would you have a great sounding game that deliveries everything and not good graphics. 
  
  Good job guitar hero, you did no dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SvR07rulz_monke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Happy Holiday's everyone!
  
  Unfortunately, I have not been able to play this game as my Xbox has gotten the red rings of doom 
 TWICE!!!! But from what I have played, I have loved this game to death. On the first tier in career, 
 I saw some classic songs already, Barracuda and more. The first encore was great, one of my fave 
 songs. And then, the boss battle against Slash, a true Rock Legend! The encore with him was great, 
 a truly fitting song, Welcome To The Jungle, one of G 'N' R's best hits and another of my faves. 
 So far loving this game and hope my Xbox gets back soon. Guitar Hero III, is by far the best game, 
 graphics wise, and it also has many great songs that were surprisingly vacant in other games.
 
  
  Peace out and have many fun and eventful hours playing Guitar Hero III: Legends Of Rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock on the Xbox 360 is the latest entry in the Guitar Hero series. 
 It is a music game where you use a guitar shaped peripheral as a controller. You press the correct 
 fret buttons that appear scrolling on screen and press the strum bar at the same time. This game 
 mechanic is very fun and is where most of the game's great feel comes from.
  
  Guitar Hero III is the best Guitar Hero game to date. The graphics are better than ever, there 
 are much more characters, outfits, styles, and songs than ever before. There are more than 70 songs 
 included, such as Story of my Life, Mississippi Queen, When You Were Young, and One. There are 
 also some downloadable songs, such as the Halo theme and a quickplay version of the Devil Went 
 Down to Georgia. 
  
  The game has great songs, which you unlock in the expansive single and co-op career modes. These 
 songs are playable in a quickplay form for high scores, in career mode to earn money to unlock 
 more characters and songs, and in multiplayer mode, where you can play co-operatively, or against 
 a friend. The game also supports full online play and leaderboards. 
  
  The newest addition to the game is Battle mode. This is somewhat like Pro-Face Off from Guitar 
 Hero II, but you both have Rock meters. Instead of star power notes, which normally double your 
 score when activated correctly, there are battle notes. When you play enough of these in succession, 
 you get a powerup which you can use to attack your opponent. When playing against noobs, this can 
 get boring as the noob will die after his first attack. However, when playing against someone of 
 similar skill level, the battle can rage on and on, providing a fun, frantic experience. 
  
  This is undoubtebly the hardest Guitar Hero game yet. I only recommend this game to those who 
 have played some sort of Guitar Hero before. While easy is easy enough, Hard and Expert can really 
 rip someone's arms off. The inclusion of Through the Fire and Flames by DragonForce, the hardest 
 Guitar Hero song yet, doesn't make the game any easier.
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock on the Xbox 360 is the greatest music game in history. 
 It definatley beats DDR and Guitar Hero II. If you have an Xbox 360, you should do yourself some 
 good and pick up your own copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This being the third guitar hero makes it hard to do something that the first didnt already do. 
 Like the first two the difficulty is just right not too hard and not too easy and it provides a 
 challenge when you want it to. This one has alot of advertisement in it and the song list on this 
 one does has some good songs on it but the first two song lists were better then this one although 
 this one finally did bands that people were asking for on it. Overall a good game with that same 
 fun factor in it as the first two had give it a try
  Chances are if you like the first two then you will more than likely like this one. Good addition 
 to the guitar hero series doesnt really add that much to the first two and wasnt really doing anything 
 new. But as I said earlier give this one a try if you liked the first two the whole dueling Tom 
 Morrelo and Slash thing was a cool concept but the whole breaking the oppenent strings and all 
 that stuff is kinda one sided and should have been thought through better but other than that a 
 fun game so try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindapimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best in the series. one of the best games on the 360. worth the money to go out 
 and buy this with the guitar. amazing selection of songs that you'll want to keep playing the songs 
 over and over again. nothing ever like it. putting the crowd more into the game. working on how 
 you can see the crowd is a major upgrade from guitar hero 2. the multiplayer is a lot of fun and 
 playing the songs together is fun. adding the encore into the game is amazing. you can play more 
 songs and you can earn extra money. career mode is a mastepiece. making the songs harder i think 
 helped this game more than hurt it. most people are looking for a game that challenges them instead 
 of just playing a game for about 4 hours and then your done with it. you'll want to play this game 
 for hours on end. it never gets boring. trying to play some of the songs on expert is hard but 
 then you can just mess around for even more fun. i can't wait for another one just like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero franchise exploded onto the scene late 2005 early 2006, with three games, Guitar 
 Hero, Guitar Hero 2, and the somewhat dissapointing, Guitar Hero 80's. Now, Harmonix handed the 
 GH Torch to Activision to persue Rock Band, but all you GH Veterans, never fear, Activision has 
 grasped the reins of Guitar Hero and continued the brilliant gameplay and quality soundtrack Guitar 
 Hero is known for.
  
  You can play as a bunch of characters from the old games, as well as some new additions, all who 
 represent a different genre of music, but you will never be able to choose a favourite, until you 
 unlock a certain guitar God, speaking of which, there is also a new character known as "The Guitar 
 God" but we all know who I really mean... What? You don't know? IT'S SLASH! Slash is one of the 
 three bosses you must defeat in the game. Every so often, instead of a traditional encore, a Guitar 
 God will walk out onto the stage, and you have to have an intense Guitar Battle with them, and 
 the new "Battle Powers" are introduced. These little dandies replace Star Power, and instead of 
 gviving you more points, you get things you can use to stuff up your opponent. These are fun, and 
 can turn the tide of any Guitar Battle. These are always fun, and are a nice change to the normal 
 style of play, but that's not to say the gameplay isn't brilliant. It is. My only complaint is 
 the difficulty, there is a point where a game goes from fun to torturous, as you will see when 
 you play "Through The Fire And The Flames".
  
  The soundtrack is what you'd expect, amazing songs from amazing artists. The songs may not be the 
 best known of the artists, but they are fun to play. Some songs may take you by surprise when they 
 appear on the tracklist, (namely "The Metal" by Tenacious D) , but rest assured, the GH guys knew 
 what they were doing when they picked these songs. The graphics are the most noticable change. 
 Everything looks more polished, and are a joy to see, but some things, like the drummer's animation, 
 could've used some work.
  
  Activision has tried to give a bit more structure by inserting short, animated cutscenes. No characters 
 talk, except for grunts, screams, and when they do speak, it is uncomprehendable gibberish, to 
 communicate, most characters simply use the "Horns Up" sign.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is worthy of the subtitle, "Legends of Rock". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I had played Guitar Hero 2 round my mates and loved it. It was so much fun but with a distinct 
 lack of classic and modern classic hits. I was hoping for more, as we all do with sequels from 
 Guitar Hero 3 and wasn't disappointed by what I got. Although, again there really aren't many good 
 classic tracks in there, it's a very hard game to keep away from and a hard game to keep up with 
 too (especially if you're not a guitar player) . Having completed it on Medium difficulty (within 
 two days) with no more than 3 star ratings for each track it did leave me wanting more. Not more 
 as in I want to perfect my playing with Medium or harder difficulties but more as in tracks and 
 better ones at that. Thinking that the tracks from the second game would be included also in this 
 one I was left with buying new tracks (in game) that I hadn't heard of before and couldn't care 
 less about therefore not bothering to play them. However an awesome free download (they should 
 all be free in my opinion) is the Halo theme. It's just the coolest thing. Another downer though 
 is the shear lack of "Legends" in the game. Slash - awesome, Tom Morello - a very cool surprise 
 and......... that's it!!?!?! Two legends?!? I mean I haven't completed the game on hard or expert 
 (unlikely too as well) but I thought there would be more Legends than this. I mean where's Page?! 
 Where's Hendrix?! Where's Clapton?! Where's Pete Townsend?! Especially when one of the tracks is 
 "The Seeker" by The Who! They advertise the game with the new battling feature but forget about 
 it for single players!
  
  Don't get me wrong this is a very fun addictive game but like so many games of today, and sequels 
 too, so much more could've been done to make it bigger, longer and more interesting. I hope the 
 next one delivers what should've been this time round. Saying that I did find Its design/ presentation 
 pretty damn flawless, something I hope won't change for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  When i heard there was going to be a 3rd Guitar Hero I was delighted I loved Guitar Hero II but 
 when i started up GH3 and started on hard I was shocked by all them notes omfg it is not normal 
 the enormous hammer ons and pull offs and the speed is out of this world!!!
  
  I love the online functions i play with my friends as many as I can at my place but when they can't 
 come over whe can still play on XBL and that rocks... The only downside what i don; t understand 
 why isn't there an online co-op career that was so weird all these online functions but not that 
 one thing really sucked..
  
  antoher thing is the Hippy Character where did he go i loved playing with him, instead of him you 
 have a japenese anime b! tch where dumbasses get all horney on omfg why why why...
  
  The tracklist is awesome and it looks much better than GH2... I can't wait for part 4 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonio_hdz2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Since the launch of Guitar Hero for the PS2 the Harmonix bunch have raised the status bar of rithym 
 games to a whole new level, and GH2 for the PS2 and X360 confirmed the Harmonix formula: Great 
 Tracks+Simple yet addictive gameplay= Game Fans 6 satisfaction guarenteed.
  
  But the Harmonix/Red Octane Marriage came to an end when MTV Acquired Harmonix letting the License 
 of GH in the hands of Neversoft (mostly know by their work on the Tony Hawk's series) and it shows 
 that some elements are pure Neversoft style (the comic animations, and the nothin' special Boss 
 battles) and others are Harmonix classical (the aoutstanding gameplay) , however GH3 has the most 
 complete and outsatanding soundtrack ever released in a GH game, and the best of all a lot of the 
 tracks are the original from the creators (seriously playing Metallica's One is a great thing) .
 
  
  The game's dificulty is quite ridiculous on expert and just plain harder on the Hard settings tahn 
 previous installments, many experienced players will find challeging songs on these dificulties 
 witch turns a terrible learning gap to the newcomers even on medium or easy.
  
  There are a lot of things that can be improved on GH3, but there's one thing that should be removed 
 from any GH to come, and that's the terrible AD rain in the venues, witch in really made the game 
 lack in polish if we compared the last GH to this one.
  
  Graphically we could't ask for a real next gen game in this department because we wont be seeing 
 the background animation when we are shredding our axe, the only department that matters (in my 
 personal opinion) in this kind of genre is the sound desing, witch is just impressive.
  
  In an overall we can say that GH3 is the best of the series just because of the setlist, because 
 in other departments you feel that is just not the same game we all love, it has some improvements 
 and it has some serious flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhbk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Before I start reviewing this game, I want to wish everyone a Merry Christmas, and happy holidays!
 
  
  Ok, time for the review:
  Since they started airing tv ads about the game, as soon as I saw Slash on the cover I told myself 
 I have to get this game. Never had I been so correct about a game! haha. I mean the game's great. 
 It is worth the wait, and it is worth playing for sure. You can play it by yourself and go career 
 mode. Or you can have friends over and Rock it out! This is a must-have!
  The career mode is really fun, and the tracks are amazing. I have had a lot of fun with this game. 
 I know I just got it, but I already love the game. If you're a fan of the series, then get this 
 game. If you're a Rock fane, get it! And if you only like to play fun video games.... THEN GET IT! 
 Of course, If you're a fan of rock, and fun video games... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?
  
  Seriously, really fun and addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zodiac192
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  OK, I just got the game today along with my brand new Xbox 360 console, and let me start off by 
 saying that I love both of them. For the record, I am writing this review from the standpoint of 
 a left-handed guitar player (yes, I play guitar) , who has NOT owned any previous Guitar Hero (or 
 any guitar) game. 
  
  As I said, this game (excuse the pun) rocks. It is a fun and challenging, yet a the same time very 
 simple game that makes you just want to keep playing, and playing, and playing. As I am sure you 
 know, the objective of the game is to hit a series of different colored "notes" that appear on 
 the screen on the corresponding buttons on the "guitar" controller. The different levels of difficulty 
 are perfect, with the "easy" catagory using only the first three out of five buttons on the contoller. 
 It gets harder and is a challenge that relies primarily on your hand-eye coordination. 
  
  I referenced this in the beginning, but I am going to go more in-depth, my primary concern when 
 I was first getting it was I wasn't sure if the game could adapt for lefties like myself, it can. 
 You just need to hold the guitar backwards and under the "options" menu, you can switch back and 
 forth to and from lefty mode, in which the game flips everything around for you.
  
  As I said, this game is incredibly fun, and always leaves you wanting more. As a seasoned gamer, 
 I know that the worst thing you can have is to be all excited over a game, play it once, and then 
 have it sit at the bottom of your junk drawer for the rest of eternity. Not Guitar Hero 3. This 
 game is a lot of fun, and takes seconds to learn, and then you just practice, as if it was a real 
 instrument.
  
  Overall, this title is a very strong one, and is a lot of fun that will not get old. The only setback 
 I have is that I don't feel that the setlist is as strong as it is in Guitar Hero 2, but I could 
 be wrong, only having played the earler edition once at a friend's house. Overall, Guitar Hero 
 3 is a very strong title that will serve you fun for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is by far one of my most favirote Guitar Heroes. It has a good soundtrack and good 
 graphics and gameplay. The one thing that really strikes me is the guitar controller. Its wireless 
 now and you can take it anywhere in the room you are playing. Finally no wires to get in your way 
 of playing your guitar hero and enjoying. The bad part is that if you buy the x-plorer guitar its 
 still wired. Now you have to buy a seperate wireless guitar with your own money. That would suck 
 but you still have a guitar and im not complaining. The chords and notes once again are amazing. 
 It highly immerses you in the guitar playing and you would get addicted to it immediatly or 4-5 
 minutes. This game is a must for any rhythm seeker or Guitar Hero fan. Fortunately, Its coming 
 out for the Wii, Xbox360, PS3, and PS2. This way you can have a lot of options to choose from. I highly 
 reccommend this game and advise anyone to go buy this game from your closest retail store 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaPollo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  I'm sure almost everyone has at played one of the three Guitar Hero games at the mall, Best Buy, 
 or Wal-Mart. However, to own one is thrice as nice! I was excited to get Guitar Hero II for my 
 360 a while back. Excited to play through the songs, and have my final encore be "Free Bird"! How 
 awesome is that? But now with Rock Band supposedly running up Guitar Hero's heels... does the third 
 installment really live up?
  
  I say yes! GH III lives up to all expectations I had. Possibly the best part is that it seems to 
 be a little more giving on you timing to strum the notes. Which makes this a game more people can 
 play. Which in turn means that more people are apt to buy. Although some people are saying that 
 Rock Band is supposed to blow this ship out of the water, I think otherwise. I know Rock Band will 
 get it's sales, especially with a release around the Christmas season. However, much like with 
 the PS3 and 360, people will choose the affordable unit, that has pretty much about the same amount 
 of fun.
  
  I'm keeping this one short because I want to hurry off and play me some more GH III, I've got to 
 see what the final encore is. I love that line up of bannds, the battle mode is great, and of course 
 that they motion captured the artists, and got the real bandss versions, instead of cover bands! 
 That means a lot for this game, that is slowly becoming an epidemic. Have fun playing this one 
 people... it should last you a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooladden
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  For all you guitar hero fans out there (such as myself) we all know that this is a must buy but 
 im writing this review for everyone who either wanted to try playing it because they herd it from 
 a friend or for any gamer who's willing to spend a wad of dough. 
  
  The eseence of guitar hero is that you hold up a guitar shaped controller and you try to build 
 a multiplyer by hiting the upcoming notes . You will hold down these buttons on the neck called 
 "frets" and you strum down the "strum bar" to hit the notes that are coming towards . You will 
 try to do this by making your combo metre at 4x and you keep it there by not missing a note , once 
 you've reached this point you wil get into the shredege!!! So why is this game so addictive ? Because 
 you get that experience that you've alway's wanted but could never achieve of playing a guitar. 
 Now that im done with the intro lets onward with the review . 
  
  The visuals in this game are quite good for what it offers , the venues ( stages) are quite colourful 
 and the lighting is quite nice . But unfourtune you wont be able to notice this because you'll 
 be staring at the incoming frets. Theres has been a major improvements from guitar hero 1 & 2 , 
 visualaly, but theres one problem i have with this game and its that theres ad's EvErY were, the 
 audience showting phrases from that AXE commerical and ad's on some guitars. So for that I give 
 it a 8.5 for visuals.
  
  The sound is a no brainer for a game all about music. Clean , crisp and clear and also the sound 
 track is phenomal , im not going to go through all the songs but some great tracks are : paint 
 it black , impulse , welcome to the jungle , and cult of personalty. I dont think that the sound 
 track is pure gold but its a contender for best of the three guitar hero's. Sound get's a 10.0
 
  
  Now lets put all the monkey's in the barrel with the gameplay. Most gammers know how important 
 this is and this game dosen't fail in the department . The same old classic addictive , competievness 
 is back plus with some new fetures such as online gameplay , co-op carrer , battle mode and a whole 
 lot of downloadable tracks ( and half of them so far are free!) The controller is by far the best 
 of the three differnt types , its in the shape of the famous Les Paul and Red Octane put all the 
 pro features of the SG and the X-plorer into it and its wireless! Some guitar hero vetrens might 
 find that the notes are easier to hit but Neversoft counteracted that by making the last teir songs 
 realy good and diffuclt . Another thing that they brought to the table that was never here before 
 is boss battles. In a boss battle you will face a REAL famous guitarist in a duel ( battle mode) 
 . The song's you play are songs that they made specificaly for guitar and pure solo's , espicialy 
 the slash battle . Personaly my favortie is the Tom Morrelo battle but you will have the chance 
 of chosing your own favortie because I convincesd you to buy this game. There's one thing i have 
 to tell you if your new to the franchise and its that this game is realy excisble to anyone . If 
 you just want to learn theres a tuturial and there are four diffuculty settings to fit you rocking 
 personality : easy , medium , hard , and EXPERT. Most of you will find easy just to easy and might 
 want to skip it but i advise you to start on that so you can learn the basics so later you can 
 play on my diffuclty XPERT! Gameplay 9.0
  
  After fully reading this review I strongly advise you to pick up this great title and I promise 
 you will have a good time (unless you guitar is broken...) Anyone who wants to face me online , 
 my gamertag is Ryan040404040 (dont ask why their's eleven numbers in my name) ROCK ON!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  When I finally had a chance to play Guitar Hero 3 and see for myself what all the hype was about, 
 I was blown away. I have been trying to find a copy for my Wii but with Christmas around the corner 
 have been unsuccessful,. Therefore I played it on the Xbox and was just mesmerized by a fast, fun 
 game. The graphics were great, song list was beautiful and the multi-player mode was incredible!
 
  
  It is a lot of fun - even though I was playing with my wife's cousin who is ranked 15th in Canada!! 
 The battle mode was great, single player fun with a lot to unlock. Of course the downloads seem 
 to be pretty good too!
  
  MY +++
  
  Great song list! Songs from every generation, certainly to please anyone.
  Great graphics.
 
  Multi-player is phenomenal.
  A lot of fun with a lot of people!
  Wireless guitar!
  
  MY - - -
  
  Again, not enough time in the day to play.
  Can't find a copy for my Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byzzz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is a Guitar Hero with Horrible track list.
  This is my opinion, Guitar Hero III has a bad track list. 80% of song are popular American music, 
 10% unknown tracks of famous group and 10% good song.
  Wonderful the cooperative mode for free new tracks, Vs Mode with cpu guitar hero is very funny 
 and new item in the shop are very much. I think that Guitar hero III is a good game but song as 
 "Crazy on You" or "Surrender", "Dead" or Thunderhouse", "Sweet Child'o Mine" or others song in 
 Guitar Hero II (2) are best choice for a Christmas shopping.
  The Guitar is very beautiful, wireless, black, light and divisible. Good and funny the cartoon 
 story, in single and in cooperative mode, different movie.
  Don't like me stroboscopic light while i play, much strong.
  
  I hope in Rock Band, in the 
 paper, Rock Band track list is very good, better that Guitar Hero III. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparto-Jr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero. I always been impressed by its gameplay and still am. Love the soundtrack. It took 
 long enough but finally has Metallica in it. not easy to put down. Boss Battles are a great feature. 
 Finaly the music is the acual songs done by the bands. The online multiplayer was a good idea. 
 A new co-op careear is avalible. The difficulty on hard and expert is too high for the avarage 
 player though. The Achievement in this game are horible. Dont get this game if all you care about 
 is achievements. DLC Is also amazing. from Velvet Revolver to the boss battle trackpak. A must 
 have for all kinds of gamers. Is age apporite. Also some advice buy the wiered x-plorer controler 
 if you dont already have it the wireles les paul is not as good as it could be. Basicly what im 
 saying is. Buy Guitar Hero 3 It is the closest thing to playing a Guitar But without All that practice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  With the change of developers for the Guitar Hero series, I was skeptical in buying this game. 
 When I conquered my fears and got the game, I was surprised that they improved it, even if the 
 improvements were minor.
  
  The general concept of the story is the same as the previous installments. You play songs in different 
 tiers, striving to be the #1 guitarist. What they changed in this concept is, they added animation 
 cutscenes between tiers in career mode, giving you an actual story behind the game. You find out 
 that a garage band needs a guitarist. After you join, the band goes on a conquest of trying to 
 make it in the rock world. I like this new approach, but I hope they don't start trying to add 
 to much to the story in the next one.
  
  The visuals are really good. The characters are more detailed and fleshed out. Neversoft changed 
 the shape of the notes, making them a more round shape. Slash (Guns N' Roses) and Tom Morello's (Rage 
 Against the Machine) in-game counterparts look very much like them.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has a well-made soundtrack. From the Killers to Dragonforce, and Santana to Metallica, 
 the songs are fun to play and listen to at the same time. To complete some songs (who am I kidding, 
 this only applies to Dragonforce) , you will definitely need a friend to help you complete it. Most 
 of the songs people wanted in this game made it in. One thing I liked about GH is that people will 
 discover songs by artist they haven't heard of, making some people check out the artist. I've done 
 it, and a few of my friends have too. I've never heard of Priestess (artist of Lay Down) or of Eric 
 Johnson (artist of Cliffs of Dover) , but after hearing their songs, I'm looking more more songs 
 from them.
  
  Nothing has really changed from the core gameplay. You use the frets and the strum bar on the guitar 
 controller to hit the notes that appear. The amplifier on the right keeps check of how you're doing. 
 If you're in the green, you're doing fine, while in yellow, you're doing alright, but in red, you're 
 in danger of failing the song. The amp on the left keeps track of the notes you hit, which increases 
 the multiplier. One of the new feature is the co-op career mode. If you want all the songs in the 
 game, you will go through this mode, along with the single player career mode. In it, the tiers 
 are changed to add one or two songs (like Bulls on Parade being in the first tier in the co-op, 
 while it's in the second in single player) . 
  
  Another new feature are battle modes. Unlike the Pro-faceoff in GH2, you are trying to make your 
 opponent lose before the end of the song. In the single player career mode, you do this against 
 bosses. Instead of getting Star Power, it is changed to battle, and with it, you try to mess your 
 opponent with it. Some will be aces in the holes (like lefty flip, which causes the other player 
 to play left handed) , while others will be the ones to slightly mess the up (like Hard, which makes 
 the opponent play the song like it was on hard mode, which will work if you're playing on easy 
 or medium) . I really like this new feature the most. It makes both players stay on their toes.
 
  
  This game is really good, and ends my worries on Neversoft messing it up. The career is short, 
 but trying to get all the achievements (especially the one for Through the Fires and Flames) will 
 have you coming back at another run at being a rock legend.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  Graphics- 9
  Sound- 10
  Value- 8
  Tilt- 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsniper513
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is made by Activision and Neversoft, which took the place of Harmonix who made Guitar 
 Hero 1 and 2, and now rock band. Guitar Hero is a rhythm game where you have a guitar controller 
 and you match the notes on the screen by holding down the fret buttons and strumming. This game 
 features over 70 rock songs for you to enjoy, some of my favorites being: Welcome to the Jungle, 
 My Name is Jonas, Paint it Black, and Through the Fire and Flames (which is impossibly hard) . The 
 difficulty levels can match anyone's skill from very easy to expert which could stretch your skill 
 towards the end. 
  Online multiplayer is a new addition to the game allowing you to play face-off (see you can do 
 better at the song) , battle (same as face off except star power is replaced with power ups that 
 you can launch against you opponent to make them fail) or co-op (where both players play and their 
 score is added together as a team; also one person will play bass) . It is fun to play but I've 
 had problems with ranked searching in that i cant EVER find a person to play against so i am forced 
 to host my own match. When in your lobby you pick you guitar and character and then pick the song 
 list depending on the # the host chose. The achievement list on the 360 cover most of the bases 
 and is easy for some and challenging for others. Downloadable content has been OK so far, my favorite 
 being the halo theme which is really awesome to halo fans and best of all its free. I would recommend 
 guitar hero to anyone who wants to play like a rockstar! ROCK ON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  A Launch Center, talk on the forums for weeks, bragging rights to Slayer, one thing is for sure, 
 Activision had no worry about hype. Guitar Hero 3 launch is come and gone, and its all a little 
 bittersweet.
  
  When Guitar Hero 2 launched, it was a great game, but the graphics were far from next gen. GH3 
 has updated graphics, thats for sure. After doubling back to GH2 last night, I was actually shocked 
 at the drop. But that is still no excuse for maybe the worst character models for a franchise, 
 ever. While Slash and Tom are done perfectly, the main characters you choose from, and especially 
 the rest of the band, look like Keith Richards on crack. Not pretty. And there is no excuse in 
 the era of pushing the bar, you can't tell me you wouldnt want a band of Mass Effect character 
 models.
  
  Speaking of characters, there is some issues when you are playing. There will be a mellow part 
 in the song, or no guitar at all, but that won't let your hero stop from jumping around and slamming 
 on his/her guitar like a complete douche. Again, no excuses. This is in the fact that some guitar 
 parts have no audio at all, make for some annoying moments, where you'll find yourself shaking 
 your head. The intro to Before I Forget comes to mind, or the middle of Evenflow, or Bulls On Parade. 
 These are all parts in the real song where its JUST guitar, but in the game, all you'll hear is 
 the annoying click of your strum bar.
  
  So, what did GH3 bring to the table this time? Battle Mode! Don't get confused, Battle Mode isn't 
 a good thing, its a terrible thing. You will find yourself cursing and wanting to smash your guitar 
 on the floor playing the Devil, possibly the dumbest character model of him, by the way.
  
  GH3 does excel in Online though. 95% of the time you'll experience no lag. But there will be parts 
 in the song where it will sort of jump, and its easy to miss a note. Also, as always, play with 
 patience, as some people on there just got home from school. The Online is not complete though. 
 Sure, it offers scoreboards, and sort-of-I-guess matchmaking, but it lacks Co-Op. That's right 
 ladies and gentlemen, no online Co-Op! So easy even Crackdown can do it. You'll be staring at some 
 achievements with a sigh, because you got it, they are Co-Op, and GH3 pussed out and didn't include 
 this much needed feature. I hear another Guitar game has it...
  
  Song packs are still insanely overpriced, and are more scarce then a sober Paris Hilton. So, don't 
 expect GH3 to win the online battle with Rival Rock Band anytime soon, where they offer a robust 
 collection. My suggestion? Dream packs, every month (at least) , Activision post 3 bands to vote 
 from. That band will then have a hits package put up to download.
  
  Keeping with downloads, don't expect to play any songs you downloaded for GH2, nooo, consider that 
 money gone baby gone. And we know a patch would be able to fix this considerable flaw, but why 
 would we want that? If they want to get around this they should offer a Guitar Hero Vault, where 
 also every month, every song from the previous Guitar Hero games are put up to vote for, the top 
 3 will then be picked to be put up with a Classics download.
  
  But, yes, for all the flaws, GH3 is still insanely addictive. Dropping hours into this game is 
 very, very easy. You'll want to up a friend's score, beat everyone in the world, and yes, beat 
 Through Fire And Flames. All flaws aside, this is an enjoyable game. There is classic (and not 
 so classic) songs to play, which is surely the most well rounded playlist to date. But, where is 
 the Korn, Godsmack, Green Day, and more Pantera? But yes, there is aloooot more master tracks on 
 here, which is makes all the difference a fan needs. The difficulity is also considerably raised, 
 where completing the final set-list is sometimes harder then playing the actual song.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is a must own for all fans, but don't go in with too high expectations, this reunion 
 tour suffers from writer's block. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: instantdeath999
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  With Harmonix working on rock band, Neversoft (developers of the the deteriorating tony hawk series) 
 were left to work on the game. Like many people, I was worried, but the game turned out OK. Guitar 
 Hero 3 has easily the heaviest, and most challenging, soundtrack, and despite the slight changes 
 in gameplay, will surely challenge you, even if you were amazing at Guitar Hero 2.
  
  First, the guitar. While it is a matter of opinion, I find the guitar much more comfortable then 
 the previous X-plorer. Modeled after a Gibson Les Paul, there is just something about it that makes 
 it more comfortable. The fret buttons feel different, and will take a little bit of getting used 
 to, but ultimately turn out good. The strum bar, while still noisy in fast songs, have become much 
 quieter. And then theres the whammy bar, which is changed a bit, but works fine. And finally, the 
 guitar is wireless right out of the box... no dongles or anything. Very convenient, because I don\'t 
 know about anyone else, but the cord definitely gets in my way. I have yet to have a problem with 
 the wireless, and I have logged several, several hours into the game. The best part of this game, 
 for me, is the soundtrack. It is definitely more metal-oriented this time around, with bands such 
 as slayer, metallica, smashing pumpkins, slipknot, disturbed, dragonforce, queens of the stone 
 age, Iron Maiden, rage against the machine, guns n\' roses... I could go on. The vast majority 
 of them are master tracks (yes, even metallica) , and that is perhaps the best part. Some of the 
 covers in Guitar Hero 2 were flat out terrible (I\'m looking at you, killing in the name) . And 
 the covers are actually very good, Paranoid by Black Sabbath, for one. I could barely tell the 
 difference. I was a little disappointed by the bonus tracks though.
  
  There have been a few gameplay tweaks. There is now a meter telling you what your streak is, a 
 few interface changes, it is a bit easier to activate star power hammer ons/pull offs have been 
 made much easier, and you get a bit more time to hit notes. While this sounds bad to the guitar 
 hero adept, you will need it when playing last tier songs... and through fire and flames. While 
 it is easier to hit notes, the sheer quantity of notes have been increased. The last tier in particular, 
 especially on expert, will scare the crap out of anyone. The final boss battle is a near-impossible 
 challenge as well. And then, of course, Through the Fire and Flames. I have been a fan of Dragonforce 
 for awhile, and I was definitely awaiting this song, oddly looking forward to having my ass handed 
 to me... I was not disappointed.
  
  As for modes, of course, there is the career mode. It\'s pretty much the same thing as the last 
 games. Your goal is to clear all the tiers, each progressing in difficulty, and earning new venues 
 to go along with it, along with money to purchase things like guitars, characters, costumes, videos, 
 songs, etc. Many of the characters from pass games return, along with Slash (Guns N\' Roses, Slash\'s 
 Snakepit, Velvet Revolver) and Tom Morello (Rage agains the Machine, Audioslave, And there is Lou, 
 the devil, and the new god of rock. My personal pick is Slash and Tom Morello. The song choices 
 for the tiers are good, starting soft and getting heavier each time. The venues are pretty cool, 
 while some bland, and some unique, particularly the prison. However, there is something different 
 about this career, and that thing is boss battles. After tier 2, 5, and the last one, you will 
 play a guitar battle against Tom Morello, Slash, and Lou, the devil. While they have received some 
 negative feedback, I enjoyed them immensely. The only other change is that in between tiers, there 
 are little cutscenes... no dialogue, but enough to get the point across. Think of old cartoons. 
 There is also a coop career, while not playable online, unlocks some other songs, such as Sabotage 
 by the Beastie boys and Suck my kiss by the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
  
  The multiplayer is the same as before, with the added battle mode. Another thing that has received 
 negative feedback, I think it is very fun, provided two skilled players are playing. The different 
 powers are cool, and can add strategy, such as how you are going to use combos, etc. I\'m not fond 
 of the death drain, but it\'s the only thing they can really do.
  
  A bit addition is online mode, and it does not disappoint. I rarely experienced lag, and most of 
 the time could not even tell I was online. Coop, battle, and regular face off are all playable, 
 it does not take long to get into games, and the fact that each player is allowed a song pick is 
 good for everyones different tastes.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is a great entry to the guitar hero series. I would like to see the boss battles 
 flexed out a bit more, as they have a lot of potential, along with the battle mode. Downloadable 
 songs have been a bit scarce so far... at the time of this writing, velvet revolver and the foo 
 fighters are available, which are great, but I hope they bring more to extend the replayability. 
 Guitar hero 3 proves that the Guitar Hero series still has a reason to exist beside Rock Band, 
 if only for pure challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D34DLY_V1P3R
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: GOOD
  
  GAMEPLAY: FUN / CHALLENGING
  
  CONTROLLS: FLUID
  
  ORIGINALITY: &lt; GH2
  
  STORY: ALMOST NON EXISTENT
  
  IMMERSION: MILD
  
  RENT OR BUY?: 
 BUY
  
  MULTIPLAYABILITY: MILD-HIGH
  
  SINGLEPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  REPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Adult
  
  Aeroplane
 
  
  Air
  
  Aircraft Carrier
  
  Airforce
  
  Airport
  
  Album
  
  Alphabet
  
  Apple
  
  Arm
  
  Army
  
  Baby
  
  Baby
  
  Backpack
  
  Balloon
  
  
 Banana
  
  Bank
  
  Barbecue
  
  Bathroom
  
  Bathtub
  
  Bed
  
  Bee
  
  Bible
  
  Bible
  
  Bird
  
  Bomb
  
  Book
  
  Boss
  
  Bottle
  
  Bowl
 
  
  Box
  
  Boy
  
  Brain
  
  Bridge
  
  Butterfly
  
  Button
  
  Cappuccino
  
  Car
  
  Car-race
  
  Carpet
  
  Carrot
  
  Cave
  
  Chair
  
 
  Chess Board
  
  Chief
  
  Child
  
  Chisel
  
  Chocolates
  
  Church
  
  Circle
  
  Circus
  
  Circus
  
  Clock
  
  Clown
  
  Coffee
  
  Coffee-shop
 
  
  Comet
  
  Compact Disc
  
  Compass
  
  Computer
  
  Crystal
  
  Cup
  
  Cycle
  
  Data Base
  
  Desk
  
  Diamond
  
  Dress
  
  Drill
  
  Drink
  
 
  Drum
  
  Dung
  
  Ears
  
  Earth
  
  Egg
  
  Electricity
  
  Elephant
  
  Eraser
  
  Explosive
  
  Eyes
  
  Family
  
  Fan
  
  Feather
  
  Festival
  
 
  Film
  
  Finger
  
  Fire
  
  Floodlight
  
  Flower
  
  Foot
  
  Fork
  
  Freeway
  
  Fruit
  
  Fungus
  
  Game
  
  Garden
  
  Gas
  
  Gate
  
  
 Gemstone
  
  Girl
  
  Gloves
  
  God
  
  (THERE U GO, 100 WORDS, U HAPPY NOW??) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty- The difficulty of this game has a little bit more umpf than GH 2. I was able to beat 
 GH 2 on expert, then I get 3 thinking it would be the same and turns out... no. I can't beat expert. 
 I'm stuck on the encore song right before the last tier. I've practiced and practiced but it just 
 doesn't seem to work. It is still playable and extremely fun none-the-less. 7/10
  
  Graphics- The graphics for the 360 are flippin awesome. My friend has the Wii version and it sucks 
 compared to this one. Everything just flows nicely and feels great when I play. 10/10
  
  Gameplay- The new addition of the boss battle may seem appealing at first, but later on just gets 
 anoying and you feel doesn't really have a point. It's just playing random guitar notes and hopping 
 that you don't miss any of the battle stars or you're screwed. Beating the game on Hard came as 
 a difficulty to me just because of the boss. At that same time, I was an efficient expert player. 
 Game doesn't really make sense when it comes to missing notes and getting booed off the stage. 
 If you miss 10 notes in a row, you're already in the blinking red, and hitting a 50 note streak 
 will only get you back into the yellow. Sometimes isn't really fair but still fun if you are good. 
 Songs this time around aren't as good as GH 2. A lot of old songs that don't have an appeal to 
 young people (not all of the classic songs are bad) . Bonus songs straight up suck compared to GH 
 2. They are all extremely hard, and have no special tune or beat that can be enjoyable to play. 
 The creators this time around felt that cords would make the game extremely fun. They are loaded 
 into this game and can really get annoying. 8/10
  
  Overall, I would recommend this game because of the classic GH fun, and to also better your game... if 
 possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAlex
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I found Guitar Hero III to be incredibly addictive and fun to play, to the point I had the songs 
 stuck in my head, and I can't hear a tune without picking out the guitar piece in it. However, 
 moving up the difficulties is, well, difficult, at least for me personally. I can barely function 
 in Medium, and Hard looks like a far off dream for me. However, practice makes perfect, so perhaps 
 in time, I'll crack it. 
  
  I found no problems with glitching on my Xbox360 - it runs just fine. My only potential comment 
 is the Whammy bar for left handed people like myself - I find it a little difficult to operate 
 with my guitar upside down, as compared to right handed folks. I love the fact it's wireless - 
 it means you don't have to worry about cables when you're rocking out.
  
  I would definitely recommend Guitar Hero III to everyone I met, just because of my terrible newfound 
 addiction to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Within the huge flood of huge video games this November throughout the holiday season which throw 
 gamers into a variety of exciting adventures, one game is rocking the long way to the top so it 
 can rock and roll. Its name is Guitar Hero 3. If you're a Guitar Hero veteran, you'll know what 
 to expect with this installment. If you've been living in a cave for the past 3 years, here's the 
 summary. You have a guitar with 5 fret buttons on it, and during gameplay you'll have keys that 
 will come at you. At a specific time you'll hit that color and the strum bar, and if you do it 
 right, you'll hit the note. Then you basically just do that 500 more times until the song concludes. 
 The track list has a huge rocking list of great songs including School's Out by Alice Cooper, Rock 
 and Roll All Nite by Kiss, Rock You like a Hurricane by Scorpions, and more, so much more. They 
 also redid the guitar, into a Gibson Les Paul controller, which is very sleek with the color-outlined 
 keys instead of the solid color keys in previous installments. The backstrap fits nicely, and the 
 overall guitar just has a cozy feel, the fact that its wireless is also welcome. The 360, PS3, 
 and PS2 versions all have the black coating on them, but the Wii version is white for the Wii's 
 color scheme of white. This installment features online play, so you can take on all of your rocking 
 friends in battles of rock-rockiness. The game has some interesting perks that can throw your friend 
 off in multiplayer. Including the Broken String, where one of the victim's keys will not work until 
 they repeatedly tap it. Try doing that on Expert while trying to play cult of Personality. It isn't 
 easy my friend, not at all. There's also Left/Righty flip, Death Drain, Amp Overload, Difficulty 
 Up, Whammy Bar, Steal Power, or Double Notes. The Boss Battles also throw a unique experience into 
 the game. With you facing off with Tom Morello, Bret Michaels, and Slash, each having you deal 
 with one of their famous tracks. The menus look good, the load screens are even great, and the 
 whole game just has an overall rock power. The only problem can be found within the overall feel. 
 Harmonix switched the game over to Neversoft, who just really didn't do that much with the license. 
 To a casual fan of Guitar Hero, if you compared 2 and 3 side by side, you wouldn't be able to tell 
 that much of a difference, except for the combo counter, which is nice. The price of $100 seems 
 a little extravagant, although I understand. You see because I only have to pay $90 for the Wii 
 version. Overall, Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the strongest installment in the franchise 
 to date, a must-have for the die-hard fans of the series, and a good strong buy that hasn't gotten 
 to rock too much with this franchise. It is available for the Xbox 360, Playstation 3, Playstation 
 2, Nintendo Wii, PC, and Mac. Just take a "slow ride" and pick up this game this holiday season 
 so you can see what you're missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 brings in a few new features to the game and they all work nicely. the wireless guitar 
 is another good feature and especially if you want it wireless. Another nice feature is that the 
 guitar controller is that the controller can be dissembled for easier carrying and removable face 
 plates but i have yet to see any in stores (UK stores) . The online play is great but sometimes 
 it is hard to find a match but a second search will always bring a result. The battles in between 
 the career mode are excellent with implementing battle stars to beat your opponent but doesn't 
 work as well online but still fun. The difficulty levels have changed and they are some what harder 
 but if you have played the previous guitar hero games you will be able to complete it on hard with 
 only a few songs being irritating. The soundtrack is the best one yet the have finally seen metal 
 music and put it in this is the type of music that should be in this game and hopefully some more 
 good music that will be downloadable on the Xbox market place. the general feel of the game is 
 the same as any other guitar hero game but Activision have done a good job from harmonics previous 
 work. the general look of the game dose feel that it belongs in the next-gen consoles and we will 
 probably be seeing more of guitar hero in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  We all know Guitar Hero. And if you weren't able to beat GH2 on hard, you probably wont get the 
 full enjoyment from this game. The songs are better, but harder. The visuals are on par with what 
 you'd expect in a current-gen game (by that I mean next-gen, which is now current, or something... the 
 gen thing confuses me) . More importantly is that less of these songs are covers, the guitroller 
 is wireless, and the controls in this game just feel a little more something. I want to say precise, 
 but, GH2 was too, as was the orginal GH. I think its the hammer-on pull-offs. I've jumped between 
 the two games, and Guitar Hero three feels like its just playing more right. It has a fluid feel 
 too it. GH2 feels kind of robotic now. So yeah, lots of songs, good songs. Metallica's One. Nuff 
 said there. The bonus tracks are great too, throwing in some international bands. Online multiplayer, 
 works great, very little lag, its fun and easy to jump into. One minor issue though. Sometimes 
 it can be a pain in the rear to get into a game. Some kind of issue that i'm unaware of, but it 
 seems a lot of times connections get lost before i can get into a game. Its odd, and it's frustrating 
 to spend 10-15 minutes trying to get into a game. Someting forcing you to host your own and wait 
 for an opponent. Point being, there are times that you just wont be able to jump right into a match 
 for some odd set of circumstances. Another good thing this time around is they're giving you free 
 DLC occasionally. Well one song so far, but lets hope its a precedent. Overall, this game is great, 
 but, you wont get the full enjoyment from if you're new to the series or just a casual Guitar Hero. 
 If you are, grab either of the previous three games, they're still great. This thing caters to 
 the fans, and if you're lke me, and can plow through hard mode without batting an eye, expert will 
 give you a great challenge, and you'll feel that sense of accomplishment when you do beat a song. 
 Final note. Boss battles - they're mean, seriously, you can't beat Lou on Expert let alone Hard. 
 Coulda done without the boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stubei
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  right first of all the flaws sometimes it lags a little when enabling star power and also in the 
 menus its crashed my xbox a few times as well right glad I got that off my chest now the good bits:
 
  
  An amazing track list of over 70 songs including "Metallica, Santanna, S. R. V, and many more
  
 
  Online play for Co-op, Face off, Pro Face off and Battle
  Offline Co-op Career
  More downloadable content a bit pricey but worth it
  
  some people say its too hard if you 
 want to be a guitar hero and try it on expert I really advise you to take a look at gh, and gh2 
 before even considering trying to beat lou on expert it took me a little while.
  But don't be put off because it has the other 3 difficulty settings "Easy, Medium and Hard
  
 
  one more thing i would like to complain about is how hard achievements are on gh3 1,000,000 on 
 career thats just silly but other than that this is a must buy and to be honest I think rock band 
 doesn't stand a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnet0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  As it has to be said, GH3 is clearly not coming out of my 360 for at least 3 months. Even Expert 
 mode is hard enough to be fun and near impossible!
  Even my guitar playing mate thinks its awesome.
  
  They've finally put some of the best tracks 
 known to man on this game, the main ones being Number Of The Beast - IRON MAIDEN (YEARGH!) , Rock 
 You Like A Hurricane - The Scorpions, One- Metallica and of course, THE METAL by THE D!
  
  So Now For The three words we all want to hear:
  Guitar Hero Rocks.
  
  END OF DEMO
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Just when i thought it couldn't get any better, it did. I've been following Guitar Hero since my 
 brother bought the first one when it came out and now i have 2 and 3 on my 360 and all i can say 
 is these games are the ***t!!!!
  
  To begin with I love the new soundtrack sets they have with one of my favorite songs of all time, 
 Rock You Like A Hurricane by the Scorpions. Too bad its not the original, but it still sounds about 
 the same so it doesnt really bother me that much. Which brings me to my next point, I am so glad 
 they used more master tracks on this one, because i knew there were very few on 2, way to go guys, 
 awesome. Single player is that much better with a small storyline to it. The guitar battles are 
 awesome, kinda takes you off balance a little bit but all the same awesome. I love the ending song 
 battle to, fits perfectly with the storyline. Devil Went Down to Georgia. Again, wish it was the 
 master track because i know that song is not a 2007 track lol.
  
  CO-OP is good too, a whole different storyline to it so far, i haven't gotten trhough it all yet 
 but again, even more unlockable songs which just adds to the fun. 
  
  i haven't really gotten into the multiplayer side of it yet, trying o wasit foro ne of my buddies 
 to show up but thats ok, i'll give it a try if i can find a good connection game. The DLC so far 
 is awesome, i haven; t bought the tracks the cost credits but the free ones were nice, the battle 
 songs plus the latest addition of the Halo Mjolnir Mix from the Halo 2 Soundtrack, very nice.
 
  
  Overall a very awesome title and they just keep cranking up the difficulty, especially the song 
 you play through the credits, through the fire and the flames, makes jordan look easy. Keep up 
 the ass kickery!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Gutair Hero is possibly one of the most addicting games ever created, Just like Grand Theft Auto, 
 it pulls the gamer and excpreince somthing you have never felt. It has added some more fimliar 
 tracks like Helicopter by Bloc Party or Rock You Like A Hurricane by The Scorpians. I Think 360 
 got the best version of Gutair Hero 3, we got online and downloadble content from the Xbox Live 
 market place. You can play Gutair Hero with anybody else in your family, except Grandma, she might 
 (faint) ..... gasp. I've played this with my little sister and she beat me in a battle, she plays 
 while im at school. You wanna buy this game for christmas, it may the one of the best games you 
 buy for someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonsam2008
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  im posting this here because it wouldnt let me post on kane and lynch reveiw form KANE AND LYNCH 
 IS A GOOD GAME just because some r-tard got fired for a bad review dosent its the games falult 
 i mean what the hell do you people care the guy WAS a dumbass anyway who didnt review games right 
 so please i implore you stop bashing a good game for the 
  sake of a retard for gods sake he just writes a 4 page reveiw about how you shoot stuff and make 
 go boom HES A RETARD so now i give you filler text  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOWfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing Guitar Hero II religiously for 2 whole months, I picked up a copy of Guitar Hero 
 III to see if it was any better or improved what the first sequel had. While there are some great, 
 if not, better features of III, there are also a few problems.
  
  FIrst off, the graphics give off a more realistic look, as opposed to the cartoony visuals of the 
 second game. The lead singer reminds me of the Geico caveman with a puppet mouth, and Judy Nails 
 looks like a man.
  
  That is really my only beef with the game. The best part of Guitar Hero III is the online multiplayer, 
 which adds a whole new level of excitement and challenge to the game that lets you take the world 
 on in your skills. The songs in Guitar Hero III are diverse and very enjoyable, just as good as 
 the song lineup in GH2. Personally I find the difficulty a tad bit easier than in GH2, but that 
 isn't a very big problem.
  
  For being a game that lives up to the franchise and offers it's own awesome features, Guitar Hero 
 III is one of the best games of 2007, and is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaderhater99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  How this received a 8.0, I do not know, but i do know it's much better than an 8.0. This game rocks. 
 A legendary songlist, mixed with new features, such as boss battles and online play make this game 
 worth your $100. Gameplay hasn't changed much other than the easier hammer-ons and pull-offs. The 
 graphics add a nice touch with very detailed faces and movemnts that flow just right. Also the 
 new wireless les paul guitar is nicer to play, especially with less loud clicking sounds while 
 you vigoroulsy strum on Knights of Cydonia. Subtle differences like these make this game worth 
 the while and definetly a great purchase for the holiday season! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  
  You can unlock every song with a cheat code then the rest is just fun gameplay. You may notice 
 after playing a song or two that you're hallucinating your room moving in place, cabinets suddenly 
 come to life in a wavy like movement for a few minutes. While this is happening you can jam to 
 Paint it Black by The Stones without actually playing the song with controls to enhance the experience.
 
  
  Rent or Buy this game is probably a keeper.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of rock gets an 8.5 for easy gameplay, the ability to just listen to the 
 songs, and for the free mild hallucinations that come with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 really blew my mind with its soundtrack. its probably the best soundtrack in the 
 guitar hero franchise. everything is same hit the colored coated notes play through the song. the 
 fret board was updated a little bit and there are better character models. more characters to choose 
 from also like slash (lead guitarist in Guns n Roses) , lou, the grim reaper and the god of rock. there 
 is also an online multiplayer were you can play co-op, face-off, pro face-off and battle. battle 
 in is a new mode in GH3. instead of star power you get battle power which lets you use different 
 attacks to mess up and destroy your opponent this is mostly done in career when going against bosses. 
 thats basically it. oh yeah and the expert difficulty is more like insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a great improvement on what I think was an already excellent game. Having played GH2 on 
 360, I was happy with the game, but was really hanging out for the improvements in GH3.
  
  The wireless controller was at long last a fantastic feature (for 360 users!) . Even though REAL 
 guitars are wired to an amp, we are not playing a real guitar. We are playing Guitar Hero! Thanks 
 for the wireless guitar, guys. 
  
  My only criticism is the START button is always in the way while I am playing. Next time, could 
 you put it on an unused fret near the bottom of the neck?
  
  The boss battles are an interesting feature, and original songs make it all a bit more authentic.
 
  
  I don't understand the logic behind some of the achievements though. If you scroll through the 
 list, there are some that will be impossible to get. I guess the creators are sitting back laughing 
 at the inclusion of the achievements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEJAMES25
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I THINK GUITAR HERO 3 KICKS PURE SKEET. I DONT KNOW HOW YOU POLE SMOKERS ONLY GIVE IT A 8.0. DUN 
 N DUN NACKRA. dun dun dun  
 dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dun dundun dun dun 
 dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dun dun dun dun dundun dun 
 dun dundun dun dundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun 
 dundun dun dun dundun dun dun dundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_slug
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III has arrived on all the next gen consoles with a stylish new wireless guitar controller. 
 But, with the original Guitar Hero developer, Harmonix, off the scene, could Activision step up 
 and keep what made the previous games so striking?
  
  Well, the short of it would be they definitely have, and this is mainly thanks to the great tracklist 
 they've acquired whilst keeping the core gameplay the same with only a few adjustments. However, 
 some of the new modes aren't very inspiring and only seem to detract from the fun that can be had 
 when playing this finger-numbing game. There has also been an increase in the difficulty this time 
 around, and some songs on Expert mode may seem a bit too wild at times. Even though the step up 
 in difficulty could prove to turn some newcomers off spending the 70 to grab the game, many will 
 still enjoy what Guitar Hero III has to offer, along with all the previous fans of the game.
  
  The controls are obviously what make this game, so I will try and briefly explain the concept 
 of it in case you haven't come across one of these games before. With your left hand, you will 
 be pressing up to five buttons depending on the difficulty setting which represents the fret board. 
 Pushing these down won't produce a noise, but when you strum with your right hand it will then 
 play that note. Think of it has holding down the string. You will also get longer single notes 
 or chords which involve keeping the correct buttons down after you've strummed until the note has 
 played through. On the guitar controller, you also have a whammy bar which you can use on the longer 
 notes. It also includes Start and Select buttons, and a D-pad. The guitar is quite small, with 
 a detachable fret board and at some retailers it comes with a case for safer carrying too.
  
  The key update to the guitar is its use of wireless. On the 360, it just has a synchronise 
 button and the Xbox button, whereas for the PS2 and PS3 version a dongle in the controller port 
 or USB port is needed. The Wii version is probably the most interesting; with a slot for you to 
 fit the Wii remote inside of it which can be used for a very minute amount of motion control. But 
 the clunking sound when a note is missed actually comes from the Wii remote in the guitar, which 
 is a nice feature.
  
  The graphics for the on-screen fret board are perfect: it looks clean and smooth, which allows 
 seeing what notes to hit a lot easier. However, the rest of the game doesn't look so good, with 
 mediocre graphics which are hard to distinguish from last gen. This doesn't matter too much, as 
 you will really just be concentrating on the notes coming at you, but it would have still been 
 nice to have less ugly band members and more than three audience models being repeated with the 
 exact same movements.
  
  During the Career mode, the aim is to just get through the tracklist to the end, but it has a few 
 additions to spice it up. With each song, you get a score which is calculated by what notes you're 
 hitting with some bonuses, such as Star Power. Some of the notes will be star shaped and if you 
 hit the entire group of them, your Star Power will increase. You can extract even more from them 
 by using the whammy bar on the longer star notes. Once you've got enough you can keep building 
 it up to full so it will last longer, or just use it when you want to by tilting the guitar upwards.
 
  
  While you may feel cool doing this, you'll probably look a bit stupid at the same time and it doesn't 
 help that it is such a distraction it can make you lose your momentum. However, this will electrify 
 all the notes for as long as your Star Power lasts, which you can see draining from the right hand 
 side, and will double points for hitting notes while it's on.
  
  The tracklist is set up into four songs and you'll have to either complete three out of the four 
 to continue on Easy and Medium, or all four to carry on with Hard and Expert modes. Once you've 
 completed a chapter like this you will either just get the option to play an encore with a new 
 unlocked song or a Boss Battle followed by an encore if you beat them.
  
  You probably won't really enjoy these Boss Battles. Whilst you may recognise the few people you 
 compete against in them, like Slash or Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine, there isn't actually 
 anything that fun added to them and is frustrating at times.
  
  The idea is that you are playing against them at different times or simultaneously and instead 
 of picking up Star Power, you get Battle Power. This gives you certain abilities, like snapping 
 the other person's guitar string, increasing the difficulty of their piece or doubling the notes. 
 Basically things that will make you mess up, but don't get too cocky because they can use them 
 on you too and unless they have one of these Battle Powers on them they won't miss a note. You 
 will have to make them screw up so badly that their rock-meter goes to zero and you win, and you 
 must do this before the song ends. If you keep failing on this, you do have the option to skip 
 eventually however. They have also added some animations for a bit of story but these don't really 
 do anything good or bad to the overall game experience.
  
  You will also receive cash for each song you play which can be spent on a variety of unlockables, 
 such as new characters, guitars and songs. Overall, the tracklist has a whopping 71 playable songs 
 as long as you unlock them all; which brings me on to playing with a friend.
  
  You will have to play through the Co-op career to unlock the songs which is a bit of an annoyance, 
 as Guitar Hero is one of the best party game franchises and should include a Co-op quick play so 
 you can jump right into any song with friends.
  
  Luckily, the 360 version includes a patch from release to obtain the mode via Xbox Live, whereas 
 the other platforms have yet to be announced on when they will get this free added feature. Either 
 way you play it, once on Co-op one person will be playing the Lead guitar and the other will generally 
 be the Bass or Rhythm guitar; depending on which song you select. This is probably where the most 
 fun is had if you are playing with friends as your score, note streak and star power are all shared.
 
  
  I only noticed one complication with this when playing it: you both have to activate Star Power 
 at almost the exact same time for it to turn on. This can be awkward as one person could be playing 
 absolutely different notes to the other and it might take a while to find an appropriate spot for 
 both of you to lift up your guitar like axe-wielding maniacs.
  
  If you really want a challenge though, you can compete head to head with your mates or online (excluding 
 the PS2 version) with either Battle Mode, which is the multiplayer version of the Boss Battles, 
 or simply up against each other on the same song to see who gets more points. It's important to 
 state on any multiplayer game you can select different difficulties, which is a much needed feature 
 seeing as you may be playing with less or more experienced players. The harder the song though, 
 the more notes there are so that means all the more possible points there are to get.
  
  So take what I said, wrap it up in some quite blatant advertising, and this is what the latest 
 installment of Guitar Hero is. And considering it seems to have quite a few things hindering it, 
 it is a relief that it never stops being immensely addictive fun. There will also be, no doubt, 
 a wealth of content to be downloaded online in the coming months, and with two expansion packs 
 already announced, this will surely last you well into next year.
  
  See more of my reviews at www. sector7arcade. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game definitely has the easiest song out of all the games. It is still very fun. (I DID give 
 it a 9.5) The online play will keep you playing for months longer. the new battle mode is fun, 
 but only if both competitors play on the same difficulty. If you have a friend over who plays Guitar 
 Hero, be sure to finish the new Co-op career. In that mode, you go through 6 sets (compared to 
 8 in single player) just like you would by yourself. There are 6 songs that you can ONLY unlock 
 by playing through co-op career, so you will definitely want to play it.
  
  All-in-all, it's another very fun addition to the Guitar Hero franchise. I have no idea what they 
 would put into Guitar Hero 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filip_sj92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I never played guitar, I never thought about buying this game. I love rap, i listen to hip-hop 
 R&B, I HATED metal and rock and all that kind of music. I'm not a hardcore gamer I prefer chillin 
 outside and all. I was into Halo 3. I played it enough, I wanted to het the achievements and all. 
 So, there's this random day my dad calls me and says he buys me guitar hero 3 (at it launch) probably 
 to get me out of all theses FPS games I play. So like you know, I heard of Guitar Hero, I know 
 it's a good game and all but I would never guessed it would get me so addicted to it. I started 
 playing, it was ok, i finished campaign on easy I didn't find the songs that good, I didn't have 
 that thing in me that just made me love playing a song. So I've restarted it at medium. That's 
 when I started just LOVE these great rock songs, Welcome to the Jungle, Lay Down, Dragonforce. 
 So like I start REALLY enjoying it . So after that i start it on hard and expert, i find it impossible 
 to do (i never touched a guitar before and i had the game for 1 week about) so NOW, everytime I 
 start a song there's this thing inside of me that just started liking all of a sudden rock. I got 
 pretty good i guess now, I get 5 star on almost all songs on hard and finish almost all songs on 
 expert so.. still got a lot of things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cult_of_Cthulhu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  OK that said and having never held a little plasticy guitar before I have to say the game sure 
 lives up to the hype! The song selection is awesome, theres plenty for everyones taste. Not too 
 much rock, not too much metal, not too much flash in the pan bands.
  
  The games learning curve as a new player is great. Whilst I know most of you will be shredding 
 on expert through the fire and flames. Myself and now my wife are enjoying the easy to medium levels 
 and are finding them very instructional as we learn how the game works. I have tried expert but 
 i can't get my pinky finger to do anything so frets blue and orange are rarely struck correctly.
 
  
  And the next good thing is that my wife loves the game, admittedly when shes on guitar I'm on the 
 normal controller but I saw there was an achievement to unlock from that anyway so I'm not too 
 unhappy there. Rarely is there a game that my wife likes to pick up and play against me except 
 mario carts, damn shes good at that. But guitar heros accessible format and her ability to play 
 on a different difficulty level made the difference.
  
  Anyway back to the game. The controller is well built and looks like it can take a lot of punishment. 
 Whilst most gamers probably don't care the inclusion of the stickers was a nice touch as it helped 
 get my wife on board from the very beginning, decorating my controller. 
  
  I have heard it isn't breaking any new ground for the franchise but given the uptake I would say 
 that it has just tapped into a whole demographic.
  
  I must take a moment to applaud microsoft too, whilst I am a dyed in the wool Sony fan the xbox 
 live system of friends just works, and some of my friends who have seen me playing GHIII have gone 
 off to buy a copy just so we can play against each other. Sadly the same system now sees all my 
 friends playing rock band taunting me to go buy another rhythm game when it comes out in Australia!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  REVIEW
  
  gameplay
  
  amazing as always from the guitar hero games it never get tiring rocking half the night with mates 
 and it just keep getting better online when you see if your really that good and take on the planet 
 at the game.
  
  graphics
  fantastic looking visuals and really nice atmosphere its perfect for a music game.
  
  replay 
 value
  tons of it honestly people this is one of the most addicive game i hae ever played you just dont 
 get tired of trying new songs or playing against friends.
  
  verdict
  fantastic effort not to be missed but be warned the medium onwards modes aint easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abby88
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Pretty much everyone knows what Guitar Hero is by now. If you don't... well, it's a game where you 
 rock out to great music by pushing buttons on a plastic guitar. It's also probably one of the most 
 fun and addictive games ever. Seriously. Although if you've never played GH before and are just 
 now looking to get into it, I would have to hesitate to recommend starting with GH3, unless you're 
 already pretty good at rhythm games.
  
  Why? The difficulty level. GH3 is definitely the hardest GH game yet -- and that's both a good thing 
 and a bad thing. Playing on Medium feels like Hard without the orange button. Playing on Hard feels 
 like Expert, and playing on Expert is just insane. Now, for hardcore players that have already 
 beaten everything in their earlier GH games, the new challenge is great. For newcomers and casual 
 players, it can easily be intimidating.
  
  Also, particularly when playing on Expert, it seems they charted some songs the way they did purely 
 to make it challenging, even if it wasn't very accurate to the source material. There's three-note 
 chords that should only be two, extra notes thrown in occasionally, etc.
  
  On the other hand, they increased the timing window by a huge amount. For those of you who aren't 
 huge GH nerds, that means the amount of time in which you have to hit a note is a lot bigger. You 
 don't have to be as accurate with your timing as you do in the earlier GH games. Some of the note 
 charts would probably be impossible if it wasn't for this change.
  
  The hammer-on and pull-off system was also revamped, although there's nowhere near as huge a difference 
 as there was between GH1 and GH2. In GH2, HOPOs were placed automatically; in GH3, the programmers 
 chose where they were placed. In practice, what this means is that you'll find random strums thrown 
 into the middle of notes that you'd swear you should be able to hammer-on/pull-off. It's a tad 
 annoying.
  
  Other than that, the only real addition to GH3 is the new Battle Mode. It can actually be pretty 
 fun, but when you're going back and forth with power-ups it does begin to feel less like you're 
 playing guitar and more like you're playing a video game. Which of course you ARE, but part of 
 the greatness of Guitar Hero has always been that it can, at times, make you completely forget 
 that.
  
  But enough nit-picking. There are things they could have done better, but none of it really detracts 
 from the experience that much. Not to mention that, in my opinion, GH3 has by far the best musical 
 selection out of any GH game thus far. GH2 was pretty much perfect as far as the gameplay went, 
 and GH3 has been changed in minor ways so as to not be quite so perfect -- but it's still a damn 
 good game, and if you enjoy Guitar Hero games (or rhythm games in general) at all you owe it to 
 yourself to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielDead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This is my first guitar hero I've had the priveledge of playing, and wow, if I only knew what I've 
 been missing out on. I suppose I am guilty of originally holding the (completely rediculous) view 
 that "if you want to play guitar, then just play a real guitar." For those of you that hold this 
 view, trust me, it's not the same in any way, and should not be compared to real guitar playing. 
 
  This game has the unique ability of being immediately gratifying without getting boring quickly. 
 When you first start on easy and medium, it feels like you are accomplishing so much as you finish 
 songs, and it gives an immense feeling of competence. Once you move up to hard and expert, that 
 feeling doesn't diminish in any way. It's amazing how drastically you can see yourself improve 
 over time too. I also reach a song I can't beat, then I'll go play some other easier songs for 
 a day or two then come back to the one I couldn't beat and pass it with flying colors. It's very 
 addicting and fun.
  Yeah that's my review, go play guitar hero! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galon_Avery
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  this game is imba ima get lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol 
 lolololololololol lolololololololol lolololololololol lololololololololv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero III is the best guitar hero game by far. It has a great variety of songs. The songs 
 that are in it are rock and roll all nite, even flow, through the fire and flames, when you were 
 young, one, the number of the beast, cult of personality, knights of cydonia, suck my kiss, paint 
 it, black, slow ride, avalanche, the seeker, lay down, and you can download the boss battle track 
 packs to play the songs that are in the game without playing the boss. You can also download for 
 all of you halo fans the theme song. 
  
  During the career mode, you play against bosses. These are called boss battles. You go against 
 Tom Morrello, Slash, and Lou the devil. After you defeat these three guys you can buy them at the 
 store for 10,000-15,000. 
  
  Another cool feature that was not in the GHII version was that you could not earn money, and now 
 you can. you dont earn much, 300 for 5*, 150 for 4*, and i think 75 for 3*. I never got a three 
 star on a song on easy, just on medium a couple of times.
  
  There are a variety of guitars that you can buy. They can range from $200-$2000. There is also 
 a variety of guitar skins, outfits, and styles. These make the characters look so cool. You can 
 also purchase other characters like Grim Ripper, Guitar God. 
  
  In all, this is a very good, strong game that can be really fun to play over and over again. I 
 have beat the easy and medium tour twice. The easy and medium tour on co-op. I am working on beating 
 the game on hard and expert and i am on the sixth tier of hard, and 2 songs into it on expert. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destruktive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  When I got my 360 a friend told me about this Guitar Hero thing..
  Of course, being a guitar player, I was intrigued but when I heard that you were playing a plastic 
 guitar I though it had to be crap.
  Boy, was I wrong? 
  
  Yes, I've spend countless hours on Guitar Hero 2 and for me it's one of those classic games that 
 I will remember on my deathbed. 
  "Bring me a plastic guitar" I would say before going into the big sleep.
  
  Of course, when 
 the next chapter in the Guitar Hero series was about to be written, you get concerned.
  Not only is a new game, it's developed by completely someone else.
  
  Luckily for us, Neversoft 
 did a great job. I'm not a big fan of Tony hawk but boy, they did all right by me.
  
  Graphics are, of course, much better. They have better and smoother motion and the mo-cap is really 
 doing it's thing.
  Overall I think this series of games has finally gotten up to the standards of normal games when 
 it comes to the graphics. 
  Rock Band still got that cartoonish large round head thing going on.
  
  I feel great playing 
 this game.
  They opened the hit-window by just a tiny bit and that is great for me. I was very worried when 
 I saw all those chord shifts, but thanks to the hit-window I don't have much problems with it.
 
  
  Online is pretty much what I thought it would be.
  It's fun to play co-op online or kick someones ass in pro-faceoff on Through the fire and flames 
 but it has issues.
  
  I was hoping for a good Guitar Hero game and neversoft didn't disappoint me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halloweeniegirl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing Guitar Hero II on 360 and absolutely loved it, I still have yet to beat it 
 on hard. Which kills me because I know that 8 year old little Timmy out there can play with his 
 eyes shut on expert.
  I rented GHIII because I didn't wanna fork out the dough for it just yet. I was really surprised 
 at how many actual artists contributed to this game which I found enhanced the game play for me. 
 The set list was terrific and I thought was very inclusive of all genres. The boss battle gave 
 it a little more of a challenge and it took me a couple of times to actually figure out what I 
 was doing. Sure it says Whammy but what does that mean, obviously I figured it out. The more forgiving 
 note timing I thought was very helpful, however, when I went back to play GHII I found that I had 
 grown used to it and had to adjust a couple of times, so while it was helpful I think that they 
 should have kept it more accurate with less cushion. I understand it was to allow for more complicated 
 riffs but if you had already played the previous games like little Timmy you would want the challenge 
 and if not there is always easy.
  Other than that the unlockables I thought were a little lacking, in some sections. The new guitar 
 additions were great but the guitar designs left much to be desired. As well as the limited outfit/style 
 selection, maybe I have just been spoiled with Tony Hawk's nearly unending supply of clothing available 
 to my character.
  Overall I thought this game was great, I was able to play Ruby by the Kaiser Chiefs and Miss Murder 
 by AFI. Then again if I could just learn to play guitar I'd probably be able to do that whenever 
 I want but I am a gamer so there you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Just a brief review.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is a fairly by the books sequel in most respects.
  It's Guitar Hero 2. But more! And more Guitar Hero is never a bad thing.
  
  To talk about the 
 new stuff a bit, I guess most obvious new mode would be the Battlemode, which throws in Mario Kartesque 
 power ups into the standard Guitar Hero game. It's not as great as it sounds.
  Winning generally comes down to whoever pulls off the power-ups first, or whoever gets the better 
 power up cause some of them aren't as useful as others. Fortunately, if like me you don't care 
 for this mode you'll only have to play through it 3 times in the career mode and then you can forget 
 it.
  
  New set list, of course. And most of the songs are pretty good.
  
  I play medium, cause that damn orange fret just kills me.
  But I still noticed an increase in 
 difficulty from GH2 to 3.
  Which is actually a good thing. It feels faster and more like I'm actually playing the song then 
 it did before, which only REALLY becomes apparent after you play GH3 awhile and then go back to 
 GH2.
  It feels PAINFULLY slow in comparison to 3.
  I guess you'll either welcome the added difficulty or loathe it, but it's a welcome change for 
 me, who wants it to be harder but can't master that damn orange fret
  
  Also added is a co-op career mode, which in my oppinion is probably better than the single player 
 career if only because you don't have to play the damned battlemode, but really the game is a lot 
 more fun with a friend.
  And if you don't have friends you can play online now, which is another added bonus.
  
  Winding 
 up, if you like Guitar Hero you'll want to pick this up and you'll have a blast with it. If you 
 didn't like any before it a tacked on battle mode and a jump in difficulty probably won't change 
 your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deft2121
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The guitar hero franchise is always fun to play, no matter what age group. The 3rd set in the franchise 
 has some major plusses, but also contains it's drawbacks. 
  
  First I want to start off with the new Les Paul guitar, I love the new guitar it's great, the buttons 
 are perfect, but I do have one gripe, the neck slot is loose and sometimes when your playing it 
 will come out and mess up your notes. This is a little frustrating but you learn to get over it. 
 It's a great addition to the game and the design is nice.
  
  The songs in the game are phenomenal the majority of the songs are master tracks which is always 
 a plus.
  
  I do have one bone to pick with neversoft though, some of the note charts are a little bit ridiculous, 
 I play on expert so some of the note charts are way more difficult than they should be, but it's 
 always fun to have a challenge. 
  
  The presentation is much better than the previous games, the Rock Meter and other accessories look 
 wonderful.
  
  Overall, it's a guitar hero game, if your not familiar with the series I would definitely suggest 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is simply better than the others. The song list is long and features many great songs 
 to play. The graphics have had a major facelift and little things like the in-gmae singer actually 
 mouthing the words to songs is just cool. The game features a more intricate career mode which 
 features something of a story filled with 3 Boss Battles. The boss battles are guitar duels against 
 the games 3 bosses: guitarists Tom Morello and Slash and the final boss, Lucifer, or "Lou". The 
 battle scheme is playing a solo piece with the boss and using attacks like making the opponent's 
 string break, or make them use the whammy bar to be able to play again add a fun yet very challenging 
 aspect to the game. There other attacks like double the amount of notes, increase the difficulty 
 and more. The biggest addition to the game is a much better and more fun multiplayer. There's still 
 Career Co-op and Face-Off and Pro Face-Off but now there are the Battle and Online modes. The battles 
 that you played in Career, you can do again with a friend. The Online play is great. You can play 
 one of the multiplayer modes with someone on Xbox Live or on the PSN and prove your mastery of 
 Guitar Hero.
  With the next-gen consoles, players get the Les Paul guitar controller. This controller is solid 
 and features an enhanced strum bar, better buttons, and removable faceplates and a removable neck 
 for easy storage. This guitar actually makes you feel like you're playing a real Les Paul. With 
 Xbox 360, players can get some really fun achievements that really enchance the gameplay and force 
 the players to play the game excessively. Also, with online compabilities, Downloadable Songs are 
 available. 
  The game also featues some faults. First thing that players will notice is that the syncopation 
 between the notes coming on screen the time that you play them has changed. Players will have to 
 hit the notes a little early to play them. Also, the difficulty has been revamped abit. Medium 
 is now about twice as hard as Medium in the earlier games. Also, the game's hardest song, speed/power 
 metal band Dragonforce's "Through the Fire and the Flames" is so ridiculously difficult that only 
 kids and teens with absolutely no life can only even hope to achieve it on Expert. 
  All in all, the game is solid, fun and just great. It's a must buy for GH veterans and also for 
 people who want to get into the series. But honestly, kids, just buy a real guitar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Unlike the others of this series this guitar hero lets you activate starpower much easier. Also 
 hammerons and pull-offs are very easy to do. Plus with the great soundtrack a lot of which are 
 mastertracks this makes the game fun to listen to as well as fun to play. When you play this you 
 get so involved that you lose track of time. Although that sounds like a bad thing it really is 
 not it is just really fun to play. Well anyways the graphics on this are also much better than 
 in the other games. Plus there is a new game mode called battle mode, and there actually is a storyline 
 although it really does not make very much sense. So basically I have nothing bad to say about 
 this game and only good things. My last words would be get this game since it is such a great addition 
 to the guitar hero series. Plus the 360 version if you have xbox live has a ton of dlc. So please 
 if you want one guitar hero game and you don't know which one to get then get this one it is the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Better then Guitar Hero 2 and thats about it.
  
  Sound: Best set list of songs so far in the Guitar Hero franchise. Also there is less noise when 
 you miss or hit a wrong note.
  
  Gameplay: The same Guitar Hero but the hammer ons are easier to hit. There was also a adition of 
 battles to the game which is something new but not the greatest part of the game by any means.
 
  
  Value: Guitar Hero 3 has more downloadable content then any other Guitar Hero before. Since the 
 set list is already so good it will challenge players and keep them playing Guitar Hero 3 for the 
 weeks to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOHN_ZURO
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  the games prety fun and has some good songs you can play some of them are al little ridiculous, 
 and are pretty hard The boss batles are kinnda dissapointing . this is probably the best game in 
 the gh series and some of the songs take hard to a new level . The storyline is kinda cool but 
 im not really a fan of them (there kinda a pain when your just tryin to get in there and play the 
 song. all in all GH 3 is a great game that anyone could apriciate... so i guess you could say GH 
 3 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reject09
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Concept- the third game in a series of rhythm games where you must hold down the corresponding 
 note and strum the strum bar when each note passes by. 
  
  Graphics- great looking, nothing cutting edge but very much improved over past games
  
  Sound- 
 amazing sound, over 70 songs, over half of which are original recordings, the best set list ever 
 in guitar hero
  
  Gameplay- smooth, semiforgiving controls make the game very enjoyable for players of all levels, 
 easier star power activation is a welcome addition, pretty much the same controls as in past guitar 
 hero's, easily the best game in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely mind blowing. Rock and Roll All Nite, party every day and never stop jamming. 
 Songs like Knights of Cydonia, Cliffs of Dover, and, like i said in my heading DRAGONFORCES THROUGH 
 FIRE AND FLAMES BABY!!!!! Sorry, i just had to get that out. To me, DrgonForce is reason enough 
 reason to by this game (since they fail to feature it in Rock Band even though both guitarists 
 are crazy, their drummer is insane and their singer actually sings, but whatever) It is so much 
 fun just rocking these songs, and I personally have not put the guitar down since I got it. Also, 
 the co-op carreer is a ton of fun, if you have a guitar and a brother that likes to play bass (like 
 me) If you don't read anything else from this review, at least read this- THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY- 
 so buy it now if you don't have it.
  
  Only two complaints- How the heck can you call a game legends of rock and not have a single ACDC 
 song or Led Zepplin song? I mean, i understand Led Zepplin gives their songs to noone, but ACDC 
 gives everyone their songs! I mean, they're songs are in practically every movie! Also, I wish 
 they had more than two legends in the game, like Herman Lee, Jimmie Page, or Angus Young, but Slash 
 is like three himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeninja
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Guitar Hero for almost 2 years and I've gotten rather used to, and good at it. 
 I was completely hyped about the game and I wasn't let down. But I jumped into Expert and just 
 noticed how much tougher it is than Guitar Hero 2, Hard is the new Expert, the entire 8th tier 
 in Hard belongs in Expert, its hard, but its also really fun. Easy and the Medium difficulties 
 are just a tad more difficult than they were before but it can still train newcomers. Its just 
 the gap between Medium and Hard which can turn people away. The song list is the best yet with 
 some of my favorite songs like Paint it Black, Welcome To The Jungle, Cult of Personality, and 
 One, thats right, Metallica, OH YEAH. The newest addition to Guitar Hero is battle mode, a lot 
 like Puzzle Fighter but not executed as well. Battle mode is only good with the boss battles in 
 single player against guitarists Slash, (Guns N' Roses, Velvet Revolver) Tom Morello (Rage Against 
 The Machine, Killswitch Engage) , and The Devil (Hell) . But online, which is the best addition to 
 the game, battle mode goes down, matches might take a little long to get into since they get filled 
 up fast, but battle mode can last like 20 seconds online, THATS IT. So overall, I think this is 
 the best one yet because it takes whats fun in the Guitar Hero series and builds on it. I don't 
 get whats the big deal with advertisements in games, they get in the way sometimes but they don't 
 do anything wrong in this game, they just make it a little funny with the Axe (the spray) guitar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuRRaY-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Over a year in the making, one of the most innovative gaming series has stepped it up a notch for 
 the next generation consoles of our time, and it fails to disappoint. Although having its quirks 
 and occasional problems, this game is still high quality and holds the values for one of the best 
 sequel's for any series so far.
  
  In order to truly understand the complexity of this game, we took an XBox 360 veteran (MuRRaY) 
 and a professional guitarist from NY local band Zero Frequency (Lou) . Don't get this Lou mixed 
 up with the final boss of Guitar Hero III (Lou the Devil) as they are totally different people. 
 Having over 13 years experience of playing and being the lead vocalist of a band that has garnered 
 attention by rock icons like Chris Cornell, you know you have talent in the music business. Destroying 
 him in Guitar Hero is rather fun considering his anger, but playing the actual guitar is no joke 
 to him. He schools me to say the least.
  
  Okay now, enough of this mumbo jumbo, let's jump into the flesh of the game by figuring out what 
 works and what doesn't.
  
  Being quite a Guitar Hero junkie, I anticipated this game's release for some time. Playing out 
 Guitar Hero II a bit, I wasn't the best at the game but I loved it. Spending days sitting there 
 and trying to five star all of the expert songs would take it's toll on me as I came into Guitar 
 Hero III with no stamina left and callouses from playing too much (INSERT DRAMA) . I was able to 
 get some sleep just before getting the game, so I was not totally in a daze as I played the game, 
 making it possible to pay attention to all of the songs.
  Layout
  
  Jumping headfirst into the Expert career, I found myself with my trusty Guitar Hero II controller 
 (which had signs of wear on it) ready to take on the world! The first song I chose was none other 
 than "Slow Ride" by Foghat. Nostalgic to the max, the first thing I noticed was the very, very 
 short loading times. From selecting my song, it took at MOST two seconds to be in the middle of 
 the solo. The familiar scene of a punk rock crowd can be seen as my traditional character Lars 
 mlat took the reigns of his Les Paul classic. New fretboard designs are one of the new features 
 along with a grittier looking score meter and a new design for the star power meter. As you gain 
 star power, the lightbulbs above the rock meter illuminate brighter and brighter. Another small 
 thing that may catch people's eyes would be the fact that the song title now includes the recording 
 date at the beginning of every song.
  
  Obviously being Guitar Hero, the graphics are not what really matters, what about sound?!
  
 
  [ [ -- SOUND -- ] ]
  
  If we are really worried about how the sound itself comes along, RedOctane knows what they are 
 doing as they have optimized every track to sound great on Guitar Hero III. Later in the career 
 I was able to jump into "One" by Metallica. Being an original recording, the introduction filled 
 with gunfighting and the sounds of war filled the speakers as I waited for the opening riff. Just 
 as crisp as the original version, "One" did not disappoint much like other songs. The syncing to 
 master tracks is rather spot on, as you can tell a lot of time was put into matching the tone of 
 each song perfectly with the guitar hero "tab". The only thing I can really complain about is the 
 fact that the sound effects can sometimes drown out parts of an amazing solo or riff. Turning down 
 sound effects would be your best bet if you want to hear the songs as they are. For "One" in co-op, 
 a friend and I turned down all sound except for the music track, then rocking out and enjoying 
 every bit of the song.
  
  Did you say there's a new guitar? Let's check everything else out!
  
  [ [ -- CONTROLLER -- ] ]
 
  
  When it comes down the the new wireless guitar that comes with the full package of the game, it 
 will seem a bit odd to veterans of Guitar Hero. The frame seems a bit bulkier and heavier now with 
 the battery pack, and the buttons seem more resilient and stiffer to touch. Requiring some breaking 
 in, I would suggest sticking to your Guitar Hero II guitar if you have one as it would probably 
 be worked in already. Like a baseball glove, only not as much leather involved. The buttons may 
 seem odd at first but any player will be able to get used to them as they progress through songs. 
 Nothing too bad that will hinder your ability to play. Not feeling like a real Les Paul by a long 
 shot, Lou proceeded to throw the wireless guitar out the window and pick up his Les Paul Sunburst 
 and jam for me, even though all I really wanted to do was play Guitar Hero III.
  
  The choice of songs seem rather strong for a Guitar Hero game. Featuring some classic tracks as 
 "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N Roses, "One" by Metallica, "Paint It Black" by The Rolling Stones 
 and "Paranoid" by Black Sabbath to just name a few. The newer punk rock/emo scene is alive and 
 well in Guitar Hero III with tracks from AFI, The Killers, The Strokes, and Matchbook Romance being 
 included in the game. Upon the publishing of this piece, two downloadable track packs are available 
 which include Velvet Revolver tracks "Slither", "She Builds Quick Machines" and "Messages" in one 
 pack. The other pack has three tracks by Foo Fighters which are "The Pretender" from the new album 
 "Echoes Silence Patience & Grace", "All My Life" and "This Is A Call". One of the goals of RedOctane 
 is to provide us with some brand new music whenever possible and as of now they are doing a fantastic 
 job. Although Lou enjoyed the Pearl Jam classic "Even Flow" and Rage Against The Machine, the only 
 reason why was because he wanted to play the tracks himself in the studio. Okay nub.
  
  [ [ -- MULTIPLAYER -- ] ]
  
  What is Guitar Hero without multi player? Well, this is alive and 
 well in Guitar Hero III as our favorite modes of Pro Face-Off, Face-Off and Co-Op are still available 
 along with a new mode called Battle. In battle, star power is replaced by power-ups in a 1v1 Face-Off. 
 Upon gaining a power-up, you tilt your guitar for star power to attack the other player. Power-ups 
 range from Amp Overload (notes are harder to hit) , Double Notes (self explanatory) , Difficulty 
 Up (self explanatory) , Steal Power-up (self explanatory) , Broken String (one of your buttons are 
 broken until pressed repeatedly to fix) , Broken Whammy Bar ( pump whammy bar to fix) and my favorite, 
 Lefty Flip/Righty Flip (depending on side, flips notes around during song) . The lefty flip is what 
 caused me to crash and burn at Digital Life 2007 on stage, and I felt the pain. Obviously the player 
 whom causes the other to fail is the winner. Fun? I would have to say the best game mode is Co-Op, 
 in which you and a friend either online on XBox Live or in person are playing together for a high 
 score. This game is totally addictive as anybody can find a difficulty to play at and actually 
 enjoy themselves! A must have for college dormers and party maniacs in my book.
  
  Some problems are abound in this game in both the graphical and technical departments. As hitting 
 star power at some moments may cause the frame rate to nearly halve itself as you can see the game 
 stutter for a few seconds. Very odd although it's not necessarily destructive as any cautious Guitar 
 Hero player will play around that. Another problem is random lock-ups prior to random songs beginning. 
 Only having to restart my system three times in three weeks, it seems okay for now but still could 
 have been fixed up before the game was released. Another problem stated by Lou was the fact that 
 he could not beat a song on expert, which is obviously something with himself and not the game.
 
  
  Obviously there are differing ideas between the Guitar Hero player and the guitarist, however Guitar 
 Hero III is still a very strong purchase for either a fan of the series or just a newcomer. I've 
 been able to get about eight people to purchase this game whom have no experience with playing 
 a guitar and have never played the game before, so obviously the game is a hit to anyone. Now go 
 grab Slash and let's get rockin'! Still waiting for that challenge with RobertJ15 by the way!
 
  
  * Gameplay 5.0
  * Multiplayer 5.0
  * Sound 5.0
  * Graphics 4.0
  * Value 4.5
  
  * Overall 4.5
  
  
  Check out the full review @ http://dpad. gotfrag. com/xbox360/story/40715/ 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I should have reviewed this earlier but I can't stop playing this awesome game. There feels like 
 something about the gameplay is different than the others maybe the graphics or the switch of develpores. 
 The games graphics did change the game for the better and the songlist is better than any of the 
 others in my opinion. I played the game through Hard and it was easy until the final set of songs 
 which were insane. I do wish that you can play The Devil Went Down To Gerogia with someone or by 
 myself withought plaing it in a Carrer mode battle. Also, some of the notes coming at you are'nt 
 even supposed to be there, there is no music and you playing a ton of notes. The battles in my 
 own opinon are fun in Carrer mode but agaisnt someone else it just doesen't work, mostly because 
 they're regular songs and not special take turn sort of guitar solos like in Carrer mode. The game 
 rocks and your first time through you really want to finsh the game to unlock more and more songs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic1015
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is 1 of the best guitar hero gamesit deserves a 9.0 and it should be number 3 top rank 
 in 360 games =) but its not all that great for kids i think its too hype but it deffinatally deserves 
 9..0 also i never thoguht guitar hero 3 would be sold out in EVERY STORE! luckly i got it safe 
 ans sound too me couplle hours to beat Rock band is better then this game allthough guiater hero 
 is a good game cause u can downlaod songs of market pace like the halo 3 theme song =) if this 
 game hade xbox live game pla it might of been better . rock band isgood becuase u can have drums 
 and sing but guitar hero can't i am really sad becuase of that i didn't have enough money to get 
 rock band so i bough guitar hero 2 and 3 and they where AWesome games! my friends thought it was 
 a stuipid game but i give it a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the third game in the GH franchise, but the first to be developed not by Harmonix, 
 but by famed Tony Hawk developers, Neversoft.
  
  The new Les Paul guitar controller (8.0) :
  
  The new controller the comes in the GH3 bundles 
 takes some getting used to for those who have become accustomed to the Xplorer that shipped with 
 GH2. The buttons on the Les Paul are further apart and this can cause hand cramps in the early 
 stages, but it works much better once you're used to the button placement. The controller also 
 feels much more solid. Its larger in size and heavier in weight which makes playing the game feel 
 less like a toy. You can also remove the neck in order to transport it more easily if taking it 
 over to a friend's house.
  
  Gameplay (7.5) :
  
  The core gameplay and career mode in GH3 are pretty much the same as GH2, aside from the new song 
 list. The new addition of boss battles with famous guitarists (like Tom Morello and Slash) are 
 the only real difference. These tend to get in the way of the real fun and can be pretty infuriating 
 on the harder difficulties. They really come close to spoiling the career mode.
  
  Co-op career is a great addition for the series that really encourages multiplayer. There is also 
 the new online multiplayer, in which you can play the offline modes over Live, well except for 
 co-op career, which you'll need a friend and another guitar to play. The online matches function 
 superbly well with no lag whatsoever, which is hugely important in a rhythm game of this nature.
 
  
  Compared to GH2 this new game is much, much harder. Hard mode is often as testing as expert was 
 in GH2 which is totally unecessary and extremely annoying. If this is your first GH game you're 
 probably going to have a hard time coping with this difficulty jump. Its definitely more geared 
 towards seasoned GH players.
  
  Graphics (7.0) :
  
  GH is never going to blow anyone away with graphics. Although this version is certainly an improvement. 
 The interface gives much more statistical detail than in previous versions, while still remaining 
 very clean. Crowds look much better in GH3, as does the band. However, the faces still look very 
 strange and the singer looks particularly odd.
  
  For some reason though GH3 suffers from framerate dips on occassion (especially when activating 
 Star Power) . This is inexcusable for a rhythm game.
  
  Sound (9.0) :
  
  The track list in GH3 is simply phenomenal. Just some of the bands involved include; The Sex Pistols, 
 The Who, Guns N' Roses, The Rolling Stones and Metallica. Most of the songs used are also original 
 master recordings which makes the game experience all the more enjoyable. In short, its the best 
 music the series has had so far.
  
  Overall (8.0) :
  
  GH3 gives you a fantastic experience if you're a veteran of the series with some of the songs you've 
 been dreaming you'd get to play and the opportunity to play your friends over Live. On the other 
 hand, first time players of the series will find the game very frustrating at times and the boss 
 battles have a negative effect rather than being a positive addition.
  
  If you just want more GH then this game does exactly what it says on the tin, but I would recommend 
 that for those just starting with the series, they get GH2 instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I remember GH1 where I couldn't hit green fret to blue fret and now for wasting so many hours playing 
 GH2 and gradually getting better now finally with GH3 out I can't stop playing.. I bought 2 others 
 games and I've barely played them because I would always get this feeling where I must play a song 
 or go online and whoop someone in my favorite songs ;D. It took a while to get the hang of the 
 first time I picked up the plastic guitar but turns out this game is highly addictive when you 
 start hitting the long riffs and doing a piece of the song you couldn't do before.. I got some 
 friends hooked on it and even my parents lol try to play easy once and a while.. Fun for everyone 
 and it lets you listen to new songs you have heard of before and some you might actually like... 
 So I really recommend this game to kids and adults. ! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_Man_III
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 was and still is my favourite game for the 360 and GH3 isnt too far behind, but it 
 could have been so much more.
  
  I'll start with the soundtrack because after all this is a music game. And to be honest I dont 
 think its anywhere near the quality of GH2's soundtrack. I used to love playing songs like Message 
 In A Bottle, The Trooper and Misirlou, they were great songs and really good to play as well. But 
 this time around there are far too many punk rock songs with rather forgettable guitar riffs/solos. 
 And for a game called Legends Of Rock why are there bands like Weezer and The Smashing Pumpkins. 
 I mean I could think of 100 better bands than that off the top of my head. However its not all 
 bad. Once you get further on in the game the songs do pick up with the likes of Disturbed, Muse, 
 Metallica, Iron Maiden and Slayer all making an appearance. And of course there are a few unexpected 
 gems that the makers have picked out. Sunshine of your love by Cream and Paint it Black by The 
 Rolling Stones are two exceptionally good songs, but not necessarily obvious choice for a game 
 called Guitar Hero.
  
  I was also quite concerned also when I heard this GH was going to be a lot harder than the last 
 one as I didnt quite finish the expert tour on GH2 (46 out of 48 songs to be precise) , but to be 
 honest I didnt start to notice any sharp increase in difficulty until the 7th set of songs which 
 is when things really start to become difficult and to be honest quite impossible for anyone other 
 than GH gods, but overall i've got no real complaints about the difficulty.
  
  The graphics have also been given a much needed improvement from GH2, the singer actually sings 
 the words and has charisma now, despite the fact he looks like a pre-historic caveman. And just 
 a quick mention for the frame rate, which in general is very good, but on the odd occasion the 
 game has stuttered slightly which is not great considering this is a rythym game.
  
  And unlike many people I actually quite like the new battle mode. I think it could have been done 
 with a bit more thought and consideration, especially in career mode where it only comes about 
 3 times against Tom Morello (Guitar Legend, Yeah Right) , Slash and the Devil. It does add variety 
 but the difficulty is too extreme one way or another. On medium it was far too easy and often the 
 problem was getting them to fail as there just simply arent enough notes to hit, hard and expert 
 was a nice balance until the last boss which is quite difficult on hard and I dont even want to 
 think about what its like on expert.
  
  Multiplayer is as strong as ever, but I dont like the fact that 6 or so songs are only available 
 through co-op career asif you've got no one to play along with how are you meant to unlock these 
 songs. I havent as yet been on Xbox Live with it, but from what i've heard it is quite good, as 
 long as you can find someone to play with.
  
  So overall this is definetly a must buy for any fan of the GH series, and although the soundtrack 
 isnt quite what it should be there should be more than enough to keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobo290
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the best Rythm and best in the series game yet. It has way more songs than it 
 did in the second game. They have a wide variety of bands such as: Metalica, Disturbed, Foghat, 
 Gun's and Roses, Dragonforce, Killswitch Engaged, Rolling Stones, Slipknot, Iron Maiden, The Fall 
 of Troy and Much Much more...... The core gameplay is still the same; you hold down a fret button 
 and then strum to play. Also the game's Difficulty makes the game much more fun and challenging. 
 There's slight noticable changes like they actually keep track of your streak, the starpower meter 
 looks different, and better graphics. 
  One new addition is online and boss battle. First online: you can versus people in battle, face-off, 
 Pro face-off, or do Co-op. Boss battle is simply you battle bosses, and instead of starpower you 
 get batlle power, which there are 8. Broken String, Whammy, double notes, Difficulty up, Amp overload, 
 Power steal, and lefty flip. must get for all guitar hero fans!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  To start off I'll be saying this is the best Guitar Hero game there is. The game features over 
 72 songs (plus the downloadables) the speed is a little faster, but that is just what makes it 
 exciting. I totally disagree with GS's cons.
  
  Gameplay: Awesome! Playing a plastic guitar has never been so much fun! As said before, there are 
 72 included songs, well paced, great to hear, great to play. The gameplay pretty much goes by you 
 playing notes (5 buttons) at the pace of the icons at fall towards you. Simple, yet amazingly addictive. 
 A new Battlemode has been added, which is pretty interesting and fun to battle the Legends. Online 
 is now included, which brings a new fun and challenging edge to the series.
  
  Sound: Amazing! Best GH tracklist out there. The songs are fast, mean and ready to be played. They 
 are totally fun and the songs are great to listen to. The bands range from the classic Rolling 
 Stones to the heavy nu metal band Slipknot.
  
  Visuals: Pretty nice! The graphics, effects and animations are better. The lip syncing is now actually 
 correct. The venues and the effects are just fun to look at, and that trashy looking singer you've 
 always had now looks a bit more decent :P Also, on some songs, there's this cowboy looking dude 
 who will sing, and when a girl is the one singing, a gal will be the singer, which is a pretty 
 nice touch, since nobody would want the old dude singing a girl's song :P
  
  Controls: 5 buttons, 1 plank looking guitar pick, and a whammy bar. You just have to hit those 
 when prompted. Easy, yet harder songs make your fingers move not to easy :P
  
  Overral: This is the best Guitar Hero game to date. The tracklist is the best out there. The songs 
 may be fast, but they are heck fun to play. 
  Sure, the new fancy Rock Band is out, alot of people rumored it was a GH killer, but since I've 
 played it, I can assure you, if you want a fast n mean rock game, GH3 delivers. Rock Band is the 
 best party game, in that aspect it's superior, but for a player alone, GH3 is best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelman5674
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay over all with the new graphics and controller was awesome. They did great there with 
 the voice technique and the sound quality. The one thing that killed them was the song listings. 
 They should've had better songs. I counted like 5 songs I liked and the rest were crap. And, it 
 was a lot easier to beat this game. The boss battle at the end was the only challenge, other than 
 that. Way to easy to beat. Multiplayer features are pretty good to but most of the people that 
 you face against either kick your ass or leave if you start winning. That's basically it. I'd still 
 recommend it, but only to those of you who don't mind spending $90. I didn't at first, now I do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Legend Of Rock
  Xbox 360
  
  Guitar Hero ran in to a big upset when the game was handed over to Neversoft but there nothing 
 different to the game, This Guitar Hero is the hardest one with songs like Dragonfroce song that 
 is madness. This game has three bosses that are agnaist Slash and other legend of rock 'n' roll.
 
  
  The hammer-on and Pull-offs are alot easyer to do and make the game more easyer for experts trying 
 to score realy high.
  
  This Guitar Hero is the frist one to have online play which is fun and well though out, The online 
 part works well it seems to have no problems with it.
  
  The game has the new mode "Boss Battles" that is a nice feature but the everyone gets knock out 
 in the frist 5 seconds, But "Boss Battles" in story mode is the same but is lot better in that 
 you don't get knock out in the frist 5 seconds.
  
  Overall the this Guitar Hero is one of the hardest in the series, Because there is alot more to 
 do in this game there will hours of fun for very fan of the series.
  If you haven't play other Guitar Hero games then I think you should buy the other game frist but 
 have a good at this one aswell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Over the past three years, the "Guitar Hero" franchise has become as evident in our society's pop 
 culture as the slinky and "Seinfeld." However, this year's version, despite new additions like 
 boss battles that add to the fun, continues to provide a steep learning curve that may have finally 
 reached its boiling point for casual gamers. The game is still undoubtedly the king of rhythm games; 
 it's just so hard at times that the casual gamer will feel lost, rather than embraced.
  
  Despite the game's lack of accessibility to noobs though, this game is chockfull of the same goodness 
 that made the first two cult classics. It also offers several new additions to the series that 
 make it feel like anything but a sequel with an updated song list.
  
  After developer Harmonix, the company that produced the first two games, went to work on EA's "Rock 
 Band," Neversoft, developers of the Tony Hawk and Spiderman games, took the helm and has managed 
 to recreate the great atmosphere in the series without a hitch. They even managed to add in a boss 
 battles feature that allows gamers to play against Rage Against the Machine's Tom Morello and legendary 
 guitarist Slash. Feeling something like Guitar Hero's answer to the mini-games in between fights 
 in "Mortal Kombat," these boss battles give the gameplay a differentiation that the series just 
 never had before.
  
  Additionally, this year's version features more songs out of the box than ever before and offers 
 a slew of downloadable content to keep the game fresh for as long as you want to play it. Making 
 things even better is that there are only a handful of covers in the game, compared to the other 
 games in the series that featured almost all cover material. Having the real artists perform these 
 classics makes the game feel that more authentic and definitely lends itself to the greatness the 
 game achieves.
  
  Because of these new gameplay features and plethora of downloadable content, hardcore fans of the 
 series will be extremely happy with the total package this game presents. However, to casual gamers, 
 this may eventually be looked at as the apex of the franchise. Perhaps feeling the brand has to 
 compete with "Rock Band," Neversoft has tweaked the game's difficulty, attempting to give hardcore 
 fans of the series what they've always wanted.
  
  However in the process, it completely ostracized its casual gamer base, creating a title that past 
 the easy difficulty setting, leaves them out in the cold. If you don't succumb to this notion, 
 try this test. Let a newbie play the game on medium and measure their perspiration. Then do the 
 same thing with the first or second game in the series. "Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock" is so 
 tough that you'll turn into one of Pavlov's dogs every time you play the game, sweating through 
 t-shirts after only a few chords.
  
  For any veteran of the series, "Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock" is a worthwhile addition to your 
 collection and is a worthy adversary in your attempt to become a rock god. However, if you are 
 new to the series, you should either start back at the beginning or have some time on your hands. 
 Because beating this game past the medium difficulty doesn't come without a ton of practice and 
 frustration.
  
  By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjr2682
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  How do you put money into your compatitons pocket? Well it's really simple. You make great games 
 with solid playlists and a very enjoyable game, and then when another company plays copycat release 
 a still great game with a very week playlist. I'm gonna play Rockband as well n review it as well 
 but i just don't understand how the year you get a competator in your feild you release one of 
 the sorriest playlists ever heard of. Who the hell wants to play a long santana song that makes 
 u think of porn? You got some really good stuff like Ozzy metallica megadeath and disturbed and 
 kiss. very nice this is the stuff people who play this game love, being able to play rock n roll 
 songs that r the shid! And really the battle thing is ok to do with a freind or online i suppose 
 but how about instead of that after we beat the game let us be able to randomly make our own songs 
 or something. i only beat the game ever on medium cuz i work way too much to put more time into 
 it and honestly i'm not as good as alot of people but it would be nice to continue the game and 
 get paid money on the game for songs u purchase online or of of the in game store. Overall it's 
 still an awesome game and i would recomend it to evey person who asks me about it, but i'll also 
 be honest n tell them that the playlist will make u walkaway from it after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't own Guitar Hero 3 , yet. I have played it a few times at my friends house, It is an awsome 
 game and If you love rock it has the songs you'll know and love. I'm going to buy Guitar Hero III 
 whenever I have the money to spend on it, I may not get the 360 version because I am saving up 
 for a Wii, but It will still be a great game no matter what game console its played on. The controls 
 needed a few short five minute to get used to before I was rock'n away with my buddy on expert 
 mode and battling people over live witch is also another great part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of GH2 on the Xbox360 - and not too bad; though was still working on beating Expert mode. 
 I picked up GH3 and have had a ton of fun playing the new songs. Most are good; there are a couple 
 that I wonder how they got on the list, but not a bother. Just as well, most songs sound pretty 
 good, although I think the quality of the GH2 covers are better. However, I see that those terds, 
 the Romantics are sueing Activision for making their song sound "too good", so I see that they 
 are somewhat limited in the quality of what can be done.
  
  The graphics are great in this version. Of course, it's hard to take things in since concentrating 
 on the gameplay, however, everything looks nicer. Of note, all the chicks are MUCH HOTTER! Just 
 a little eye candy that's nice to take note of :)
  
  Other nice touches are the boss battles. It's just nice to mix it up. Otherwise, I haven't gotten 
 around to the online multiplayer, but will likely check it out and I'm hopeful that it will bring 
 many more hours of fun.
  
  Never mind any complaints regarding the difficulty. Personally, I think it's just right on normal 
 mode; but granted, I'm somewhat seasoned to the game.
  
  So, if you liked GH2, this is a must have addition. Otherwise, if you haven't played GH yet, but 
 are interested, I think GH3 is a great pickup - at least then you get the very nice wireless controller.
 
  
  So, I'm giving a 9.5, it's kinda a toss up between a 9.0 because I'm dissapointed that the controller 
 does not use the Xbox 360 wireless batter pack; but thoroughly enjoy the game and would just as 
 well give a 10.
  
  Keep rockin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  For those who were wondering, rock & roll isn't dead. Although the music has changed throughout 
 the years, as Led Zeppelin would put it, the song remains the same. From grunge to speed metal, 
 the flavor of rock & roll is still present in every riff, style and sound. Red Octane and Neversoft 
 understand rock. In fact, in their new game, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, they pay tribute 
 to the best of the best, from different eras and genres, in an exquisite audio feast that will 
 please even the most hardened rock veterans.
  
  For those 2 or 3 people out there that are unfamiliar with the Guitar Hero games, let me break 
 it down for you right here. You get this cool looking, guitar shaped controller, which has 5 colored 
 buttons along the neck, a strum button that goes up or down and an awesome whammy bar. You press 
 the color-coded buttons in time with the appropriate note on the screen to rock out. The more notes 
 you hit, the higher your score will be. Hit notes consecutively to perform combos and hit the glowing 
 notes to fill up your Star Power meter. Once it's been filled up, tilt the guitar upwards to unleash 
 it upon the masses. Always keep an eye on your Rock Meter at the bottom right of the screen though. 
 Green means you're doing good, yellow means you're doing average, red means you're in danger and 
 glowing red means you better start rocking harder!
  
  Some changes have been made to the tried and true formula that made Guitar Hero such a successful 
 franchise but, for the most part, they are good ones. Let's start with the overall look of the 
 game. A considerable overhaul has been given to the meters and the guitar neck, giving them a more 
 "electronic" look. The venues have also changed and look more polished, with lights reflecting 
 off surfaces and a good amount of shadowing. The characters have also gotten somewhat of an overhaul 
 and look better than ever. During gameplay, it actually looks like they are playing their instruments 
 along with the song. All in all, the graphics aren't fall-out-of-your-chair spectacular, but they 
 do their job well.
  
  But, honestly, since when have the Guitar Hero games been about graphics? It's all about the music 
 man! This edition has a very solid track list to it's credit, the best one ever in my opinion, 
 with a bunch of original licensed recordings. Even the band Living Color reunited exclusively to 
 record Cult of Personality for the game, with a brand new guitar riff. Now that's awesome. Different 
 genres are present here, from 80s rock to speed metal, and most of the songs are fun to play. Pretty 
 much every song I've played put a smile on my face and made me think "This is exactly why I bought 
 this game." You'll also be able to buy and unlock bonus tracks, just like in previous games, but 
 this year's list is especially great. You'll be able to purchase them in the Shop, along with other 
 things like guitars, characters and so on.
  
  All of the game modes from previous GH games return in this 3rd installment. You have Quick Play, 
 Practice Mode and Career. Since the first two are pretty much self-explanatory, I'll talk a bit 
 about the Career. You still start off as the guitarist in a garage band who are trying to make 
 their way into the big time. You'll still play in different venues, but this time you'll get to 
 travel around the world, visiting places like Japan and Britain. You'll also get some crazy gigs 
 such as playing in a prison, a men's club and even in hell. They also added a little story in there. 
 None of the characters talk though, they just mumble and show you what they mean. The scenes are 
 quirky and serve well as bumpers between the song sets.
  
  This year's Career Mode also features boss battles. At certain stages in your career, you'll go 
 up against established guitar legends (hence the subtitle of the game) and beat them to continue 
 on. Instead of accumulating Star Power here, you'll pick up power ups to help you defeat them. 
 These power ups can be used to cut a string, where you'll have to press the fret button repeatedly 
 to replace it, break the whammy bar, where you'll have to press down on your whammy bar to repair 
 it, and so on.
  
  You'll face 3 bosses during your career. Tom Morello, ex Rage Against The Machine and current Audioslave 
 member, Slash, ex Guns N' Roses and current Velvet Revolver member and, finally, Lou, the ruler 
 of the Underworld. Tom & Slash bring their own compositions to the game. Once you beat them, you 
 get to play an encore alongside them. I'm not too fond of the boss battles. They just seem out 
 of place in a game like this and aren't all that enjoyable.
  
  Tired of playing by yourself? Now you don't need somebody right next to you to play with another 
 human being, since GH III is now online and playable through XBox Live. You'll be able to face 
 off against your buddy in Battle Mode, or team up with them in Co-Op Mode. Some songs will only 
 be available when you play online, such as Sabotage by the Beastie Boys and Give It Away by the 
 Red Hot Chilli Peppers. When you play co-op, you can choose between the bass or the guitar and, 
 on some occasions, you can choose between rhythm or lead guitar. The online works surprisingly 
 well and is lag free, no matter where in the world your buddy is located. Only blemish here is 
 that you cannot play Co-Op Career online, as it is only available locally. Total letdown right 
 there. With all of the games coming out with co-op gameplay, this one should have had it for sure.
 
  
  Without a doubt, Guitar Hero III has the best track list amongst all of the Guitar Hero games, 
 while keeping the same enjoyable gameplay you've grown to love. It also seems like the series wants 
 to bring new ideas along with online play and boss battles, but there is still work to be done 
 on both accounts. Nonetheless, Guitar Hero III is a step in the right direction and, with it's 
 amazing track list and always sturdy gameplay, it's sure to remain at #1 of many people's charts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakeerie_effect
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  So first off I have to admit I was excited when I played the 1st song of the game. I had only really 
 played Guitar Hero maybe 4 times prior to me buying the game. Well first thing I disliked was this 
 battle mode. One word to describe it is, GARBAGE. It's not that fun infact it's more frustrating. 
 Next is what else is there to do after you beat the game besides nothing. Online XboxLive is a 
 complete waste. Barely ever can find someone to play with and again it's just playin a song. Then 
 the new songs released thru XboxLive. Well 600 gamerpoints for 3 songs is a lil much don't you 
 think. Foo Fighters and Velvet Revolver, come on lets do a lil better than that. All I'm saying 
 is to think twice before you spend 100 bucks. Make sure you will play this game and not get bored 
 of it within a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  After the uninspiring hair-metal mishmash of GH: Rocks The 80s - and with EA's promising multi-instrument 
 behemoth Rock Band on the horizon - it looked like it could be game over for Guitar Hero. But with 
 a soundtrack that will reduce everyone from hoary old punks to leather-studded rockers to paroxysms 
 of joy, Legends Of Rock comes tantalisingly close to rhythm-action perfection. Close, but not quite 
 close enough...
  
  While little has changed in terms of the gameplay basics - and despite the development reigns being 
 handed over to Tony Hawk's Pro Skater studio, Neversoft - what makes LOR ludicrously addictive 
 is its dizzying selection of tracks; from the irresistible shred of the Pistols' Anarchy In The 
 UK to the finger-tangling riffs of Dragonforce's Through Fire And Flames, the third GH has something 
 for every rock fan and boasts the most thrilling soundtrack of any rhythm game ever published. 
 The fact that most of the tracks are recorded by the original artists rather than shoddy cover 
 bands also makes for a more exciting experience, and the chance to take the action online and challenge 
 other players around the world using the snazzy new wireless controller helps make LOR an undisputable 
 party classic.
  
  However, while series devotees will appreciate GHIII's increased difficulty, newbies may be put 
 off by the bewildering advanced tracks that require superhuman skills on the fretboard. The new 
 battle mode that sees players hurling special attacks such as amplifier overloads at each other 
 also lacks the compelling buzz of the traditional game as most of the skirmishes are over in a 
 matter of seconds, and the boss battles against rock gods such as Slash and Tom Morello feel redundant 
 as the notorious axe-wielders are actually a cinch to beat.
  
  But even with its flaws, the chance to crunch out the Stones' Paint It Black, Metallica's One and 
 the Dead Kennedy's Holiday In Cambodia (Jello Biafra must be spitting nails!) make GHIII unmissable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I got this game right when it came out so this review is pretty delayed. This is an overall good 
 game. The controls are relatively easy to get used to and the interface is good. The songs on this 
 game are overall good and enjoyable to play. The extra downloadable and unlockable songs make the 
 playlist even better and more diverse. This was my first time playing the GH series, and I was 
 able to get better pretty quickly using the practice modes. I have beat the career on easy and 
 medium and I am working on the hard career. This game is easy for beginners to get into on the 
 easy or even medium difficulties, but it takes a while to get the hang of hard. The online and 
 co-op features add a lot of depth and playability to the game. I have never played GH1 or GH2 so 
 I can't really compare this installment to the previous ones, but overall I think this is a pretty 
 good game. I'll definitely buy a GH4.
  
  Good: Diverse playlist, Good online features, Downloadable content
  
  Bad: Hard to get used 
 to, costs $100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bondq007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  All i can say about Guitar Hero 3 is WOW. The game got a heck of a lot better even though i didn't 
 think it could. One of the best parts about this game is the wide song list. Also the graphics 
 got a lot better. I did notice that sometimes there is a little frame rate drop when you use your 
 star power but it isn't annoying enough to really bother me. Over all i really like the game and 
 some of the new modes. Loading time is great and the way you can move through your songs are better 
 then the old GH2 list of endless songs. For the most part i would have a really hard time trying 
 to tell you why you shouldn't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the first entry from Neversoft, so the big question is : Does it rock and warrant 
 an encore? Or does it get booed off the stage?
  
  When Guitar Hero 3 was announced and Neversoft was going to be at the helm, the hardcore and casual 
 Guitar Hero fans alike were both anxious, and excited at the same time, with Harmonix gone to do 
 Rock Band, would Guitar Hero 3 still deliver the same enjoyment as previous entries? Yes and no 
 for me. The game sticks to the tried and true Guitar Hero formula, the gameplay is well, Guitar 
 Hero, but the game feels stale and dated overall.
  
  Neversoft tried to increase the presentation by mo capping the singers mouth so the singer would 
 lip sync the vocals in the songs you played, they also mo capped the drummer. Sounds great right? 
 Well the singer looks like a gargantuan moron with a huge jaw. The drummer for the most part looks 
 like a robot and when you watch someone else play the game, it doesn't look like a rock concert 
 at all. The best example of this (well I guess you could say the worst since its embarassing) is 
 in the first encore Rock N Roll All Nite by Kiss. When this song is performed it gets the crowd 
 into the song and they get loud, in Guitar Hero 3, not so much, theres barely any crowd noise in 
 the game and the crowd itself looks weird, and they dance in unison which looks odd to say the 
 least. The new presentation features add nothing to the overall gameplay experience and are disappointing.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is well Guitar Hero, however, the timing of when you can hit the notes will 
 frustrate the hell out of you. The notecharts don't seem right either, you'll just be puzzled when 
 you are keeping the same rythym and still miss the notes. The songlist is great, but the game just 
 isn't addicting like previous Guitar Hero games.
  
  Apparently battle mode and online play would be enough for Guitar Hero 3 to make it amazing, this 
 isn't the case however. Battle mode is poorly implemented to say the least. Unless you're playing 
 the computer in career mode, most battles won't last very long, and if they do, they will end in 
 a cheap and lame way. If both players last the whole way, you'll go into sudden death and every 
 power up is death drain, which kills your rock meter instantly, so its a battle to see which player 
 unleashes it first, even if the person you are playing it beats you by 0.5 seconds, well you lose, 
 game over, dumb huh? Especially on lower difficulties, battle mode is an absolute mess. The computer 
 is near impossible to beat unless you basically dominate the song, seeing the boss doesn't have 
 many notes to miss. The online play itself is meh, you can go through a set list with a friend 
 or a foe in Face Off, Pro Faceoff or in Co-Op play. 
  
  One of the worst problems in the online play is the fact that a person playing on Easy can battle 
 you when you are playing on say Expert, then they can just choose Through the Fire and Flames and 
 win in 3 seconds and technically that means they are a better Guitar Hero player, if its a ranked 
 match, the online play is shallow and battle mode is terribly implemented and wasn't thought through 
 very well.
  
  The graphics are decent, the soundtrack is great, the gameplay is mostly the same other than a 
 couple of flaws here and there. But the game just doesn't add anything good to the series, so you 
 will find yourself bored quickly. The downloadable content so far has been extremely poorly done, 
 it seems very half-a$$ed,
  
  Neversoft said at the beginning of development that the last thing they wanted to do was screw 
 up the Guitar Hero franchise, well, in my opinion, they are on there way to doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxsuck818
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The wireless guitar is a great addition to the game but the buttons are almost to touchy, causing 
 you to lose really long notes. The glowing of notes that you don't have to strum on is a very helpful 
 addition. The soundtrack is also great, but some of the songs were recorded in the studio by the 
 real bands and some were not. You can tell very easily which songs were not recorded by the real 
 bands, like "Hit me with your Best Shot." Also the venues that you play at are boring, one of them 
 is just a huge advertisement for Pontiac. The camera focuses on the stage more on this which I 
 think makes the concert seem less real. There are also stage dancers that do the same thing over 
 and over again! Luckily, the difficulty is harder so it takes more time than Guitar Hero 2. The 
 addition of online play is amazing and battles are not too bad. Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is probably 
 the same as Guitar Hero 2 in fun. If you do not have online play I would suggest you play it at 
 a friends house for a few days before thinking about buying it, because your wallet will be feeling 
 it if you do not because of the $100 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishbeast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is currently the best out of the series. It easily has the best track list of any 
 of them, with over 70 tracks to choose from with more on the way. 
  
  Graphics: the characters in this game do look a little weird and theres are some animation glitches 
 with the drummer, but while playing the game its hard to notice any of these as you are to busy 
 playing the song
  
  Music: an amazing song list is what makes this game, ranging from a large amount of variety and 
 styles makes the songs enjoyable for almost anyone.
  
  Online: Online is the biggest addition in this game, and it allows for online co op or verses. 
 The battle mode isnt really all that great but playing togeather or compeating for the best score 
 is so much fun, especially when you dont have anyone to play at your house with you, now you can 
 do it at anytime.
  
  Difficulty: The easier dificulties seem to be slightly easier due to a slightly longer grace period 
 to strum the note. However its balanced by the fact that on the harder difficulties some of the 
 songs are insane... anyone who has played Trough the Fire and Flames will know this... but this 
 is a good thing since it allows those who have massed previous guitar heros to have a good challenge 
 in this game.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 just a lot of fun if playing by yourself or with a group of friends and if you 
 enjoy any games of this type you should pick it up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolld6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III picks up where they left off in GHII; solid game play, a great set list full of 
 diversity and humor in between sets. There is a lot to like in this latest installment, including 
 deeper avatar customization, a wider variety of guitars and finishes and the ability to earn $$$ 
 in Easy mode. 
  
  Most have already commented on the negatives in the game; too much in game advertising, a huge 
 difficulty curve increase at hard and expert and the guitar battle gimmick. 
  
  What I want to add to this "down side" list, is the really good songs that are only unlocked while 
 playing co-op. I know they are trying to promote their game (and hardware) , but come on, give the 
 people that only have one guitar a chance too. We paid the $59 for the game or $99 if you went 
 for the combo bundle, let us have all of what we paid for. 
  
  Overall GH III has been a very positive experience and has continued the dialogue and time spent 
 talking about music with my daughter. That truly is priceless. Rock on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero for the PS2 became one of the most addicting and biggest party games ever. People bought 
 it, loved it, and told their friends, who did the same. It spread like wildfire. Harmonix new they 
 had a winner on their hands, so they made a second one, which sold even better than the first. 
 Some time after, Harmonix was bought up by MTV, and decided to make their own game. That left Tony 
 Hawk developer Neversoft to make the new Guitar Hero game. They thought, if it's not broken, don't 
 fix it, but did add a lot of great stuff to it. Guitar Hero III features online play, more genuine 
 songs, and a new "boss" mode. Is it enough to keep the name afloat, or does it bite of more than 
 it can chew? 
  
  
  For those of you who don't know what Guitar Hero is, or how to play, here's the lowdown. You get 
 a plastic guitar that has 5 buttons near the top of the neck. Each button is a different color 
 (Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, Orange) and you must both hold down the note, and hit the strum bar 
 at the same time, as if to be actually playing the guitar. Notes scroll down a screen lined up 
 with the buttons on your guitar, and once the notes get to the bottom of the screen, you hold down 
 the button and strum the bar. It's that simple! There are 4 difficulties (Easy, Medium, Hard, Expert) , 
 and the higher up the difficulty, the faster the notes come. Easy has only the first 3 notes, while 
 Medium only has the first 4, so you don't have to move you're hand up and down. Hard then incorporates 
 sliding your hand down to the Orange button, because you only have 4 fingers to play with, and 
 there are 5 buttons! 
  
  
  Guitar Hero III features the exact same gameplay as its predecessors; however, this is perfectly 
 fine. The scrolling notes are really just a vehicle for a great soundtrack, with the same excellent 
 multiplayer that the first two games had (the 360 version also supports online play) . Thankfully, 
 this iteration has a far better soundtrack that the previous games: finally, some classics are 
 present. Welcome to the Jungle, One, Sunshine of Your Love, and Paint It Black are just a few of 
 the universally beloved songs from decades gone by. There are some great choices from modern times, 
 as well, but the game predominantly features older hits. There are some songs that stick out like 
 a sore thumb, however. Although its one of my favorites in the game, Black Magic Woman? Santana 
 is a fantastic guitarist, to be sure, but why choose that song? Still, this is the best soundtrack 
 of the series and definitely benefits from having the master recordings as opposed to weak covers. 
 The game also covers the ground of new music, like AFI's "Miss Murder", The Killers' "When You 
 Were Young", Queen's Of The Stone Age's "3's And 7's" (A favorite!) and Priestess' "Lay Down". 
 Some of the new songs are great additions, and some are, to put it bluntly, crap.
  
  
  The career mode now has "boss battles" which can be summed up with one word: random. Sure, it's 
 a nice idea- going head-to-head against Tom Morello is awesome. It's just that the competition 
 requires the slightest bit of skill. Instead of star power, you can earn attacks for completing 
 certain note streaks. The only skill you need is to hit these notes, and then fling 'em at the 
 other player. So, for example, you could make the other player's notes flash different colors, 
 or break their whammy bar, or break one of their strings. The problem is, the placement of these 
 power ups is erratic, and some of them are entirely useless. Why does the computer-controlled character 
 care if their notes are flashing? He's Tom freakin' Morello! Or Slash! All in all, these encounters 
 are poorly thought out, and victory revolves entirely around chance. Lame.
  
  
  The boss battles may be easy, but the rest of the game will probably kick. You're. Ass. This game 
 is far and beyond any other Guitar Hero in two things. Song choice, and difficulty. The game itself 
 is technically not as hard, what with a longer amount of time to hit the buttons (a nod towards 
 the casual market?) , but the songs are much, much harder. I consider myself a pretty decent Guitar 
 Hero player, and Hard was giving me a serious challenge. At about the 7th tier I was having a serious 
 problem over and over. It was killing me. After enough practice on different songs I got through 
 it, but never before had Guitar Hero been this hard. Even though it's a blast for hardcore fans, 
 it's still just as accessible to the players of Easy and Medium, and a blast to play on those levels!
 
  
  
  One change to the game that had many fans divided was the shift in art style. Guitar Hero III features 
 a very gangly, grungy look that is very reminiscent of Jamie Hewlett's work on Gorillaz album covers. 
 The animation of the guitarists is much more fluid, and overall the game has a very different tone 
 compared to the cartoony folks found in I and II. Some characters look better than others, however. 
 The lead singer looks appropriately menacing, with a large jaw and waving hair, a perfect mashup 
 of caricature and reality. The drummer, however, looks... dumb. Aside from his robotic animations, 
 his face looks like it's pressed up against a glass window. At least all the guitarists look good, 
 with cool new star power moves and more expressive faces. 
  
  
  If there was one major gripe that positively must be fixed before the inevitable release of Guitar 
 Hero IV, it's product placement. Guitar Hero III jams AXE body spray, 5 gum, and Red Bull cans 
 into your face so hard it's almost offensive. The music sponsorships that showed up in Guitar Hero 
 II at least made sense, but in III it seems the floodgates have been opened. I'm sorry, but having 
 dancers dressed in the Bow-Chicka-Bow-Wow shirts from the new AXE ad campaign is not only stupid, 
 but fleeting. How long is that ad series going to last, anyway? Not as long as Guitar Hero is popular, 
 that's for sure. An entire stage set on the back of a giant Pontiac truck is a bit too much to 
 swallow as well. And is any of it even necessary? Maybe Neversoft just couldn't resist cramming 
 all of these advertisements into the game, like they did with the already lucrative Tony Hawk series. 
 Guitar Hero is a bonafide cash cow, drawing in gamers and non-gamers alike. It doesn't need the 
 support of random companies to stay afloat. 
  
  
  But I digress. Guitar Hero III is everything a sequel should be, with new modes, better music, 
 and a very nice guitar controller. The 360's Les Paul is a far nicer build than the tacky X-plorer 
 controller from II. Online modes are finally here, with leaderboards, head-to-head play, and the 
 promise of downloadable content. If it wasn't for the annoying boss battles (which are mercifully 
 few) , random product placement, and the extreme difficulty of it, the game would be practically 
 flawless, but it's too much of an issue to completely ignore. Still, with the new songs and modes, 
 Guitar Hero III is the party game supreme.
  
  
  Written by James Fanciullo for AceGamez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  With a new soundtrack, deeper career mode, improved graphics and the new multiplayer mode, Guitar 
 Hero III was set up to be easily the best in the series and a must have during the holidays. What 
 is is though is a disappointing sequel to its fantastic predecessor. 
  
  First off, the songs are great there's no doubt about that, the developers defenitly went out and 
 got the songs that they felt they needed. I especially liked the Dragonforce songs because of their 
 freaking awesome guitar solos in everyone of their songs. The overall quality of the songs made 
 me want to continue playing so I could keep hearing the fantastic songs. Also, I found the new 
 multiplayer mode to be quite enjoyable, the issues I figured it would have like lag and horrible 
 glitches were not apparent, it was presented extremely well in the design. Since we are in the 
 "next gen" era of games and consoles, every game that is pumped out must have have stellar graphics 
 in order to be great. Guitar Hero 3's graphics are much improved but in truth they shouldn't really 
 matter due to the fact that the game is based around songs and lyrics. 
  
  Even with all the new great advancements that were instituted, there is one simple problem, the 
 difficulty is just plain ridiculous. Even on medium I was having trouble hitting over 90% of the 
 notes, for a gamer to go out and play for the first time ever, easy would be the only option. Medium 
 has characteristics and combinations of keys in it that usually only show up on hard and expert. 
 Songs continuously have you hitting over 3 or more keys at once in varying combinations that keep 
 coming in quick succession. For a newcomer to the series to pick this game up it would be a horrible 
 game to them because of the sheer difficulty they would face.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is a great game but doesn't continue on the succes former games have had in the franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is for the Guitar Hero Nerd who is immune to Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, as am I. The 
 game is not for the casual gamer or for party fun. The increased difficulty is insane once you 
 get above Medium and even more so into Expert. Make sure you play this game around women b/c if 
 they can see how well you work your fingers on this game, well you get the drift. Graphically, 
 the colors are brighter, and the player models are attempting to be more realistic, but fails in 
 that category, however I do only use Casey Lynch for the eye candy. This is by far the best song 
 selection to date, with more songs to be released. The battle mode is a nice addition, however 
 should not be required to beat in career mode. The Devil Went Down To Georgia was a good idea on 
 paper, but add the fact it's a battle, just fails as well. One was a good choice for the final 
 song to actually play, and it should have stayed that way. Online is flawless and easy to pick 
 up, and the ability to track stats online is a nice touch via guitarhero. com. From a nerd standpoint, 
 this game is great and puts you to the test, however, because of this, the franchise takes a step 
 backwards. Most of the gameplay is intact from 1 and 2. Also being forced to play co-op career 
 to unlock other songs is dumb, as most nerds don't have local friends to come over and beat it, 
 and also at my age, do not have the time. All this said though, this is the greatest Guitar Hero 
 yet, in terms of followers and fans, however the casual gamer might be better to go with Rock Band. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokestan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  When you first try this game you'll love it because the improvement in gameplay, clothing and menu 
 even. The selection of songs is great other than some of them french songs in bonus, i hate those 
 songs. If you've played guitar hero 2 and dont have this game i dont understand why you dont have 
 it. The hammer ons and pulls offs are somewhat easier to hit, which made me realize that after 
 a long time of playing guitar hero 3 and you go back to guitar hero 2 your alot better because 
 your more used to hitting hammer ons and pull offs. Going through campaign is fun until you realize 
 the acheivments you have to get like for the store.. thats a stupid acheivment. Its something like 
 where you have to buy every item in the store which should be easy but instead like guitar hero 
 2 just getting everything other than the unlockables, you have to unlock everything and then buy 
 it. FUN GAME, MADE ME A BETTER PLAYER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tab132
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Legends of Rock? yeah right, despite the fact that playing guitar hero is about 100x different 
 from real guitar is a given, but Tom Morello? Slash? Now I must say that slash is very talented, 
 but a legend? I'll have to disagree with you. As for Morello, I dont have a clue how he became 
 one of the bosses, cause all he can do is play funk and make adnormal noises with the cable. The 
 devil? LOU?! on top of that a guitar verison of THE DEVIL WENT DOWN TO GEORGIA by some no-name 
 "Steve Ouimette" as the final encore? I'm sorry I didnt grow up a skate punk, I can't stand AFI, 
 anyways you get the point.
  
  Graphics - The fretboard is utterly horrible when playing in expert, playing fast solos (for example 
 in "One") is like trying to ruin your eyes to sell you 500$ glasses. THE SINGER ACTUALLY SINGS, 
 so what? If you know, your actually playing the damn game, are you going to be focousing on the 
 stage or the fretboard. Costumes and character models look ugly as well.
  
  Sound (Music) - Theres only about six tracks worth my time (Knights of Cydonia, One, Raining Blood, 
 Holiday in Cambodia, Barracuda, and Cult of Personality) , and theres over 70 total. Was Tenacious 
 D's The Metal nessisary, was Rock You Like a Hurricane a song so hard it deserves to be above Barracuda, 
 Paint it black, Paranoid, ect. And if your going to put a slipknot song in the game, you might 
 want to pick one of their songs that's actually good and apeals to more then pouser metal-heads.
 
  
  Value - 100 Dollers? FOR THIS!? You might as well just buy a guitar and learn how to play what 
 you want, I did that a few months ago.
  
  Gameplay - Well, its definently guitar hero, Expect the Hammer ons and Pull offs are royally inaccurate, 
 the Whammy bar is not that sensitive for real in fact its kinda like pushing bricks accross the 
 room. The multiplayer is Broken, it takes about 2 hours to get into a game that doesnt give you 
 the "FAILED TO CONNECT" message. "Battle Mode" is the most annoying abomination i've seen of any 
 multiplayer game ever.
  
  Tilt - None.
  
  RENTED, AND PLAYED WITH AN EXPLORER (guitar hero 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daien90
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  the tried and true music game formula has reached its peak with guitar hero 3. I'll make this short 
 because i'm in a hurry, guitar hero 3 is the best in the series. the highest difficulty seen in 
 the series, the best graphics, best soundtrack, the new battle mode, and a perfect 1st attempt 
 at on line, what more needs to be said. Though it may be for the fans, it shouldn't be missed by 
 anyone interested in rock or rythm games. Neversoft has worked miracles with the series and rock 
 band is gonna have a hard time following this act. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan001
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  God has just sent down this game from the heavens!!!!!!!!
  
  I SWEAR!!!!!! THIS is by far the best game for the xbox 360
  
  reasons why it ROOOOCKSSSSS!!!!!!!
 
  
  1. best graphics u will probably ever see
  
  2. AWESOME SONGS
  
  3. great sound
  
  4. it delivers a wide variety of characters and songs
  
  5. and lastly it HAS DRAGON FORCE 
 song through the fire and flames which is the best song to play... its freakin hard though, dang!
 
  
  this is by far the absolute best game in the whole series of guitar hero 3 FOR THE XBOX 360.... i 
 think this game deserves a way better score for it then what the gamespot people gave.... their 
 pretty stupid.... really..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiGamer23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  wow guitar hero 3 is the best in the series it is so amazing their are new characters that rock 
 like the guitar god who looks awesome the career is absolutuely amazing best in the series and 
 the one the that this one has that no other one has is the online play u can either do a face off 
 a co op game or co op career that just freakin rocks this game is a must have if you own a xbox 
 360 if you dont like this game then you arent a big music fan and you are missing out on a absolute 
 outstanding game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gcfreak898
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  If your not a regular GH 2 player you will have a hard time getting used to this game if it is 
 your first GH game. For some reason the developer made this game harder. You'll notice it right 
 off the bat if your a regular player. Tons of songs to choose from to play. The tracklist is awesome 
 my favorites are: "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns and Roses, "Rock you like a Hurricane" by Scorpions, 
 and "Sabotage" by Beastie Boys. You'll notice there is a battle mode which is awesome and the online 
 mode is flawless. There is nothing like playing online on a battle set on expert playing the hardest 
 song in the game "Dragonforce". The remastered tracks are awesome so CRANK IT UP!!!! KEEP ON ROCKING 
 my fellow Guitar Hero players becuase this game is a keeper!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  
  What can you expect from a GH game... a good puzzle, highly addictive, nerve wrecking, and in the 
 higher levels even a reason to get really pissed off and a reason to get a couple of guitars so 
 you can have the freedom to break it when you get totally frustrated.
  
  Well.... GH 3 is all of this and more... MUCH, MUCH MORE!!!
  There really isnt anything out 
 of the ordinary except for a few little things, once you get this game, and have played the previous 
 GH games, youll feel right at home. The gameplay is exactly as the franchise has always done, 
 but really... What can they really change?
  For that matter its excellent just as its past brothers. 
  The nice differences GH 3 is the 
 new system that tells you your note streaks every 50, 100, 200, etc. which is pretty cool for hardcore 
 gamers, or simple players who just want the achievement.
  And obviously the most anticipated perk of all since GH 2, ONLINE MULTIPLAYER!!!!! Which plays 
 really great. Youll probably have to try to play a couple of times on some days, but this is because 
 the game chooses the best connection for you to avoid lag, and Activision did a great job with 
 this. 
  
  Bottom line, the game is great, nothing REALLY new, but the multiplayer is awsome, and the difficulty 
 is a bit much for my taste, ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seoulja_Boy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is a great game, but there are some factors that are keeping it from being the BEST 
 game. The first thing is.. The difficulty gaps are way too big. It jumps from easy, to medium, 
 to UBER HARD. But if you're a hardcore guitar hero, then its the perfect level of difficulty. This 
 game also lacks variety. Its just the same type of songs over and over again. And the list of songs 
 are so.. dull. For me, there are only about 5 songs that i actually play within the game. this 
 game HAD potential.. but. i guess we have to wait for the next guitar hero . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The first thing experienced players may notice about Guitar Hero III is the newly expanded time 
 frame for hitting notes  even a fraction of a second makes a big difference. At first, it might 
 seem like a slap in the face to faithful GH players  perhaps a nod to the casual playing market? 
 That's how you'll feel until you start hitting some of the harder tunes. Frankly, very few Guitar 
 Hero players in the world would be capable of handling the insane riffs coming their way in the 
 later tiers without the added split-second widening of the windows of success. Ultimately, this 
 is the most challenging game in the series, thanks to more multi-button chords, longer solos, and 
 the dreaded boss battles against the likes of Tom Morello and Slash.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  One word to describe this game. WOW. This is one of those games you can sit and play for hour and 
 hours, fingures in pain, but you still want to play more. Compaired to the previous guitar hero, 
 the gameplay is more smooth, BETTER SOUNDTRACK BY A LONGSHOT, not saying the last one was bad, 
 but there is alot more decent rock and metal on here. I had most of the songs off here before I 
 even bought this, Iron Maiden, slipknot, black sabbith, kiss, poison (the song on here has a cover 
 done by children of bodom, which kicks even more a**.) social distortion, alice cooper, tenacious 
 D, In flames, aero smith are just to name a few bands on here that rock. I must also say that the 
 game itself is harder, the last one seemed a bit easy and slow, but try to beat this one on insain 
 and you'll have a real challange, hardest song on here is defintly dragonforce, so watch out. If 
 you purches it with the guitar, you might be releived to find that its wireless, this owns because 
 on the last game you were limited to a 8 foot range, but now you can pick it up and walk over the 
 couch across the room without having to worry if someones gunna trip and make it comeout of the 
 system, of the consol just crashing on the floor smashing. No real complaints about the game, it 
 was done very well, so I recomend it to anyone who likes a bit more of a challange than guitar 
 hero 2, or if your new to the series, you want a game that will hook you for hours of gameplay, 
 then try this game. Worth the $100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Breaking out into the Rock wirkd ain't so easy... u and ur band are still playin in ur backyard 
 until u get the usual contracts and blah blah blah, and then u r totally awesome but then get bamboozled 
 lol... bamboozled lol... anyway and wind up in H-E- double hockey sticks. Playin through songs 
 such as Paint It Black- Rolling Stones, La grange- ZZTop, and Welcome to the Jungle- Guns n Roses, 
 u battle it out against other guitarists such as Slash to acheive ur ultimate  
 da da da duh da da duh da duh da da!!! ya and.. this game is overall very fun has more of good 
 palylist then i thought just wish they could have thrown in some Hendrix or Sumthin! but the Graphics 
 have improved controls are gr8, guitars are comfortable, and the interchangable plates for ur guitar 
 r cool! If u have a previous Guitar Hero stick wit it... Guitar Hero 3 is nuthin special or if ur 
 brand new to it i recommend this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep you up for hours trying to beat it. And when you do manage to finally get through 
 9 tiers of songs, and 3 boss battles; yes, you heard right. BOSS battles. In Guitar hero III there 
 is a special mode where you can "battle" your oponent, and instead of star power there is battle 
 power. You can fire different powers at your opponent like switch the difficulty level, change 
 to lefty/righty flip, and much more. There is tons of downloaded content which is going to be up 
 for download, and the online play is going to keep you playing for years. The graphics are incredible, 
 and there are a few more characters in this game than GHII, and a lot more WACKY ones too. The 
 guitar store (named Guitar Center after the popular chain of stores in GHIII) offers many guitars, 
 bonus songs, and costumes. There is also a cool story followed by sets of cartoons which you follow 
 after each tier is beaten. In summary, this game offers a lot more bonus content, is a little harder 
 than the rest, but DEFINITELY WORTH THE MONEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This is honestly one of the best games I've ever played in my life. At the first release of Guitar 
 Hero II, I was intrigued to learn about such a unique new game out there. Of course, I have never 
 heard of Guitar Hero I due to my lack of a PS2, or whatever system it's for. I loved Guitar Hero 
 II so I was bound to love GH3. And I wasn't disappointed.
  I have to agree, the great thing about GH3 is the songs. Cliffs of Dover is my all time favorite 
 for that game. It's also pretty easy to tell how much a difference there is between the difficulties 
 in GH2 and GH3. The stronger difficulty creates a better challenge for the more experienced and 
 advanced players. However, there is a downside to that. The difficulty in Expert around the last 
 few songs makes completing the tour impossible for most people, including me. At thirteen years 
 of age, I find it particularly difficult to concentrate that hard on notes that are going 20 notes 
 per second.
  Nonetheless, I find GH3 one of the most entertaining games I have ever played in my life ^^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmgustaf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  There's a weird trend occurring as more Guitar Hero games arrive. The first Guitar Hero has an 
 amazing track list, but the gameplay (especially hammer-ons and pull-offs) is sometimes sloppy.
 
  
  Guitar Hero 2 had a great tracklist, though not as good as the first. It still had plenty of amazing 
 solos and songs that made you want to slam your guitar into the television (in a good way) .
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has the tightest, smoothest gameplay yet, but the tracklist is... blah. It's 
 not bad, but it's not great. There are very few songs with solos that make me want to punch a baby, 
 except for the exceedingly difficult ones on expert. There's no Jessica, there's no Spanish Castle 
 Magic, there's not even a Free Bird-style anthem song.
  
  And don't get me started on the bonus tracks. Where GH2's tracks were unique and different and 
 included fun stuff like Freezepop, Trogdor, and Dethclock, GH3's bonus tracks feel exactly the 
 same as the regular game. Where's the difference? Why are they special? Why were they chosen as 
 bonus tracks?
  
  Maybe I'm missing something. Maybe I'm not musically hip enough to "get" this game's tracklist. 
 But I just don't find myself able to play GH3 for hours at a time, like I could - and still do 
 - with GH2 and GH1.
  
  GH3 is still a fun game, but the tracklist - and the horrible version of La Grange - take it from 
 a 9 out of 10 to a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J13Twitch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Finally adds X-Box Live to the game. Allowing players to Slamm their Hammers of Rock 
 head to head or with another person over X-Box Live.
  
  Yes, there are some downers; The sings are A LOT easier then on Guitar Hero 2. Which I am pretty 
 sure let most of us down. (Excpet Dragonforce on Expert)
  
  AND
  
  The Players STILL can not create their own songs. But i'm not sure if that has to do with copyrights 
 or not, I hope to see it in another Guitar Game.
  
  Although, the game is generally VERY fun and exciting. You can play some of your most favorite 
 songs. And you can play some of those songs that your parents use to listen to, which, you loved 
 but didn't want to ask whho sang it or what the song was called because then you would have to 
 go through the prcoess of talking (Since that's so hard) or bonding (Since teenagers don't like 
 to.
  
  8.5 Because the game was to easy. The notes were further apart, there were less hammer ons and 
 pull offs, and when there were, they were excessive.
  
  Goodjob Guitar hero Team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Well its another guitar hero. Its the same basic gameplay, same basic career mode, same basic characters 
 and songs but, I still can't get enough. This game is overall the most basic yet, insanely fun 
 game thats on the market. 
  I'll start off wioth gameplay: its pretty basic, press five buttons when it tells you just like 
 a classic rythem game except this certain one reels you in. It gives you the feeling that you are 
 acutly playing a guitar and can be fun for ANY one.
  The audio and songs in this game are perfect. They did a exellent job of making a game were the 
 music appeals to all types of rock music backgrounds. It will give you everything from the classic 
 radio songs to Indie and Underground Metal. Although some of there covers are just plain terrible 
 the overall performance is really good.
  For people who have been playing GH from the start will be sad to here no gameplay changes were 
 made but, happy to hear of there exellent featres. From Online (which was terribly needed) to Boss 
 battles with Morrello the features will give you somthing to enjoy your old GH.
  On the flipside of things the advertisments are terrible. I haven't yet seen a game a badly advertised 
 as this (you can even get an axe gtar) . The advertisments are bad but, I have little doubt that 
 it will kill the game for you.
  
  Overall this game is for anyone and I'm pretty sure my grandma could have fun with this. There 
 is no real reason not to but it , unless the is somthing else out there for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of a little iffy about buying guitar hero 3. The reason I say "IFFY" is not because 
 I was doubting wether it would be a fun game or not but wether I would look back 1 month from now 
 and say it was still a great game. Well here it goes.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 I would say HAS LOTS better tracks than the poor compilationthat made up Guitar Hero2. ( 
 I'm not saying that because there is now a Metallica song, even though I am an "OLD SCHOOL" Metallica 
 fan. Real Metallica fans know what I mean. ) There is some really great tracks that are a blast 
 to play. I won't go through them because I'm sure yoy know which ones are on it.
  
  Ok whats new? Well finally ONLINE PLAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! YES!!!!!! I think that made the game last 
 a little bit longer before getting worn out. What fun is a game in one player mode after you beat 
 it? Sure there are achievements and the feeling you've gone through each level of difficulty but 
 are your really playing the game again because its that great or because you want those points? 
 Guitar Hero III is fun online!!! Excect when you play those REALLY GOOD NERDS that could play the 
 Dragon Force song on Expert or something. There is a cool battle mode that lets you play against 
 the guitar players of Guns N Roses and Rage Against the machine (no introduction needed) . They 
 play something you play something and instead of Star Power you can get attacks like: break a string, 
 make it harder, Amp overload and etc. That can be fun!!! .... Thats if your good enough to play 
 most of the notes and the song to obtain them. If you don't then some dude online or (SLASH on 
 career) will lay a beat down on you like no tommorrow.
  
  In conculsion and my opinion......
  
  GH1 was GREAT! 
  GH2 had a horrible track list except 
 for a COUPLE songs
  
  GH3 has a great track list and is a great game. With the wireless controller (included in the bundle) 
 it makes it that much better. After playing the tracks a bunch of times with friends online and 
 at home it did once again get a little old. But what can you expect huh? If I played 1 cd in your 
 car for 1 month straight (Granted DLC came quick but at about 5 hundered and something points for 
 3 songs) it would get old. If you love the Guitar Hero series then THIS IS A MUST BUY!!!!!! If 
 the GH series has started getting old for you already, then hold off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Yup, looking like a complete idiot is still worth it. Guitar Hero 3 plays just like a GH 2 with 
 a new interface. The new songs are really good, but i have to admit that the less known songs of 
 GH 2's were more enjoyable. The difficulty has been amped up to make sure that everybody that has 
 played GH 2 can enjoy GH 3. The medium difficulty level is is a good bridge between the medium 
 in GH 2 and the hard in GH 2 (and the the hard in GH3 should go right after the hard in GH 2) . 
 Sadly there are some screen jitters that really throw the game off on certain characters
  
  The Good - 70+ songs (many of them popular and originals) , same game play that worked for GH 2. 
 
  
  The Bad - Occasional screen jitters, the "boss battles" take away from the enjoyment of the game.
 
  
  The Ugly - The way you look playing... still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadybizkit123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - (9/10) - The gameplay in GH3 is just great. It's not to difficult to learn, but has 
 the difficulty levels to keep better players interested. It isn't a glitchy game, and everything 
 works just the way it should.
  Graphics - (8/10) - The graphics won't blow you away. But for a music rhythm game, they work brilliantly. 
 You wouldn't want outstanding graphics on the screen pulling your eyes away from all the notes 
 flying down the screen. Only complaint would be that the NPC's (lead singer, drummer, and bassist) 
 all look a little too robotic. Especially the drummer. 
  Sound - (10/10) - From a great variety of songs, both from original artists and cover artists, 
 the game sounds perfect. The cover songs are barely noticeable that it isn't original. Even the 
 sound effects, ranging from activating star power, to crowd noise, and even when the stage transforms 
 for an encore, sound great.
  Replayability - (10/10) - You could honestly play this game for months trying to perfect every 
 song, from easy difficulty to expert difficulty. Plus with a myriad of unlockable songs and downloadable 
 content, there should be enough material to keep you rocking for a long time.
  Presentation - (9/10) - The game is presented in a fun, easy to learn fashion. Brilliant colors, 
 and helpful tutorials make this a game most anyone can pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalfLifeFan22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Since Harmonix left for Rock Band, and Activision chose Neversoft to produce Guitar Hero 3, people 
 were'nt quite sure how Neversoft was going to deliver. And to answer everyone's question right 
 now, Neversoft does deliver. And quite honestly, I thought Neversoft took over the series better 
 than Harmonix orginally did. Which obviously leads to a great game.
  
  Just take a look at Guitar Hero 3's tracklist. These songs are not only fun, but they are great 
 to listen to while your playing. The songlist was deffinetly one of Guitar Hero 2's main problems. 
 Which in this case, is no problem here for Guitar Hero 3. 
  
  If you've noticed, quite a few songs are pretty heavy. Most of those are seen in the last few venues. 
 Which is where the difficulty really gets hard. This is probably where most of the complains about 
 the game have been. And there is really not much to say about this hear besides the game is just 
 really hard. Like most people, I started playing Guitar Hero 2 when it first released for the Xbox 
 360, like most people, I started on Easy and worked my way up to the hardest mode. So I pretty 
 much already knew how to do some of the hardest parts of solo's. So for me, beating Expert in a 
 few days really wasn't that hard. But for the that dont know if they should get the game because 
 it has a reputation now for being so hard, should just get it. Take your time, and practice. A 
 LOT.
  
  As for the Guitar goes, the buttons feel better, it looks cooler, and it just feels great. The 
 only addition to it that I dont like too much, is the whammy bar, it seems a bit stiff when you 
 try moving it sideways, but it's not that big of a deal. So if you weren't big on the Xplorer, 
 the Les Paul is the way to go.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is a great game, addicting, and satisfying when you nail all the notes in 
 a solo. Which to every beginner, you'll get better sooner and faster then you think. So just go 
 get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is obviously the 3rd in the series. Unless you count the 80's edition. Guitar Hero 
 is a game that gives you a plastic guitar and you play tracks that are on the game.
  
  Game play in this game is pretty much like all the other Guitar Hero games. You hit the button 
 when it tells you too (you also need to strum) . But something feels alot different in this latest 
 installment. On the lower difficulties they give you more space to hit the button. Which is nice. 
 But it feels way to different at first. The higher difficulties are great for people that are great 
 on expert on the previous guitar hero's. But for new people, don't expect to be some awesome pro 
 in a couple of days. 
  
  The graphics. Well They are alot better than the previous Guitar hero's. It takes a more realistic 
 look to the character models. They don't seem so cartoony anymore. The animations are great. The 
 lead singers lip syncing is great. But the animations of the band and crowd doesn't look right. 
 The band doesn't look like they are rocking out, they just look bored. The crowd just jumps up 
 and down, and just isn't right. But when your playing your really just looking at the guitar neck 
 with the notes on screen.
  
  The sound in this game is obviously its high light. Its got over 70 tracks. With more than half 
 of them the real deal. Unlike Guitar Hero 2 with the cover songs. This time they have alot of the 
 real stuff. In my opinion this is also the best soundtrack on a Guitar Hero game yet!
  
  Over All this game is great fun. I recommend it to everyone. People new to the series may have 
 troubles but its something that everyone gets better at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is finally here, and to say the least it is amazing. It gives you the things we've 
 been wanting since guitar hero 2; online! Before the game came out people were concerned on how 
 it would play online because of lag and latency issues but from the 2 weeks i've played the game 
 i haven't been in a laggy game yet even when i'm playing with people who have pings that are in 
 the red. Some disappointments with the online is no career co-op and its hard and tedious to join 
 games. 
  
  The main differences between this guitar hero and the others is the higher difficulty. At first 
 i really didn't noticed but if you go back to guitar hero 2 it is a walk in the park compared to 
 guitar hero 3. Guitar hero 3 has a lot m better graphics than the other guitar heros mostly because 
 it was built for next gen consoles and not just high resed like guitar hero 2 on the xbox 360. 
 A flaw with the better graphics are the frame rate issues which are ridiculous especially for a 
 rhythm game were timing is the key. 
  
  The sound track is pretty good in my opinion, this game is all about fast and heavy songs which 
 is a change of pace from the series because before it was mostly 70s or 80s rock songs. Because 
 of these types of songs the note charts are difficult making the game more fun for guitar hero 
 veterans but hard for new players of the guitar hero franchise.
  
  If your a guitar hero fanatic pick it up and if your new to guitar hero games i still recomend 
 getting this game because it is the best in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert47210
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Pros : Same great gameplay you've come to know and love from GH. Better song lists then GH2. Nicer 
 controller easier button pressing. Proface-off and face-off modes are back and as awesome as ever. 
 The cutscenes are a nice addition to the single-player mode. The rock meter and starpower meter 
 look alot better then before. Lastly the graphics are WAY better then anyother GH game i've ever 
 played and the singers mouth and movements are sinced up with the song you're playing.
  
  Cons: Battle mode just felt stupid and at times way too frustrating. If you've never played GH 
 before this may not be the best experience for you.
  
  Overall: If you've played GH before and liked it. Then you'll love GH3. Although I wouldn't recommend 
 starting your GH mania with GH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clean1984
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  I just bought gh3, and i traded it in a few hours later. I was so mad. songs suck. Where is ac/dc? 
 CCR? ok met was on it but why song name ( one) ? why not enter the sand man. there were afew goodbands 
 in the game but they picked the worst song's by them. The song by rolling stones why that one song 
 they put on. why not the song of the cover of the rolling stones or beast of burden? devil went 
 down to georgia is a good song but not good enouph to be the last song in the game. Rock you like 
 a hurricane is a good song butit sounded off (i think) it was re-done by a modern band. it didnt 
 sound right. Where is sweet dreams made of these or a davide bowie song. PINK FLOYED WASNT EVEN 
 IN THE GAME. and you have story of my life. What the **** is that? just another stupid punk band. 
 if any truelove rockers saw this message they would agree with me. THIS GAME HAS **** ASS SONGS 
 . PI**** ME OFF ALL I HAVE TO SAY IS THAT ROCK BAND BETER OF ALOT BETER SONGS ON IT.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jheart
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  The best one so far! The only bad part is that 2 players can't play with different hyperspeeds. 
 Other than that, it's great! The online mode is probably the greatest thing to happen to GH. Now 
 you can play anyone that has the game and a 360 without leaving your house! Being able to talk 
 on your 360 headset is also extremely fun while playing a song. The songs are also more challenging, 
 which makes it much more rewarding when you 5 star everything on Expert. TTFAF is a great song 
 once you figure out how to play the intro. GH3 is more chord-focused and features more triple chords. 
 The boss battles are lame; if you get a whammy powerup as your first powerup against the devil, 
 you win automatically. It's just a matter of luck, really. 
  
  The Les Paul is possibly the best GH controller ever made. The buttons are extra sensitive and 
 easy to push in. The whammy bar is responsive and the game even has whammy calibration. The strum 
 bar is also AMAZING - similar to the Xplorer controller, but it doesn't require as much force.
 
  
  GH3 also has a larger window for when you can hit a note on screen. This means you don't have to 
 be as precise with your timing as GH2. It makes the game easier, but there is a way to make it 
 so the timing is stricter.
  
  Overall, GH3 is a great addition and should definitely be in every 360 owner's possession. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has come a long way since the first game hit the PS2 back in 2005. Every single song 
 in the original Guitar Hero were covers. Guitar Hero 2 introduced the thought of tracks actually 
 recorded by the original artists. Guitar Hero 3 takes this idea and runs with it. GH3 features 
 almost entirely songs recorded by the original artists and it really takes the game to a new level.
 
  
  Although developing duties have switched over from Harmonix to Neversoft, the key gameplay is still 
 (nearly) completely intact. The only new gameplay mechanic is the Battle system that unfortunately 
 does not add much to the overall fun.
  
  The Track list is huge, over 70 songs and with local co-op and online play over XBOX Live, the 
 replayability has gone way past 11 (sorry had too lol)
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 is a tremendous success and is very worthy of carrying the Guitar Hero name. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ou661
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 a good game but a little dissapointing to what i thought it would be. So you have 
 campain, co-op campain, quickplay, multiplayer, practice/toutorials, and online.
  
  Campain Mode: Campain is pretty much the same as guitar hero 3 you have the choice to play throught 
 easy, medium, hard, or if ur crazy expert. Your probably going to fly through easy and medium, hard 
 might take a little bit of time, and its next to impossible to play throught expert. In campain 
 you also have the store where you can buy videos, new guitars, new characters, new outfits, new 
 songs, and diffrent paint jobs for your guitar nothing that new from Guitar hero 2. Thier isnt 
 anything new from Campain except for battle mode which isnt that good you just play against someone 
 where they play a set of notes then you play a set of notes and can shot powers at your opponet 
 like lefty flip where the frets are reversed, or amp overload where the notes on the screen are 
 blinking but this mode isnt that good because it takes about 1 min to beat your opponent or lose 
 to your opponent.
  
  Online: in Online you have ranked and unranked matches, you have battle mode which i dont really 
 see why you want to play it and you have face off and pro face the online is kind of shallow but 
 it gives you something to do after you finish the campain. Luckely the lag isnt that bad but online 
 still fills shallow.
  
  Everything else: co-op isnt that fun unless you want a reason to yell at your friend or can't take 
 turns on campain. Thier is no online co-op which is ok i guesse i dont think anyone would really 
 want to play it anyways. The achivments are pretty hard and might take you about a year to complete 
 them all. The set list is pretty good,
  
  Overall: I give Guitar hero a 7 because it comes up shalow leaving you wanting more from the campain 
 but luckely the set list saves the game from becoming below a 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Ummmm what can I say? I've played the first two guitar hero games a year ago and I absolutely adored 
 them. I bought an xbox360 this year and picked up guitar hero 2. I beat all the songs on expert 
 except for Jordan. So when guitar hero 3 came out I had to pick it up and I was instantly sucked 
 in. I unlocked all the songs in about two or three days and then I kind of stopped. I loved every 
 single moment that I played but it's just that the game didn't last as long as I had hoped it to. 
 I believe if it was the first guitar hero game I played I would have thought it was super awesome 
 because the playlist is just amazing comparatively with the other games. It's just sad that nothing 
 really changed. I think that everything got old when guitar hero 2 came out. Now it's almost like 
 dance dance revolution or sing star where they just add new songs and the gameplay never really 
 changes. I found myself liking the battle modes where you face off against slash or the devil but 
 those got old pretty quickly. Neversoft needs to go make a new game rather than making sequels 
 to Tony Hawk and Guitar Hero. They just keep making the same game with a few graphical updates. 
 For Guitar Hero veterans I suggest that you rent this one first. If you are brand new to the guitar 
 hero series this is probably the one guitar hero that you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T070Y
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Well this GH game is a veri cool game, beacause the gameplay is innovative since the 1st GH game.
 
  First i will start with the gameplay which it is very good, I will give it a 9.5
  Graphics: 8 out of 10, you know, have you ever played GHII? It has "good" graphics, but in GH III 
 the improved, but not that much we wanted to see.
  Content: 9 out of 10, good playlist, store things are good and more variety than other GHs, cool 
 characters and i think it will have a lot of good downloadable content from Xbox Live, the only 
 thing im not feeling that much is the playlist, you know cool soundtrack, but something is missing.
 
  Another thing I liked, is the fact that it has online play. The things i didn't liked, were the 
 HARD achievements and the difficulty of the songs the final songs in hard are like in expert.
 
  The final fact, if you are a fan of GH games, you must buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AC_Milan08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Heres the deal. It has the same great game play as Guitar Hero I and II, but it got a worse rating??? 
 All I've noticed in the game are the improvements, I really don't see any obvious flaws. I will 
 give you 3 solid reasons why it is better than Guitar Hero I and II.
  
  1) If you don't already have two guitar controllers, getting it with the new wireless one is a 
 must. It lets you have a little more freedom to rock out and it has a better feel. Also, it sounds 
 much less "clicky" when you're playing with it than with the wired one that came with Guitar Hero 
 II.
  
  2) The Play List is just outstanding. It is filled with absolute classics, like Welcome to the 
 Jungle by Guns and Roses, Rock You Like a Hurricane by the Scorpions, and One by Metallica. Also, 
 it contains some more alternative stuff, like Cherub Rock by Smashing Pumpkins and Suck My Kiss 
 by Red Hot Chili Peppers. Also, there are much less cover bands playing the songs in the game, 
 so you can play the real versions of these songs.
  
  3) If you have Xbox live, then that is a huge plus. It lets you show off your skills
  around 
 the world and gives you some compitition if you only have one guitar.
  
  Overall, this game is improving on the base that Guitar Hero I and II built. These improvements 
 really made it worth buying the third one after already owning the second. It is a great game and 
 if you are new to the series, you will find it highly addictive. It's worth buying and it never 
 gets boring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkMcGuirk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III for me is a bit hard to describe. On one hand it's still the same lovable gameplay 
 that made the first two incredibly popular. Although on the other hand it feels like Neversoft 
 tried a bit too hard to aim the game at a sole demographic: the more intense, "professional" Guitar 
 Hero player. I don't mind the amped up difficulty, though I'm no master at the game, but the song 
 selection and emphasis on competition rob the game of it's predecessors' charm.
  
  One thing I liked about the previous games were their large variety of song lists. Unfortunately 
 for me, who preferred songs like "Soy Bomb" and "Jessica" in Guitar Hero II, seemed to feel empty 
 with the heavy metal/hard-rock approach of this third installment. The developers seemed to mainly 
 cater said genres of music, although there's nothing wrong with "Paint It Black" or Reptilia, in 
 my opinion. 
  
  Another aspect of the game that I really thought we could have done without was the battle mode, 
 and the focus of it during campaign and multiplayer. When I want to play Guitar Hero, I'm hoping 
 to just have some friends jam together in a little co-op or the occasional face off. Instead I'm 
 now subject to, for some reason, people's urge to play battle mode. 
  
  Maybe it's just me, but Guitar Hero used to be more fun. The core gameplay still follows the same 
 formula, so I still appreciate it for what it is, but who said that it needed to be changed. Neversoft 
 added their own spin of Harmonix's baby, but for some reason it seems they tried too hard to outdo 
 the previous developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big musician, in grade school I played the violin and other than that I stayed away from 
 most instruments. The problem was that for a left-handed person like myself, trying to learn an 
 instrument with the wrong hand (right hand) was a pain in the back-side. 
  
  That being said when I played the Guitar Hero demo a few years back I was in love. While I did 
 have problem trying to play the game right handed, it was still more accommodating than trying 
 to play it as a lefty. With Guitar Hero III out now, I got to play again with a game I had fallen 
 in love back then and the tradition continues. While there are some changes, the same winning formula 
 is there. You got an easy to learn system to playing the guitar but definitely a system that requires 
 practice to master, especially for a lefty like my self who had to learn to play the guitar with 
 his right hand. 
  
  There is no real point on discussing the graphics in this game since your focus should not be on 
 the crowd or your band. You're eyes are focused solely on the chords and making sure you hit them 
 off. While the animated story clips are ok, they are not something to talk about. When you do catch 
 a glimpse of your guitarist and their band they do look pretty decent for an HD game but again, 
 not too impressive that you'll want to show them off and in general, your bandmates are fugly. 
 
  
  This game is all about the sound and while I've heard some people grip about the play-list, I found 
 it was a fair group of songs. Some songs aren't memorable, but just like any of your favorite artists, 
 that is always the case where you'll get some real gems, a few decent hits and then filler. When 
 you have more than 42 playable songs and a bucket-load of bonus tracks, there are bound to be at 
 least 5-10 songs you'll enjoy playing over and over again. I am not a big Weezer fan, but I enjoyed 
 'My Name is Jonas' and the Social Distortion song 'Story of my Life' is another tune I never heard 
 before, but really, really enjoyed (I got a perfect score on Medium playing that song) . The only 
 gripe I had with the playlist was the lack of Guitar Solo songs. I really loved the Hendrix song 
 back in Guitar Hero which was simply instrumental. While there is 'Cliffs of Dover' it would have 
 been nice to have at least one or two more songs that were strictly instrumental.
  
  The Career mode is good, but there is no real story involved other than getting little clips of 
 where your band is going to play next. It would have been nice, if they wanted a real career mode 
 was to simulate a real band and have ups and downs, where you're supposed to fail a song and then 
 rebuild from scratch, hopefully that is something future games improves upon (or another title 
 does it) . I didn't get a chance to play the Co-Op Career as I have no one with a Guitar to play 
 with me.
  
  In the online area, it's nice to have plenty of options, but the lack of Online Co-Op hurts, especially 
 if you don't have someone close by to join you. Considering that Co-Op has a few achievements attached 
 to it, if you don't have someone to come over and to dedicate a day or so to complete that mode 
 you're never going to get those acheivement points.
  
  In terms of difficulty, I would say, even with the improvements to the guitar, this is still a 
 right-handed friendly game. You will get used to playing it left handed, but the tipping of the 
 Guitar during battles and for star-power isn't as responsive as when playing right handed. Also, 
 playing the game on Expert and even for some songs on Hard can be painful. I might not have experience 
 playing a real guitar, but from reading people's blogs who do have the experience, they've said 
 that this is actually harder than playing a real guitar. That shouldn't be the case, but I guess 
 it's better to have a challenge than a walk in the park.
  
  If your the kind of person who is waiting for Rock Band to come out in a few weeks before picking 
 up either title, I think you can't really go wrong with either purchase. Guitar Hero is much more 
 focused, while Rock Band will give you a complete experience, but costs more. If you're not going 
 to have a lot of people over or are not that interested in playing the drums, then stick with Guitar 
 Hero and then rent Rock Band (your Les Paul will work with Rock Band) . 
  On the other side, if you're a person who hasn't trying Guitar Hero, then you owe it to yourself 
 to pick up a copy and try it out. Download the demo, but realize that playing with a controller 
 just is not the same. 
  
  When it comes down to it, this edition of Guitar Hero is a winner, while it did not add anything 
 truly ground-breaking, the formula still works and once they fix the costs for downloading songs, 
 you should have a game that you'll be playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudestoftherude
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, but don't want to see any more AXE ads as long as I live. Axe has nothing to do 
 with rock and roll, it smells awful and is childish. Spraying some tacky smelling air on yourself 
 will NOT get you laid. Aside from the annoyance of AXE ads smeared here and there, I think just 
 about everything either added to the game, or didn't detract from it as a final product. Battles 
 are cool, but nothing too ground breaking. The new track list is awesome, but I miss all the classic 
 rock and roll vibe. I don't think the Killers or AFI should have been included. Those songs are 
 only a year old, if that. Why not put in the songs that have been around and are integral to rock 
 and roll history (like Anarchy in the U. K. ;-) ) and skip the filler. There are plenty of good 
 songs out there that are fairly recent, with wide appeal that are more appropriate for a game sub-titled 
 "Legends of Rock".
  
  My only other gripe is that they still haven't included a way to unlock the more vulgar lyrics. 
 Shouldn't there be a "Mature" option, or parental locks that can censor or uncensor the lyrics. 
 Because, frankly playing "Holiday in Cambodia" , "Bulls on Parade" "Anarchy in the U. K." and "Killing 
 in the Name" (from GHII) with altered lyrics was kind of disappointing. I'm a big boy and can handle 
 hearing a few F-bombs... in fact I drop them regularly trying to master this game.
  
  Otherwise this is a sound game, all the fun you'd expect. More features, songs, costumes, guitars, 
 venues and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiveSurfer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The greatest thing of the guitar is the new looks, you can change it in anyway you like. Like in 
 one of the videos that showed GH3, the player had a guitar and the British flag on it. That was 
 very cool. But the best part of it all is, the song list. it has no many legendary songs, well 
 you know the name... ''Legends of Rock''. The songs like ''The number of the beast'', ''One'' and 
 ''Trough the fire and the flames'' and much much more. And the newest thing to the guitar hero 
 is the boss battles. You get to fight such bosses: Slash, Tom Morello and the main boss Lou (the 
 devil) , which you have to beat in the song ''The devil went down to Georgia''... But in the whole 
 its a great game, and I'm hoping to get my hands on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I listened to the reviews saying this was the hardest Guitar Hero yet, but I've been wanting to 
 jump in on the craze for some time now and the Wireless Guitar was calling me. I bought this game 
 and am happy I did, as it is a very enjoyable experience.
  
  Before I get to the game I want to say a little about the guitar. It is very well designed and 
 feels good in your hands. It works like you would expect and of course has the essential xbox guide 
 button as well as a spot for a wired headset. It runs on two AA batteries and performs about as 
 well as a regular controller does on them. To set it up you simply turn it on and hold down the 
 signal reset which finds your 360 automatically. The guitar itself is black, but the game comes 
 with some stickers you can customize the look with. Faceplates can be purchased separately but 
 none come with the game. It also comes with a simple black strap.
  
  The game itself has some great things going for it. The biggest one is probably the songs in the 
 game. There are a lot to choose from and a great variety that should be able to please just about 
 anyone. The game also has co-op play with a friend. You can play over xbox live or local. I've 
 played local and it works real well, and there are several achievements based on playing as a team. 
 I have not tried this over Live yet, but I imagine this would be more useful if your friends also 
 have the game on the 360. The achievements on this game are very challenging which should have 
 you playing this game for a long time.
  
  The major downside to this game, especially if you're a newbie like me, is the steep learning curve. 
 The game does try to help a little with a tutorial mode. It isn't very thorough, but it still helps. 
 Probably more helpful is the practice mode. In practice mode, you can play a whole song or just 
 certain sections of a song, as well as change the speed. Of course you have several difficulties, 
 with the normal difficulty being fun and rewarding. Easy might be a little boring, even to beginners. 
 I've played through some of the game on hard, but thats the farthest I've got. Expert is said to 
 be much harder.
  
  The other downside is their boss battles. It might not be as bad as some people say, but it is 
 very irritating at times. The bosses will hit every note without you interrupting them with some 
 kind of power up. If you aren't able to stop them in time they will always win, even if you've 
 taken them down nearly all the way. It just gets annoying sometimes. Anyway, if you can get past 
 the guitar duels quickly enough they aren't too bad, and can even be mildly entertaining.
  
  The end result is a very fun game that you'll be glad to own and play again and again. Its 
 worth learning how to play the game even though you might be slightly frustrated at first. The 
 game lends itself to those who prefer a challenge, but from my experience isn't too much for newcomers. 
 It is a very fun game that lives up to the hype surrounding the series. I know I've had a lot of 
 fun playing this game and I'd recommend it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOrmond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  With Harmonix no longer in charge of their beloved franchise, and Activision left with no developer. 
 Neversoft takes it's spin on the series for the first time. The game arguably has the best soundtrack 
 of all three games, yet it doesn't help if their poorly charted. Yes, these are fun songs... to 
 listen to. Neversoft, even with its first time doing this could have done much better. There are 
 unneeded triple power chords, places in which there should be more hammer-ons, and the difficulty 
 curve through all the tiers. The tiers were poorly balanced. Everything was a cinch up until the 
 the 8th tier, which consists of Raining Blood and the battle with Lou. These were the most DIFFICULT 
 things to accomplish on expert. There was absolutely no satisfaction after beating both, just poorly 
 payed off mental anguish. Along with the poorly charted songs, Raining Blood, Lou, and the difficulty 
 curve the size of the Grand Canyon, there were also problems with star power notes. Star power 
 notes would sometimes go on forever, with no end in sight. The sequences should of ended WAY earlier. 
 Boss battles were a worthless add-on, and were ridiculous. Lou was easily the most unbalanced boss 
 within the game, and there was no way in HELL you'll get past his Double Notes of Doom, unless 
 your a HEAVILY seasoned veteran. I would not miss this feature come GH 4, but due to Neversoft's 
 given nature, they'll keep it, add on to it, and make it worse. Just like some things in Tony Hawk 
 that should of ended after debuting in its first game. Achievements also took a turn for the worst. 
 The game was made for the guitar, but some achievements require you to play with a regular controller. 
 They should have stuck to what Harmonix had, and not create their own crazy accomplishments. The 
 atmosphere was completely ruined. The game was riddled with blatant ads, even going as far as to 
 make a special guitar for Axe body spray. The unlockable characters were unoriginal. Especially 
 Slash and Tom Morello, I don't care, Neversoft cut out original guitarists from GH 2 just to make 
 room for real guitarists. Anyone could of thought of Lou, or the "Rock God". Online was poorly 
 managed, if I ever tried to play, I could only play with friends, other games I could not connect 
 to. So far, I'm extremely disappointed with Neversoft's version, and I don't think it will get 
 any better than this. If you haven't played GH 2 or 1 and decide to get 3, DON'T. This could possibly 
 be the worst of the bunch for beginners. If possible, try the first two. 3's difficulty curve will 
 definitely annoy, and will turn people away from this game. I'm advised to say "Try again next 
 time Neversoft", but after this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Pros: This is still Guitar Hero; Online modes; A Co-op Career that organizes itself based on co-op 
 difficulty; Harder difficulty will entertain veterans longer; Battle mode is pretty cool Downloadable 
 songs; Great venue design; Les Paul controller WILL rock your socks; Over half of the song list 
 is master tracks; Awesome Cult of Personality solo recorded just for the game; The rest of the 
 campaign's song list is equally awesome
  
  Cons: Bonus song list leaves much to be desired; New character designs may infuriate old players; 
 Sketchy connection online; Game isn't as beginner friendly as previous installments; Lag? In a 
 Rhythm Game?!; Axe-branding in the game; Boss battles don't work out as well as they sound; Battle 
 mode often ends too fast; Covers aren't quite as good as previous installments; Cramps from playing 
 Through Fire and Flames on Expert
  
  When Harmonix moved on to make Rock Band (awesome game by the way, you should totally check it 
 out) , you wouldn't have been alone if you were worried about the future of the franchise. The music 
 game franchise handed over to a company that makes skateboarding games!? It couldn't work could 
 it? Thankfully Neversoft has stood up to the challenge and gotten most of the formula right.
  
  Clearly some people at Neversoft were big Guitar Hero fans, and they wisely chose not to fix 
 what wasn't broken. The game still revolves around hitting scrolling notes by pressing buttons 
 of the same color and strumming with a strum bar.
  
  All the features are still there too. Hammer-ons and pull-offs (notes that you don't have to strum) , 
 Star Power (lets you double your multiplier, and regain more health for hitting notes) , and even 
 whammying (moving a whammy bar up and down to gain more star power) .
  
  Again catering to the fans, Neversoft also decided to boost the difficulty. Here's where things 
 start getting a little messy. Big time players of the first two games are going to love songs that 
 will challenge every skill that they've loved, but on the other hand, the songs just aren't as 
 beginner friendly, having mildly tricky solos even in the 1st tier. Occasionally the developers 
 even took a song and used a bunch of confusing chords to make the song even harder (see songs "Before 
 I Forget" and "The Way It Ends") .
  
  Another point of debate is the new hammer-on and pull-off system. It sounds great in concept: instead 
 of having the game put in hammer-ons and pull-offs automatically, the developer put them where 
 they were and/or sounded like they were in the song. However, in practice it can get confusing. 
 Again, this will raise difficulty a little extra, because most people won't be thinking which notes 
 sound like they should be strummed or not while playing.
  
  Finally the last nasty quirk is boss battles. These are supposed to be epic confrontations with 
 guitarists such as Slash and Tom Morello, where you trade licks back in forth in a guitar competition. 
 Unfortunately you have to use power-ups (explained more in detail when I talk about battle mode) 
 to make the other person fail, so your goal is to actually hear less of the song, which sucks. 
 On a side note, the three tracks that you play battles on are set to be released downloadable so 
 that you can play them separately later this month. It seems that those on the PS2 and Wii are 
 stuck without those though.
  
  Otherwise the single player is the same as it has always been. You'll still progress through 8 
 tiers that gradually ramp up the difficulty until you are almost breaking your guitar controller 
 on the last tier. Co-op on the other hand is a little better in this game. Instead of sticking 
 to Co-op Quickplay, Neversoft actually rearranged the setlist to create a co-op career that gets 
 harder for both player instead of having one player's parts go all over the place in difficulty. 
 Unfortunately, you are stuck on one difficulty the whole time, or you have to restart the campaign. 
 Have a friend who can pass the first 5 tiers on Expert, but just can't seem to face "One?" Too 
 bad, you have to start over if he can't keep up. Another odd decision is the lack of co-op quickplay. 
 Although Xbox Live players got a patch to add that feature, every one else, again, is stuck playing 
 the campaigns
  
  The other new multiplayer mode, Battle mode is a mixed bag. Your goal is to make the other opponent 
 fail. Instead of getting star power, you get power ups which you use to sabotage them into failing. 
 These range from broken string (where one button stops working until they randomly mash it) to 
 lefty flip (which flips the person's screen temporarily) and can really screw people up. Unfortunately, 
 like the boss battles, you wind up hearing very little of the song because of this, and often rounds 
 end within 30 seconds.
  
  The other modes, Face-Off (where you trade parts with an opponent and try to score highest) , and 
 Pro Face-Off (where both players play the entire song on the same difficulty and try to score highest) 
 are the same. A very nice addition is online. Here you can take on random people who often know 
 what they are doing. It's a nice feature that adds a lot to the game, although there are a few 
 connection issues sometimes that are rather annoying.
  
  Backing away from the negative things for a moment, I have to give props to Neversoft for scoring 
 a killer setlist that is up to par with the first two games. The songs range from classics (such 
 as Paint It Black or Welcome to the Jungle) , to newer, but still awesome songs (such as Knights 
 of Cydonia) and even some that fit both categories (more specifically Cult of Personality, which 
 the actual band rerecorded for the game with an insane new guitar solo) . Even better yet, over 
 half of the setlist is master tracks (tracks from the original band) . Although unfortunately, the 
 covers on this game aren't quite as good as the other games which is disappointing since there 
 are less of them as it is. The only other large complaint I have is that the bonus songs aren't 
 quite as good in this game, without the Harmonix bands backing them.
  
  The other area that this game really nailed is the controller. The Les Paul controller by Red Octane 
 may just be the best yet. It's wireless, has removable faceplates, the buttons and the strum bar 
 feel really nice, the neck is removable, and the buttons are black on the front, looking a little 
 less dorky. All in all, you will want to get the game with the controller.
  
  Though the controller looks cooler, the look of the game itself will split fans into two groups. 
 There are those who like the new art style and what the characters look like, and those who miss 
 the old characters and styles. It's not necessarily a bad art style, it's just different. The venues 
 however are top notch. They are outlandish, having you play in places such as a prison, in front 
 of a fire breathing dragon, as well as in a Japanese city that has cardboard monsters rampaging 
 in it, but they look really cool. On a weird graphics related note, at the time of writing, the 
 game has a few slowdown issues if you use star power in areas with a lot of notes. It's a dumb 
 issue and shouldn't be in a rhythm game of all things, but until a patch fixes it, you'll have 
 to deal with it.
  
  This has to be one of my more negative reviews, but it's not because Guitar Hero 3 is a bad game. 
 Far from it. It's just that most of the good things are the same exact strong points from the first 
 Guitar Hero games. There are a ton of odd design decisions and quirks, but all you really need 
 to know is that this is another worthy entry in the Guitar Hero franchise with a strong setlist, 
 and a great controller. Fans should definitely pick this game up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pittongkid
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero fans, or hard core rock music lovers would definitely love this great game. With a 
 total of 70+ songs to play, you simply just can't get enough of it.
  
  Let me first describe the new Les Paul guitar: Very sleek and sexy, better fret and button locations 
 compared to the previous guitar, more sturdy feel and the best part of it, it's wireless. Though 
 rumors have spread about it being faulty, (fret buttons not registering, detachable neck is loosely 
 attached) mine suffered none of these. And I can't simply stress out how important the wireless 
 feature of the guitar is. Having a small space in my room with my kid crawling in-front/behind 
 me is no hassle at all. 
  
  Now going to the game though some, or lets say most of the songs were new to me, new set-list is 
 still fantastic! With a combo of slow & heavy rock, even my wife has favorites now. Animations 
 are still great except for the drummer who acts like a robot, hilarious cut scenes after each tier 
 is completed and encore events for additional fun and excitement. Boss battles on the other hand 
 can be hard especially on higher difficulty level which prevents you from beating that level is 
 sometimes frustrating... but given some time and a lot of practice, AND patience, being the next 
 Legend of Rock is not as impossible as it seems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Instead of writing an actual review, I will present you with a hypothetical question. Would you 
 pay 90-100 dollars for a pack of 72 songs, but 58 of those songs you hate? Before you buy this 
 game, look at the list of songs. Better yet I'll bring you the list straight from Wikipeadia.
 
  
  "Slow Ride"  Foghat 
  "Talk Dirty to Me"  Poison  (Vocals re-recorded by Bret Michaels) 
  "Hit Me with Your Best 
 Shot"  Pat Benatar 
  "Story of My Life"  Social Distortion 
  "Rock and Roll All Nite"  Kiss (Encore)
  "Mississippi Queen"  Mountain 
  "School's Out"  
 Alice Cooper 
  "Sunshine of Your Love"  Cream 
  "Barracuda"  Heart 
  Guitar Battle vs. Tom Morello (Original Composition) 
  "Bulls on Parade"  Rage Against the Machine
 
  "When You Were Young"  The Killers 
  "Miss Murder"  AFI 
  "The Seeker"  The Who 
  "Lay Down"  Priestess 
  "Paint It, Black"  The Rolling Stones (Encore) 
  "Paranoid"  Black 
 Sabbath 
  "Anarchy in the U. K."  Sex Pistols  
  "Kool Thing"  Sonic Youth 
  "My Name Is Jonas"  Weezer 
  "Even Flow"  Pearl Jam (Encore) 
  "Holiday in Cambodia"  Dead 
 Kennedys 
  "Rock You Like a Hurricane"  Scorpions 
  "Same Old Song and Dance"  Aerosmith 
  "La Grange"  ZZ Top 
  Guitar Battle vs. Slash (Original 
 Composition) 
  "Welcome to the Jungle"  Guns N' Roses (Encore played with Slash) 
  "Black Magic Woman"  Santana 
  "Cherub Rock"  The Smashing Pumpkins 
  "Black Sunshine"  
 White Zombie 
  "The Metal"  Tenacious D 
  "Pride and Joy"  Stevie Ray Vaughan (Encore) 
  "Before I Forget"  Slipknot 
  "Stricken"  
 Disturbed 
  "3's & 7's"  Queens of the Stone Age 
  "Knights of Cydonia"  Muse 
  "Cult of Personality"  Living Colour  (Encore) 
  "Raining Blood" - Slayer 
  "Cliffs of Dover" 
  Eric Johnson 
  "The Number of the Beast"  Iron Maiden 
  "One"  Metallica 
  Guitar Battle vs. Lou
  "Avalancha"  Hroes del Silencio 
  "Can't Be Saved"  Senses Fail 
 
  "Closer"  Lacuna Coil 
  "Don't Hold Back"  The Sleeping 
  "Down 'N Dirty"  LA Slum Lords 
  "F. C. P. R. E. M. I. X."  The Fall of Troy 
  "Generation Rock" 
  Revolverheld 
  "Go That Far"  Bret Michaels Band 
  "Hier Kommt Alex"  Die Toten Hosen 
  "I'm in the Band"  The Hellacopters 
  "Impulse" - An 
 Endless Sporadic 
  "In the Belly of a Shark"  Gallows 
  "In Love"  Scouts of St. Sebastian 
  "Mauvais Garon"  Naast 
  "Metal Heavy Lady"  Lions 
 
  "Minus Celsius"  Backyard Babies 
  "My Curse"  Killswitch Engage 
  "Nothing for Me Here"  Dope 
  "Prayer of the Refugee"  Rise Against 
  "Radio Song"  Superbus 
 
  "Ruby"  Kaiser Chiefs 
  "She Bangs the Drums"  The Stone Roses 
  "Take This Life"  In Flames 
  "The Way It Ends"  Prototype 
  "Through the Fire and Flames" 
  DragonForce
  
  Now with that list there, let me remove the unplayable songs (songs that aren't mapped out well) 
 because why would you want baddly made songs. I won't remove bad songs because its all about taste. 
 But also the songs that aren't good for guitar hero will go.
  
  "Talk Dirty to Me"  Poison  (Vocals re-recorded by Bret Michaels) 
  "Hit Me with Your Best 
 Shot"  Pat Benatar 
  "Story of My Life"  Social Distortion 
  "Rock and Roll All Nite"  Kiss (Encore)
  "School's Out"  Alice Cooper 
  "Sunshine of Your 
 Love"  Cream
  "Paint It, Black"  The Rolling Stones (Encore) 
  "Paranoid"  Black Sabbath 
  "Anarchy in the U. K."  Sex Pistols  
  "My Name Is Jonas"  Weezer 
 
  "Even Flow"  Pearl Jam (Encore) 
  "Holiday in Cambodia"  Dead Kennedys 
  "Rock You Like a Hurricane"  Scorpions 
  "La Grange"  ZZ Top
  "Cherub Rock"  The Smashing 
 Pumpkins 
  "The Metal"  Tenacious D 
  "3's & 7's"  Queens of the Stone Age 
  "Knights of Cydonia"  Muse 
  "Cult of Personality"  Living Colour  (Encore) 
  "Cliffs of 
 Dover"  Eric Johnson 
  "One"  Metallica 
  "Impulse" - An Endless Sporadic
  
  Look how small that list is, if we compare this list with the Guitar Hero III list, its a waste 
 of money. By the way, there is no "Bark at the moon" or "Freebird" final encore, it has been replaced 
 with a Battle against the devil. Its short and way to damn hard, it would have been nice if they 
 had "Eruption" or any other great song. One more thing about the encore songs, they are very much 
 out of place and easy in some cases. Back to the Battles you will have is also very much out of 
 place, considering the game is called "Legends of Rock" there aren't really that many legends, 
 by that, I mean there is only one (if you think Slash is that good) .
  
  Here's who should be a boss, Frank Zappa is last and Van Hallen is second . Slash isn't actually 
 a guitar hero people, he's only a good guitarist but not worthy to cast any hype with a battle 
 against.
  
  Anyways, if you like the series but like 1960's-1970's songs that were in the previous games, take 
 a with this. But if you like 1990's-2000's songs (BUT WHY WOULD YOU!?) Get this game. Online kind 
 of saves it.
  
  JUST SO YOU KNOW, I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS GAME A 5.5 if it weren't for the online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Nige
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  
  Well I've been waiting with great anticipation for this to be released ever since some ass wipe 
 stole no. two from me and here it is.
  This idea of a game still blows me away. All it took for me to be hooked was one go at playing 
 Killing in the name of on no. 2. The inherent feeling that for one song you are a crazy guitar 
 rocker is like nothing else as far as games go.
  
  So what does no. 3 bring to the table? You've prob heard of all the new additions - guitar battle, 
 a plethora of new and actually better than last time songs and of course the wireless guitar.
 
  Guitar battle is an ok addition but the problem with it is that whoever (which seems to be random) 
 comes to a section where they can receive a method of attack first will usually win. This is due 
 to the close to impossible ability to recover after being hit twice in a row by a couple of powers 
 and the "battle" is over before you know it. For example if someone uses the snap string power, 
 then straight away follows up with the power that makes you pump the whammy bar b4 you do anymore 
 playing you are pretty much screwed. Though initially fun (battling Slash is pretty wicked) , the 
 game mode becomes predictable and somewhat unfulfilling. Unlike the feeling of dominating a track 
 such as Welcome to the Jungle by Guns N' Roses.....
  
  Which brings me to the new tracks, it is in fact hard to find a track that isn't appealing. From 
 the cool old school - Guns N' Roses, Black Sabbath, etc; the out and out wicked - Rage Against 
 the Machine and the cool new school - The Killers and AFI! 
  The gameplay is top notch like no. 2 but does receive some assistance from the new guitar. The 
 new fret buttons are more responsive and the whammy bar is longer and doesn't run away from your 
 fingers if you take them off it. Though I'm not sure about it but I think the new strum bar on 
 the wireless is actually less responsive than the wired guitar's. You may want to check the forums 
 about it cause I could be wrong. The reason I say that is because when playing some songs with 
 repeated one after the other strums I was missing a few here and there. Might be slow reaction 
 time but it felt to me that the strum bar wasn't activating the on screen cues. Well guess you'll 
 find out for yourself because there's no doubting the whole new level of coolness the wireless 
 factor, the new look Gibson designed shape and of course the stickers (there's a Guns N' Roses 
 one included!) brings to the guitar. 
  
  My only gripe is the damn difficulty of even the medium level! Ok so I'm probably a pretty average 
 Guitar Hero rocker but honestly newcomers beware! Once you get up to the 8th stage performance 
 area things become damn hard and really intense. I find it hard to even follow the onscreen cues, 
 let alone strum in time. It takes a lot of practise, a lot of patience and almost requires robot 
 fingers to play! The level of strumming and fret changing required quickly tires the hands. Once 
 it gets to this point the game almost becomes frustrating and well not so fun. I find myself only 
 able to play three or four of the tougher songs and having to turn it off and have a break! And 
 this is on freaking medium difficulty! Couldn't imagine expert. I don't think Easy difficulty is 
 satisfying enough either, so be prepared for a seriously hard game!
  
  If one can get around the difficulty, which I almost can't, there's some wicked fun to be had. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  While this realy isn't a 3rd since theres the 80's edition it says 3 .
  
  The game play doesn't realy differ from other guitar hero games but just the fact its so much harder 
 than 1 and 2 well maby not so much but it is a lot harder... In this guitar hero you will fight 
 bosses wich sounds lame and kinda is ill get to that later when i talk about multiplayer... Therese 
 nothing realy else to say about the game 
  
  The multiplayer.... You can do co-op with your friends wich is cool you can battle them over live 
 wich is kinda fun but it goes buy kinda fast since you got these thing that you can send on your 
 oppointent and just make there string go out and all sords of stuff
  
  The sound The sound is just like any other GH game its good they have some realy good or realy 
 bad covers in the game 
  
  The graphics are prety nice even though you realy won't be looking at them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo684
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I was a HUGE fan of guitar hero II. I spent hours upon hours playing it, and I must say I got prety 
 damn good. So naturally, you'd think I would rush out to buy guitar hero III, right? Wrong. I wasn't 
 really impressed with what I saw before the game came out, so I rented it first which was a very 
 good decision. I think there are a few reasons why this game just didn't quite live up to what 
 another guitar hero sequel should have.
  
  First of all, the set list was very weak. Maybe it's just because the one in guitar hero II was 
 so good, but I was severly disappointed with the songs that were available. The game is dominated 
 by heavy and sludge metal songs... and not even really good ones! To me, it feels like they didn't 
 choose as many songs based on their guitar parts, but just on how hard they "rock". This can be 
 debated but even some of the most amazingly awesome songs don't belong on a guitar hero game. Even 
 some of the songs that originally attracted me to the game were a disappointment. They are good 
 songs... they just aren't any fun to play. Overall, the set list just lacked variety... too much 
 on the heavy end... next to none on the light end... and much less of the technical stuff compared 
 to guitar hero II. Also, there are some songs that I just can not believe are on the game "Hit 
 me with your best shot" anyone? I felt like gagging the entire time I played that song, which I 
 did with the volume turned almost all the way down so I wouldn't have to hear that crap. Weak.
 
  
  Second, the difficulty is very inconsistent. Playing through on hard and expert was extremely frustrating, 
 but not for the reasons you may think. I found every song except for "One" and "Raining Blood" 
 to be too easy... and then those two are just too damn hard. I didn't feel like the songs were 
 getting steadily more difficult, I felt like they added a few more notes until these two songs, 
 and then decided to make them as hard as possible. Now, in guitar hero II, I only beat freebird 
 on expert once, that one was really hard, but there were plenty of other songs that were very challenging, 
 but still doable. When you look at the songs, for the most part, you have either really easy or 
 way too hard.
  
  Third, I really feel like guitar hero has sold out. Don't believe me? Lets look at all the blatant 
 advertising to be found... After looking through the store that is absolutely COVERED with advertisements 
 for guitarcenter and buying a guitar that has an ad for "Axe" on it, you may choose to actually 
 play the game. Then you can go and play a song by the band AFI, because when I think of guitar 
 hero, oh yeah, I think of AFI. Then, which setting are you going to play in? How about the "video 
 shoot" setting, where you'll play in front of a green screen and a crowd of about 10 people on 
 top of a giant, flaming, pontiac semi-truck... because, if given the chance to choose anywhere 
 to play in a fictional game, I would MUCH rather play in that setting than in a giant arena. As 
 you stand there in a sea of advertisements for the game's many sponsors, you can say to yourself, 
 oh boy! Now I know what its like to completely sell out to the man in a game that claims to represent 
 the values of "true rockers". Seeing all those ads just made me want to puke.
  
  Overall, guitar hero 3 just made me want to play guitar hero II instead. The boss battles aren't 
 any fun, and there really haven't been any other large additions. This is still guitar hero so, 
 yes, it is fun, but it is very lacking and I am very glad I did not buy it. Here's hoping Rock 
 Band delivers where Guitar Hero 3 did not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceBermanX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Guitar Hero games I have ever played. It has a different feel to it, a 
 different look per say. The songs are truely amazing. With Guns N' Roses Welcome to the Jungle 
 to Miss Murder by AFI. The makers have really incoperated a bunch of new bads which makes for a 
 great variety of songs. The online features, Battle, Pro Face-Off, Face-Off and Co-Op are really 
 fun to play. Battle well as it says in the name Battle it's a fight to the death of who is the 
 better Guitar Hero! Pro Face-Off and Face-Off aren't all that amazing, but are still fun. Co-Op, 
 well it's fun when you know who you're playing. It is much more exciting when you play with a friend. 
 The acheivements are pretty easy to get, probably the hardest one is to beat Through the Fire and 
 the Flames on Expert. Moving along, the story is fun to play, but obvisouly you bought the game 
 for the songs. Well that's my review hope you enjoed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game isn't perfect. It isn't mediocre. It's pretty awesome in fact. Neversoft didn't do anything 
 to out of the ordinary where it's a completely new game, they made some minor adjustments and additions 
 (some for better, some for worse) and don't exactly make it their own, but their 'cover' of the 
 game. It's not very different, it's just their interpretation. 
  
  Hardware: Let's start with the guitar. I'll only talk about the Les Paul for the 360 because that's 
 the only new guitar I've got to play with. 
  The Les Paul is very responsive, sturdy, quieter and way better to rock out with. Let's start with 
 the buttons. Neversoft has gone back to using the PlayStation 2 buttons, with I'm very happy about 
 because the X-Plorer buttons sucked. Les Paul's fret buttons are softer and a bit clacky but still 
 work great and aren't a hassle like the X-Plorer. The detachable neck has been spreading around 
 rumors that it falls off, it can slide up and down and it's a bit loose. Hell, sometimes the buttons 
 may not work. Well, I'm happy to say that I don't have any of those problems. I would suggest that 
 you don't lock and unlock it, and play around with it. Just put it on, leave it and you shouldn't 
 have any problems. The strum bar is the best so far. It's way quieter and feels also more responsive 
 for some reason. Oh, and it's wireless and never has any lag. 
  
  The Game Itself: So, you have that new shiny and sleek guitar to play with, but how's the game? 
 Well, I'm happy to say that the game is equal awesome as the Les Paul. Guitar Hero III is like 
 the others with no real new additions. You have your Career, Quick Play, Training and all that. 
 You play through a tier on Career. Unlock an Encore song. Play the Encore. Unlock the songs on 
 the next tier... so on. It is feeling a bit tiring and old, and Neversoft tries to add some 'Boss 
 Battles' where you play Tom Morello, Slash or Lou against their own composition and if you beat 
 them... you unlock an Encore song. Now the Guitar Battles can be fun, but also can be really frustrating. 
 It's all about how good you are. I'm decent, but they still are frustrating. Especially, the devil. 
 
  
  The setlist is great. Taking new rock, some old rock and some foreign tracks, mashing 'em together 
 and well, making a terrific setlist. The songs themselves do seem harder because of the crazier 
 note charts. This makes it a challenge, but not everyone likes a challenge. That means some songs 
 or boss battles, you can be stuck on for days or weeks before you finally pass them. Including 
 that you can't play the Boss Battles outside Career also really sucks (you can't even Practice 
 them!) . 
  
  Even after all that bashing, I gotta say it's an enjoyable game. It's not trying to impress anybody, 
 it's just bringing the fun Guitar Hero gameplay and bringing more content. I still was impressed 
 and give this a higher score then Navarro.
  
  Note: I didn't mention graphics because they weren't really necessary (but they do like nice and 
 next-gen) . I also didn't talk about Online play because I don't have friggin' Xbox Live. Read someone 
 else's review for that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSPeck17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Rhythm-based games have been around for quite some time. With the introduction of Beat Mania and 
 Guitar Freaks, the genre has gone insane and with the introduction of Guitar Hero III, the genre 
 can now be called the Nebraska Cornhuskers. This reviewer is from that particular state and so 
 two different things that I love going to crap isn't exactly what I want.
  
  Guitar Hero III does allow for some great fun at parties and gatherings alike just as its predecessors 
 did. But with the few differences such as difficulty, new song selection, new guitar button sensitivity. 
 Two of those differences are yippy, yee-haw, great, good, and fun. The other one, on the other 
 hand, is absolutely RIDICULOUS.
  
  First of all, song selection is great this year. Spanning this set list are bands from Germany, 
 Britain, Japan, and the United States. Crazy shredders like DragonForce, Black Sabbath, Guns 'N 
 Roses, Pearl Jam, Slayer and Metallica. And great songs from Santana, Foo Fighters, Rage Against 
 The Machine, The Killers, Weezer, Kiss. I have no problem playing these songs for hours on end 
 in quick play.
  
  The new guitar sensitivity is nice, considering each new guitar is now wireless and includes higher 
 button sensitivity allows for easier hammer-ons and pull-offs. And now you can go anywhere in the 
 room you're playing without worry of rocking out a bit too hard!
  
  Save the crappiest feature for last-the difficulty-which is an absolute mind-blow setting in Guitar 
 Hero III. Playing through these songs on Medium is difficult in its own right, bumping it up to 
 hard (the expert mode from last year) makes it absolutely annoying. No one, not even those who got 
 five stars on the expert songs of last year can possibly get fve stars on this years expert songs. 
 It's ridiculous. I've tried for hours to beat the final boss on Hard, I can't even get him below 
 halfway. It's impossible. It's been said that Guitar Hero III is for the die-hard fans of the genre, 
 I've become one of those fans and I can't even beat the second to last difficulty. How am I supposed 
 to beat the entire game? Answer me that, Neversoft, how can I beat this game if I could barely 
 beat the expert mode of last year?
  
  I loved this game from the beginning and now that I've gotten to the hard mode, I despise it. It's 
 impossible, it's ridiculous to think that anyone without three hands could possibly beat this entire 
 game. Don't get me wrong, it's a great step up in the genre, but based on it's difficulty, it turns 
 off a lot of different people, me included. I can't stand that I can't beat this game but it has 
 absolutely no possibility of getting beat. It's ridiculous.
  
  Great game, horrible difficulty that won't allow anyone to even get through it. At best, I give 
 it a 7.5, just for the presentation and selection and a docking of points for it's ability to absolutely 
 decimate anyone who tries to beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricmasmor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of these game.. I have actually an electric guitar and I play it very well... It doesnt 
 matter ... these game does it really great. And in guitar hero 3 ... these game offers the same 
 formula that made it popular,,, and offers a battle mode that really kick ass when you have both 
 guitars. really great music... (pearl jam... great) (heroes del silencio awesome) ... and now it 
 has the real voices so nice!!.. sadly these game its so addictive that you can finish it in about 
 3 hours... it has a lot od downloudable stuff... but when you have it all... you have a really 
 great plastic guitar that you wont use until guitar hero 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  To a certain extant this game is crazy, and absolutely amazing! Guitar Hero 3 is so far the best 
 in the series! If you have never played Guitar Hero it takes maybe 10-20 minutes to love.
  
  Pros:
  -A lot more good song then bad songs.
  -New and improved graphics.
  -Better looking 
 guitar.
  -Highly addicting.
  -The band actually sings, and plays the songs.
  -Much more challenging.
  
  Cons:
  -The animation on the audience, and drummer are bad.
 
  -Still some bad song from good bands.
  -The battle mode is irritating.
  
  
  Overall: This game is worth buying, but lacs some good songs. 
  
  jfk djf djfl djlf djfkldj 
 fkldjf dj fdlkfj dkjfld fldkfjdlk jfdkl fjdlk fjdlk fjdkl fjldk fjldk fjlkdj flkdj flkdj flkdjflkd 
 jfdlk fjdl fjdl fjdlkfj ldkf jdlkf jdlkfj dlkf jdl fjdfkljd flkdj flkd jflkd fjlkdjf dlkfjdlkf 
 jdlkf jlkd fjlkdj flkdjf kldjfkldjf kldfj dlkfj dklfj dklfjdlkf jdj dl jdflkdjflkd jflkdj fkldjf 
 kldf jdlkfjd lfjd lfjdlf dlfjdlk fjlkdjfkl djflkd jfldkf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Oh how we can overhype game such as these, don't let shinny visuals and online play fool you! Although, 
 this game looked very good because all you have to read is the online play part. Now, the graphics 
 drasically improved from Guitar Hero II, the singer hits the words prefectly and the whole band 
 looks nice, or uglier. Hey, even the drummer has a face now! Or should we not be happy, I rather 
 him not have a face, eww, scary. Although, the graphics look very nice, do we really ever notice 
 them when we are tearing it up with our new wireless Gibson Les Paul Guitar controller! The guitar 
 is a very nice add on with wireless capiablities, but one thing about the guitar can throw you 
 off and make you very made. The guitar need less of a tilt to activate star power, or should I 
 say a sudden flinch. When you get star power you better stay completely still or point your guitar 
 at the ground, because if your saving that star power for a hard solo you can't get past without 
 it, you do what ever it takes. The guitar's wireless capiablities are always welcome to hit those 
 notes, or how so? 
  
  Neversoft has certainly made sure that actual guitarist break their finger, while trying to throw 
 they're pinky across the room to hit a green and orange note. Theres only one thing Neversoft has 
 explained in this game is that "Newcomers are not welcome!" If you haven't playing the previous 
 games and are 5 staring expert songs, good bye. They seem to have pushed every little button of 
 the gamers (literally.) Sure, people will bring up the fact the "I'll just play Easy and progress." 
 Trying to go from Easy to Meduim, Meduim to Hard, and finally Hard to Expert is almost impossible. 
 The songs you love that are in the game are just ruined to the fact that you will have to have 
 surgery after everyone of them, such as 3's and 7's (Queens of the Stone Age,) "Pretenders" and 
 "All my Life" (Foo Fighters,) and many more. The fact that a great deal of frustration will build 
 up in you will prevent you from playing the game and forcing you to buy Guitar Hero II. Yea, fail 
 all them song, even some on Hard, really isn't all that fun in the end. For all the temptation 
 of smashing your guitar, this game isn't worth the $100 paid for it. But the game can be very, 
 very, very enjoyable when you are good, even on Hard it's every fun to play ... especially them 
 solos, such as "Cult of Personality" (Living Colour.) Don't always try to go big, practice and 
 get better ... you'll need it in this game. 
  
  The boss battles can be fun, but theres only 3 boss battles, not much to offer, huh? The game itself 
 has a better soundtrack from the previous ones in the past, and it also included online play, finally! 
 Yay! Online play, oh how we can preceive such things as online game play. Online rocking is actually 
 plenty of fun with friends, especially on the new battle mode, but good luck finding a match online 
 matchmaking. Most of the time, unless your extremely lucky, you be left getting a screen saying 
 "Fail to connect to host" about 10 times in a row. Ah, finally found a room! If you start to win, 
 most of the time you'll have people quit on you, which gets old after awhile. Word of advice, play 
 Co-op with your buddy. Thanks Guitar Hero for making me excited, stomping on the excitment, and 
 then making me buy Guitar Hero II again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  its got a solid tracklist... the visuals have been given a nice touch from guitar hero 2... the unlockable 
 characters are just AWESOME and memorable (Morello... hello?!) ... i also love the new wireless guitar. 
 The game is a blast, i would definitely recommend it to anyone whos enjoyed the series, or even 
 newbies. It's highly addictive and the replay value is endless. Career co-op is AMAZING, online 
 play works really well with tons of cool modes. Some of my fav tracks are Cherub Rock, Barracuda 
 and Bulls on Parade. Is this going to be better than Rock Band? Who knows, but atleast if you dont 
 want to drop the $$$ you can get it for just the guitar tracks.
  
  Cons:
  - difficulty is harder than previous versions
  - guitar battles are unbalanced
  - Some items 
 in store are too expensive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RojAvon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Before I bought GH3 I had only played GH2 and Encore a couple of times at a friends house. I found 
 this a worthwhile purchase and I think the wireless controller is a nice addition. Now I'll probably 
 go back and pick up the earlier versions as well.
  
  I found the easy level extremely easy indeed but it gives guests a good level to start with if 
 they have never played the game before. Medium is a good blend of fun and challenge for me right 
 now but I'm finding the boss battles kind of annoying.
  
  I think the basic set list is pretty strong with a nice blend of old and new songs but I was really 
 disappointed with the bonus tracks that you can buy . A bunch of lame songs by bands I've never 
 heard of that really aren't fun to play as the party game this should be. The fun of a game like 
 this is getting to play songs you know and have enjoyed and to have a little bit of the rock star 
 fantasy. I'm not interested in a huge list of original songs.
  
  I'm glad to bought it, it's a great fun game but it needs to add some good tracks through XBL to 
 give it more legs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneliestGoat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 may leave you with a bitter taste in the back of your mouth if you were as dedicated 
 to Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero 2 as I was.
  
  New developers Neversoft have rather unwisely decided to fix a game that wasn't broken to start 
 with by adding a ridiculous new boss battle and face off mechanic. I can't even describe how awful 
 this new feature is. You get to battle with the likes of Slash and Tom Morello. Could they have 
 found two more irrelevant artists to put in the game? How about Mark Tremonti? Was C. C. DeVille 
 unavailable? Where's Wes Borland when you need him?
  
  The track list for this game is abysmal as well. There are two songs by The Killers. Yes, TWO. 
 Because one wasn't enough. There are a few shining moments along the way like Evenflow, One, Pride 
 And Joy, and The Metal, but most of the tracks are almost unplayable.
  
  The note tracking is also sub-par compared to the treatment from the team at Harmonix on GH and 
 GH2. It feels like Neversoft tried their best to make up for the lack of decent guitar work in 
 the songs they selected by making the note tracks more difficult than they ought to be by any reasonable 
 standard.
  
  Don't waste your time on this one. Save your money and hope that Rock Band lives up to the hype. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goth_spider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ill make this review as short as i can. If you like guitar one and two, you will love this 
 game! Only downer is the guitar and the problems with it, but i just use my x. The achievements 
 is also a downer cause you have to play through all the difficulty settings to get all the achievements 
 and the multi player achievements are long-term goals, but the game is so fun you wont notice! 
 The set list is the most challanging and best in the series! Where do i start.. Metallica... Dragonforce... 
 TENACIOUS D! Guitar hero 3 has everything a guitar player or music lover or gamer could love. Straight 
 up SOLID game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I have always play guitar hero since the first one. They have all been great games but this one 
 is the best. Anything you though was missing in number 2 is in this one and more. There are so 
 many great songs and plenty of unlockables. The graphics are great and just make the notes look 
 great and clear. Theres even online play which is fun but could have been better. There are plenty 
 of reasons to replay the songs whether its you want a better score, a harder difficulty or leaderboards. 
 The mini cutscenes are funny. This game is overall great and definitly worth playing but online 
 play could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  i am a huge GH fan, but the third game is horrible. it is just like GH2, which is great, but i 
 expected more. my guitar sometimes seemed to stop working, and i assume that is because of the 
 detachable neck feature. the song list is way better, but it is hard to like a game when the song 
 list is the only thing that changed. the makers of the game should have taken more time and then 
 the game would be better. the graphics are exactly the same, and i wanted more, and i got the same. 
 i sure hope they dont make a GH4, and if they do, work on it and improve t the best it can be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebestbet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is very difficult to review, as it has many different facets to it that are good and 
 many different facets that are not so good. To start with, the game brings hardly anything new 
 to the table other than a wireless controller and new songs. It is the same basic guitar hero formula 
 that hasn't been messed with and that is a good thing, but at the same time, the formula is already 
 starting to get stale.
  
  Early on in the game, the songs are entirely too easy on the Expert difficulty. As the game progresses, 
 however, the game gets increasingly harder until you reach the final tier which the developers 
 have made near impossible. With Raining Blood by Slayer, One by Metallica, and Number of the Beast 
 by Iron Maiden, the game has been taken to a new Carpel Tunnel- Level. To beat these songs you 
 have to be willing to submit your wrist to a lifetime of arthritis and pain.
  
  The graphics in the 360 version are well done and all the models have been done well. The only 
 thing that is a little strange is the way the singer looks in the game. The model has been done 
 very well for the singer but the question is why does he have a chin that would rival, and possibly 
 beat out Jay Leno for biggest chin-of-all-time? Ah well, just a small distraction from the addiction 
 that is Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero III is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Wow. This is the game for those who wish to be rockstars. But, it's surprisingly harder for people 
 who play guitar. When the chords come, I feel like I'm doin them right, but I always miss. It's 
 also extremely harder than the other 2. But while I have the opportunnity, This is a list of songs 
 that would be sick on GH3.
  
  Breaking benjamin- Polyamorous So cold Home Breath Diary of Jane Had Enough Blow me Away Firefly 
 Sooner or Later Break my Fall You fight me
  
  Disturbed- Down with the sickness Prayer Ten thousand fists Land of Confusion Decadence Fear Stupify
 
  
  Linkin Park- No more sorrow What I've done
  
  Avenged sevenfold- Almost Easy Sieze the Day
  
  Chevelle- Comfortable liar Family system The 
 red Well enough alone
  
  30 seconds to Mars- Attack The kill
  
  Three days grace- Time of Dying One-X Animal I have become Home I hate everything about you Wake 
 up Burn Never to late Riot
  
  YellowCard- Lights and Sounds Rough landing, Holly
  
  Puddle of Mudd- She hates me Famous
  
  10 Years- Wasteland
  
  Within Temptation- What have 
 you done
  
  Finger eleven- Paralyzer
  
  Korn- Coming Undone Word Up! Twisted Transistor Evolution Hold On Right Now
  
  CrossFade- Disco 
 Cold
  
  Default Wasting my Time
  
  Fall out boy Dance dance Thnks fr th mmrs Sugar, we're goin' down Matchbox 20- How far we've come
 
  
  Staind- Right here
  
  System of a Down- Chop Suey Toxicity
  
  Ahhhh....... I'm done now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOCGK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  For starters, the game appears to be easier than GH2 because the window for you to hit notes has 
 been enlarged. This is an improvement because it makes it easier for anyone to get into the game.
 
  
  At the same time, there are more three-note chords to be found in the game than there were before, 
 upping the difficulty on higher levels. Hammer ons and Pull offs are more numerous than in GH2 
 and it makes the game feel more fun, especially when two people manage to hit a long series of 
 notes.
  
  Online support has so far been wonky for me, hardly ever working and I am looking forward to what 
 downloadable content will become available.
  
  The wireless guitar is better constructed and feels better in every way than the Xplorer. Rock 
 fans who want to act out fantasies can find no better game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure if Guitar Hero III was worth picking up for someone already planning on picking up 
 Rock Band. But I am glad I decided to get it in addition to the Rock Band preorder I am picking 
 up in a couple of weeks. The challenge mode is a new twist that differentiates this game from others 
 in the series and from Rock Band, and it can be hilarious fun (or thumb-numbing torture if you're 
 doing a challenge on a harder difficulty!) In challenge, you will face up against famous guitarists 
 such as Slash in a battle to see who can make the other fail first, including cutting the other's 
 guitar strings, overloading their amp, changing their guitar to lefty, upping the difficulty on 
 them suddenly, etc. You can also play this challenge mode in online multiplayer. It is frantic, 
 funny fun. Otherwise, the game has an excellent track library of great songs you will want to play 
 over and over. There are definitely fewer duds this time around than the overkill death metal of 
 GHII. GHIII is a real challenge on harder difficulties. It pretty much assumes you are a GH veteran 
 if you want to play on Hard or Expert. But the majority of gamers will be able to get a bearable 
 challenge out of medium and not much trouble at all out of easy. Easy is probably manageable even 
 for casual gamers.
  
  One of the greatest strengths of GHIII is the multiplayer. Co-op and competitive are both available, 
 both for split screen with a friend in your living room or online multiplayer. There is something 
 very addictive about this game. You will want to complete set lists to unlock new songs and earn 
 money to buy more goodies, and songs you especially like you will find great satisfaction in working 
 on until you can play them flawlessly. Goodies you can buy at the store are more expansive this 
 time, with tons of guitars, songs, outfits, and other stuff. Money can be earned on any difficulty 
 level this time, including easy. It's a lot easier to accumulate stuff from the store a lot faster 
 this time.
  
  If you can only get one music game this fall, it may be too hard to pass up the drum and mic in 
 addition to guitar on Rock Band. But if you are already getting Rock Band and want an excellent 
 game to tide you over until it comes out, or more tracks to enjoy than Rock Band alone offers, 
 definitely pick up Guitar Hero III. There are unique features and tracks here and a lot of fun 
 and replay value for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the latest installment in one of the most popular franchises around right now. 
 The series is known for having a soundtrack that appeals to all kinds of fans of rock and its sub-genres. 
 Guitar Hero 3 follows that same formula and the result is a soundtrack that surpasses is predecessors 
 ten fold, in my opinion. It doesn't matter whether you like modern rock, mainstream pop/rock, modern 
 metal, old metal, or classic rock -all of those are covered here. 
  
  There are also plenty of master tracks featured in the game which is a huge bonus to a fan of any 
 song in the soundtrack. The Sex pistols and Living Color even re-recorded a song each which is 
 exclusive to this game. They both sound sharp but I think the original recording of 'Anarchy in 
 the UK' is better.
  
  You'll get to play the songs with a guitar shaped controller with five buttons on the guitar's 
 neck. It basically boils down to you holding down a colored button and hitting the strum bar at 
 the right time. For example, if a yellow note is coming at you then all you do is hold the yellow 
 button down and click the strum bar at the right time. 
  
  There is more to it than that because you'll encounter chords, pull-offs and hammer-ons in your 
 quest to become a rock icon. So let's say a green note, red note and a yellow note are coming at 
 you but they are very close to one another. You do not have to strum all three of those notes-all 
 you do is play the green note normally and then just press the red and yellow buttons without strumming. 
 It'll take some time to get comfortable but thankfully the tutorial does a good job at explaining 
 the basics. 
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is much harder than the last two games in the series. (especially on hard and expert) 
 If there's one reason not to play this game then it's the difficulty, for sure. I was an experienced 
 Guitar Hero 2 player and I find it pretty much impossible to beat this game on hard. The first 
 few groups of songs ease you nicely into the game and the last group is basically suicide on expert 
 unless you've got six fingers on each of your hands.
  
  You won't spend much time looking at anything other than your incoming notes but it doesn't change 
 the fact that Guitar Hero 3 is a mixed bag in terms of graphics. From an artistic standpoint I 
 think it looks excellent. All of the venues are creative and usually have lots going on in the 
 environment. Guitar Hero 3's venues are easily a hundred times better than Guitar Hero 1 or 2's, 
 in my opinion. I'm not going to go into any detail because it's worth experiencing for yourself. 
 
  
  From a technical point of view I have mixed reactions. It's true that Tom Morello and Slash's moves 
 were motion captured during the development process but Slash's animations are very boring. Apart 
 from that, the singer in your band is so incredibly ugly that it's likely to distract you. He has 
 a chin so massive that it would make Jay Leno jealous. There are also some frame-rate issues during 
 gameplay which is unfortunate. If you know anything about rhythm games then you'll know that timing 
 is everything. Any sort of slight interruption in this genre is unacceptable. It won't mess you 
 up too bad but it's worth mentioning.
  
  When you're not playing Guitar Hero 3 alone then you can check out it's multiplayer options. You 
 can play co-op as well as online. Co-op has one of you playing bass/rhythm guitar and the other 
 guy playing lead guitar. It's a lot more fun that I would have thought, and it's easily one of 
 Guitar Hero 3's biggest strengths, in my opinion. If that's not your thing then you can hop online 
 with someone who could be halfway across the world. I noticed no lag at all which is a huge relief. 
 
  
  You can have a competition of who can get the higher score in a song or battle each other. Battle 
 is a new addition in Guitar Hero 3 and it's thoroughly uninteresting. Instead of star power there 
 will be power ups that you gain by hitting a pre-set series of notes. You unleash your power up 
 on your opponent by tilting the guitar upwards. Power ups are designed to mess up your opponent 
 as much as possible but it just isn't satisfying. You can break their strings, make them play lefty, 
 make their amp overload and more. 
  
  This game is basically a love letter to every Guitar Hero fan out there. If you're a fan of the 
 series then this is a must own. If you've never played a Guitar Hero game before then I don't recommend 
 that you buy it due to the harsh difficulty. I think you're better off playing it at a friend's 
 house first if you're new to the series. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The laws of nature dictate that no living soul is capable of disliking rock (except for those old 
 timers that call it the Devils music) . Everyone else, however, has been happily living out their 
 rock fantasies through the Guitar Hero series since 2005. These games may make players look like 
 hopeless losers holding Fisher-Price toys in their hands while playing, but the trade-off of actually 
 feeling like a rock star is worth the embarrassment.
  
  Two years later, the situation of who develops which guitar-playing video game has dramatically 
 changed. Harmonix, the original developer of GH1 and GH2, is just about ready to unleash its new 
 brain child under the MTV Games banner: a simultaneous guitar, bass, drums, and vocals rhythm game 
 called Rock Band. Meanwhile, Neversoft, the creator of the long-running Tony Hawk series, has inherited 
 the responsibility of carrying on the Guitar Hero name after Activision purchased GH1s publisher, 
 Red Octane.
  
  Confused yet? Its best not to think about it too hard. Needless to say, Neversoft has played it 
 safe with its first go at the Guitar Hero series. New modes and artistic changes are the only 
 stand-out differences between Guitar Hero III and its predecessors. For all intents and purposes, 
 playing GH3 is a lot like playing GH1 and GH2. That is to say, it still rocks.
  
  After three games in the series (counting Guitar Hero: Rocks the 80s) , the Career mode progression 
 is starting to get stale. Pick a character, pick a difficulty, play five songs before unlocking 
 the next batch of five. Brief animated cutscenes bridge the gaps between tiers of songs, and the 
 player must also conquer three boss fights.
  
  No, players arent going to be hitting another guitarist in the kneecaps with a Gibson Kramer or 
 anything like that. The object of these fights is to force the opponent to fail the song. Instead 
 of star power, battle power-ups are earned; players can attack each other with these power-ups, 
 doing things like disorienting the player by shaking the fretboard, forcing the player to push 
 a fret or the whammy bar before he can play notes again, or even lefty-flipping the orientation 
 of the frets.
  
  The problem with Battle Mode is its lop-sided nature. The best strategy, as you'll quickly discover, 
 is to save powerups until the opponent has an opportunity to collect one of his own, then launch 
 it so that the opponent screws up too much to acquire a powerup. Repeat ad nauseum. Plus, some 
 of the songs just aren't designed for this type of gameplay. The crimincally easy tracks like Slow 
 Ride and Hit Me With Your Best Shot never have stretches of notes long enough to create an opportunity 
 to fail the song, so these inevitably go into sudden death. On the other end of the spectrum, the 
 final boss fight is exceptionally brutal and frustrating, despite being laid to the tune of a very 
 cool song (a metal cover of Charlie Daniels The Devil Went Down to Georgia. Guess who the opponent 
 is!) . Battle mode takes what was already a weak sense of competition in previous installments and 
 stretches it out too far for its own good. In all likelihood, players will still gravitate toward 
 the more traditional Co-op and Pro Face-Off modes when friends are available.
  
  Speaking of co-op, feature sorely lacking from GH2 has been incorporated here: a co-op campaign. 
 Now players dont have to wait for one person to unlock the good songs by himself before they can 
 be played cooperatively. However, Neversoft has perplexingly excluded the ability to play songs 
 cooperatively outside of the career mode, meaning that two players have to play all of the songs 
 in co-op career from the beginning if they want to play the last ones (Neversoft has issued a downloadable 
 patch that adds a quick-play co-op option, but only for the Xbox 360 version.) .
  
  Another questionable addition is songs that can only be unlocked in the co-op career. Not only 
 are these songs (like Beastie Boys Sabotage and Red Hot Chili Peppers Suck My Kiss) not any 
 more co-op friendly than the other songs in the game, but players who have no access to a second 
 guitar for another player to wield will never have the opportunity to play these songs offline.
 
  
  Still, Neversoft got it where it counts: the songs. If someone cant get excited by tunes like 
 Paint It Black, My Name Is Jonas, Welcome to the Jungle, and One, that person lacks a pulse. 
 46 licensed tracks and 25 bonus tracks complete the set list; many more of the licensed tracks 
 are the original recordings now (Axl Rose sounds like his old self again after the butchering of 
 his voice from GH2) , and nearly all of the bonus tracks are from contemporary indy bands.
  
  As far as the gameplay itself goes, an overall increase in difficulty is offset by a looser 
 timing window for the notes. Many of the Hard songs in GH3 have note charts equivalent to those 
 of the Expert songs from GH2. Hammer-ons and pull-offs are much more forgiving than before, though. 
 There is some inconsistency in these sections, however; in GH2, as long as notes were close together, 
 they could be hammered-on. Now, some of the notes have been arbitrarily marked as notes that only 
 count by hitting the strum bar.
  
  Online play also finds its way into the 360, PS3, and Wii versions. Face-Off, Pro Face-Off, Battle, 
 and Co-op (not the career mode) are all playable online with one other person. The good news: during 
 gameplay, no amount of lag screws up players timing, a pleasant surprise for an online rhythm 
 game. The bad news: actually connecting to another player in the first place is extremely rare.
 
  
  A variety of factors separate each version of the game (Note: this review was conducted on the 
 Xbox 360 with the wired Gibson X-Plorer guitar from GH2) . 360 and PS3 have the benefit of hi-rez 
 graphics, making the other versions look downright ugly by comparison, but their price tags are 
 higher by $10. The Wii version is a peculiar one; players must insert the Wii remote into the guitar 
 shell while playing, and the screech noise that happens after missing a note will come out of 
 the remotes speaker. All versions can now be purchased with new wireless guitars; the PS2 guitar 
 is modeled after the Gibson Kramer, with the rest offering Gibson Les Pauls. PS2 and PS3 versions 
 include wireless receivers for these guitars that must be plugged into the console. Of course, 
 each version of the game can be purchased without a guitar.
  
  In the face of looming competition from Rock Band, Neversoft has admirably re-created the Guitar 
 Hero experience that Harmonix invented. Despite some missteps with the structure of the career 
 modes and the system for unlocking songs, anyone with any interest in the new set list have no 
 reason not to play Guitar Hero III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I never played Guitar Hero but fell in love with Guitar Hero 2. As for part 3... meh.
  
  Battles: Great for two player. Takes out skill in single player and throws pure luck into the mix.
 
  
  Difficulty: Some of the songs are more difficult in the game than on an actual guitar. So unless 
 you are already a real life guitar hero or have a LOT of free time and mad coordination. Don't 
 plan on beating this on expert. Take one for example. One part of the song combines to guitar parts 
 in one string of notes and the darkness riff calls for an odd finger combo far more difficult than 
 playing it for real.
  
  The people responsible for the button configs needs to be beaten with a large stick.
  
  Other 
 than those two issues the game is fun but, I am very disappointed. 6.5 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME
  
  Don't get me wrong I LOVED Guitar Hero 1, 2, and 3. There's just not that feel of accuracy that 
 there was in Guitar Hero 1 and 2 present in this game. I think I read that the timing was adjusted 
 (a little wider frame to hit a note) and that definitely makes it easier for people (like myself) 
 who are close to being great, but not quite able to hit the quick sections. While this is a nice 
 addition due to the large step up in difficulty, it's just different and I don't know how to explain 
 it. With that said, the new Battle Mode is a great addition. While it is frustrating to encounter 
 what basically is a minigame i the career, I love playing it with my friends and giving the the 
 Difficulty up (from hard to expert) at the start of Through the Fire and Flames :) The new cutscenes 
 and improved graphics also are an intersting twist on the standard Guitar Hero experience but there's 
 still that litttle something missing.
  
  THE PERIPHERAL
  
  Definitely the best guitar yet. The Les Paul looks wonderful with my fair share of stickers on 
 it. When I first heard that the neck would be removable, I was skeptical, but it snaps in nicely 
 and definietly is easy enough to take apart to store in a much smaller place than my X-Plorer. 
 I haven't bought any faceplates yet but the custom Fall Out Boy one looks pretty sweet and I think 
 Activision definitely figured out how to milk it's fans money with this.
  
  THE SOUNDTRACK
  
  Dissapointing. The bonus tracks are amazing (FCPREMIX, Through the Fire and 
 Flames, and My Curse) but the normal list is a bummer. With duds such as Hit Me With You Best Shot, 
 and Black Magic Woman in the game I barely want to play it through on Expert after beating hard. 
 That said, The Devil Went Down to Georgia, Welcome to the Jungle, Miss Murder and a few other standouts 
 are enough to keep you going. One more thing is that someone had the horrible idea to make some 
 songs unabvailable unles you play the co-op campaign. this idea is bad enough to take off points 
 for itself but I'll spare it just because even without Suck My Kiss and Sabotage, this still is 
 a decent soundtrack.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall, this is definitely not the game you want if you're a newcomer to the series. Go with GH2 
 first, and get used to it because this game is just gooing to frustrate beginners as you try to 
 make your way through hard. This game definitely has long lasting appeal but Im not sure if GUitar 
 Hero 2 would have lasted much much longer if It also had online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldscooltennis2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This IS guitar hero, it smells like guitar hero, taste like guitar hero, and plays like guitar 
 hero..... It is the exact same gameplay you were expecting and it hasnt changed a bit....
  
  So i guess then there is nothing for me to say, but yet i have so much..... the characters do look 
 better i found myself playing as casey lynch A TON more than i played with her in the last game, 
 maybe because of her hot make over. The drummer seems robotic but who cares. The song list is strong 
 with finally Metallica and some of my favorites like Sunshine of your Love by Cream and Welcome 
 to the jungle by GnR. There are TWO! downfalls to this game that kind go with each other.....
 
  DOWNFALL #1: Boss battles seem like i cool addition, and they ARE. Playing with Slash and T-Morello 
 and fun and playing as them are even more fun. The downfall is this part in the game is very uneven 
 to the rest of the parts. They are pretty easy but as you get to the last boss, lou, it is VERY 
 unbalanced and i am about to kill myself on expert vs. this SOB! It just doesnt flow maybe if it 
 had its own optional game mode where all you do is battle legends that might be fun but i dont 
 want to see this is my career.
  
  DOWNFALL #2: This game is getting toooooo HARD.... i mean my guitar hero used to be about having 
 fun but now i dont even want to play anymore because lou is soo overwellming.... or that Mosh in 
 raining blood, which i beat WITHOUT star power. But i just wanted to have fun.... multiplayer has 
 died down and now has become i competitive run for survival.... and online play has been added so 
 you can find out how bad you really are.... its just losing its fun for me....
  
  Bottom line: this is guitar hero and for anyone who is a fan of guitar hero BUY IT..... but now 
 it has competition. A game called ROCK BAND....... tho Rock band looks easier it really grasps the 
 party game feel and having tons of fun for hours and hours at parties and ROCKIN OUT! I CANT WAIT 
 TO REVIEW IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Mr Bnuts is back in the mix with another review.
  
  This one actually started as an email to my boys and I decided for a strait cut &amp; paste into 
 GS.
  
  This all may sound negative, but I want to emphasize GH III is a solid game, similar to GHII (check 
 my review for my feelings on that) . It is still loads (nh) of fun to crank up the Dolby and punish 
 the neighbors!!
  
  WARNING: do not read ahead if you dont want the end of the game spoiled.
  
  I too beat GH III 
 last week, I was stuck on the last battle for so long. In fact, when both of you guys told me you 
 beat the game I didnt realize all I had to do was knock off the dude with the horns and I had it 
 beat as well.
  
  Anyway - if I have time today MrBnuts is going to go off on GH III. WTF, the game was not that 
 hard on medium, then you get to the last dude with the horns and its impossible???? I feel like 
 they felt sorry for me because the guy kicked my ass so many times they gave me a win out of pity! 
 I definitely did no better than the other 50 times I got my ass kicked by that dude when I finally 
 beat him.
  
  Here is the worst part of all - the reason why I will go out on a limb and say GH III has the worst 
 finish of any video game in history. After you beat the dude with the horns, which is a demoralizing, 
 arm cramping experience what do you get? A cool ending? NO WAY. YOU GET CREDITS running so fast 
 THEY BURN YOUR EYES OUT. You unlock a bonus song that takes 20 minutes to finish and is the hardest 
 F-ing song ever. Seriously, how demoralizing is that? You think you are good, you get to the last 
 guy to battle, then he kicks your a$$ for an hour, they finally let you win and then FORCE you 
 to play some wack song for 2o minutes that is impossible. Not only did my arm feel like it was 
 going to fall off, but my ears were killing me from the annoying sound of constantly missing notes.
 
  
  Lastly, the online mode is terrible. Me &amp; H-- had to quit mid game during co-op. You cant hear 
 your partner missing notes and there is just something missing when you rock out over the Internet 
 with someone. Stay away from the internet! No online for GHIII. No online for GHII! No online for 
 GHIII!! I applaud the effort - but it just doesnt work.
  
  Other than the last battle and the ending GH III is similar fun to GHII. I would still recommend 
 the game.
  
  On that note I will just add NBA 2k8 is the greatest sports game ever &amp; I am fired up to pick 
 up COD4 today which I see received a 9!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III can adequately be summarized as more of the same, refined. It's the same basic 
 game as I and II. Nothing really has been added to the basic gameplay, unlike GHII which introduced 
 3-fret chords.
  
  It's the refinement that makes the game. The new guitar is well worth it. It's wireless, heavier 
 and larger (this is good) , the fret buttons are easier to switch with, the strum bar is less clicky, 
 it looks better, the strap posts are in a more comfortable position, the faceplate is interchangable, 
 the neck detaches... a big step up from the plastic GHII toy.
  
  I also like some of the changes in the core game. As many have said, hammer-ons and pull-offs are 
 much easier to, well, pull-off in this game than the previous 2. To me, this just makes the game 
 more fun when you can hit these sequences. But it's not easier! Even on medium, the note charts 
 require much more hand aerobics than the charts for GHII. So in general, you have more and more 
 difficult sequences of notes, but more time to hit them. I prefer this method of charting.
  
  The setlist is solid, with much more original tracks than either of the previous games. Finally, 
 the right song has been picked from the right band this time. Yes, Alice Cooper is a great pick 
 - and now you get School's Out instead of Billion Dollar Babies . Perl Jam's iconic Even Flow instead 
 of some unknown song. There's GnR, Metallica, KISS, Santana, Pumpkins... great stuff. The originals 
 alone make this the best tracklist yet.
  
  Another nice touch is the two playable rock legends, Slash and Tom Morello. The boss battles are 
 rather stupid but being able to purchase these two and use them (and their signature guitars) in 
 the game is nice. On-line co-op is okay. There's a co-op career mode now, but you can't complete 
 it online. I'm not sure what the point is, but it's there if you want it.
  
  There's nothing really pushing the envelope here, unlike Rock Band. It's just been slightly improved 
 in a number of places. This is still okay, but how will Guitar Hero IV answer Rock Band? Competiton 
 is good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way: I love guitar hero passionately. I may not be the Jordan destroying 
 dork that most real fans are, but I play enough to be able to play Six on expert. That said, here 
 is my review:
  
  The graphics are solid, but not award winning. There are some CONSISTENT framerate glitches that 
 pop up in certain songs, so watch out. (in particular, Slayer's RAINING BLOOD has one right in 
 the middle of the Mosh , so be careful.)
  
  The sound is as good as it needs to be.
  
  The gameplay is just like the other Guitar Hero games, with only 1 exception: the notes are easier 
 to hit. This is a good thing, as you will ALMOST never feel ripped off.
  
  This game should be perfect, so what hurts it?
  
  The single player battles are fun, but there 
 aren't nearly enough of them. These should be the norm, instead of the encores.
  
  Adding to that, the animations of a few characters are pitiful. DONT LOOK AT THE SINGER's MOUTH 
 OR THE DRUMMER IN GENERAL. They are pathetic, with the drummer looking more like a Disney Animatron 
 than anything else.
  
  Also, the soundtrack is a mixed bag. While songs like Metallica's One and Living Colour's Cult 
 of Personality are perfect fits and Dragonforce's Through the Fire and the Flames is the best credits 
 song ever, the Beastie Boys' Sabotage and Slayer's Raining Blood are no fun at all. Please note, 
 I LOVE RAINING BLOOD outside of this game. Throw in that one song by Sonic Youth, which is an absolute 
 piece of crap to begin with, and there are some huge holes in the soundtrack's quality. That said, 
 the covers in this one are mostly high quality, so don't worry there.
  
  Finally, I have to point out that Slayer's Raining Blood is simply too hard to be a main campaign 
 song. As of this writing, I have beaten every song but that one. There is one section, called the 
 Mosh that is simply too difficult for the non-l33t player. I have spent 20 hours on this one song, 
 so I know how difficult it is. EXPECT TO BE FRUSTRATED WHEN YOU REACH IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasli1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, i bought this game yesterday and played with my wife for the whole night. It feels completely 
 different if you playing while stand to playing while sit. You could not keep dancing with the 
 music. While my mother was watching TV in the other room at keep laughing at us because our dance. 
 Whatever, who cares. I tried to make my wife more involved after buying this next generation console, 
 however, she never did. The turning point was last week when she plays dead or alive 4 , it is 
 not difficult for the starters. And this time, my wife was suddenly sucked in by the game in the 
 second she saw me playing. And this weekend we are going to play with our nephew. (I had to do 
 more practice before that because it seems the little girl has a great feeling about rhythm.)
 
  
  This game is highly recommend to those who want to play with your family. Here you go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  There are a couple reasons that explain whay guitar hero 3 is so good. one, is the amazing song 
 list with song's like paint it black, stricken, and when you were young. the song list is better 
 both becuse of master track's and the quality of the band's. the second reason GH3 is awsome is 
 the new guitar controller i myself have used the ps2 controller for the past year so this is a 
 vast improvment over the old guitar. but those aren't the only reason's you SHOULD BUY THIS GAME 
 thers also more characters' and (for fan's) increased difficulty GH3 is a hard game but the hardest 
 part is lou the last boss he is soooo hard evn harder then mosh 1 in raining blood (beat it in my 
 first try) . but the game isn't without it's minor flaw's mainly some clipping and slight slowdown 
 on some occasion's. but don't let that stop you from playing this superb rythem game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been an obsessive guitar hero fan since the first release. This iteration of the series 
 has the best track list of every guitar hero to day. Online play is fun and does not lag, but for 
 some odd reason the game seems to slowdown at times during play. The wireless controller is great. 
 Except for the fact that it seems to have a connection problem. Maybe this is due to the new detachable 
 neck feature, but i have found 2 guitars where buttons would randomly stop working. This is unacceptable 
 for the hardcore guitar hero player. Seems guitar may have just stepped a little to far with the 
 new in its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the forth installment of the series to what has become a hit franchise across 
 several platforms. After Guitar Hero 2's release it seemed difficult to find anything that would 
 even begin to compete with it now or in the future, however, Guitar Hero 3 has been able to do 
 so. GH3's playlist features several well known songs such as Paint It Black by the Rolling Stones 
 and Number of The Beast by Iron Maiden. Although this game features a vast amount of fun and entertaining 
 songs, it also has its fair share of songs that just dont belong in the GH world. The songs tend 
 to drag on, bore, and just seem out of place with the other song line ups. The developers have 
 decided to go for a graphic upgrade to work with the nextgen systems, but do not let the games 
 intro fool you. Upon loading the game youll see graphics that are rendered smoothly, have a strong 
 colour scheam, and are overalll apealling to the eye. However, once in game youll see that the 
 graphic arnt anything spectacular and in some areas have even downgraded. A few new features/challenges 
 have been added to your story mode. The are a couple Boss Battles were you must compete against 
 guitar legends. Although this is fun I feel that it hasnt been used enough. Now you are also to 
 compete via xbox live, you can compare scores and try to reach the top. Overall, the game handles 
 as well as GH2, the overall difficulty has also been increased, and has an addictive replay value. 
 If you liked the other games of this series you should be sure to add this game to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Having been an avid fan of Guitar Hero 2, I awaited this sequel with baited breath. The days counted 
 down... and I eagerly went to pick up my copy with the new wireless controller. The first thing 
 I noticed is that the buttons on the new wireless controller are different; wider, and they are 
 softer when you click on them. However, if you're used to the old x-plorer controller, it will 
 mess you up at first. Your fingers will have more trouble hitting double chord notes, as the fret 
 buttons are wider, but after some practice, you will rapidly get better. As for the songs, the 
 track list is great. I don't care what anyone says; Black Magic Woman, Metallica's One, Even flow, 
 (favorite song) , and others that escape my memory at the moment, keep me wanting to play over and 
 over. Especially on multi-player, but I get ahead of myself. The difficulty IS much higher than 
 Guitar Hero 2. I heard others complaining they thought the songs were too easy. I immediately went 
 to Hard, and at first, I thought they were right. I blew through the first 4 set lists getting 
 either 4 or 5 stars on most. However, upon reflection, this is because I not only played the heck 
 out of Guitar Hero 2, (and ALMOST beat expert) , it's because, in my opinion, the new songs have 
 some note tracks that are just too simplistic. Repeated notes are hard to hit, especially if you're 
 not that experienced, but for those who can beat Guitar Hero 2 on hard, it's nothing you haven't 
 seen before. HOWEVER, once you get further down, the songs get MUCH harder. One, the Slayer song 
 Raining blood, and the notorious Through the Fire and the Flames are EXTREMELY hard. (Your fingers 
 will ache, and you will sweat) . I am a little off-put by the fact that you have to break your fingers 
 to play some of the harder songs, but then again, if the game was too easy, I'd never come back. 
 As it is, now I have a challenge. If you are a gamer who likes a challenge, then you should get 
 this game. The Multi-player has it's ups and downs. At first it was really hard to find a game, 
 and the quick-match options don't often let you connect, at least not me. However, if you go into 
 custom games, and just keep looking, you will find a game, I swear. I got to jam with some other 
 people in co-op, (a first as no one around me likes this game) , and even unlocked some achievements 
 on that. How sweet is that? The face off modes are cool too, but the battle mode isn't that great. 
 The system sounds good, but in playing, it becomes quickly who gets the first bonus stars and starts 
 laying on the penalties on the other player. It's very hard to recover from losing just a few notes, 
 and even if you tie, you get the sudden death which entirely depends on who gets it first. It is 
 challenging though, and I definitely recommend you try it. In short, if you liked the other Guitar 
 Hero games, get this one. You WILL not be disappointed. And the down loadable songs haven't even 
 come out yet!
  
  (One thing that did get on my nerves though, is some of the song selections. I know everyone has 
 different tastes, but I mean come on, The Killers have much better songs, and the Sex Pistol's 
 cover doesn't sound that great. Song of them are AWESOME THOUGH, like Muse, and Weezer) . Great 
 game overall. I only gave it a 9.0 because the difficulty curve IS steep, and it might turn some 
 people off. To me, I love a challenge. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigO32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  I recently rented this game to try it out. Now I can't wait to buy it. Its buy far the best in 
 the series, and quite frankly one of the best games I've played all year. Remember, I said one 
 of the best, not the best. But seriously, just the fact that it has an awsome soundtrack ("One" 
 by Metallica) makes it worth buying if your good enough to play the songs. I especially like the 
 fact that you can dress up Axel Steel like Dimebag Darrel. All in all this is just a really fun 
 game that any rocker can enjoy at any skill level. This game is just as fun the first time you 
 play it as it is when you've wasted your life getting good enough to play it on expert. I say again 
 I can't wait to buy this game. To all those rockers out there, "ROCK ON!!!"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb2217
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Very good game, good songs, great new guitar. However like I said, good songs, not great but overall 
 the GH III..... much better then GH III. This game takes Guitar Hero II and improves upon it by 
 giving you more songs by the original artists and less from cover bands. That alone makes it worth 
 buying. Best of all the game has a wireless guitar that is built better, and feels more like a 
 guitar then the packaged guitar with GH II. Overall this game is definitly worth buying if for 
 nothing else then just for the new guitar and the new songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  more tracks, extra fun, plus online and boss battles and co-op, so what more do you want from guitar 
 hero 3 and if you like music and who dosen't of course, than this your cup of tea for sure, and 
 plus, the new wireless controller will rock your world for sure, but the only con thing is, it 
 got harder than ever and the best tracks are in the end of the game, i mean if you will play hard 
 mode, because you will not get the full satisfaction from easy or neither medium, because on easy 
 or meduim, you can still hear another guitar on background is playing for you, so that's why you 
 should play on hard so you can have the full experience from the guitar, and another con that i 
 forgot about, the guitar audio seemed to be slided down a little bit so you need to pop out the 
 volume so you can hear your guitar playing and i hope they would release a patch for it, but this 
 will not let you change your mind and not getting one, so go now and grab one and you will never 
 regret it, because this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  well the first thing I have to mention is the graphics. its a HUGE step up from guitar hero 2 but 
 the track list blows. theres like 9 good songs with filler from crappy new bands like the killers 
 and afi. I wish there were more songs from wolf mother, acdc, twisted sister and other bands disurving 
 to make a great game a PERFECT game. the gameplays still fun and slightly tweeked. I would really 
 wait till its cheeper before buying this game its still fun but really disapointment. one more 
 thing WHY THE HELL IS SLASH ON THE COVER I mean he plays a real miner role in the whole game i 
 dont get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 has all the same style of gameplay as all of it's predecessors but now it has ONLINE 
 Multiplayer! Yes, that's right -- you can play online jam sessions with GH3. New face-off modes allow 
 for some interesting online battles as well. For instance, when you hit a star area in battle, 
 it gives you 'guitar weapons' in which you can kick your guitar up and it distracts your oponents 
 from hitting their notes correctly. Thus, you do it enough times ,and you win the battle and vice 
 versa. Such weapons are broken strings, busted amps, flipping color notes over (ex. green button 
 will play on orange side and orange will play on green side) and hard difficulty will stay up for 
 a brief while as well. No battle? just jam with some friends and talk through tyour headset as 
 you stratedigize on how the two of you can get the longest note streak. New characters such as 
 Slash from GNR and others go great with the new songs to play like Rock you like a hurricane and 
 welcome to the jungle. Also, did I mention the guitar is wireless? Good battery life and changible 
 faceplates make the Les Paul guitar very customizable. Same song, but differnt new verse as GH3 
 will definitely satisfy your rock cravings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Neversoft has offcially proven themselves to me. They inherited the GH license from Harmonix and 
 did a great job. They were smart, they didn't touch what already worked so well. Instead they added 
 upon it, making it feel completely at home to current fans, but making it feel fresh and new at 
 the same time. First off of course are the boss battles. Each of which requires about the same 
 strategy but how the bosses approach the battle is what makes them unique. Each boss also replicates 
 their real life counter parts extremely well. Instead of Star Power, you are granted battle points 
 or whatever they call them. You use these battle points to attack your opponent with broken strings, 
 overheated amp etc. while you take turns dukin it out. It may not sound that involving, but it 
 must be experienced. I know some aren't much for it, but I thought it was brilliant. And they actually 
 feel like boss battles. The music also seems to just keep getting better with every game as well. 
 But as with the first two, you either got good songs or really bad ones. Seriously, you put AFI 
 and Tenacious D but no NIN or Filter? And they could've put a better White Zombie song than Black 
 Sunshine. (More Human than human anyone?) . And a better Metallica song than One (Enter Sandman 
 by any chance?) . However, with these quarrels aside, the music is without a doubt, the best of 
 the the 3. I mean, its kinda hard to get upset when you got songs like Paint it Black, Bulls on 
 parade, Welcome to The Jungle, Sabatoge, Stricken and more.
  
  The graphics got an upgrade as well, distinguishing much more detail into the characters. More 
 customizable options than before and more guitars than you can shake a fist at. One area where 
 Guitar Hero 3 managed to smoke the past Guitar Hero's is in the online play. You can battle it 
 out with a friend online or at home. In addition to battling you can also do co-op in which you 
 and a buddy tackle a few of the game's many songs . One player plays guitar while the other plays 
 bass. In the end, GH3 is one of, if not, the best music game out to date. Neversoft has crafted 
 an addictive experience, even moreso than the last two. And by the way, get the Wireless Les Paul 
 controller if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skrutop
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Before November of 2005, few people had any exposure to rhythm games outside of some stumbling 
 on a DDR dance pad after a couple of margaritas on a Saturday night at Dave and Buster's. Then, 
 unknown companies RedOctane and Harmonix completely upended the rhythm genre by introducing a fiendishly 
 simple, yet insanely challenging rock simulator. Guitar Hero quickly rose from obscure title to 
 premier game franchise to cultural phenomenon. RedOctane and Harmonix quickly became must-have 
 properties for some of the biggest names in videogames and music. They shook hands and went their 
 own ways, ready to build on and refine their rock formula. While Harmonix looks to blow out the 
 rock and roll concept from just a guitar to the full band with their next game, RedOctane keeps 
 it simple and sticks to what they know works: Guitar Hero.
  
  Despite putting the tiny plastic guitar in the hands of developers Neversoft, best known for the 
 dozens of Tony Hawk games they've created, nothing is lost in the translation. This is Guitar Hero. 
 Actually, that's not fair, this is the Guitar Hero that you've been waiting for ever since strapping 
 that mini-Gibson SG and tearing through "I Love Rock And Roll" two years ago. With Guitar Hero 
 III: Legends of Rock, Neversoft makes good on the promise of being a virtual guitar god by upping 
 the quality of track list far beyond anything seen in Guitar Hero to date, cleaning up the presentation 
 so that it looks like a game designed for the next-gen, and (finally) allowing you to shred with, 
 or against, the entire planet via Xbox Live.
  
  The basic mechanics haven't changed at all. You pick a song, you pick the difficulty, and simply 
 to get to rockin'. As the song plays, different colored circles careen towards you in time with 
 the guitar track. Using your Les Paul-shaped guitar controller, you hold down the correct colored 
 button, or buttons, with one hand and click the big black strum bar with your other. As you keep 
 going, the notes come faster and faster, and you're required to navigate more complicated patterns 
 of notes. Can't keep up with that? There are star-shaped notes, that will fill up your Star Power 
 meter when hit. If you get that meter high enough, you can tilt the neck of your guitar to the 
 heavens, shout "By The Power of Grayskull!" and activate your star power. Everything turns electric, 
 your score doubles, and you'll find your rock meter back in the green... provided you keep hitting 
 the notes.
  
  Though this is still good ol' Guitar Hero, there are a few tweaks that will take experienced players 
 a bit of time to get used to, but they're certainly for the good. First, GH3 is much more forgiving 
 on the timing of your button presses. Anyone who had difficulty keeping up with the fast notes 
 will find them much easier to hit this time around; the window for hitting notes has been expanded 
 drastically. Also, hammer-ons, notes that don't require you to strum, still work the same way as 
 before, but their placement in the song is very, very different. In Guitar Hero 1 and 2, the hammer-ons 
 were determined by the game. Basically, if a series of notes were close enough together, the game 
 marked them as hammer-ons regardless of whether or not the actual guitarist strummed the notes. 
 Neversoft did away with that in GH3. Every hammer-on is hand-placed by the developer, who worked 
 under the guideline of "if the guitarist strummed it, you strum it." Notice the word "guideline." 
 There are still some sections with a ton of hammer-ons, but for the most part you'll be strumming 
 a lot more. Though it's a jarring change at first, eventually you'll grow to appreciate how much 
 more authentic the game is to the real experience of playing songs like "Black Magic Woman."
  
  Don't be fooled by the generous timing, this game is hard. Really, really, really hard. Guitar 
 Hero 2 focused on blistering solos and crazy end wankery, where the notes seemed to just fly in 
 all directions with little discernible pattern. GH3 tones that down a bit, though songs like "Cult 
 of Personality" still have insane solos, to focus on chord-heavy tracks with memorable riffs. Some 
 fans worried that the songs would not be as fun to play, as they are more repetitive than previous 
 entries. That turns out to be a moot point, because the riff patterns are much more complicated 
 than in previous games. The Who's "The Seeker" is in the middle of the setlist, but it's chord 
 transitions are closer to the later tracks in Guitar Hero 2. By the time that you make it to "3's 
 and 7's" and "Before I Forget," you'll be required to make extremely quick and difficult three-finger 
 chord transitions over and over again. It's enough to cramp your hand up after one playthrough, 
 but you'll be so hooked on trying to master the riff that you'll punish yourself "just one more 
 time" for the next hour.
  
  The biggest new feature is "battle mode." Rather than trying to outplay your opponent, you actively 
 try to sabotage him/her. When you hit a series of star-shaped notes, you gain an attack instead 
 of Star Power. Now, when you flip your guitar up, your opponent will be handicapped with one of 
 a handful of maladies, including double-notes, increased difficulty, a broken string, or the dreaded 
 "lefty flip." The point is to screw your opponent so bad that they fail the song. This is not as 
 much fun as it sounds. Most matches tend to be extremely brief, as many of the attacks are too 
 difficult to recover from, especially on the Expert difficulty. Also, Guitar Hero is a game of 
 skill, where you're primarily competing against yourself rather than the opponent. Think about 
 if you were playing golf, and could randomly switch out your opponent's ball with one that will 
 hook far to the left every time it's hit. Sure, it would help you win, but it's not as satisfying 
 as simply beating him with your own superior skill.
  
  Most people think that the presentation of this game isn't that important, since you're just focused 
 on the flurry of notes coming at you. They have a point, but the presentation makes a big difference 
 in keeping you engaged. Neversoft understood this, and completely made over just about every facet 
 of the presentation. The biggest improvement is in the load times. The load times are so tiny that 
 you probably won't be able have time to read the snarky comments on the now loading screen before 
 you're onto the rocking. Also, if you can tear your eyes away from the scrolling notes, you'll 
 notice that the drummer is hitting the right drums, the bassist is grooving through the bass track 
 correctly, and the bass-mouthed singer is lip-syncing to the song. These little touches add that 
 much more authenticity to the rock and roll experience that Guitar Hero is known for. There are 
 a few framerate hiccups, especially when activating star power. It's a minor gripe, because you 
 get used to it, but it's hard to imagine that this game is really pushing the Xbox 360 hardware. 
 It's a surprising blemish, especially since everything else was so well done.
  
  Despite all of the improvements to the presentation, the tracklist makes-or-breaks a music game. 
 GH3 has the single most impressive tracklist of any Guitar Hero game to date. Everyone has different 
 tastes in music, meaning that you can always argue about how the soundtrack could be better. That 
 sort of nitpicking may be fun, but it has less validity this time around. Before you can even say, 
 "why isn't Led Zeppelin in there," you're countered with inclusions of top hits by The Who, The 
 Sex Pistols, Santana, and Metallica. Oh, and they went ahead and threw in some original compositions 
 from Slash and Rage Against The Machine's Tom Morello for good measure. You can see how much more 
 respected Guitar Hero is as a franchise now, as the developers were able to skip the semi-obscure 
 songs like "Last Child," "Can't You Hear Me Knockin'," and "Strutter." Instead, you can now play 
 legitimate hits like "Same Old Song And Dance," "Paint It Black," and "I Wanna Rock And Roll All 
 Nite." Some of the newer tracks that aren't out-and-out hits, and they haven't had the time to 
 become classics, but you won't really care because they're a ton of fun to play.
  
  Upping the ante even further, about half of the 40-plus licensed tracks are recordings by the original 
 artists. This includes just about everything from 1990 on, as well as a smattering of the older 
 tracks. Though it may not seem like a big deal at first, after all we've been playing covers all 
 along, playing the original version of "Bulls On Parade" just rocks harder. It feels so much more 
 authentic. However, not everything is an original recording, and you might think that the covers 
 now stand out like a sore thumb. While that is true for a few of the stinkers, most of the cover 
 versions are the best of any Guitar Hero game. You might be surprised when you see "as made famous 
 by" pop up, because you were sure that it was the original recording.
  
  Sadly, the bonus songs could no longer include the wacky tracks by Made in Mexico, the sloppy rock 
 of Vagiant, or all-around fun of Honest Bob and The Factory To Dealer Incentives, because most 
 of the bonus bands from Guitar Hero 1 and 2 belong to Harmonix. Neversoft took a different approach 
 and included a dozen or so bands from Europe, as well as some indie bands from the States. The 
 change is a welcome one, as the bonus tracks still manage mix it up quite well. It's nice to hear 
 singers scream in German and French for a change. Neversoft also continued the tradition of adding 
 in some ridiculously difficult tracks to the bonus setlist, including the most frightening song 
 ever put into a Guitar Hero game. "Through The Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce is a seven-plus 
 minute, 3722 note terror. It should keep the elite players busy for awhile.
  
  The "better late than never" addition of online play will also help to keep GH3 fresh over the 
 long-term. For anyone who worried about lag, rest your fears. Lag is not an issue. Playing along 
 with a friend, or foe, you'll see every note that they hit and every Star Power phrase that they 
 miss, as well as an up-to-date score, note streak, and multiplier. Or do you? If you can tear your 
 eyes away from the flurry of notes coming at you during Slayer's "Raining Blood," you might catch 
 your opponent's score skipping up a few thousand points, as well as their multiplier resetting, 
 well after they've stopped playing a section. This reveals that, though there is some lag, the 
 game compensates for it and doesn't screw up what you're doing. This is a very minor problem if 
 you're neck and neck with your opponent during a pro-face off session, but it's more of a problem 
 during battle mode. Typically, you want to time your attacks to screw up your opponent when they're 
 hitting a section that will give them an attack. Because of lag, you'll attack them late, causing 
 them to retaliate by smacking your side of the screen during a blistering solo.
  
  Playing online works great, but setting up matches is painstakingly difficult. Halo 2 came out 
 three years ago. How do companies continue to ignore its matchmaking model today? All you need 
 to do is set up a lobby, get some friends together, and start matching them up randomly until they 
 want to stop. Instead, you have to set up a private match, then invite an individual to game. That 
 whole process can take a minute or more, depending on how many times they need to switch their 
 guitar model and character's color scheme. Then you get to play between 1 and 7 songs with them. 
 If you want to play more than that, you have to go through the same process all over again. If 
 you're into playing random people, you can jump into a quick match and play whatever mode that 
 user has set up. You can filter that to avoid battle or co-op, if you want.
  
  When you tally up all of its virtues, there is no denying that Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock 
 stands heads-and-shoulders above its predecessors. It's the perfect example of how to improve an 
 already amazing game. They left the core mechanics well enough alone, but threw on a new coat of 
 paint, tweaked a few gameplay issues, and added enough new features to justify buying a whole new 
 game. Harmonix is waiting in the wings to attempt a coup for the rock game crown, but for now Guitar 
 Hero III: Legends of Rock reigns supreme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  OK, i was very disappointed with Guitar Hero 2, and hoped that their would be a better game. Then 
 when I heard about Guitar Hero 3, I looked forward to an upgrade, and got just that.
  
  Songs: With bands like Slipknot, Disturbed, DragonForce, Killswitch Engage, Rise Against, Tenacious 
 D, and a bunch more, make this game have the best song list in any game. Also, it has the most 
 master tracks in any Guitar hero game. Even though I didn't like the fact that My Curse by Killswitch 
 Engage wasn't the album version, i enjoyed it.
  
  Gameplay: Obviously, this is one of the hardest games to play in the series, especially with Through 
 The Fire And Flames, and a bunch of other songs. This is a very good game though, and it has a 
 bunch of replayability, especially with the online.
  
  Online: One thing Guitar Hero 2 didn't have was online play. Guitar Hero 3 does, and it is awesome. 
 Face-Off's, Battles, and Co-op make the online never ending. You can play with an stranger, or 
 a friend, it makes the Guitar Hero experience even better.
  
  Overall: The game is great, only a few cover songs, extreme replayability, and great song list. 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peyjwun
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  OK there are always those Guitar Hero haters whose only argument towards the franchise is that 
 it's not a real guitar and not real guitar playing all I have to say is: DUH! It's a video game, 
 can you dance DDR style on a dance floor?, so does it make it real dancing? actually I don't know, 
 but that's not my point, I just wanted to get that out of the way, just like all video games, Guitar 
 Hero is a simulated experience, so don't bring that crap here I seriously don't care.
  
  Now the review starts, the Guitar Hero franchise has gone through several changes mostly all minor, 
 ranging from publisher changes to extra fret-button presses, some affect gameplay others i could 
 care less about, so lets get those out of the way. So to begin most noticeably in Guitar Hero III 
 before you open the box is that the game is the first in the series to be mainly current-gen (XBOX 
 360, PS3, Wii) so naturally, for the 360 and PS3 atleast, it got a graphics boost. Secondly the 
 game's in-game content has changed new charecters and lost characters are there, new venues here 
 also so that is the, I guess, most noticeable of the new stuff, but its just stuff.
  
  NEW GUITAR IS AWESOME, nuff said.
  
  OK I will say now that I went into the game confident 
 having beaten the other Guitar Heroes in expert and being the best Guitar Hero-er that I know, 
 the first thing I did is I started the game in career in th expert difficulty, HOLY S**T, this 
 game is crazy. As a matter of fact I will say right now that if you haven't passed Guitar Hero 
 II then go back because you're way in over your head. Yes people the rumors are true, this is the 
 hardest in the franchise, however unlike most other reviewers, I will say that that is not a bad 
 thing at all. So what if they upped the ante they have been doing this since Guitar Hero the beggining 
 there's a huge difference between 2 and 3 button chords, do you remember Guitar Hero I - II, nuff 
 said. So don't cry about how you are stuck on Raining Blood do what you did Guitar Hero II restart, 
 practice, restart, practice, it takes time so you better have patience, and yes, Lou is an a**h**e 
 but don't worry I've beaten him he isn't unbeatable. The best thing about the upped difficulty, 
 personally having beaten it on launch day on expert, for me is the feeling, that feeling when you 
 realize Oh, this is what they meant by a rock star experience. but then I realize NO! this is Guitar 
 Hero III: Legends of Rock it's no longer a rock star experience it's a rock legend experice and 
 as you stand there with your fingers pulsating in agony in your moment of zen you stand back and 
 look at what you have just accomplished and then you get to Through Fire And Flames and say F**K 
 THAT!!!! , but maybe that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1mpthra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  all that is diffrent is just the music, that witch also sucks, i mean the game is basicly like 
 GH1-2. and having a 3rd game that is just like the first and second, that is just bad. that boss 
 mode crap, thats dumb as hell. What u think, is just sell new song packages over Xboxlive, or in 
 retail (Ps2 owners)
  and if not that, do a diffrent kinda game please. like some other instrument Jazz Hero!!! :D.... 
 or not but common dont milk it for all its worth and make it into a truly awful game branch... 
 halo3,,, AHEH WTF!? who said taht 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmase14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is one of the funnest times I've had gaming in a very long time, if not ever! I can 
 admit that I jumped on the bandwagon late b/c I do not have the original GH nor any of the previous 
 sequels. However, I would definitely admit that I've had so much fun playing Guitar Hero and that 
 I would spend hours at a time trying to perfect song after song just to get a better score. Even 
 though I truely enjoy my Guitar Hero 3 experience, there is one main issue i have with the game 
 though. It does seem like GH3 was designed more for the hard core experienced GH gamers, instead 
 of newbies or novice players. I cannot even get 90% on Blood Rain by Slayer on easy, lol. And to 
 contradict myself, one of the strengths of this game is also the dificulty level. I see it as a 
 strength b/c it keeps most users plugging away at trying to perfect a song instead of becoming 
 bored quickly.
  
  All and all, This is a great, and addictive game with a tremendous soundtrack, responsive controls, 
 and with an easy to navigate menu. This game is definitely worth checking out if you have the chance. 
 Trust me, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I was simply blown away. Sure i saw kids half my age strumming the miniature plastic guitar as 
 they rock out in the most focused poise I have ever seen. A standard sight on Sunday morning strolling 
 through my local Bets Buy. For some reason I decided to give it a whirl. At first I didn't get 
 it but My wife picked it really quick. We passed on it the first time but for some reason a weeks 
 later we took it home. We played for About two hours straight switching turned until we realized 
 that you could by another wireless guitar and rock out together. I have to say it is the most fun 
 we have had together playing a video game. You have to give this a try. I mean your first couple 
 times you'll be bad but once you get going you'll crave Guitar Hero more than a FPS.
  
  Highly recommended for unique and creative game play and terrific music to boot. I would of loved 
 to see some slower songs every once in a while. Just to mellow out. And more gaming options such 
 as interesting tetris like games that could of been done with songs and VS players.
  
  All and all I would not miss out on this title. Rock band sounds cool too. But that is if you have 
 that many people to form an entire at your house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line, playing a guitar rhythm game like this is generally FUN -- fun alone, extra fun a party. 
 They didn't drop the ball on GH3 when it comes to that fundamental joy you get pretending you're 
 a rock band guitarist.
  
  Having said that, the series is stalling. Sure, more songs are great. Are these songs BETTER than 
 GH2 or 1? That's obviously up to you. Some are great additions, some are completely forgettable, 
 some are head-scatching. I don't know what to say except I am happy for more material but they 
 didn't knock my socks off, either.
  
  What separates GH3 is the dueling system -- which is fairly whatever. It's not fun, really. I mean, 
 it gives you SOMETHING different to do, but it's far less fun that co-op or solo play. To call 
 this Legends of Rock by having famous guitarists to duel is cool, but only in theory. Slash and 
 Morello? That's IT? Maybe if they could have mustered up five or so great guitarists would this 
 feel worthwhile, but TWO measly celebrities feels weak, tacked on.
  
  The game doesn't seem harder that other installments, like some have said. The new wireless guitar 
 is excellent -- responsive, cool looking, worth getting.
  
  So it's fun, it's not a bad game exactly, but they need to move on more significantly next time. 
 Sad to say, but Rock Band seems infinitely more interesting at the moment, especially with downloadable 
 ALBUMS coming out for it. More instruments and song selection would help GH3 a whole lot, so here's 
 hoping Live carries extras downloadables soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Well I dont know were to start, there are so many great aspects to this game, the songs are unbelievable 
 the game play is phenomenal and the different levels of difficulty make learning very easy. You 
 can pick up the guitar and put the song on easy and within minutes you have jamed out 2 or 3 song. 
 With new characters and venues you will be entertained for hours. The songs on here are dynamite, 
 and if you have a surround sound system crank it up and rock out. This game is great, no matter 
 if you are playing alone or with a bunch of people, I dont have enough time list all the great 
 qualitys that this game has, so just go out and buy it and see what i'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- This is the best part of this game but the one problem is with the songs, some of the 
 songs you star with are horrible and from old washed up band nobody cares about anymore!
  
  Graphics- They are good but not any better than the usual FPS on the 360.
  
  Online- I love 
 the online it is so much fun how you can play your friends and play the songs you didn't unlock 
 yet!
  
  In the end guitar hero 3 has alot going for it but it is not revolutionary like most people think 
 it is. I hope this is the last one but knowing that company they will probably make about 10 more 
 plus expansion packs. Buy this if you lik Guitar Hero's but if your not a fan I would stay away 
 beause some of these songs are horrible and almost deathly to play just because the sound so bad. 
 I hope IV has NEW bands and not washed up ones. Slipknot and Disturbed are the best bands they 
 got! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacChick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Let me start by mentioning that I have been playing Harmonix games all the way back to Amplitude 
 and Frequency, which are the predecessors of the Guitar Hero series. I was immediately worried 
 when I heard that Neversoft was taking over the development and I feel that my concerns were founded 
 after seeing the result. Although the game does have the elements that made it's predecessors a 
 success, Neversoft's inclusions have done little if nothing to improve the series. In fact, every 
 element that has been changed is a detriment to the title. The first element we'll discuss are 
 the boss battles. Although this sounds fun in concept, it's just plain annoying in delivery. The 
 chips are stacked against you and timing the attacks to take out your opponents removes the sheer 
 fun of wailing out a cool riff on your guitar. It is a frantic and frustrating experience that 
 removes what I feel is the element that makes Guitar Hero franchise so fun and that is feeling 
 like a real guitarist. Attacking opponents cheapens everything and turns out to be nothing more 
 than a gimmick. The worst of these is the dreadful rendition of Charlie Daniels Band's Devil Went 
 Down to Georgia. It sounded fun but the delivery and music quality destroy an otherwise novel idea 
 and the mistakes I see here are similar to what I see in the current Tony Hawk offerings. Too many 
 gimmicks without enough solid game play.
  
  My next issue is the weak online offering for a game that was supposed to be taking the series 
 to a new level with online play. The lack of online co-op to me is nothing more than a cheap ploy 
 to force players to buy a second guitar to get content that they should already get for shelling 
 out the cost of the game and the guitar peripheral. In addition, if this wasn't enough, they decided 
 to add insult to injury by tying achievements to the forced concept of buying a guitar. As a gamer 
 and long standing consumer of the GH products, I don't care for being nickel and dimed by a company 
 who has taken over a franchise I have supported over the long term. This is not a way to foster 
 future support of the franchise and I think in the future, continued behavior like this will eventually 
 cause the series to slow down in sales. Consumers don't like feeling like victims of marketing 
 schemes and many of us are smart enough to know them when we see them. Lastly, as you can see, 
 I have still given the game an overall rating of 7.5. With all negativity aside, I still enjoy 
 hanging out on the weekends with friends playing guitar. With lack of another option, I would continue 
 with the series but if RockBand delivers what GH has not, I may be taking my guitar playing business 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonsterLishis
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I loved guitar hero two, probably one of my favorite games. GH III tries to take the same game 
 with new songs, a new look and some extra features such as online and the boss battles. It sucks 
 that two of those three things suck.
  The online is completely broken and is utterly useless. The co-op, which you need to unlock certain 
 songs cannot be done over the internet their, making that part of online just dumb. Also, hosting 
 issues and dropped games are frequent. Also the online Battles are terrible, every time it goes 
 to Sudden Death where it basically a competition of who can hit the first 20 notes perfectly. Also, 
 the menus for online are just totally useless.
  Also, the boss battles in the story mode are terrible. It ruins the flow of the whole game. Lastly, 
 the characters models look like complete crap. The main singer literally looks like two butt cheeks 
 with his cleft chin. Also, they all look like they were spit shined.
  Luckily, GH III still has the same concept of GH II where you play a guitar lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Florio86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I was unsure about this game for awhile.. All the bugs people were talking about, plus gameplay 
 videos making the game look not as tight or fun as Gh2. I played this tonight and Decided to give 
 this a score and I'll give this a solid 8.5. The gameplay is TIGHT! A lil diff feel then gh 2 but 
 once you get used to it.. I had alot of fun playing the game.. The songlist is massive and ever ysong 
 was fun to play... Hard/expert is a challange.... I didn't get any bugs or lag and I played for about 
 3 hours.. really happy with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  OK, Guitar Hero 3 is one of the best games I've ever played and it's the first Guitar Hero game 
 I've ever played. The bad part is that this game is not for first timers like me. When I first 
 got it, easy mode was hard, but you just gotta keep trying. Anyway, this game has some very good 
 songs on it and the most amazing song I've ever heard, Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. 
 It's craaaazzzyyyyy. The guitar feels very natural and the graphics aren't to bad either. The only 
 problem is that this game is HARD. I mean trying to sneak into the Pentagon type of hard. Oh, and 
 it's hard. Did i mention that? Overall, anyone should get this game and don't be discouraged by 
 the difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever since its massive debut in 2005, Guitar Hero has become a household name in the gaming industry. 
 It's addictive gameplay, great selection of songs, and wide variety of characters that appeal to 
 all rocker stereotypes have helped make Guitar Hero one of the most popular rhythm games of our 
 time. Two years later, Activision and Neversoft have taken over Guitar Hero, while Harmonix moved 
 on to other things (Rock Band) . This raised a few questions about the direction the series was 
 headed because of Activision's infamous work on the rapidly declining Tony Hawk series. I'm here 
 to say that Guitar Hero 3 is essentially Guitar Hero, just with a few additions thrown in. Most 
 of those additions, however, don't necessarily work or work well.
  
  Basically, Guitar Hero is popular because of the popular soundtrack it usually contains. There's 
 no shocker here that Guitar Hero 3 sports an even better soundtrack than all the other games. Everything 
 from the casual Slow Ride to the insane Through the Fire and the Flames, and most everything in 
 between can be found in Guitar Hero 3's extensive 70+ song soundtrack. All of the songs are fun 
 to play, making it one of the best soundtracks in the series' history. However, with a new soundtrack, 
 comes a steep new difficulty. If you're new to Guitar Hero, you're going to be in for a rude awakening 
 once you being playing on the Hard and Expert difficulties. Not to say that as an experienced player 
 this difficulty increase is not welcomed, it's just that for the majority of newcomers to the series, 
 GH3 can be really intimidating. Songs like Metallica's One and Dragonforce's Through the Fire and 
 the Flames will certainly kick you into shape if you don't know what's going on, but to an experienced 
 player, it's a new challenge waiting to be beaten.
  
  Once you move past the single player career mode, you'll more than likely move on to multiplayer, 
 both cooperative and versus, online and offline. With the addition of online multiplayer, no one's 
 alone, and you can play with or against people all across the world. However, there is one drawback. 
 Even though Activision managed to create a lag-free multiplayer experience over Xbox LIve, the 
 process of getting into games and actually starting is extremely frustrating. When selecting from 
 a list of hosts to play with, you'll tend to get a lot of error messages saying you couldn't connect. 
 This means you have to start the search all over again, select another match, and get the unable-to-connect 
 message. Rinse, wash, repeat. The sheer quality of the servers and the ability to connect to them 
 is frustrating enough to make someone skip out on online multiplayer altogether, but the fact that 
 sometimes you don't even get achievements for coop and versus games also can be extremely frustrating. 
 Other than that, Guitar Hero 3 allows gamers to link their Xbox Live gamertag to the Guitar Hero 
 3 community webpage and track scores, games, and even create online bands and compete in tournaments 
 much like Bungie. net and Halo. Once again, this would be a welcome addition, if it could work. 
 According to the Guitar Hero webpage, the sheer amount of people linking their gamertags online 
 is causing the link system to have problems and mess up. I've tried on three different occasions 
 to link my gamertag to no avail. Overall, Guitar Hero 3's online multiplayer is a nice addition, 
 just with large issues that stand in the way of it being truely successful.
  
  Specifically speaking of multiplayer, Guitar Hero 3 boasts a few new multiplayer modes. The first 
 and most noticable of these is the new battle mode. Battle mode will be introduced to you during 
 the single player career in which you must battle against greats such as Tom Morrello, Slash, and 
 the devil himself. Unfortunately, the Tom Morrello and Slash battles are so easy, you'll only really 
 play about 20 seconds of the battle. That's another thing, Battle mode can be fun... only if the 
 two competitors are close in skill, and play on the same difficulty. Someone who plays on Easy 
 will have an edge over someone who plays on Hard or Expert just because there are fewer notes and 
 the notes are harder to hit. Also, if one player is significantly better than another, the battle 
 won't last verly long (maybe a max of about 1 minute) . This can get very frustrating if you're 
 the loser, and can also get very boring. However, if you're playing with someone of almost equal 
 skill to yourself on the same difficulty, there is a great chance for some intense rock-off moments 
 (Through the Fire and the Flames makes a great tie-breaker by the way) . In addition to this, there 
 is also a co-op career mode that lets you and someone else play cooperatively in a career instead 
 of just playing in Quickplay. Also included, are a few Coop-only songs like the Red Hot Chili Peppers' 
 Suck My Kiss and the Beastie Boys' Sabotage. These are fun to play cooperatively, but it would 
 have been nice to also play the songs in single player.
  
  Graphically speaking, Guitar Hero 3 looks the best it's ever looked since its initial release. 
 Activision did away with the old Guitar Hero engine, and completely made a brand new one, and it 
 paid off well. Character models look fantastic, and animations are realistic and smooth (with the 
 exception of the drummer who looks like a robot) . The addition of new camera angles also add to 
 the overall presentation, making it look like a real live performance. Visually speaking, Guitar 
 Hero 3 has never been better. However, there are some other slight presentation issues. It doesn't 
 take long to realize that many companies (especially non musical related ones) have sought a plug 
 in Guitar Hero simply because so many people play it. The addition of the Axe dancers, Axe guitars, 
 various plugs by Pontiac, and other random companies are just plain annoying and detract from the 
 presentation of the game.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is just another Guitar Hero game. If you're a longtime fan, there's nothing 
 really here that should keep you from buying it. If you're a newcomer, you may want to approach 
 it with caution because of the steep difficulty. Activision has done a decent job with its first 
 attempt with the Guitar Hero series, but definately show room for improvement. The sloppy online 
 servers and problems with the community linking, the blatent and annoying in-game advertising, 
 and slightly weak gameplay modes all leave a little more to be desired, but underneath it all is 
 the same Guitar Hero everyone has come to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  After the huge success that was the first two Guitar Hero games, Neversoft took the reigns behind 
 the highly successful franchise. In this 3rd iteration, much is familiar. The same formula still 
 applies, play through the various career modes for cash, and nifty unlockables in the store. However 
 this formula has always worked well and it's still the same in Guitar Hero III. Xbox Live, Co-Op, 
 and cool achievments make the 360 version the obvious choice. Legends of Rock definitely lives 
 up to its name and this is seen with an all star cast of artists like metallica alice in chains 
 pat benatar slipknot the killers and other rock legends. All in all you can't go wrong with this 
 game, and is in the top tier of holiday titles for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Its really strange that Guitar Hero appeals to me so much, Im not really all that into music 
 and dont play any instruments, yet its an absolute blast to play. So like every other GH fan 
 I was somewhat sceptical of Neversoft taking the reigns from Harmonix and developing the next game. 
 And while it may not be perfect, fans should not hesitate to run out and pick this one up. First, 
 the new guitar controller (the Les Paul) , is probably the finest GH peripheral ever made. The buttons 
 feel better, it detaches into two pieces, and best of all, its wireless! One thing that I did find 
 perplexing was the fact that the guitar only takes regular AA batteries, no 360 controller re-chargeables. 
 Because of this it may be wise to go out and buy some rechargeable AA batteries if you plan on 
 playing the game for a long time to come. As for the core game play well, its still notes falling 
 down the screen so no big changes there. The difficulty does seem to have been ramped up a bit 
 in Hard mode, making the leap from medium even bigger. However the game is a little more forgiving 
 as to how accurately you hit each note, so you dont exactly have to be dead on. The song list 
 is awesome, with artists ranging from The Killers and Disturbed, to Guns n Roses.
  
  Another new addition is the online multiplayer component, which does actually run very well, but 
 to me the game is much more fun when played with others in the same room. However its there if 
 you want it, and it works well. One thing about the expanded multiplayer that I detested though 
 was the battle mode, where instead of star power players gain power ups to unleash hell on their 
 opponent; causing their notes to disappear or the break a string. Oh Guitar Hero, it used to be 
 about the music man! To me this kind of negates the purpose of the game, to be a great guitarist, 
 not launching Mario Kart antics around. The graphics are noticeably better; the notes look sharp 
 and are very bright; the models of the band member look great as well. The lead singer in the band 
 is actually lip synched to the songs lyrics which is eerily lifelike at times. As for the soothing 
 sounds of rock themselves, most of the songs sound great, and this time around there are more actual 
 recordings performed by the artists instead of just covers. So while GH 3 may have slipped a little 
 in that it is still the same concept, with a goofy multiplayer mode attached, it does deliver improvements. 
 A great new guitar, decent song line-up and online play, which is pretty much what everyone wanted. 
 So despite the change of developer, GH 3 remains a quality experience, but something more may be 
 needed for a fourth iteration. Gamplay:
  The battle mode may be gimmicky, but its classic GH with great new songs and finally online play.
 
  
  Graphics:
  They're not astounding but the notes look crisp and bright, and if you amnage to turn your eyes 
 away from the notes the band members look good too.
  
  Sound:
  Some songs sound better than others but for the most part all is well in the world of rock.
  
 
  Value:
  There's a wealth of bonus songs, and online play, and more music will be on the way via downloadable 
 content.
  
  New Additions:
  The first in the series to have online play but other than that the same basic concepts are all 
 here again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyV743
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Although there are a few negative aspects to Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, such as greatly 
 increased difficulty and shameless sponsoring at points (i. e. axe body spray) , there are many more 
 positives. Most importantly, it is the same fundamental gameplay that appeals to players of previous 
 versions. Also, the set list speaks for itself, as it contains many songs with arguably the greatest 
 guitar music of all-time; most notably, One, Pride and Joy, Cliffs of Dover, and Welcome to the 
 Jungle. All in all, this game is simply too great for me to lower its rating simply based on a 
 few minor features. It may not be worth as much as a 10, but I believe it is closer to perfection 
 than not (9.5) . Its a must have for die-hards and newcomers. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreCoolFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  OK. GH3 Legends of Rock is by all means the best game in the series so far. Here's a little review 
 for everything
  
  Gameplay: Same as the others. Neversoft did a good job for this. HO/POs feel easier to hit and 
 the timeframe for hiting notes is differnt. Not easier or harder, differnt.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are amazing. Neversoft didn't change the gameplay, but they kind strayed away 
 from GH1 &amp; 2's HUD style. The change is better in my opinion.
  
  Tracklist: Without any doubt, the best tracklist in any GH game. The tracklist can go anywhere 
 from clasics like Sex Pistols and the Rolling Stones to Metal bands like Slipknot and Killswitch 
 Engage. Best tracklist.
  
  Battle Mode: I disagree with Alex Navaro about everything with this mode. It rocks and you will 
 probaly spend a lot of time playing it if you have 2 controllers and a friend of XBOX live. The 
 power ups really even everything out. Like, one time i got my *** handed to me by some guy playing 
 medium and i was playing expert. No joke. So you should try this out.
  
  Overall: The best guitar hero game on the market right now. For GH veterans, get this game without 
 a second though and you won't regret it. For newbies to GH, at least give it a shot. Peace out
 
  
  ~TCF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is more of the same great guitar hero alot of people have grown to love, but for 
 those who are just trying to get into guitar hero they will find themselves in a bit of a mess.
 
  
  GH3 is quite a bit harder than its predecessors and it seems that it would have to be for veterans 
 of the series who could have mastered the game in a day had it not been more difficult.
  
  the wireless control is very nice and easier to hammer on / pull off
  
  the games soundtrack 
 is back and forth because no one can really have the same music preferance so no one will like 
 every single song on there. overall the music is pretty well balanced.
  
  Graphics show a big improvement and the singers mouth finally moves!
  
  but for the ones who 
 want to start playing guitar hero, it will take some time to finally get to jump in for veterans 
 of the game its just more to love 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dachief4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was first introduced to the Guitar Hero series around January or February of this year when I 
 spent the night at a friend's house and they played Guitar Hero 2. Summer of '07, I picked it up. 
 HOOKED IMMEDIATELY. I soared through medium and was ranking up on hard. Then I hear that out is 
 coming Rock Band. Holy crap, that is awesome, I think, and then I hear that Guitar Hero 3 is coming 
 out! So, I'm hyped up for both, until I hear how bad Rock Band is gonna suck. Guitar Hero 3, naysayers, 
 but still sounds awesome! At the midnight release, get it, and pop it in twenty minutes later. 
 Guess what? It's awesome!
  
  One of the new things with GH3 is that you have about a millisecond larger of a frame of time to 
 hit each note. Hell, I learned HO/POs from Cult of Personality on Hard. Of course, there is a balance 
 to this. The actual setlist itself is pretty difficult. Well, the occasional song, that is, until 
 you get to Before I Forget and 3's and 7's. However, once you get to these two and then One, Number 
 of the Beast, and RAINING F*CKING BLOOD, you notice how extremely difficult they can make it. And 
 the battle modes against the bosses... Fun, actually. I can't talk much about difficulty, because 
 I've only gotten past Tom Morello on Expert, but Morello and Slash weren't all that tough on Hard.
 
  
  People seem to be moaning about how difficult some songs are. Well God forbid that they try and 
 bring challenge back into video games. Guitar Hero 3, in my eyes, is a step up from 2. Better controller, 
 better setlist, funner setlist, easier HO/PO's, harder songs, and freaking Slayer.
  
  If you are looking for an easy sequel, go play Halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite_Spartan01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Fairly good playing with a nice selection of songs. Still leaves things to be desired. It seems 
 to be a good deal easier than Guitar Hero 2 but it makes up for it with great note combinations 
 and awsome battles. i recomend it to anyone who liked Guitar Hero 2. Once you get back in the groove 
 you found in the first and second games you sorta just relax with the gameplay. A lot of times 
 i just focus on the words instead of the notes. If i did it over again, i would wait at least 4 
 or 5 more months before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billsco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero franchise is known worldwide as one of the most addictive, fun and frustrating 
 rhythm based games in creation. The brainchild of developers Red Octane and Harmonix, Guitar Hero 
 took the gaming community by storm and it's not hard to see why. I mean... seriously... who doesn't 
 want to be a rock star? And who doesn't want to take seven years to learn to play guitar?
  
  Since it's introduction it has spawned three sequels on numerous platforms and sold over three 
 million copies worldwide. But when developer Harmonix was purchased by MTV games to make Rock Band 
 and Neversoft was brought in to pinch hit for them... many thought the gaming franchise was doomed. 
 Well, breathe a sigh of relief and get ready to shred. Because Guitar Hero 3 rocks with the best 
 of 'em!
  
  The game uses almost exactly the same mechanics as the previous games did (which is amazing considering 
 Neversoft had no access to the original code) only for those of you starting out with GH3, the 
 learning curve is a tad more forgiving. At least for the first four songs you'll play. You pick 
 your standard rocker (many of which are from the first two games) and progress through your career 
 mode much like you did in the previous games, but with tiny cut scenes of your band going through 
 the motions. It's entertaining... but you feel it could have been explored way further.
  
  As your progress, you'll be challenged by rock legends Tom Morrello (of Rage Against the Machine 
 &amp; Audioslave fame) and Slash (if you don't know who Slash is... I'll slap you) . The challenge 
 is met in a series of Guitar Battles which can be fun... but also frustrating. As you play through 
 the song you acquire battle points which allow you to do fun things like, cut your opponents guitar 
 strings, make them play lefty, short out their amp power and so on. The only problem with this 
 is, if you're the first to get a battle point... you'll probably win because it's impossible to 
 battle back afterwards. Especially since your opponent can still throw more battle points at you.
 
  
  However, that aside it must be said that this is the finest selection of songs in the franchises 
 history. Nearly every song is classic. From the Rolling Stones to Queens of the Stone age... everything 
 you need is here for your rocking needs. They are censored versions, which stinks... but what can 
 you do. However... this brings me to my next point.
  
  This is also the hardest installment of the Guitar Hero franchise. Many of the songs depend on 
 you hitting nearly impossible chord progressions or hammer notes which are way to close together. 
 However, this is compromised by the fact that many of the songs are so good you rise to meet the 
 challenge.
  
  Case and point... Dragonforce - Through the Fire and the Flames . This song is played during the 
 closing credits of the game and when you play it... it's insanity. However, you want to rise to 
 meet it. It's this level of determination that make this game so addictive.
  
  The only REAL qualm I have with GH3 is the characters. The quirky rock gods you all love are back, 
 even with some new additions... like Slash which is amazing. But when I play this game I CRAVE for 
 a create-a-rocker mode. Wouldn't it be awesome to see me on the screen playing along with the band? 
 However... create-a-band might be a good idea... since the lead singer is ugly as hell.
  On that note, it's also necessary to point out that the motion capture for some of the characters 
 is quite robotic. The drummer being the best example. On songs like Through the Fire and the Flames 
 where you expect to see someone going absolutely postal on the drum kit, he just sits there moving 
 like an android. But it's a minor problem... since you don't spend a whole lot of time watching 
 the performance. But I digress...
  
  As said in the official review, the real hero of the game is the controller. This is by far the 
 best guitar controller made yet. The controls are responsive, with a longer strum bar and a whammy 
 bar that doesn't get in the way. And the fact that it's wireless only makes it sweeter.
  
  That said, Guitar Hero 3 makes for an hellasciously ridiculous, monstrosity of addictive shredding 
 action. If you love Guitar Hero, you'll adore GH3.
  
  For those about to rock... start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluetango
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  GH3: Legends of Rock is a step in the right direction after GH2's debut earlier this year. I wasn't 
 a GH player until I found out about the wireless guitar (which is very nice, if a bit small) . I 
 picked up a used copy of GH2 about a week prior to GH3's release (I had it pre-ordered a month 
 ago) and proceeded to play it using the standard XBOX360 controller. I was hooked after a few songs! 
 When GH3 came out last week I picked it up first thing, brought it home and jammed on it all day. 
 There's a lot to do here, but a couple of the modes get repetitive or just don't seem to work the 
 way they intended. I haven't tried the online multiplayer yet so I won't comment on that aspect.
 
  
  The difficulty level of GH3 is much higher than GH2. I'm a solid medium player on GH2 (I got all 
 songs complete at 4 or 5 stars) , but I find GH3 is taking me quite a while longer to get the same 
 level completed. I think part of it is the continuous on-screen textual displays (showing Star 
 Power or string of notes hit, etc) . It is distracting to me so I usually miss a note when it pops 
 up. I like it better here, it's just taking me a while to get used to it. Star Power seems to be 
 easier to activate via the guitar on GH3, though.
  
  There is also much more in-game advertising in GH3. Do we really need to have a guitar labeled 
 after a brand of deodorant? Hell no! Advertisers, listen up! Seeing your icon or brandname where 
 it does not belong just turns me off of your product! Poor move, Axe. I really don't mind seeing 
 true guitar manufacturers' labels displayed across things they actually make like strings, GUITARS, 
 amps, etc. What does deodorant have to do with guitars? What didn't work for me in the Tom Clancy 
 games (guess what?) still doesn't work for me here. Another complaint is that some of the songs 
 seem like they were put on there to please someone's girlfriend. Matthew Sweet? The Killers? Come 
 on, now! Those aren't LEGENDary guitar tracks or even LEGENDary bands. I wonder if the devs weren't 
 limited by the record labels as to who they could sign on for this. Even still, I would have taken 
 another, say Van Halen or Metallica song in favor of some tracks. Tool is with a Sony label, and 
 I would think Tool to be an obvious choice for this game (same goes for many other excluded bands) . 
 I read that AC/DC and Led Zep refused, but there's still way more out there before you have to 
 stoop to Girlfriend. Will we see songs from the 'Friends' soundtrack on GH4?
  
  Final complaint is regarding the Boss Battles. Simply put, they don't seem like battles at all. 
 The Power-Ups are so powerful that any moron could any of the bosses on the first or second try. 
 It would be better to just the players play and have a Crowd-Meter-type thing be the judge. ANY 
 of the songs are harder to complete than the Boss Battles given the power-ups involved. Oh, and 
 it seems that's the ONLY way to beat them is by using the power-ups. The same argument goes for 
 Multiplayer battles. It's kill or be killed in a matter of 30s. A good concept, but POOR execution. 
 Give me more and better songs to play instead of a pallette of cutesy little tricks.
  
  I liked the new cut-scenes and the increased production quality of GH3. The character modeling 
 is much, much better over GH2. The band members actually look like they might be playing the song 
 on stage. I like the Star Power animation on GH3 better, too. The GH2 it was a bit too over-the-top 
 for me. Moreover, the Neversoft intro to the game is the first such publisher animation that I've 
 ever watched. I like how Neversoft themed it to the game. Kudos for making it something to behold 
 as opposed to something to skip (or wish you could skip) .
  
  I also like the fact that there are more REAL artists performing THEIR songs in GH3. They build 
 on this theme for GH4.
  
  FInally, I must say it's a bit of letdown to spend $60 on just the game only to have to spend $8.00 
 more every time I want to play 2 or 3 more songs. If I'm going to pay that much, I would at least 
 expect them to be by the original artist and be fitting to the title of the game: LEGENDS OF ROCK.
 
  
  Overall, it's a great game that at least aspires to be much better than GH2. It definitely offers 
 more for your $$. The graphics are better. The production is definitely higher. The gameplay is 
 the same save for the new Battle Mode power ups which detract from an otherwise great idea. The 
 devs should check out the movie Crossroads and redefine the Boss Battles to jive with that (Steve 
 Vai vs. Karate Kid) instead of hokey broken strings, whammy bar, double notes, blah, blah, blah. 
 That aspect of the game seems like it was culled from people who don't understand guitar because 
 it just makes the game seem like a toy. This goes against what the game is supposed to do - make 
 me feel like a guitar hero. I was not surprised to find when I went to pick up my GH3 on Sunday 
 that 90% of the folks in line were late 20s to 30-somethings males (like myself) . Marketing should 
 take note of that and not try to make a complete toy out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is awesome. Graphics: The graphical value of this game ranks high. They have gone 
 out of there way to do good things. the mouth of the lead singer actually moves in realistic ways 
 and his lips are sync with the song itself. Besides a couple odd looking things with the lead singer, 
 the graphics are pretty stellar. They even have little videos in between tours, which are pretty 
 neat to watch.
  
  Sound: This time they seem to have gone all out. Im not knocking guitar hero 2 (Because it was 
 awesome as well) But, guitar hero 2 didn't have the best sound track. But guitar hero 3 seemed 
 to go way out of its way to get all the fan favorites! They did a really good job and im hoping 
 for downloaded able content soon!
  
  Gameplay: For the most part, this is what you've come to expect from guitar hero, better reaction 
 between your fingers and whats going on on screen, harder-core solo's and awesome star power effects. 
 Well guitar hero 3 delivers on these aspects. The game handles well and it's easier to get off 
 the big solo's, even though its harder to do (Strange i know... but when you play you'll understand) . 
 Because the difficultly sky-rocketed, the hammer ons and pull off's were made easier and this give 
 it a more realistic effect. A big thing they've added was the battle mode, where you battle Slash, 
 some other guy, and Lou the devil (pretty clever huh? Lucifer?... Lou? Oh nevermind) . The battle 
 modes feel pretty epic but can get pretty annoying on hard and insane on expert. While its fun 
 to do, sometimes it doesn't feel like its a necessary feature. I think its a welcomed addition, 
 and with a little tune up for guitar hero 4 it will be beyond awesome.
  
  All in all guitar hero 3 is a fun game that gives you more of the same and does it well and in 
 style. As always there are tons of unlock ables and hours of fun with friends. This is still one 
 of the biggest party games, and with is sound track, well its just good. I give it a 9.5 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  With neversoft as developer for Guitar Hero 3, clearly the game wouldn't be what a fan would expect, 
 and though this installment definitely smacks of Tony Hawk, that's not entirely a bad thing.
  
  Any veteran of the series who first picks up the most evidently new thing to the game -the 
 Les Paul controller- there's obviously a different feel, for better or for worse. The SG clicked 
 horribly, the xplorer didn't function with the player's forearm. The strum bar on the les paul 
 is noticeably sturdier, but it's hard to say how the click noise has improved. Neversoft clearly 
 saw the ergonomic convenience of the most conventional guitar next to the stratocaster and seized 
 on their opportunity to improve. A removable neck, sturdier tremolo arm (especially for those who 
 had defective whammy bars for their xplorer controllers) , smaller fretboard all make it a better 
 feeling guitar. The guitar seems to need a slightly gentler tilt to deploy star power (usually 
 a good thing) , and the select/start buttons are much more eminent than on the xplorer, yet better 
 placed than the SG so that players won't hit them accidentally. All in all, probably worth the 
 extra money.
  
  Graphically, pros and cons are also eminent. The environments seem slightly less cartoony (though 
 a player who was used to guitar hero 2 on 720p or 1080i may have some complaints instead) , and 
 the guitars are a good deal more pronounced. Characters are still essentially the same, and most 
 returning players are bound to like what changes Neversoft has made to Lars and Casey; Johnny Napalm 
 appears to be an amalgam now of skaters, not distinctly good or bad from this player's standpoint, 
 but it's unlikely many will like the changes made to Izzy or Xavier, the former who now looks like 
 a more aged character whose debauchery seems more eminent, and Xavier has lost his cool feel for 
 a more hippie feel, perhaps a product of Neversoft's potential guilt at getting rid of Clive. The 
 drummer looks the same, a bit less generic in appearance, but he's unmistakably the same guy. the 
 bassist is still the same, but his beard is more pronounced, and he seems to have enhanced animations. 
 The male singer has been replaced by a much more modern-rock looking guy, with a less '70's fashion, 
 a slightly more pronounced genitalia, and a face with a lot more detail. People may miss the old 
 guy, but it was Neversoft's call and they made a guy that generally looks cooler in the great-looking 
 stage performances of Guitar Hero III. The female is the same, just with more pronounced eyelashes 
 and make up; with a girl like her, less detail is better, but in the end it would mean that something 
 would be missing, and I can understand why Neversoft saw the need to "upgrade" her. There's a new 
 male singer who doesn't appear as frequently, when the other voice would look too out-of-place, 
 and while a minor band member, I'm glad Neversoft remembers to touch up the little things.
  
  The new venues are definitely pretty and intuitive. An outdoor grill party replaces the midwest 
 school, and proves a nice venue in its own right. The rat cellar, one of guitar hero 3's favored 
 venues, is replaced by a similar seedy rock bar, though this strip bar is bigger and noticeably 
 dirtier. Having venues like a prison (the combination of the red octane blub and the detroit music 
 hall and the video shoot (my favorite "venue", which really shows off some nice environmental detail) 
 are both awesome additions, and also help put a spin on the series. The only problem seems to be 
 that Neversoft hasn't done much to improve the fan variety, and they still look like a clone army 
 (this is especially true in the prison venue, and not just because they're wearing the same clothing) . 
 Not everything in Guitar Hero 3 looks like it belongs in a skating game; I'm sure plenty of fans 
 are gladdened by that.
  
  Gameplay wise, the tracks are easily inferior to past titles. Not only are momst of them unknown 
 (rock and roll all nite and school's out are of course famous songs, and more knowledgeable people 
 will recognize number of the beast, paint it black, and sunshine of your love) . Not only that, 
 but most of them have inferior gameplay to them. Guitar Hero I and II followed a clear formula 
 of songs: while it's understandable why Neversoft wanted a break from this, that formula really 
 was the working one, and not to say Guitar Hero III doesn't boast a good setlist, but it simply 
 does not compare. Something that frustrated me about Guitar Hero 2 was that if you played a note 
 correctly and missed the next one, the beginning of the next note would still be played anyway; 
 this remains present, but it's a bit less noticeable. One thing I really don't like however is 
 that "wrong note played" noise error. The previous ones could definitely be toned down a bit, but 
 the noises her are incredibly disconcerting.
  
  Battle mode is key to how Neversoft tries to make guitar hero its own. The boos battles are unmistakably 
 loads of fun, but unless you're playing on expert, the tide of battle can change dramatically, 
 and some power-ups don't seem to do a thing, while others will defeat the boss in a matter of seconds. 
 I have yet to try this with a friend, but unless you have two equal players fighting together, 
 this destroys the casualness of battle mode. Undoubtedly this has potential as a music game, but 
 as the hardest and most competitive in the series, which seriously cuts down on its friendly multiplayer 
 potential. Not to say this is true entirely: online multiplayer is a great addition, and will no 
 doubt supply truly hardcore players with what they seek.
  
  With any developing turnover, there's always justification for the fans to be worried, but like 
 Extraction point or KotOR 2, the guitar hero franchise is in good hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budasteven
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The guitar hero was definately worth the wait and it sure delivered. The soundtrack is amazing 
 with songs like Paranoid, Even Flow, and One by Metallica. The gameplay is very fun especially 
 the boss battle with Slash. The game is also very challenging on hard and expert. The areans are 
 also very cool and so are the charactars. The graphics are also very good on Guitar Hero 3. The 
 game interface is designed new but it is so much better looking. The wireless controller is one 
 of the best new features. It has a great design and it is very durable. Anyone who is a Guitar 
 Hero fan has to buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeTheRage
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Well there is really only one reason I even bought this game. For through the fire and flames by 
 dragonforce. I was not disapointed by this song. The rest of the game though I was very disapointed. 
 Overall it is an ok game. It seems more punky than the rest of the other games tho. I like the 
 new note streak counter also. It helps me see how close I am to acheivments where before I had 
 to just keep going and hoping I was close! It has some other good songs but overall I would say 
 if you already have a guitar hero game just stick with that. And if you don't wait for rock band 
 which looks totally awsome. (I already have mine preordered. do you?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III has a few things going for it: a new, wireless guitar, and a great songlist. But 
 those additions, as good as they are, are only incremental changes to the game. Guitar Hero is 
 as fun as the past games in the franchise, but none of the changes are spectacular.
  
  Perhaps the biggest disappointment of the game is the boss battles. It really just doesn't work 
 that well. The battles are chaotic, and sometimes frustrating, but not really that difficult. And 
 they are simply not that fun. Most of the game is geared toward accuracy and endurance. Then along 
 comes a boss battle, where you're suddenly forced to keep track of what your enemy is playing so 
 you can best use your attacks. It's a complete departure from the rest of the game. That would 
 be fine, except that the boss battles are rare (there are only three) , and so you never feel like 
 it's really a part of the game. It would have been better left out.
  
  The game is also somewhat more difficult that previous games. And the difficulty does not increase 
 evenly. At about the seventh song group on Medium difficulty, the game suddenly becomes a lot more 
 difficult. Even the easy level is more difficult than before. In the previous game, songs early 
 on in each difficulty level slowly added new patterns and techniques as you went, preparing you 
 for later stages. GH3 doesn't build up that way. You are suddenly thrown into the deep end of the 
 pool in the later song groups, without much preparation. If you've played GH2, this is actually 
 a feature, not a bug -- we all needed a bit more difficulty now that we've played the game. But first-timers 
 may find themselves doing fine, and then suddenly failing miserably. That might be a bit frustrating.
 
  
  Aesthetically, the game is great looking. There are occasional slowdowns when using star power, 
 which is unfortunate because it can throw you off your game. But it's short lived, and not frequent. 
 While the characters look a lot better in this incarnation of Guitar Hero, it is unfortunate that 
 the lead singer is so damn ugly. What's with the massive chin? The lip syncing, however, is pretty 
 cool, and the stage moves work really well. The animation is detailed and fluid. It's too bad I 
 never actually get to see any of it, since I'm focused on the fretboard!
  
  Overall, it's hard not to recommend the game to fans of the series. It's excellent -- good tunes, 
 more difficulty, and the game seems far more responsive to the guitar than in GH2. That said, it 
 might be frustratingly difficult for first-timers. But don't let that stop you -- it's definitely 
 worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keving7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Don't be misguided by my title, I like the game, just not as much as GH2. OK here is what i like 
 about GH3:
  -improved graphics, not great but a nice improvement
  -alot of great songs
  -introduction of the battle mode (in multiplayer)
  -online
  -the mini cut scenes are midly 
 entertaining
  -more unlockables
  -more tracks
  
  What i DONT like about GH3
  -alot of crappy songs
  -battles in single player WTF!!!???
  -easy/medium=too easy, hard/expert=too 
 hard
  -the final boss battle is gimmicky and stupid
  -hard to connect to games online
  -acheivments are stupid as hell
  -gets old faster than gh2
  
  OK let me talk about why i 
 dont like these certian things. There are alot of great songs (la grange, welcome to the jungle, 
 rock and roll all night... ect) but alot of crappy songs... no real songs that are just decent and 
 fun to play. It's practically super famous songs or songs that noone really knows excpet rock enthusiasts. 
 The battling is a great idea, just not in single player. it really ruins the flow of the game. 
 if you wanna battle, you should have a battle mode where you pick who you wanna battle and what 
 songs, seriously its stupid. The difficulty is out of whack. I have friends who can play medium 
 and easy and they both get abnormally high scores. I play on hard and i blew through the single 
 player mode with ease... of course untill the final boss battle... which is completely stupid. It's 
 a crappy remake of devil went down to georgia which sounds stupid and doesnt do justice to the 
 real song... which was never played on a guitar... so why bring it to GUITAR hero? this isnt fiddle 
 hero, so leave stupid songs like this out of the game PLEASE. Also back to the difficulty factor, 
 its stupidly hard and the boss always gets the first attack. There is too many notes in the song 
 bunched at a time, even if you hit him with 2 consecutive attacks during a solo, he will just eventually 
 earn it back. i am not a bad player by any means, and its just frusturating. I slaughtered slash 
 and tom morello in a matter of seconds (and thats true, within a minute) and then this Bullcrap 
 is unbeatable? S-T-U-P-I-D. ANY WAY MOVING ON... ONLINE BATTLING! YES!... wait why can't i connect? 
 WTF?! yeahh that just about sums it up. WOW acheivments... one word: dumb. Just look at them. ugh..
 
  
  And last but not least it gets old fast. Guitar Hero 2 was amazing, so many good songs and great 
 songs that are famous and fun to play, no gimmicky BS and perfect difficulty level. GH3 on the 
 other hand... ok i dont feel like playing through the single player mode more than 2 times because 
 i only wanna play half of the songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game just as much as Rock Band. The songs are great and I love the 
 boss battles. But the only compaint that I have is that the hard mode is just too hard, and the 
 medium mode is over too fast, I beat the game a day after I bought it, and I would love to have 
 a lot more game time. Well, the games tracks are a lot better that GH2's and even the bonus tracks 
 you buy in the store are better, the only thing that makes me mad is that they left out Velvet 
 Revolver's Slither, which is featured on the commercial, but I am sure it will be available for 
 download later, and this Guitar Hero is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  So I 'm kind of a Guitar Hero fan. The first time I picked up the guitar peripheral and plunked 
 out Stellar by Incubus on a demo PS2 I was simply blown away. This series essentially fulfills 
 all my hopes and dreams of playing music (I'm a drummer) in front of an adoring mass of fans with 
 none of the real practice or responsibility. With that said, I was quite nervous for the new installment 
 from Neversoft. Harmonix is a brilliant company who came out with Frequency way back in the early 
 days of the PS2 and has become a brilliant rhythm game creator since then. Everything they create 
 is gold in my book. I can now count my blessings that Neversoft did not in fact, totally destroy 
 the franchise, they actually made it better.
  
  Good: Songs. This set list is absolutely top notch with tons and tons of original tracks. The tracks 
 are fun and accessible, and I absolutely disagree with GS... the difficulty is not to hard by any 
 means. I was able to sightread 95% of the songs on expert with no troubles and get 4*. Battle mode! 
 Sorry to the haters out there, but I find this to be a fresh idea that merges the rock of Guitar 
 Hero with the charm of Mario Kart... I don't understand why people dislike this. My buddy and I 
 play this all the time and have a blast. Lasting appeal. Can you say bang for your buck? I mean, 
 I'm still playing GH2, and GH3 has a far better track list with at least 3x the amount of songs 
 that appeal to me. Something tells me I'll be playing this for a long, long time. Online play. 
 Yes. Just yes. Everyone wanted this for GH2, and it works flawlessly... better late than never 
 I suppose.
  
  Bad: Graphics. Okay... lesson #1: A rhythm game depends on TIMING. This means that framerate issues 
 are NOT OKAY. Sorry Neversoft, but the graphical overhaul went a little too far because it interferes 
 with my ability to play the game. Advergame. Umm, I never want to buy a product from Axe, Red Bull, 
 or Pontiac after playing this game. Stop with the obvious and unnecessary ads. Pandora. This one 
 is personal, but Pandora was the all time greatest character in the history of the universe. A 
 hot emo goth chick with blue hair and feathers? And you cut her out of the new game? Lame... super 
 lame.
  
  Verdict: Buy. No question about it, if you like party games or rhythm games, this is the game for 
 you. If not, no worries, there are other games coming this holiday to scratch your itch. And, if 
 you really want to wait for Rock Band, I understand your plight... but if you can afford both games, 
 Guitar Hero is worth it and so is the excellent wireless Les Paul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowXAssassin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  You progress through Guitar Hero III much as you would any of the previous games. The career mode 
 uses the same tiered-unlocking system as its predecessors, with encores at the end of each tier. 
 One wrinkle to this year's mode is the addition of animated cutscenes that sketch a minimal story 
 about your band's meteoric rise and eventual fall (literally) into hell. It's not much of a tale, 
 but there are a few moments of amusement here and there. One particularly interesting addition 
 to this year's game is a co-op career mode. This works much like the single-player career mode, 
 but you can play through with a friend who you can divvy up either lead or rhythm guitar/bass duties 
 with. Co-op play hasn't changed much since last year's game, but this new career progression is 
 a neat idea. Unfortunately, it's a neat idea that's overly restrictive in practice. For one thing, 
 there are six songs you can unlock only in co-op career, which means that if you don't have a buddy 
 with a second guitar that can come over and spend an afternoon playing, you won't get those songs 
 (at least until someone eventually digs up the unlock all songs code for the game) . Also, no version 
 of the game ships with a co-op quick-play option. The only way to play cooperatively on a single 
 console is to play in the co-op career mode, and you have to unlock six tiers' worth of songs before 
 you unlock all the available songs. Interestingly enough, there is a launch-day patch for the Xbox 
 360 version of the game that adds a co-op quick-play option. However, if your 360 isn't connected 
 to Xbox Live, or you happen to buy any other version of the game, you're out of luck at the moment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I suppose I can't complain too much about the lack of innovation on this latest installment of 
 Guitar Hero. I mean, how much further can you really advance something that is already far ahead 
 of most everything else like it in every way? I do like the online modes. That was efinitely one 
 area that needed an upgrade, but GH 2 was basically a port anyway, and was never built with online 
 in it's original design.
  
  I found the setlist for GH 3 to leave a little to be desired after a brilliant group of offering 
 from GH II. I myself, tend to be a Metal guy, and I found that there seemed to be a dropoff in 
 heavier songs in favor of a more eclectic and tamer offerings that didn't really appeal to me. 
 Especially in the bonus track section. I'd give the graphical overhaul for this version a thumbs 
 up. Backgrounds and characters look noticeable cleaner than the past, but still could look better. 
 I did like the comic-book animated presentation of the unfolding of the story in the (short!!) 
 career. The new battle modes are cool, but I'm way more into actually sredding. I've found this 
 one to be a bit more difficult on higher skillsets, which I welcome, actually. I devoured GH II 
 whole and after finishing on Expert, I didn't play much afterwards. I have a feeling I won't even 
 be able to finish a song or two on Expert on this game. Bottom line is that I feel that everyone 
 should own this game. I play with my kids and love evry second of it. It's the best game to sit 
 with the guys and chug cold ones tro, and now you can even rock out online anytime. this is a must. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Ya gotta figure that there wont be a new guitar hero for another year and i belive it was a year 
 from the last the one to to this one. with that said this game is short on content. it says 70 
 songs but thats false advertisement most of the songs are ones that you have either neither heard 
 of or would not bother listening too. they really dropped the ball when it comes to the number 
 of good songs available to play but maybee they will release alot more over xbox live. this review 
 is just a cover up really so i can sneak in some bad words about this web site. gamespot is horrible 
 in every conceivable way. there reviews are always late and they sell out to the games who advertise 
 on this site. gamespot can go to hell and so can all of its employess. with that said guitar is 
 a n ok game. thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erp47
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is not a perfect game, but it's a great game. I'm not reviewing the game based 
 on it's degree of sameness compared to the other games, I'm just reviewing this game as a single 
 unit. Okay, now that I'm done with that, Guitar Hero III is a great game. The core gameplay is 
 really fun, the stages look photorealistic, and the soundtrack is like a GH fanboy's wishlist.
 
  The soundtrack is like Guitar Hero II's, but replace the crap (Freya, Them Bones, Mother, Yes 
 We Can, Red Lottery) with total wickedness (Suck My Kiss, Pride and Joy, La Grange, Ruby, Stricken) . 
 There are no songs that I dread playing. Some songs I just don't like (I really hate Slipknot) , 
 but are still pretty fun to play. The soundtrack covers a very broad range of genres, from southern 
 rock to punk to modern rock to The Who and Rolling Stones to heavy metal to goth and even some 
 extreme nerd speed metal (I'm looking at you, Dragonforce) . While the broad majority of songs are 
 challenging while being still fun, some are just masochistically hard. The only things easy or even 
 challenging about Raining Blood are the beginning and the last few notes. The rest is wrist snappingly, 
 finger numbingly hard. At least it's short. Metallica's One is not hard at the beginning, but it 
 is long and failing the final crazy solo (you confound me, Kirk Hammet) is one of the most frustrating 
 things I've had happen to me in a video game. TF&amp; F, just think the break from Jordan, but the 
 whole way through. One of the new additions is the battle mode. Throughout the career, you will 
 be challenged by Tom Morello, Slash, and your manager, who also happens to be the devil. You can 
 unlock these characters to buy in the shop when you beat them. The battles themself are kind of 
 stupid. Your opponent doesn't miss any notes, but if you throw a power-up at them, they start to 
 play like my sister, and are screwed in about 10 seconds. The battle mode is really only fun in 
 online mode, where you can also do face-off and pro-face off. GH III also has stupidly blatant 
 ingame advertising. You go to Guitar Center to shop, in one stage you ride on a Pontiac truck, 
 and there are actually Axe-themed dancers and guitar finishes. It's really cheap and shameless, 
 and you would think Neversoft would have better judgement when they want to make a buck. Overall, 
 Guitar Hero III is a fun game. It's great for people who are vets at the series, but if you are 
 a newcomer, I suggest you start with the older ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero. Two words that most gamers associate with a fun party game and an addicting single 
 player experience. I remember the first time I was in a Best Buy and saw someone rocking out on 
 what looked to be a guitar controller. I just had to see what was up with it, and that was how 
 I got hooked like so many other people. The one thing that GH is supposed to be is fun. The games 
 offer varying levels of difficulty based on individual skill so that even the casual gamer can 
 get in on the action, making the games excellent for get-togethers with a ton of people. Which 
 brings me to GH3. Is it the same experience as the first two games? Does it still have the fun 
 factor that made the first two stellar titles so popular? How does the new online feature turn 
 out? Well, here's my Game Review for Guitar Hero III where I will answer those questions.
  
  Graphics: I don't have a problem with them. The character models are alright, although the 
 animations are alot more limited. If you liked to see your character spazzing out during Star Power 
 moves on GH2, you will be disappointed to know that all those over-the-top animations are gone 
 and replaced with a simple spin move for all the characters. Yay. But, as I said, the game does 
 look decent and very Guitar-Heroesque.
  
  Sound: If I have to explain the sound on this game, then that's really not good. I think everyone 
 gets the idea. A good sound mix, although about 80% of the tracklist sucks it up, to put it nicely.
 
  
  Control: Anyone who has played previous games already knows the controls. You just press the color-coded 
 fret buttons as they appear onscreen and strum the strumbar to make noise. I used my guitar from 
 GH2 with the game, as I didn't want to fork over another $100 for a new guitar and the game. It 
 works just fine, in case anyone had any doubts about that.
  
  Gameplay: Ah yes. The meat and potatoes of a game. Sadly, it's also the failing point of GH3. I 
 had fun playing through the songs. I should note that I completed GH2 on Hard about 10 times, so 
 I'm not exactly a casual GH fan. However, the difficulty in GH3 is just... well... over-the-top. 
 I don't know who thought up the idea of having power-ups in faceoffs, but they should be fired. 
 Seriously, it's the worst idea in GH history for sure, and maybe one of the worst additions to 
 a game ever. GH is supposed to make you feel like you are the guitarist in a rock band. Yeah, it's 
 just a game, but you are supposed to get the feeling that you are really on stage jamming out. 
 Someone please tell me then how Tom Morello managed to come over to my guitar, cut a string in 
 the middle of my solo, and never even break stride in his solo? That is the dumbest idea ever. 
 For those that haven't played the game, different power-ups are activated in boss confrontations 
 to, I GUESS, spice up the gameplay. One power-up is a broken string, where one of the fret buttons 
 ceases to function until you press it literally about 30 times to get it to work again. In perspective, 
 imagine letting your friend play with your guitar and he breaks a button. Yeah, doesn't that sound 
 like a great time when you're trying to jam out a crazy solo and you can't press the button? Another 
 power-up, and I think the cheapest of them all, is the Whammy power up. This jams the whammy bar 
 and prevents ANY notes from being played until the bar is whacked about 30 times, just like the 
 broken string power-up. Awesome. Kinda like the Lefty-Flip powerup that switches the controls to 
 those used by lefties, or the Difficulty-up powerup that forces you to play a section of the song 
 on Expert difficulty, even though you are playing on Hard. As if that wasn't bad enough, GH3 becomes 
 a total cop-out at the end of the game. Where GH2 had Freebird as the final song, GH3 has some 
 made up rendition of Devil Went Down to Georgia . Yeah. You know why it's made up? Because not 
 even Slash himself could play that song on Hard. Not to mention the song takes place in a face-off, 
 and the boss ALWAYS gets the first power up.... usually in my experience its Double notes, which 
 means twice as many notes appear on your screen than would usually be there. If this powerup is 
 activated, it's pretty much game because to hit all the notes is literally impossible. I have played 
 and beaten every song on the game, including Raining Blood by Slayer on Hard, but this final battle 
 is literally impossible. The biggest downside of the difficulty is that it doesn't make a good 
 party game anymore. Most of my friends have only played the game here and there, so they get frustrated 
 quickly with this version's unforgiving difficulty. I wind up going back and playing GH2 with them, 
 and that really defeats the purpose of having this copy.
  
  Also, the online is definitly hit or miss. Half the time I tried to join a duel, I couldn't connect 
 to the game. And no, it's not because of my internet connection.... it's because the online was 
 tacked on. I can say that with quite a bit of conviction since that's exactly what it feels like.
 
  
  All in all, this game is not worth the $60. The song list isn't that great, spare one or two good 
 hits, and the difficulty makes the game more work than fun. I recommend a rental or borrowing it 
 from a friend. As far as a purchase goes, however.... no way. This is one concert that, after attending, 
 makes me want my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thevision9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i picked it up and started playing. i thought this is just gh2 with 
 a slight graphic face lift. i wasn't terribly far off with that statement. they did indeed keep 
 that basic game in tact. the characters all look a little cooler, some missing some new. but in 
 the career mode there was a beautiful thing, a story. with gh2 you just travel around with that 
 corny screech noises of your u haul. but this one there are little cinematics which aren't great 
 but add some funnies to it. and the best thing, in my humble opinion, is the battles. i cant get 
 enough of them. basically its a one on one guitar solo battle. with the object to get your opponent 
 to fail his song. there are only a handful of them in the game which kinda blows but i find myself 
 going back to play them over and over.
  i gave the game a 8.5. if you liked gh2 then you will like gh3. bottom line, addicting party game, 
 not to bad on the graphics end, and some nice added features from the other games in this series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 to me is the best one in the series. It has everything I wanted in it including the 
 addition of Xbox live co-op play and multiplayer.
  
  First off the graphics. The graphics in this version is the best yet. The venues are great to look 
 at and can be quite distracting from the game. The character models are also at their best. Slash, 
 Tom Morello and Brett Michaels all look great thanks to the motion capture and face mapping they 
 did. Next the gameplay. The gameplay is still the same. The notes come and your object is to hit 
 them as they come. A difference this time around is the addition of the Guitar battles.. personally 
 i didnt care to much for the guitar battles. The object is to make your opponent fail by collecting 
 power ups instead of star power. The addition of Xbox live multiplayer is great. Now you can either 
 play co-op or battle with a friend or some unsuspecting soul. Needless to say, its really good 
 to have online support this time. Guitar Hero overall is a great addition to the series and this 
 one being my favorite so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omnislush
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III had tons of hype and tons of potential -- with around 70 new songs most being originals, 
 8 new venues, new co-op modes and great online play, GH 3 was poised to be the definitive game 
 of the series. However, having just completed it myself, I have to say that I am extremely disappointed 
 in the overall experience.
  
  While I could talk about the graphics or on-line modes, the GH series has always been about 2 things 
 for me -- the difficulty of completion and the song choice. As for the difficulty, many will be glad 
 to know that it is in fact easier than GH 2, but still harder than the original. While most of 
 the songs are generally faster and have crazy solos, the hammer-on/pull-off system has become much 
 more forgiving and so you will most likely find yourself pulling off insane solos more easily than 
 ever before. This is both good and bad, because too many times I was able to get through particularly 
 tough sections of a song on my first try. This may be due to the great action of the new Les Paul 
 controller, but the game is definitley much more forgiving. Regardless, the sense of accomplishment 
 that I had after completing the first two games in the series just isn't here.
  
  Though I can live without the sense of accomplishment, the bigger issue is the song selection. 
 Many of the songs are original master tracks, which is a nice change -- but it does make the covers 
 really stand out that much more. Just listen to La Grange or Pride and Joy, for example -- they aren't 
 even close to the originals. But to make things worse, many of the songs just really aren't that 
 fun to play. Regardless of whether you like the songs are not, most of the songs fall into a pattern... main 
 riff, repeat riff ad nauseum, solo, repeat main riff again... making the songs more of a chore than 
 a challenge. I could have also stood a little more variety in the music -- especially once you get 
 to the final tiers, too many songs are just loud, heavy and fast. I would prefer having great guitar 
 performances over thrash any day. There are a few, but not nearly as many as the first 2 installments 
 provided.
  
  When I first purchased Guitar Hero 1, the biggest reason I purcahsed it was because I had a lot 
 of fun with it. My wife told me to buy it because it actually looked like I was having fun... Unfortunately, 
 except for playing Evenflow and Cliffs of Dover, I don't think the same can be said about this 
 installment... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlanders
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  The third installment of the GH series ups the ante with the majority of tracks coming as master 
 recordings as well as securing artists like Metallica and Dragonforce. Overall, I am really enjoying 
 this game. The new guitar feels WAY better than the Explorer, the graphics are sick and the new 
 navigation through songs (career, unlocked, downloaded) is a welcome addition. I also like the 
 fact that it takes very little tilt to activate star power, or you can actually reach the oversized 
 select button as well. My only gripe is lack of online co-op CAREER mode. I mean seriously, online 
 multiplayer is finally added, but you can not do a co-op career with a friend online? That just 
 does not make much sense to me. A large number of achievements are granted to co-op career, but 
 you will only be able to do that when actually playing together. While on the subject of achievments, 
 I think there may be some bugs here. On launch day my friend and I completed co-op carrer (me as 
 the primary gamertag, he was logged in under his) and my gamertag received the achievements we 
 had completed, but his did not. So be careful, unless there is a patch you will have to play co-op 
 career MULTIPLE times to unlock these achievements. Overall, if you are a GH fan, pick it up. If 
 you've never played, pick it up, but be prepared to increased levels of frustration when even attempting 
 this installment on hard (even some medium songs) . Rock out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vin25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  The songs are pretty good, could have been better, the battle mode sucks, the last one with lou 
 is just wrong. The new guitar is nice, along with the improved timing, but i thought the last one 
 was a better game, all in all. THe online mood is the best feature. Coop mode face off are all 
 really fun, and the downloadable content all a great feature in the game. I think it will add to 
 the expirence. The game is addicting like the last one, but like they said is really, really....... really 
 hard. The real recordings of some the songs gave more of better feeling while playing the songs 
 just felt more real which was a welcome improvement, but all in all its a decent game, very addicting, 
 still fun just not the best it could have been. CAnt wait till rock band come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby101690
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  seriously this is the best guitar hero game in the franchise. i love battle mode, the new songs 
 are amazing. finally a guitar hero game that gives us a challenge. it's no longer, blow through 
 the set list with an instant 5 stars on every song. The battles incorporated in the career are 
 their best idea yet. The online is also amazing, it brings the game to a whole other level. The 
 new guitar is also awesome. i think that it makes the playing a lot easier because the strum bar 
 length is increased, and the buttons just have an overall better feeling to them. get this game, 
 espically if you have played the others. If you haven't played the others, give it a try at a friends 
 house first. im telling you it is like crack, you'll get addicted instantly and its insanely fun. 
 This game never gets old and i think it is the #1 game out there for replay value, no doubt in 
 my mind at all. i give it no less then a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seekingsolace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm not clear on why my last review was deleted. I know the moderator called it a rant, but if 
 they would have read it, they would have seen that I didn't rant about the review, but I rather 
 stated that I disagreed with viewpoints, and used those comparisons as the basis for my review.
 
  
  So my opinion is different than your reviewer's. And so I think you're biased. But I feel that 
 I stayed within the lines, I just took a different approach. In any case, if you feel the need 
 to suspend my account for having an opinion, then cancel it. IGN's better anyway, and I do believe 
 they allow their members to speak their minds freely.
  
  Also, I would have taken this up with the moderator personally, but it doesn't seem that there's 
 a way to talk to him/her. Kinda one sided don't you think? I'll gladly clean it up if I can get 
 some answers.
  
  So onto a more boring review.
  
  The graphics have been sharpened up. It seems like you can see the notes coming a little bit better, 
 which is always welcome. It's easier to discern between notes.
  The sound is great. The presence of so many master tracks is great, with the total of all the tracks 
 reaching up over 70 songs. It's also the best collection of songs so far. It also proves to be 
 much more difficult on the upper tiers, which one would expect since they're entitled expert and 
 hard .
  The gameplay is even better. There are a few additions, little points sharpened here and there 
 that provide a more complete package. My favorite of these (for the sake of brevity here) is the 
 online play. It's strong enough to be addictive, for sure. I just wish it worked a tad better, 
 but I have similar problems with Halo 3, and you won't see me complaining there for sure. Hammer-ons 
 and pull-offs are about perfect now, all fair and good.
  The replay value is through the roof. There's a much greater amount of content than in the previous 
 games, and it will take more time to get through. And you'll love every minute since they quality 
 as well as the quantity of songs has increased. In conclusion, (and this was what got me in trouble 
 to begin with) , a sequel such as this that makes so many improvements to present such a complete 
 package deserves to be rated closer to its predecessor. The game lost nothing, and while it didn't 
 gain a great amount, that's no grounds for it to be cut back so much. Pick up the bundle, too, 
 you won't be disappointed with the new guitar in the slightest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the third game in the guitar hero series and the best one so far. It features 
 the same fanatastic gameplay of the series while adding some nice new additions. The new additions 
 include boss battles, battle mode, online play, and a complete co-op career. Difficulty wise I 
 noticed it was a bit harder than guitar hero 2. I don't think it is significantly harder, though 
 as gamespot's review makes it seem. I blazed through the whole game on expert the first day except 
 for the last three songs. It was not much harder though on the easy, normal, and hard difficulties. 
 The songs this year are much better, with songs, and bands you might have actually heard of. In 
 the online mode you can play in either battle, face off, pro face off, or play co-op. The online 
 pliay is great and works just as well as someone playing against you at home. One issue I have 
 with it though is the lag. Now I know in shooting games lag isn't as important, but in guitar hero 
 the slightest lag can mess you up big time and could make it easier for your oppoent to beat you. 
 Otherwise the online is fantastic. I nocticed a good bit of graphical improvemnt in guitar hero 
 3. The character models are much better, but the characters in the audience still don't look very 
 realistic. The graphics in Guitar Hero 3 are improved but there is still a lot of room for imrpovement. 
 The sound is as usual fantastic with great sounds from the guitar and the singing is done very 
 well also. Guitar Hero 3 also has a lot of value. With 4 difficulties of 42 challenging songs, 
 the online play, and the co-op career, guitar hero 3 should keep you busy for awhile. Overall if 
 you are a guitar hero fan this a must, and it is also good enough to appeal to many others, even 
 the slightest bit interested in rythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Well your probably still shocked on how little good songs where on rock the 80's and how easy it 
 was, they defenatly picked up on guitar hero 3, not only is it hard, but it has alot of good songs 
 too, and theres boss battles!, and for the xbox 360 version there is xbox live! how much more could 
 you want?
  
  the graphics for the 360 version are very well done, but the ps2 and the wii version do not look 
 that good, but don't worry they are still just as fun.
  
  the sound is amazing, what do you expect from guitar hero?
  
  over all this game is worth picking 
 up, I give it an 8.8/10.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to focus on the gameplay only in this review, since the graphics are what they are and 
 the sound is pretty self explanatory.
  
  First off, there are a few new additions to the game this time around. Online play, co-op careers, 
 a streak counter and boss battles all make an appearance in GHIII. But some of them are just bad 
 ideas that don't add positively to the gameplay experience.
  
  The addition of online play is a great one. Finally, players can hook up with friends online for 
 battle modes, or meet up with some folks for co-operative play. Setting up a session is somewhat 
 clunky, but it's a welcomed addition to the game. Also a good addition is the co-op career mode 
 (which plays on the same system) and it adds more structure than the co-op single song play of 
 GHII. The streak counter is a neat little detail that will be appreciated by some and completely 
 irrelevant to others, but it's definitely not a bad addition.
  
  The bad addition comes in the form of the boss battles. In these battles, you have to face off 
 against a couple real rockstars in order to advance in your career. These battles consist of facing 
 off against the computer by playing opposing parts to songs and picking up power ups (such as cutting 
 a string on your opponents guitar or an amp overload which causes the notes to flash on and off) 
 and attempting to use these power ups to force your opponent to fail. On the harder difficulty 
 levels, these battles are WAY more frustrating than they should be and don't do anything to add 
 enjoyment to the career mode. They seem out of place and will turn off many of the casual GH fans. 
 If it were a separate game mode, then I'd be all for it, because we'd have the option to play/not 
 play this mode. But to throw it in the career mode and force players to be more frustrated than 
 anything is a bad move.
  
  The difficulty has been bumped up as well, with more notes in the songs than before and a seemingly 
 faster pace. Hammer on's and pull-off's are much more prevalent this time around, which is fine 
 for some and bad for others. This game will be very well put together for those GH players that 
 tore through GHII on expert. But for the casual player who just enjoyed playing the songs (and 
 those who may have beaten the medium and partially beat the hard levels on GHI) , this game seems 
 filled with more frustration and less addictive gameplay than its predecessor.
  
  Is the game bad? No, not by any means. But I was personally expecting more after enjoying GHII 
 so much. I was the type who mastered the medium mode and was on the last few sets of hard songs 
 in GHII. The frustration I found in GHIII has really taken away from the experience. I don't find 
 it as addictive as I thought I would.
  
  Don't get me wrong... I really, really want to love this game. But it just doesn't hook me like 
 GHII did. I still enjoy shredding some songs on this game, but my focus will be on quick play after 
 beating the Medium career instead of continuing on with more careers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm honestly not amazing at guitar hero. I'm able to beat almost all the songs on hard until the 
 last venue. The last venue is ridiculously hard and the boss battle looks like it should be on 
 expert. Besides the increased difficulty I found that it also lacked in graphics. For some reason 
 it looks like guitar hero 2 has better graphics. The new guitar is definitely better than the previous 
 360 version. The live part of guitar hero 3 needs some work. it needs a better ranking system because 
 people who are excessively good can go and play some one on hard or medium and wipe the floor with 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Likefire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  For more than one reason I liked Guitar Hero 2 more than 3. The vocals are very low/poor in comparison 
 to the music/guitar/bass playing. A lot of the sounds tracks that you are able to purchase in the 
 store, I could care less about. What should have been done was make different versions of the game: 
 One for the states and one for Europe/Asia or something to that measure. Not everyone listens to 
 those type of bands with exceptions of course.
  
  Even with the bad there are a number of +'s to the game. Personally I do like the battle mode though. 
 Ive had a lot of fun with that so far. If you don't like it then you must either have no competition 
 or just are horrible at it. Boss modes are an interesting addition to the game. They up the ante 
 for those whom may not be able to master expert mode like myself. Im more of a medium or hard person. 
 The in-game cut-scenes are different... not a bad different either. If your into achievements then 
 they did you justice. The achievements in this game aren't are tad tougher.
  
  But with everything said, they should have improved a few things rather than changing it to the 
 point of downgrading a little bit. Also by this I mean the core part of the game, not the new stuff. 
 The new additions are awesome.
  
  Overall, the game can be pretty fun, but with competition like rock band coming up in less than 
 a month, Im kind of disappointed with this game. I think they could have done better. In a way 
 it reminded me of how halo 3 turned out. Good game but not as good as people as people thought 
 it might be, with the die-hards being the exceptions of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stillwind04
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Let me go out on a limb and say that I wasn't always a Guitar Hero fan, in fact I started out with 
 Guitar Hero 2 for Xbox 360. I have been playing the actual guitar for about 2 years now, so before 
 you guys start throwing out the usual go-play-a-real-guitar-then attitude, I just wanted you to 
 know before-hand.
  
  At first I was a Rockband fan. As soon as I found out that Harmonix was going to be headed in a 
 new direction I immediately followed them and I still kind of am. The main thing though, is that 
 it's really hard to pass up on another installment of an already well-established franchise.
  
  Neversoft, in my opinion, did a great job of keeping the guitar hero feel to the game. And 
 while upping the ante on the difficulty may have been more geared towards the hardcore guitar hero 
 fan, whats to stop them? If you haven't played a guitar hero yet then I suggest you start out on 
 1 or 2 even, but don't get pissed at a game for being so hard when you haven't even been interested 
 up until now.
  
  Though along with the increased difficulty comes an amazing setlist. I can safely say that there 
 were only a few songs that I would play over and over on Guitar Hero 2, but its definitely harder 
 for me to even choose a song to play on Guitar Hero 3 because there are so many damn good ones! 
 Yes the covers aren't as good as they could have been, yes some of the master tracks sound a little 
 under the weather, but as long as I'm playing a song I enjoy listening to... then that's all that 
 matters.
  
  Aside from the sound, the visuals proved to be superb. The lip sync is probably the most impressive 
 thing I've seen so far. The general animations are decent for the main characters, but tend to 
 be a bit robotic in others (i. e. drummer and stage dancers) . The color scheme and venue styles 
 are awesome and it just seems to be a bit smoother and more clear in general.
  
  One thing that really stuck out was the inclusion of the originally modded DragonForce song (which 
 was awesome!) and the modded mode hyperspeed integrated as a cheat. I'm glad they brought in some 
 of that stuff so people didn't have to void their warranty to do so. All in all, if you are a Guitar 
 Hero fan and regular, then this is a no-brainer deal, pick up a copy now! If you are an up and 
 coming guitar guru then I suggest you play Guitar Hero 1 and 2 so that you can get up to speed 
 without having to cuss out some of the songs on GH3 and before you spew nonsense of zomg this game 
 is too hard crap on the review boards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wraith808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I was concerned when Neversoft took over the Guitar Hero franchise. A lot of the groundwork was 
 laid, but I've seen companies take a perfectly workable idea and destroy it before. But as the 
 demo came out, my concerns lessened, and the game rocks just as hard as before. I'll handle this 
 in x parts: Gameplay, Song Selection, Presentation, and New Additions.
  
  The gameplay of the series hasn't changed significantly, and that's a good thing. There are a few 
 additions that increase playability: there is a note counter that appears when you have above a 
 25 note streak, there are visual cues when you reach a milestone (50, 100, then ever 100 after) , 
 the star power meter is much more noticeable when you have star power, and the notifier is much 
 more obvious, the annoying jarring to the fret board when you lose a streak is gone, the sound 
 for missing a note is much more true to a guitar, and the level of accuracy require for hammer-ons/pull-offs, 
 and just hitting the notes has decreased. All of these are welcome changes, and help with the increased 
 difficulty level. I've only played on Hard and Expert, but on Expert, the difficulty ramps up pretty 
 quickly- I'm in the fourth set, and having problems. Hard is a bit harder, with more runs, triplets, 
 and intermediate notes added. But to me, it's fun! I'd like to get through the game, of course. 
 But if the songs aren't hard, then where is the challenge. I've once again had the feeling that 
 I had in Guitar Hero when I was playing songs over and over- success or failure. The songs are 
 more compelling than in Guitar Hero II, and it really makes me want to play.
  
  Which neatly segues into Song Selection. Most of the songs in Guitar Hero III are masters, and 
 they really stand out. However, the cover band they used is not as good as before, so the ones 
 that are covers are not as good. The guitar work is just as up to par as it's always been, but 
 the arrangements, and the singer are both off on a few songs. They've tried to cover a wider range 
 of styles in this iteration, and though it's jarring at times, they've done a good job of keeping 
 similar styles together, even naming the sets after periods in rock history. Nice touch. And the 
 original tracks by Morello and Slash are quite good. I actually find myself looking forward to 
 unlocking the next set and seeing what's next, which I didn't experience in GHII.
  
  The presentation is top notch, though in a different way than the first two games. The art is more 
 stylized, with a lot more attention paid to your avatar and what's going on onstage... the graphics 
 are a lot crisper and more detailed. And there is actually sort of a story in between, which I 
 liked a lot better than the by now overused van going from city to city. It makes the last song 
 all the more fitting; a boss battle in hell playing 'The Devil went down in Georgia'.
  
  That's one of the new things- Boss Battles. There is a new battle mode, where you get different 
 weapons to affect your opponent rather than star power. Deploy it during their turn and give them 
 a disadvantage. Against another player, I found it flat and uninteresting. Against a boss, it's 
 a different world. In three different sets, you face a guitar battle against a boss. It's not required 
 that you defeat it to continue, but if you do defeat it, you unlock the boss as a playable character. 
 Tom Morello is your first challenge, then Slash. These two are pretty well detailed, and the artists 
 mo-caped the motions so it's like playing against these two guitar legends. Then you play against 
 the Devil. An artist that I've never heard of plays the Devil, but after hearing his music and 
 the unadulterated skill required to do some of the things he does, I know why they chose him. It's 
 a pretty incredible rendition of a classic song.
  
  The guitar alone would have been worth the money to me- it's more substantial than previous efforts, 
 and the wireless definitely lets you rock out more. But Neversoft put in a really good effort, 
 to make a game that is definitely an iteration more than the previous one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmiller4life
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  In a way, Guitar Hero is quite similar to Halo. Once youve played one, youve basically played 
 them all. However, both games keep you hooked for a specific reason. In Halo its the multiplayer, 
 and in Guitar Hero 3 its the setlist.
  
  Lets just say that if youre not a rock fan then GH3 may not strike all the chords with you. While 
 the makeup of the game doesnt change at all, nobody said that the series needed a drastic change. 
 When you hear Mick Jagger start singing Paint it Black, Brandon Flowers leading When you were 
 Young, or Rivers Cuomo signing My Name is Jonas something should start stirring up in your rock 
 n roll heart. It did for me, and thats the main difference between GH2 and GH3.
  
  Theres not a huge bump in graphics between the two games, and honestly if youre focusing on the 
 graphics youre not paying attention to the riffs. The boss battles are fun, especially lining 
 up against one and playing Charlie Daniels The Devil Went Down to Georgia. That was crazy. It 
 makes you be a little more invested in the game rather than playing through all the songs and then 
 finishing it. I tried playing the multiplayer and it seemed buggy to me, saying that it had found 
 someone for me to play against but then saying that the matchup failed. Theres also no lobby to 
 see who youre playing against. The last thing I want to do is line up against someone who plays 
 on expert and get totally shredded. I want to know what Im up against, and GH3 doesnt offer that.
 
  
  So far Ive finished the game on medium and tried it on hard. On medium, you get so used to your 
 four fingers having their proper place on the neck of the guitar, so when you add the orange button 
 it totally screws up your system. So, sufficed to say I cannot get through the first hard song 
 at all. In GH2 I at least could finish the first four songs. Not here. So the difficulty curve 
 is a little steep after you start on hard. I havent tried the co-op levels yet as none of my buddies 
 has a spare 360 guitar around.
  
  All in all this is a fun game, especially if you love to rock out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Quite frankly, guitar hero III's success and hard work put in surprised me quite a bit, considering 
 the developer, neversoft, was going into territory it had not even touched before. Yet once you've 
 given it a try, you'll see it's easily a sequel worth playing.
  
  The Sound:
  Although I personally did not like too much of the first half, I didn't like the first half of 
 GH II either. As you'll go on it's quite visible that the selection goes in a few different directions, 
 but tries to stick with the rock genre mostly. The voice acting from the tutorial was cute, and 
 the end was very amusing (I won't give it away) . As far as bonus songs go, mostly metal and international 
 music. The last 5 songs on expert, as well as through the fire and flames will probably keep you 
 busy for at least a month... these are some of the funnest solos I've done in a while. For those 
 who prefer co-op, there are also extra songs for the encore exclusively unlockable from there. 
 One turn off though: The last song (I won't give it away) cuts out an expletive.... is this for 
 8 year olds now?
  Come on.
  
  The Gameplay:
  The gameplay is, well, mostly the same for the most part. The point counter on the left was given 
 a much needed Combo counter, brings me back to the DDR/Other Bemani game days. The boss battles 
 are interesting, original, although somewhat reminiscent of FreQuency/Amplitude's battle system, 
 but they did invent specific types of attacks like the whamy and so on, so I won't point any fingers.
 
  
  The News:
  This is a great game and an easy buy for those who still want to rock out. If you're getting bored 
 of guitaring for whatever reason, you can try rock band, but I'd definetly give this a spin.
  
  The Look:
  The look is one of the only minor setbacks of this game. It's mostly the same 
 as from GH II but some of the animations, particularly the drummer and some of the audience look 
 a wee bit underworked. But for a music game, you're probably focusing on something else anyways. 
 What's up with all the product placement? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Amazing Track list except for the punk rock songs like the sex pistols.
  Slash is playable.
  New modes are fun and very challenging.
  Online is awesome.
  Co-op
 
  wireless guitar!
  Better bands in the unlock able section. (killswitch engage)
  La Grange has to be the funnest song in all of GH.
  Casey Lynch is damn sexy.
  10x harder than 
 previous guitar heros.
  
  The Bad:
  Guitar doesnt work at times buttons jam up and just dont read.
  compared to last guitar hero 
 there seems to be a lack of unlockable content there is about 15 unlockable songs 20 guitars 10 
 of them are the weird guitars shaped like different things and only 4 characters to buy.
  My favorite character from the second GH looks like boy george.
  Xavier doesnt even look cool 
 anymore.
  If you never played a guitar hero before you will get frustrated with this one no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is pretty much Guitar Hero 2 with different songs and nicer looking graphics. Thats 
 pretty much it.
  
  I was extremely disappointed with the battle mode once one player fires the first weapon the other 
 guy can not come back. Terrible. The new wireless guitar is pretty sweet actually No MORE WIRES 
 GETTING IN THE WAY !!! the difficulties are much more harder making it so much more funner for 
 the hardcore fans like myself but when my fiance wants to play with me easy is just way to easy 
 for her and medium is to hard now... its kinda strange
  
  I give this game an 8/10...
  
  This game still Rocks hard with a pretty good line up of bands. Altough i still dont really 
 understand the name of the game... Legends??? then what are some of these bands doing on this game??? 
 AFI??? WTF SLIPKNOT??? WTF I mean Slipknots pretty good but Legend??? I can see Metallica, slayer 
 sabbath maiden, but some of the bands on here aren't legends thats for sure... but still this game 
 is worth the whatever amount its worth just for that fact for trying to complete ONE on Expert... 
 WOW amazing!!!
  ROCKBAND will more likely be 100 times better than this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermind73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  As I said, this is the most complete Guitar Hero yet. For fans with multiple systems, think of 
 the excellent Gameplay of the PS2 titles mixed with the track list of your dreams. Also, if you 
 happen to have one, the game looks excellent on a nice HDTV.
  
  Most of Gamespot's digs on this game are unfounded or can be overlooked. For instance: Battle mode:
 
  It is unfair to say battle mode is uninteresting and that most matches will last only 30 seconds. 
 I believe the reviewer took a very small sample of battle mode matches, probably against his 7 
 year old cousin who's never played before. Try going online and playing against a player who matches 
 up with you by creating your own match (which the game allows you to do through difficulty setting 
 requirements in the creation screen) . You'll quickly realize that this mode can be fun, challenging, 
 and exciting; with plenty of great finishes between evenly matched players.
  
  Framerate issues:
  Haven't experienced a single one. The game runs smoothly at all times. Maybe 
 GS's Xbox is on the fritz.
  
  Product Placement:
  Seriously? You're taking points away from a great game for product placement??? First of all, Guitar 
 Hero III does have SOME product placement, but it is VERY easily overlooked. It's not like they're 
 forcing you to watch commercials or anything, there's just a few animated packs of gum/bottles 
 of AXE, etc on the menus. And they're randomly generated so you don't even always see them. Second 
 of all, product placement in video games is the wave of the future, so even if you don't like it, 
 you're going to have to deal with it. We should just be glad it's not any worse than it is.
  
  Co-Op and online issues:
  Let me get this out of the way: If your XboX is not hooked up to 
 the internet, you apparently can not play Co-Op quick play on this game. Sorry. Might want to think 
 about getting the internet at your house. Or, you might want to head over to a buddy's house who 
 DOES have the internet and download the patch. Hey, maybe while you're there you can play some 
 Co-Op quick play. Seriously, guys, the lack of a Co-Op quick play option is a non factor. The patch 
 was released so early that I was completely unaware of it until I read the review here. In fact, 
 I'm skeptical that it even exists. If it does, it is the first patch that the 360 has ever not 
 notified me of download. Increased difficulty:
  Yes, this game is harder than Guitar Hero II from a note-chart standpoint. But a feature that was 
 barely touched on by the GS reviewer is that the hammer-on/pull-off system is MUCH easier. In fact, 
 it is SO much easier, that it lowers the overall difficulty of the game. Will the beginning of 
 the solo in One break your hands? Yes. Should it? YES. Is it impossible to play? NO. Would it have 
 been impossible to play on the original GH? Absolutely!
  
  I'm sorry this review kind of became a rip on the GS review, but I feel this excellent game was 
 slighted by some unfounded nitpicking by the original reviewer. Overall the good points listed 
 in the GS review are correct. The amazing track list and stellar gameplay make this game worth 
 every penny of it's price.
  
  The only bad thing I have to say is that the star-power activation is WAY too sensitive in this 
 sequel. However, there should be a patch to fix that issue very soon.
  
  One final note: DO NOT BUY THE FULL BUNDLE OF THIS GAME AT WAL-MART without thoroughly checking 
 the box. Apparently, they are trying to pawn off the old X-Plorer wired controllers on people for 
 the SAME PRICE as the wireless bundle. I encountered this at release and just wanted to spread 
 the word a bit.
  
  This is a great game deserves a great score. Have fun melting face! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cusoker
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  By far the most fun out of any of the Guitar Hero games. I thought for the most part the songs 
 engaging to play, as opposed to Rocks the 80's (which was pretty boring) or even some GH II songs. 
 I enjoy the new in song graphics. I think the button colors flying at you are easier to see in 
 previous games, and look cleaner too. The StarPower activation isn't as distracting either. And 
 I appreciate how the hammer on buttons glow on top, it makes it easier to see while I'm playing.
 
  
  The track list is pretty good. I love the fact that they have Mettalica, Disturbed, a good Aerosmith 
 song, Foghat, Cream, Rolling Stones, GNR, RATM. One question though, since when is Tenacious D 
 considered a legend of rock? Or Pat Benetar? Did I miss something a while ago? They could have 
 made The Metal an unlockable like they did with Trogdor or Thunderhorse in GH II. Overall a good 
 song selection though.
  
  Now to one of my one big gripes. This is by far the hardest of the GH games to get into. I am by 
 no means a GH rock god, I have a tough time on Hard. So to jump into this game made my head spin. 
 My brother, who i consider a true guitar hero , has beaten all of the games on Expert, and he agrees 
 that this is the hardest game to date. It is like they are just making the button combos harder, 
 just to be harder. There is no rhyme or reason for some of them. At this point in the series, they 
 really need to do one of two things: 1) add a fifth difficulty in between the current medium and 
 hard, or 2) keep the difficulty the same as with previous games.
  
  Here is my second grip: Why on God's green earth did they screw up the co-op modes? Why did they 
 take out the co-op quick play? All I really wanted to do with my friends and family was to play 
 a quick co-op game like you can do in GH II. But no! You have to do a battle, or head-to-head matches, 
 or do a co-op career. To be honest it the career mode would have been fine, if you could have to 
 difficulty levels playing together and keep what you have unlocked. Currently my brother and a 
 friend are going through the co-op on hard and hard. I went to play with my brother with him on 
 hard and me on medium, but none of the songs unlocked under his hard/hard difficulty were available 
 to play with the hard/medium combo. I also do not like how you have to choose your difficulty before 
 playing a song, as opposed to the last game where you determine it at the song. The interface as 
 a whole is worse than with the previous games.
  
  Overall, this is the best tracklist with over 70 songs, has the most fun songs to play, and is 
 better graphically. The only draw backs are some of the artists included, the increased difficulty 
 level over the previous 3 games, and the horrible co-op modes and worse interface. This game could 
 have easily been a 9.0+ game, however the lack of quick play co-op and some interface changes for 
 the worse bring this down to an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  +Guitar Hero now features online play, which means if someone isn't over to rock you out of your 
 house, then you can find someone across the world to do so.
  +Terrific song list; one after another of great guitar solos.
  -Now enough rock-off battles in 
 career.
  -Songs in store are not really that great.
  
  After playing through Guitar Hero 2, I finally saw what people were screaming about when they were 
 talking about the game. It's really, really fun. It's like you're a rock star, without all the 
 girls, fame, drugs, and real guitar skills. With Rock Band coming out, I had doubts about getting 
 Guitar Hero 3. I mean, what's Guitar Hero when you can rock out with a really cool feeling guitar 
 and some drums? Then I remembered that really, Rock Band is a separate game, and should be treated 
 like one. So, I cashed in my unplayed Nintendo DS and got the game.
  
  After playing through the game last night, I realized that they really put out the best Guitar 
 Hero to date. The songs were awesome. I don't think I had a compliant one about any of the songs. 
 I remembered freaking out from being so excited that we got to Cherub Rock last night. I'd been 
 wanting to play that song for a good while. The story mode is actually pretty entertaining. You 
 go through your garage band career all the way to a very special place at the end. It's hilarious 
 all the way through. The guitar god battles were pretty fun and well placed, although, I could 
 have used more of those. It would have been nice to see more celebrity face thrown in the game 
 with their style of play, but after getting Tom, I was set. Slash has yet to be played.
  
  The cool thing about the game is the graphics. They really went all out this time to supply a good 
 mixture of a cartoony yet believable world to rock in. I wish they would have had a few more stages 
 though. A lot of the stages are fun to look at, but it's more exciting to see you rocking at concerts, 
 rather than on a truck with a Pontiac advertisement. If they could have added one just fun stage, 
 they could have done a garage band stage, where you play in a garage and have neighbors looking 
 in. That would have been pretty cool.
  
  The few annoying things in the game are slim. There's a few in game ads, but they're really not 
 annoying like some games out there. The only ads I noticed were the Pontiac ads on one stage and 
 then the stupid Axe ads on the guitars. By the way, I hate Axe more than any company. They have 
 more ads in games than Elvis has impersonators.
  
  So, how's the difficulty? Well, they definitely kicked up the amp this time. I went through the 
 game on medium the first time, just to get the songs I wanted to play. Some of those songs, like 
 the DragonForce song, was incredibly hard to play. I kicked the difficulty level up to hard and 
 expert to play a few of those songs I had minor problems with on medium, and yeah, what a hard 
 game. My arm almost fell off playing through hard mode of a few songs. I like how expert is actually 
 an expert mode. Same with how they did achievements. This game isn't a game you can pick up and 
 score 1000 achievements in a few hours. One of them is get 20 gold stars (aka perfect plays) on 
 expert mode. Yikes! But that's more of an achievement than beating a tutorial level.
  
  As far as multi player, there's a good assortment of game modes. The best is the battle mode. While 
 you rock, randomly you'll get Mario Kart like power ups which can mess up your opponent, knocking 
 them in the red. It makes for a challenging game mode, and great party mode.
  
  Overall, this is a great game to own. Definitely a lot of cool songs to master and a lot of fun 
 to be had. For those thinking this is a game to tide us over til Rock Band, well, that's pretty 
 pathetic. This is not the same game as Rock Band, as Rock Band is honestly about groups of people 
 playing multiple instruments. Guitar Hero is just about picking up a fake guitar, and letting your 
 finger color picking skills do the talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  The Good: Killer track listings, new Les Paul guitar is awesome, completely lag-free online multiplayer, 
 battle mode is unique and a blast with friends, new sets, graphics and characters make this the 
 deepest and coolest entry yet, boss battles are pretty sweet.
  
  The Bad: Several songs can be brutally hard, the game is generally a lot harder than the last two, 
 unless you are a freaking beast, you can't play Through The Fire and Flames , sudden death on Guitar 
 Duels is way to easy to get.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Guitar Hero series has allowed gamers from across the globe to be able to live their fantasies 
 of being a rock star. Guitar Hero 3, the latest entry in the series, is by far the best, but it's 
 also by far the most difficult. Obviously, you don't buy Guitar Hero unless you like the track 
 listings and GH3 has the best soundtrack of them all. With hit songs such as Rock You Like A Hurricane 
 , When You Were Young , Rock and Roll All Nite and Through The Fire and Flames , you really can't 
 go wrong with Guitar Hero 3. Sure the track listings are great, but how does the game differ from 
 the previous installments? Frankly, a ton.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is the debut of Activision's Tony Hawk series developer Neversoft on the series, 
 and they did a bang up job of making the game seem fresher than the previous games had with series 
 creator Harmonix at the helm. The graphics of the game have drastically improved over the previous 
 installments. Everything looks way better, the interface was given a face lift that gives the entire 
 game a fresh look. During the career mode, you are treated to hilarious cutscenes featuring your 
 band going on a madcap adventure to fame and fortune that has a similar appeal to those of Lego 
 Star Wars. Awesome stuff. The game was given a major face lift, but it also got some awesome new 
 modes to give you something new to do. First is the inclusion of boss battles in career mode. You 
 get to square off against legendary guitarists Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine, Slash of 
 Guns N' Roses and the Devil, because he just wants to rock out and steal your soul... These boss 
 battles basically consist of you playing a song and doing your best to collect power-ups to help 
 mess up your opponent until they fail the song. The power-ups are also included in the all new 
 Guitar Battle mode, which is essencially the same thing, but against another player. Instead of 
 star power, you string together notes to collect battle power-ups. These power-ups range from one 
 that makes you notes blink and makes them harder to see to having lefty flip turned on during the 
 song. These are a very cool addition to gameplay and it's always funny to watch another player 
 attempt to keep playing with lefty flip turned on while they're in the middle of a solo. After 
 you complete a boss battle, you get to play a song with the guitarist you defeated. I'm not going 
 to get into the final boss battle, because that one is just cool and I don't want to ruin it for 
 you.
  
  The second major addition is the one everyone has waited for: online multiplayer. You can now play 
 with or against a friend online in online co-op, guitar duels and/or score hero mode. Co-op and 
 score hero are the same as they've always been offline, but Guitar Duels are pretty amusing. If 
 you and your opponent actually both finish a song, it goes into sudden death mode, which means 
 that you now collect death power-ups that if you can collect them faster than your opponent and 
 play perfectly the snippet of the song you're on, you win the match. Unfortunately, if you are 
 playing against someone who is halfway decent, you almost always go into sudden death, so be ready 
 for it. It should be a bit tougher to get sudden death, and hopefully that will be fixed in the 
 not too distant future. The best part about the online multiplayer? It's completely lag free. I 
 played the online for almost 3 hours in a row on launch day and had absolutely no lag whatsoever. 
 It was great. Very nice job, Activision, for making zero lag for the aspiring rockers.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a few problems that keep me from giving Guitar Hero 3 a perfect 10. First, 
 the game is almost too hard. The difficulty level has gone up almost too much from the last game, 
 so if you were just barely beating medium difficulty, you might have to go back to easy on this 
 one. It does seem like the difficulty levels have all been bumped up and noobies on the PS3 and 
 Wii who have never played the series before are in for some rough times ahead. Second, the song 
 Through The Fire and Flames by Dragonforce is just insane. I tried to play it once when I beat 
 the game, and couldn't come close to passing it on medium, and I'm a decent player. Unless you 
 are uber good at the game, you don't stand a chance on beating that song. Third, as previously 
 mentioned, sudden death on Guitar Duels is way to easy to obtain. Perhaps more power-ups are needed 
 in some downloadable content...
  
  With plenty of new songs and more downloadable content on the way, Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock 
 is a must have this Christmas season for all aspiring rockers. If you've never played the series 
 before, you might want to start with one of the earlier games, but all Guitar Hero legends are 
 in for a treat with this one. Rawk On, dudes!
  
  Gameplay: New game modes, online play and a killer track list make Guitar Hero 3 almost feel like 
 a totally new game.
  
  Graphics: Neversoft definately kicked it up a notch with this one.
  
  Sound: Awesome soundtrack 
 and great sound effects are what this game is all about.
  
  Value: You can never have enough shredding. I would recomend getting the wireless bundle, because 
 the new Les Paul controller is awesome and drastically better than the X-Plorer.
  
  Final Thoughts: ... Through the fire and the flames we carry on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarab08
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  all in all this was great. Guitar Hero 3 now feels next generation thanks to the graphics update 
 and the multi player makes it more worth while. also i am glad it shows your note streak number 
 so you know how good you are doing. and practice makes perfect so when they have online competitions 
 then the fun will begin. the bosses felt easy though, but it makes up for it with the brand new 
 music tricks they have. the Marilyn Manson pack is okay too if you are in to that kind of goth 
 music. i wonder what packs there will be in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorday
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  After playing Guitar Hero II &amp; getting a bit over 700 achievement points off of it I was so 
 excited to get Guitar Hero III. I consider myself a pretty good medium player, can't do hard very 
 well at all, but I'm fine with that, besides its the music that got me hooked on the game, &amp; 
 GH III has a fantastic track list, I was especially impressed with the number of original songs 
 in the game. Graphics are well done, &amp; gameplay is great. The wireless guitar is comfortable 
 &amp; fun to play with. I was planning on giving this game a rating of 9 or so but that was before 
 I had to return the guitar, for some reason the tilt would not work so there was no star power 
 other than pressing the back button &amp; then when I received my new one &amp; took it home &amp; 
 put it together, low &amp; behold the green &amp; yellow buttons only work sometimes, I checked 
 on forums &amp; it seems to be a common problem, so tomorrow I will take this one back &amp; try 
 a 3rd one &amp; if that one falters I will ask for the wired explorer guitar instead. I also noticed 
 the achievements are geared more towards the hard &amp; expert level, it took a lot to get my 730 
 in GH II, but it never got frustrating &amp; felt well earned but looking at the ones for GH III 
 &amp; having unlocked about 110 points worth, I feel I will only end up with about 350-400 the 
 rest are out of my reach, &amp; thats too bad for us medium career players, the ramp in difficulty 
 from the medium career to the hard level is quite steep. So overall I give the actual game a 9.0 
 with its great gameplay &amp; awesome soundtrack, &amp; replayabilty, but I give the harder to 
 reach achievements, the steep difficulty level &amp; touch guitar a 7.0 which gives the 8.0 I give 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  With songs like Paints it Black , Welcome to the Jungle , Black Magic Woman , and others its tough 
 not to enjoy sitting back watching your fingers bleed as you continue to play this game non stop. 
 While the online gameplay might not live up to the hype it still is refreshing to have the ability 
 to do face offs against your friends online instead of having them come over for a few hours just 
 to prove who truly is the Guitar Hero of your group. The new Battle Mode, is a great idea, but 
 the power ups like Amp Overload and Whammy and even Broken String can make games go by shorter 
 then expected. Playing in a guitar-off against Tom Morello and Slash was pretty fun, (despite the 
 fact they hit every not after a certain point) , but quirky. Overall this is still Guitar Hero. 
 Odds are you know what it is, odds are that you like it whether your not good or you are an expert. 
 This is still better then any GH game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickLMunson
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Dont have much to write other then the game itself is amazing but the guitar I got with the bundle 
 for 360 is broken. I love the setlist and all of the bonus songs all deserve some playtime.
  The problem with the guitar is that when I play the green, yellow, and red buttons all at the same 
 time it does not recognize it and the green button somehow can strum.
  I have read in forums and such that this is a nation wide thing, so i will be returning my guitar 
 to Gamestop and hopefully will get one that works.
  Other than that i love the game!
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lg1300
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I just got done reading the offcial gamespot review, so I figured I'd put in my own.
  
  Their rating of 8 wasn't far off, but I think I'd personally give it a higher grade. Neversoft 
 has come in and done a really good job with the franchise. I agree that there are some things that 
 are really lame with the product placement.
  
  ... I must say the axe girls with the bom chicka wah wah shirts coming out and dancing during bulls 
 on parade was a bit odd.
  
  As far as the game goes there is some cool stuff. I love the new art style. The addition of the 
 online multiplayer was a must and was delivered.
  
  I didn't understand Gamespot's point of critique about not being able to download the patch for 
 the game if you weren't a live subsriber. If you're not a live subscriber, you won't be playing 
 the game online anyways...
  
  9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so let me start this out by saying this game is the best of the three by FAR!!! The tracklist 
 is SICK and the co-op career is a blast!!! That being said, here is my breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: Freakin' awesome! It feels a bit harder at times but also feels easier at times which 
 is perfect because it keeps you wanting to come back for more. The new guitar is awesome and I 
 love how the GH2 guitar works FLAWLESSLY with GH3. Match made in heaven!
  
  Graphics: Overall the look is much nicer especially with the players' characters. I do wish the 
 Singer didn't look like such a freak! And the drummer drums like a freaking robot at times! It's 
 okay though because the character you choose looks spiffy.
  
  Audio: BEST TRACKLIST EVER!!!
  
  Overall it's a sick game and worthy of the GH name. I will 
 say that I am still looking forward to Rock Band because of the new take it has on the career and 
 the new instrument features, but this game is TOTALLY worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrschmexyy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  i was playing it today with friends.. and yes it is good... but the games hammer-ons were bugging 
 me a lot... it feels like its a step towards the first where hammer-ons were terrible.... Guitar 
 Hero 2's hammer-ons were terrific though... i feel they could have done a better job with that... 
 Also i noticed that the songs on expert seem like theres more notes then there are in the actual 
 song itself... which really takes u out of the game because u will screw up so much. There is room 
 for improvement without a doubt.
  
  i give it an 8.5 because even though there are some problems, its still the guitar hero game everyone 
 loves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayrnoxin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Great game- nice change of pace from earlier guitar heros but nowhere near the ROCK BAND. Rock 
 band is a growing game ---new songs downloaded are added to your career ---which you start by creating 
 your Avatar. Guitar Hero 3 tries to have a story in the cut scenes (which are only entertaining 
 once you beat single player EXPERT) Its dry- It has crappy guitars to purchase AND win- NO Eddi 
 Knox and lags a lot. The Guitar also has a problem cutting out the green button when you move the 
 neck while playing ---I needed to mod mine ---
  
  Overall- fun- better than 1 and 2 combined ----but somehow I feel that ROCK BAND will conquer-since 
 all the great tracks on GH3 can possibly be downloaded (maybe) on ROCK BAND and have 4 player CO-OP 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clancypants22
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  great concept with the boss battles but poor implementation. some of the music could have been 
 better. there is no way that the developers could tell me with a straight face that disturbed and 
 slipknot qualify as legends of rock.
  
  i wish the marketing had been a bit more clear, like the denotation between wired and wireless 
 bundles.
  
  ultimately, more of the same with little real innovation but if it ain't broke don't fix it. if 
 you look at it, it could have been a lot worse with a change in developers but the game definitely 
 feels like it is missing something with this change. good game and worth the price of admission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Even thought the time window for Hammer Ons and Pull Offs have been increased just a 
 tad, don't make the mistake of thinking that this installment will be a walk in the park, 'cause 
 it won't be. The guitary playin' madness is just as tight as its always been, even in new hands 
 (Neversoft) . With four different difficulty levels there's something for everyone.
  
  Sound: This game, as any other GH, is best played with the speakers as loud as they can go. You 
 can hear every little pick of the guitar, and it is awesome. If the song isn't the original track, 
 it's a more than decent cover. The crowd cheers, the drummer drums, it's all there.
  
  Graphics: The 360 version is pretty sharp, but there is one moment in particular where the graphics 
 kind of glitch out, and considering that it's on the 360 that really shouldn't be an issue, so 
 I don't know what the developers were thinking.
  
  The Venues: I won't spoil the surprise of what's in store, but all the venues are unique, highly 
 detailed, and over the top. Whenever you get to play an encore, each venue has a specfic crazy 
 event that happens, and they're all pretty dang humorous.
  
  Characters: While they didn't really expand the roster all that much (they even took out a character) 
 each character has two outfits with about four different styles for each outfit, so you can still 
 jazz it up a bit. Oh, and who the hell designed the lead singer (not Brett Michaels, the other 
 one) ? He's ugly as SIN, with a chin bigger than my entire head. That's not neccesarily a problem, 
 it's just funny that they decided to make the singer as butt ass ugly as possible.
  
  Guitar Selection:  Gibson (I'm assuming because they're 
 a sponsor for the game) and most of the guitars are the same boy type, just different sizes. There 
 are a few crazy ass, over the top guitars, and each guitar comes with a few skins. Chances are 
 you'll find something you like, but there could've been just a bit more variety with the actual 
 guitar selection.
  
  Things That Should Have Been Improved On:
  1. The crowd. Once again there's only four models and their multiplied to create an audience. They 
 all have about three movement animations, so they obviously repeat themselves. Really? They couldn't 
 have come up with more models and a few more moves to make it look just a bit more realistic?
 
  2. The final boss battle isn't just challenging, it's stupidly hard. We're talkin' majorly cheap 
 and just flat out unfair, on both the Hard and Expert difficulty. This is becoming a very, very 
 common complaint amongst players, and for good reason. I'm not just a player who ran into a tough 
 spot and is now whining, this is a legitimate complaint. It's TOO ridiculous. You basically have 
 to rely on luck, and even then... pray.
  3. I don't think they finished the drummer's animations, 'cause he's about as life-like as C-3PO.
 
  4. Even though they gave all the characters a few more animations to look a bit more lively, they 
 need to give them more 'cause after playing one tier you've seen all their motions. In some cases 
 a character only has one or two animations for when they complete a song. Come on guys, it's 2007. 
 Other than smashing the guitar I haven't seen any classic guitar moves like the power slide. Where's 
 the power slide?!?!?!
  
  I won't comment on the songlist because that kind of thing is purely subjective. However, I will 
 say this: FINALLY, WE GET SOME FREAKIN' METALLICA. The tilt on this is a TEN. TEN TEN TEN. Even 
 with some stuff that's kind of annoying, my boyfriend, his brother, and I have been playing this 
 nonstop since yesterday, and there's ni sign of slowing. All in all, a fantastic package with wonderful 
 humor and, to me, a songlist that rivals the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RouletteDares12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game for a long time and I feel it has lived up to the hype. 
 I have found that the hammer-on and pull-off system has become a little easier. The thing about 
 that is the songs I feel need it because they would be next to impossible with the old system unless 
 you are a guitar hero freak.... which I'm not (I play on expert but I'm not that great) . The boss 
 battles are something new but I don't really care for them. The only real beef that I have with 
 the game is the rock meter seems to be really screwed up. It goes down extremely fast and is next 
 to impossible to get back up. I watched as I saved myself from failing by hitting a 20 note streak 
 and then it was all taken away from me because I missed one note. Also to go along with that, star 
 power is hard to get in this game. No longer are the days where you get star power from a few chords. 
 No in this one you have to hit the entire version to get it. Those things can be over looked mostly 
 but just practicing til they aren't an issue anymore. Definitely worth getting if you are a fan 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuego01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  so basically, you're playing the game on expert, and doing great. not failing any songs at all. 
 but then you get to a boss battle, and you have to battle against a computer opponent that doesn't 
 miss any notes on a crazy long, rediculously difficult solo not missing any notes unless you make 
 him miss them with your replacements for star power, and you're expected to make him fail the song. 
 it's kinda lame. it adds a new twist, but i feel that it is completely unnecessary, and more a 
 burden than anything else. they'd be great if it were just against people, who actually miss notes, 
 but against a perfect computer opponent it makes it a little dumb. Other than that little flaw, 
 though, this is definitely my favorite GH to date. best song list by far. it has a lot more rock 
 (hence the name) and not so much metal or gay (as in the singer sounds all winey like in surrender 
 in GH2) music. very very good graphics. it would be a 10 if it wasn't for those boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero franchise has seen a humongous grow in fame and popularity since its debut in 2005. 
 When the game first came out it was an attempt to give air guitarists what they have always wanted, 
 an object to fill that void. No longer did wannabe guitarists have to settle for looking rediculous 
 with their hands held up high as if holding a guitar and humming the riffs and solos to their favorite 
 songs. They could now hold an "instrument" that looked and felt like playing a guitar. Guitar Hero 
 was easy to learn, a blast to play (especially with friends) , and a game which appealed to thousands.
 
  Now fast forward, it is 2007 and here we have the release of Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, 
 the latest installment in the Guitar Hero line of video games since the break-up of Red Octane 
 and Harmonix. The game retains all of the things fans have come to know and love and adds a couple 
 new amazing features.
  First off right off the bat during the opening sequence you will notice the game's new cartoony 
 cutscenes. These help to bring a little bit of a story to the career mode and really helps immerse 
 you in your rock and roll dream world. One of the major new features in this year's Guitar Hero 
 is the addition of celebrity guitarists and other musical celebrities. During the course of the 
 career mode you will encounter and face-off against Slash from Guns N' Roses, Tom Morello from 
 Rise Against the Machine, and even play a song while Bret Michaels from Poison sings the lyrics. 
 These appearances really help to point how how popular guitar hero is becoming. It seems that more 
 bands are willing to work with Red Octane to get better songs, and some artists have gone so far 
 as to lend themselves and their talents to the game. (Both of the battles you play against Slash 
 and Tom Morello feature origional songs written by them for this game) . I expect the next Guitar 
 Hero to feature even more celebrities and more cooperation from major bands.
  The soundtrack for this game is great and in my opinion, the best Guitar Hero soundtrack to date. 
 It features an excellent, well-balanced mix of new and old such as "When you were young" by the 
 Killers and "Miss Murder" by AFI, and "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N' Roses and "Pride and Joy" 
 by Stevie Ray Vaughan.
  The online multiplayer was a nice addition and something that fans have been begging for since 
 the first. It still has some bugs attached to it but they should be fixed up with a couple patches.
 
  The onl real gripe I have with this game is that it is a tad too difficult, almost to the point 
 of being not fun. I'm hoping that this doesn't become a trend in the franchise, because I will 
 discontinue purchasing the games if they become too difficult. All in all, Guitar Hero III is an 
 excellent addition to the franchise and may be the best out of the three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3, overall the game and its core have not changed, you are a lead guitarist who joins 
 a cover band from small gigs to the big time going from location to location playing songs. Why 
 grab this when it feels like I just got good at Guitar hero 2 (for the xbox 360) . Well here is 
 why I think you should.
  
  Gameplay, the wireless Guitar (if you got the wireless pack) is nice but due to the lack of Plug 
 and play capability I just dont use unless some one wants to play co-op. The games user interface 
 changed from the tried tested and true interface of 1 and 2 with more interactive and lightshow 
 one, that shows your current note streak, your star power is in a form of 3 then 6 light bulbs, 
 and a slight change in the notes (their still circles just a slight change) and yes they still 
 move down the neck of the guitar, I have on very few occasions had trouble with frame rate while 
 using star power on a solo part where the camera changed then changed again to the star power animation. 
 New features such as bosses (Tom, Slash, and Lou) are a lot of fun and battle mode is very fun 
 vs friends. As for a major treat there is online play. Also the addition of animated cut sceens 
 add a story direction and a feeling of progression and why your moving along. The developers did 
 great improvements where they could. Graphics well my friend with one and 2 felt why get the game 
 for graphics its a rhythm game, and well he was right till 3, the character models for every one 
 has greatly improved, in 2 the drummer at times looked bad, the singers mouth only moved on close 
 ups and overall every one but the character looked bad, now everything looks good (yes even the 
 crowd) The stages are still set up the same with the same sort of transitions but when a encore 
 comes there are added effects (more than just a change in lights) on the first stage cops and helicopters 
 show up and so forth on the British level the dragon gets beheaded, in the final stage the giant 
 devil breaks down and lou shows up. As for that its not ground breaking but its a major improvement 
 from 2.
  
  Sound is great I still am having a trouble telling is some songs are a cover or the real thing 
 (the into text is not specific like in 2 on telling me as made famous by or as performed by) 
 but it does tell you a bit more about the song such as date. The song list is great and I feel 
 is the best, offers songs for every one ranging from the 80s  2007. Every thing sounds great.
 
  
  Value is great this game if you get into it does not get old fast like a lot of console FPS and 
 it offers a great range of difficulty from the slow 3 button pace of easy to the finger breaking 
 seizure inducing pace of expert with 5 button. Now with online co-op and face off modes its must 
 have.
  
  My only con for this game is the achievements, they are not easy or ranged like in 2, they are 
 meant for the expert level GH player who is good (and even then some are gunna be insane to get) 
 there is hardly anything for beginners or people who are new to GH or people who have mastered 
 normal and are good at hard like me (expert is a challenge for me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threedown
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought GH2 i thought itd be pretty lame, but i heard so many good things about it 
 i thought id try it out. Well, im glad i did, it was a very addicting and fun experience of which 
 i played many hours. Its even a great group activity. So i was pretty excited about getting GH3, 
 and i was not disappointed at all. The graphics from which ive heard a few complaints about i actually 
 really liked. The character models looked really clean, the crowds were fun to watch and i liked 
 all the venue locations, especially during the encore performances, The cut scenes were pretty 
 cool too, i didnt mind the cartoony look at all and ive heard alot of gripes about the in game 
 advertising of certain products, which i could care less about. Now onto the game itself, It starts 
 off really easy, i started my career on medium first and was almost disapointed by how easy the 
 first section of songs were, (its a little more forgiving when it comes to hitting the strum bar) 
 but that soon changes as you progess through the game. I still havent 5 starred slayers raining 
 blood and a few others which can be pretty difficult, and metallica's one is a blast to play through. 
 Im about halfway through on hard difficulty and its giving me quite a challenge, and the co-op 
 career mode is great fun when a friend comes over, which also unlocks a few extra songs like beastie 
 boys sabotage. The song list varies greatly from alot of different genres, theres alot of songs 
 i just dont care for but theyre actually still fun to play. Yeah, theres a ton of songs out there 
 that could have been added but i think they did a decent job with the setlist. theres complaints 
 about no hendirx, no stairway and on and on and on, but you cant make everyone happy, some people 
 want more metal, some people want more classic rock, personally im glad they have a lot of variety. 
 i havent played online yet so i cant comment much about that, i dont really want to compete with 
 anyone but myself and maybe some friends that might come over to have a few beers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty55409
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I understand where people are coming from when they say things like, It's the same game, or the 
 song lists suck. But they're both subjective opinions. I don't think GH2 reached it's full potential 
 in a lot of ways, for example, you couldn't play online with people, there wasn't a co-op career 
 mode, and the downloadable content was a joke. So they've improved on those problems (we'll see 
 about the DLC) and the saying the songs aren't very good? Well lol that's completely up to each 
 individual gamer. I personally LOVE at least 2 songs in each set list. Actually come to think of 
 it I don't really like the Heavy Death Metal songs at the end of the game, but I understand that 
 those songs are more difficult so it makes sense for them to be in the game. Remember there are 
 a lot of people in the world that play Guitar Hero, so they have to cater to a large audience. 
 I would never expect to love EVERY single song in this game. Do you think Rockband is gonna have 
 all epic songs? You're going to get a great song.... but then the whole album that songs was on! 
 that's absurd in my opinion. Guitar Hero III has enough good things going for it to make it a must 
 own for any GH enthusiast. I can't get enough of it, the only thing I wish they did differently 
 was make your character customizable. Other than that pretty dang fun!!!!!! I couldn't give it 
 a full 9 because it is the same exact gameplay so it's running a little thin on innovation, but 
 it's such a good formula why mess with it? That being said, it's also worth mentioning that everyone 
 can play this game. Just like the previous GH games you can play on easy if you want, or crank 
 it up to expert like us guitar hero veterans. it's fun for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_slonik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Yes, Metal will live on! Once again, this has been proven by new Red Octanes creation, Guitar 
 Hero 3: Legends of Rock. It is quite difficult to choose what to start with while reviewing this 
 game. I dont know, superior graphics, epic soundtrack, or maybe new wireless guitar bundle, or 
 probably new online mode? Hmm, tough decision, isnt it?
  
  But Ill try not talk about good stuff  everyone knows about new features and songs already. Ill 
 talk about bad aspects of this game. Ummehh wait a minute there are none! And I am 100% serious 
 about it. This game is by far the best Guitar Hero in series. Absolutely amazing soundtrack can 
 satisfy more than three generations of music fans. Boss battle is a great addition to all challenges 
 in game. Tired of kicking computers butt? Try to challenge players in new online mode! Add new 
 wireless guitar controller with detachable neck and face plates and you have a perfect (yes, I 
 said it) combination of fun, skill and Rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalBornGamR
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Maybe I'm burned out.. maybe this should have been the first guitar hero game.. there only a few 
 songs on this disc worth playing IMO. My favorites are Metallica One , Iron Maiden Number of the 
 Beast , Guns N' Roses Welcome to the Jungle , Cult of Personality ... and maybe a couple others 
 that I can't remember... because even though I like them they are pretty forgettable.. I also don't 
 like how they took out the amount of players on the leader boards... it was always cool in GH2 
 to see your rank out of how many people. I played the living hell out of Guitar Hero 2 and still 
 play it every now and then.. I have a feeling I will be shelfing this disc soon... it's just not 
 that fun to play this lame set list. Game needs some Strongbadd and Dethklok
  
  I'm not really happy with redoctane and whoever else made this game.. they screwed us on downloadble 
 content in guitar hero 2 ... they are making hella money on these games... they could do better 
 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 marks the first in the franchise made by development studio Neversoft after Harmonix 
 was snatched up by MTV Games. You can toss out any fears you might have about Neversoft (The makers 
 of the LONG winded Tony Hawk skateboarding games) ruining your favorite franchise. Guitar Hero 
 3 is just as fun as it's always been! I've heard alot of complaints over the game's track listing 
 the past few days but for me Guitar Hero 3 has EASILY the best lineup yet. From top to bottom Disturbed, 
 Rage Against the Machine, In Flames, Slipknot, Slayer, Killswitch Engage, Iron Maiden, Dragonforce 
 and of course Metallica all with their master recordings no less spells out AWESOME! Compared to 
 Rockbands announced song lineup this is the cream of the crop. Activision even got Living Colour 
 to re-record their hit "Cult of Personality" for the game. The songs that were performed by cover 
 bands, as usual, don't live up to the originals but there are less of them than before and sound 
 MUCH better then previous cover efforts from Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero II (I think it has something 
 to do with Harmonix's love of local Boston bands that made them so down right TERRIBLE!) This time, 
 when you start up a Guns n' Roses track it will be Axl Rose belting out the words to accompany 
 your shredding. And that makes all the difference in the world.
  
  The list of additions Guitar Hero III offers reads like a wishlist compiled from fans across the 
 world. A full cooperative career has finally been added, complete with its own songs picked specifically 
 for their great bass or rhythm guitar parts. A battle mode is in as well where players duel against 
 each other and try to make the other fail by throwing different attacks at each other, such as 
 broken strings, increased difficulty or invisible notes. It's a great way to have some fun with 
 your friends when you get tired of rocking out with each other! Also for the first time, the franchise 
 goes online with co-op, face-off, pro face-off and battle mode where you can play with a friend 
 or stranger from around the world. The online game runs smoothly on Xbox 360 and is a fantastic 
 addition, but perhaps the best addition is the new Les Paul wireless controller. This is by far 
 the best guitar peripheral yet. It's so good, in fact, that it actually makes the game more enjoyable 
 than when you play it with anything else. This is the guitar to own and since it works with Guitar 
 Hero 2 on Xbox 360, it makes the purchase a no brainer for anybody who's thinking of getting the 
 game. It feels great in your hands and runs on two AA batteries which come INCLUDED with your purchase. 
 SWEET!
  
  Guitar Hero III was built from the ground up by Neversoft without access to any of the code from 
 the first two games. The work done to ensure the game plays like its predecessors is admirable, 
 but this title does play a tad different than what you're probably used to if you've been following 
 the series closely. For starters, the window of time in which you can successfully hit a note has 
 been extended quite a bit. Guitar Hero experts may see this as blasphemy because of how much easier 
 it makes the game, but this was actually a great move by Neversoft. The difficulty on the lower 
 tier songs has been reduced, making the game much more accessible to new players. It also makes 
 it so that intermediate players can feel like a rock star right from the get go, a feeling that 
 really is the entire point of playing the game
  
  There isn't any need to worry that the game has been made too simple. In fact, the songs that come 
 towards the end of the campaign are the most difficult yet. Even with a bigger window to hit the 
 notes, most will find themselves with a huge challenge. Songs like Metallica's "One" and Slayer's 
 "Raining Blood "are ridiculously hard on the expert difficultly. By the way if you're feeling brave 
 try and beat Dragonforce's "Through Fire and Flames" on expert and get higher then 80 percent. 
 :)
  
  The challenge has been put in because of another new approach from Neversoft on how the scrolling 
 notes are laid out. Quick changes between two and three note chords are now the status quo. There's 
 also a greater emphasis on strings of notes that can be played with hammer-ons and pull-offs, a 
 technique that allows you to play notes without strumming. It's a bit different than what we're 
 used to, but the notes are laid out well enough that nearly every song is fun to play. The character 
 models have been given a new art direction which is much sharper then past games. They have a hybrid 
 balance of real and cartoon styles which brings your favorite rockers like Axel Steel and Judy 
 Nails more to life then ever before. Neversoft even went as far as to motion capture the signature 
 moves of Slash and Bret Michaels (Two of the licensed rockers they got for the game) , as well as 
 the singing animations which maks everything look and fell ten fold better in my eyes.
  
  The career mode has only been slightly tweaked for Guitar Hero III. While the game still plays 
 as a list of songs broken into tiers with a surprise encore at the end of each one Guitar Hero 
 III offers small improvements to the forumla. Animated cutscenes tell the story of your up and 
 coming band while boss "fights" have been added at the end of certain tiers that make use of the 
 new battle mode. Each battle has a track recorded just for Guitar Hero 3. The first two boss battles 
 are against Slash (Guns n Roses) and Tom Merillo (Rage Against the Machine) with the final battle 
 being the Devil himself! This is one feature I welcomed with open arms and would love to see fleshed 
 out in future titles.
  
  In closing after feeling a bit leary on Harmonix leaving the series and passing it off I must say 
 Neversoft got it right where it counts! With improved graphics, online multiplayer and the best 
 track listing EVER in a Guitar Hero game the third entry into the franchise is just as fun as ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woogi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I didn't start playing GH until GH 2 came out for the 360 and I instantly got hooked. GH 3 is a 
 game that satisfies at a base level but does not impress me and is going to turn into nothing more 
 than a filler until Rock Band comes out in 3 weeks.
  
  The Good: The graphics are an improvement and there are a lot more options for character looks 
 and guitars and things you can buy to customize your game. Of course it you're spending time looking 
 at your character while playing you're either playing on easy or failing the song. Multiplayer 
 on-line is a welcome addition and will add some new dimension to the game as you can play with 
 or against your friends or with random people. This is great because I can find someone equally 
 as good as myself and try for those hard achievements that my friends are not good enough to help 
 me get. More original recordings is a welcomed addition from GH 2 which only had a few. The co-op 
 career mode is also cool. The inclusion of Battle Mode is another fun new addition.
  
  The Bad: This list is too long for me to say this is a great game. My first disappointment is the 
 song selection. I know the game is supposed to be about guitar shredding, but I think a lot of 
 the songs are just unappealing and brutal to have to suffer through. I find the number of horrible 
 songs in GH 3 to be much larger in proportion to the number that were in GH 2. Some songs I have 
 never heard in my life and after playing through them I understand why. How a decision was made 
 to include songs that is going to appeal to such a small percentage of the community is inexplicable. 
 Diversity is good but trying to appeal to everyone at once is a poor approach. Having the same 
 42 songs available regardless of difficulty level is a shame as well. There should be some sort 
 of reward or feeling of accomplishment as you progress through the difficulty levels. As it stands 
 now there's absolutely no reason to play any difficulty level after opening the box except for 
 the one most challenging to you. In GH 2 you got encores on medium and harder that you did not 
 get on easy. I like rewarding people for completing harder and harder challenges. That sort of 
 thing is not a part of GH 3. You get to play the same 42 songs on easy that you do on expert.
 
  
  *SPOILER ALERT* The final encore is ridiculously disappointing. My friend and I were looking forward 
 to Devil Went Down to Georgia only to find out a) its not available in co-op mode and b) is only 
 playable in single-player as a battle against Lou. This exposes two problems. The different songlists 
 for solo and co-op career was a poor decision. It might sound like a cool idea but it isn't. Second, 
 not being able to play one of the featured tracks is absurd. After playing through the game Saturday 
 night only to find out we couldn't play DWDTG in co-op mode we were disappointed. Then we burned 
 through solo mode and unlocked DWDTG only to find out the Lou battle was the only way to play it. 
 Even more disappointing. *END SPOILER*
  
  Some other things about the game I found lacking: The achievement list is also ridiculous. They 
 went from one extreme to another from GH 2. The GH 2 achievements were pretty easy, but now some 
 of them are just insane. Having to win 15 on-line matches in a row using the controller instead 
 of the guitar? I'll be getting that one the day after never, nor do I even have the desire to try 
 to a get something is silly as that. Also, the 0 downloadable content available at release is typical 
 of RedOctane. I guess the fact a lot of people were disappointed in the paucity of downloadable 
 content in GH 2 didn't register with anyone at RedOctane.
  
  On the whole the game is an acceptable sequel to GH 2 with a number of new additions that add greater 
 depth to the game. The number of shortcomings and disappointments, however, especially with the 
 song selection, have relegated this game to nothing more than a 3-week diversion until Rock Bank 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bankboss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Well This version is better than the last one in graphic that focus more on player details and 
 the smoothness in the game. The songs are not quite well known to me, may be because im Thai people. 
 This version have more mode to play and support more online game much much more than the guitar 
 hero 2. There is a co-op career mode in which play two player together online or offline. Battle 
 mode is new too, it's the mode that you will battle with the other player by using your skill and 
 beat you oppornent by making them in to the read zone of rock meter. There will be a weapon which 
 you have to acquire while playing through the song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaketheweasel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, I like Guitar Hero III. I played nearly through it today, the day I bought it, eschewing 
 responsibilities like homework and cleaning to get through just one more song, just one more set. 
 The Wireless Les Paul feels great, even if the star power activation IS a bit too sensitive. However, 
 I don't know if it's just the franchise showing its age or what, but something didn't feel quite 
 the same for me. It's fun, but I remember being absolutely sucked in by GH II and by GH I and wanting 
 to play some songs over and over and I don't know that that will come with GHIII; I can't think 
 of what songs I would want to string together into a virtual set of my own. Plus I'm pissed that 
 I can 5 star almost every song (only on hard) but get dominated about 80% through Metallica's One 
 and completely spanked by Slayer. Damn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitelyon40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  You would think, after 2... it would get old, i thought so, but bought it anyways. I was amazed. 
 The staging area is awesome, all the different thing happening, i actually had a fan climb onto 
 stage! i was like wow .. this is cool.
  
  The game is challenging, despite beating the living you know what out of 1/2 im having some difficulty 
 with the higher tier songs, but its not frustrating, its still fun. The new characters are alot 
 of fun to watch and look REALLY good. And the concert like experience is unlike anything else, 
 i was literally jumping around in my living room playing to Read my Mind by the Killers. Battles 
 are a blast, and honestly make you that much better at the game. They are alot of fun to do, and 
 can be quite difficult. But i still go back and do them over and over. The song list is great, 
 theres a mix of every genre, and it appeals to all age groups , not just teens, not just the older 
 generation. It also doesnt stray into appealing too far into one group (heavy metal, punk, emo, 
 new age) , just like all the other ones, it mixes it up, and does a wonderful job doing so. All 
 in all i recommend this game to anyone who enjoys listening , playing, or just flat outs loves 
 to rock out to music. (and for all you guitar hero haters who tell us to play real guitar, i do 
 play real guitar, and still love this game, dont think because you can play real guitar, it makes 
 u better than guitar hero, its still alot of fun. Dancers play DDR... And technically by logic 
 i could say if you play FPS, go join the army =D ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numiami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me say to start of that the graphics have improved a great deal, the characters are more custom 
 to your liking and much more music as well as a unique way to have battles. The game play is the 
 same you know an love but with a wireless guitar which is a plus. I enjoyed this alot went through 
 the career which had decent challenges depending on what level you play on. It's a good well rounded 
 game. I gave this game a 9.5, why not a 10.0 you ask? Simply the online material was not prepared 
 they are having alot of issues right now with the community and their bandwidth. Good game though 
 definately something to be bought and played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to preface this review by saying that I am a huge fan of GH II on the 360, and I never 
 played GH I on the PS2.
  
  Some new things I like about GH III:
  
  1) I like the new layout of the basic gameboard. A noticeable addition is a counter that keeps 
 track of your current note streak.
  2) The boss battles are cool. They add a new aspect to the game that is both challenging and fun.
 
  3) The graphics got a huge overhaul, and the characters are much more finely detailed. All around, 
 it's a much prettier game.
  
  Some things I don't like:
  
  1) I've got to complain about the setlist. There are quite a few very cool songs in the game, but 
 having played all of the regular (non-purchased) songs, I can come to no other conclusion that 
 the setlist from GH II was much stronger.
  2) I don't care for the new whammy bar animation. It's hard to tell how much modulation you're 
 getting from it because the waves created by it on the screen are difficult to see.
  3) The graphics overhaul perhaps went a bit too far. I've noticed several instances of graphics 
 slowdowns, especially when I hit the star power. For a game that relies so heavily on timing, this 
 can really cramp your style.
  
  I don't have any regrets about purchasing the game, but I don't think GH III lived up to the bar 
 set by its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently finished the latest installment of the guitar hero installment an i am quite 
 impressed. First off the track list Alot of people complaign and moan because their favorite group 
 or song isnt in the game caugh AC/DC Zepplin but on the other hand this track lists is by far one 
 of the most challenging of the series. but what i like most about the track lists is that if ur 
 a rock music fand you easily have a favorite track, if ur old school you may enjoy some Aerosmith, 
 Stevey ray Vaughn, carlose santana, 80s rock lover we have some Poison, Scorpions, Pat Bennatar. 
 New age AFI, Disturbed, Slipknot, Tenacious D. Either Way theres something for everybody.
  
  Online Play One of the biggest features that has been talked about is the Guitar Hero battle 
 mode. I havent had much time to participate on it much but what i played in career mode its not 
 all that bad. Although it does take some of the i wanna be a rockstar attitude out of the game. 
 for casual players who just want to play song may not enjoy this feature as much but dont worry 
 Activision didnt force the issue execpt for the 3 moments in career mode you can go onlinse and 
 do pro face-off.
  
  All in all this is still guitar hero wwith all the old roots and with some new branches . If this 
 is whats to come in the GH franchise then i have a lot to look forward to as the wait for GH4 begins 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a huge step forward for the series. It offers much many new features from the 
 previous versions. It actually feels like a new game instead of an expansion type game, like rock 
 the 80s.
  
  Graphics
  I didn't think they would change much, but the characters are much more detailed, you can really 
 tell the difference between characters that were in guitar hero 3 and also in guitar hero 2. Much 
 more detailed, crisp, and the colors look great. My only complaint in the graphics would be SOME 
 of the characters hair. Some of it looks a little choppy, while others will look great. You probaly 
 aren't really to concerned about graphics if your getting guitar hero though, because you know 
 it will be nothing like gears of war graphics.
  
  Sound
  Lets see.. Its a guitar hero game right? Of course the sound is great. You have a huge selection 
 of songs to choose from, including Schools Out , Through the Fire and Flames , and Cult of Personality 
 . There really isn't much to say other than its guitar hero, of course the sound is great.
  
  Online Play
  This is one of the greatest things about the game. It has added Online versus 
 modes. Basically , you can do 3 different things online. They include: Battle , Face Off , Pro 
 Face Off . Battle is basically where instead of star power you have Battle Power. This is where 
 you can mess up your opponent, by making them do several different things. One thing you can do 
 is have it where one of their fret's are broken, so they will have to continously tap that fret 
 button in order to fix it. You can also have a power where it will turn on lefty flip for your 
 opponent in the middle of the match.
  
  New Features
  The new features for guitar hero 3 are: Battle Mode, Online Play (This will have you playing the 
 game for a long time) , Face Offs in the career (Have a battle in your career against another guitarist) , 
 Your Current streak will display so you will know how many notes you have hit in a row, Wireless 
 guitar (if you buy the bundle) , New characters, new guitars, Earning money on the easy career, 
 and a few more added features.
  
  Gameplay
  You probaly know how guitar hero works. You hit the fret button and strum it. Not that much to 
 it, yet it is also very, very fun. Guitar Hero 3 seems a little bit easier than the previous versions. 
 This may be a good or bad thing for you.
  
  The New Guitar
  I really like the new guitar. The shape is great, and it really does look nice. There are a few 
 bad things about it also. It only takes AA batteries, you cannot use your rechargable battery pack 
 that you use for your controllers. Also you can see finger prints very easily since its glossy 
 black.
  
  Overall
  Guitar Hero 3 is one of those games you will be playing years from now. If you buy it, you will 
 probaly never trade it in if you loved guitar hero 2. With online play, new career features, unlockable 
 characters, and much more it is hard not to enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arlostud21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  GH3 accomplished many more game play features that GH 1 and GH2 did not have such as boss battles 
 and dueling.. The track list is impressive although alot of good bands arent included you must 
 remember for them to get them all in the game owuld be impossible. The slightly more forgiving 
 tapping lets you hit notes easier.. Compensated with harder songs (aside from Jordan lol) . Makes 
 you feel more immersed in the game (THAT YOUR ROCKING OUT) .. Overall GH3 accoplished alot that GH 
 1 and 2 didnt have.. Im looking forward to the series continueing and coming out with more and 
 more great songs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerofallensk8er
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  the songs are awesome they finally got the real versions so they dont sound like crappy remakes. 
 They have the best songs out of all the games i think.. but some european songs are kinda weird 
 ... cuz i cant understand them but oh well.. the multi player was a must have and is really fun.. 
 the battle mode on hard or expert is crazy cuz u barely no what ur doing. The characters in it 
 look way better and you can custimize them a little bit more.. i still think it would be AWESOME 
 if you could create a character.. i dont see why they dont let you.. the graphics are really good 
 even though no one really looks at them when your playing.. but still there good.. and yet another 
 stupid story mode..... i think they should come up with a better idea then that one because thats 
 all it ever is.. but everything in this is awesome and it never gets old!! buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connell66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  GH3 is finally out, and let's get one thing out of the way right now; it's one of this years most 
 anticipated games. It's no surprise, given how Guitar Hero is a very popular series. And yet, there 
 is something about the concept of playing a guitar in front of a large group of people that appeals 
 to numerous fans. Is this installment evident of the same Guitar Hero gameplay that made the series 
 so popular in the first place? The answer is yes. In fact, so much so that you may wish that it 
 did something to pull the series forward in some major way. That's not to say that GH3 is by any 
 means a bad game, but you might be a bit dissappointed with this installment.
  
  For those who aren't familiar with the Guitar Hero series, think of this: You dream of rocking 
 out in front of a large crowd of people, yet all you got is an air guitar. That's where Guitar 
 Hero comes in. Guitar Hero first came out in 2005, yet it was so innovative that it spawned a whole 
 generation of rockers. You basically play it with a guitar controller and play through a famous 
 rock song by pressing the buttons in the order they appear on a fretboard that takes up the majority 
 of the screen. There are four difficulty levels - easy, normal (medium) , hard, and expert, in order 
 of difficulty, obviously. There is a single-player mode, in which you play through five songs - 
 four regular songs nd one encore song. There is also a multiplayer mode, where two players can 
 play a song together, competitively or cooperatively, and this can be done online or locally. That's 
 basically Guitar Hero in a nutshell.
  
  The song list consists of several famous rock songs that are regarded by many as some of the greatest 
 rock songs ever composed. Paint it Black by the Rolling Stones, Anarchy in the U. K. by The Sex 
 Pistols, and One by Metallica are some of the songs you'll find yourself playing. For the most 
 part, these are all very fun to play. Also, there are several downloadable songs, though none are 
 currently available. Unlike previous Guitar Hero games, most songs are not covers, meaning the 
 form they took when they were first released is the form they take here. And the songs that are 
 covered are covered to make them more Guitar Hero suitable, and are done so well that every detail 
 that made them awesome in the first place has remained.
  
  Those who are familiar with the series might recognize a few of the series' mainstay characters, 
 such as Axel Steel, Johnny Napalm, Judy Nails, or Izzy Sparks. However, there are a few unlockable 
 characters, and many are famous rockers, such as Slash, the guitarist for Guns N' Roses, or Tom 
 Morello, for Rage Against the Machine. There are also a few other unlockable songs and a few unlockable 
 guitars that you can get by purchasing them in the shopby paying money you earn from performances.
 
  
  Like other installments, when you play enough notes correctly, you earn star power, which is something 
 that, when used, will quadrouple how fans react to you playing a note right. This is especially 
 useful when you're playing a very tough guitar solo, or when you have trouble playing a certain 
 riff. This is a welcomed staple of the series and it's still there.
  
  The graphics are not necessarily the games greatest asset, but then the Guitar Hero series has 
 never been about flashy effects. The look of the game is colourful and polished, and there is definitely 
 a markable improvement over its predecessors. Other than that, there isn't much to comment about 
 here.
  
  There is, sadly, a major flaw with Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock. The game is the same basic game 
 as every other Guitar Hero before it. There is nothing new in this edition, it's the same gameplay 
 once again. It might come as a dissappointment to those who would have hoped for something original 
 this time. While the rocking gameplay of Guitar Hero still rocks, there isn't anything here you 
 haven't experienced before if you've played other Guitar Hero games.
  
  What makes Guitar Hero 3 truly excellent is just how fun it is to play each and every one of its 
 songs. The feel of rocking out in front of a large crowd of people is still evident here, and the 
 gameplay is as good as ever. The only real problem is its lack of originality, which hinders it 
 from getting something in the range of 9.0-9.5. However, when you look past this flaw, you'll find 
 that Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock rocks even harder than previous Guitar Hero games, and definitely 
 worth a purchase for anybody interested in the series or the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  When I played Guitar Hero back in the day, the songs were classic, and you just had fun playing 
 them over and over again. Guitar Hero 3 does a great Job bringing that back with boss battles and 
 a variety of outfits, styles, guitars, songs and online play.
  
  Gameplay
  
  What more could you want out of a Guitar Hero game? Great songs and realistic solos that have you 
 go up and down your fret board, I couldn't ask for more.
  
  Graphics
  
  The visuals are an improvement since the last guitar hero, but you'll be too busy rocking out than 
 paying attention to the background. Replayability
  
  4 Difficulties, Online Play, Co-op with a friend, and a website that keeps statistics, tournaments 
 and more, this is what Guitar Hero always should've been. Review of the Les Paul Wireless Guitar
 
  
  Freedom is always something we fight for, and it is a great thing to have, but is that the case 
 for this bundle?
  
  Playing with the Les Paul made me feel no different than any other guitar out there except that 
 the fact that it is wireless and the whammy bar feels more springy , which is a good thing. The 
 Sticker Pack that it came with is hard to say whether or not it is actually themed with the black 
 faceplate it came with, but are worth saving for others. I actually think that faceplates will 
 be the deciding factor, after all, different themes on the Les Paul do look good, even on the neck 
 of the guitar, oh did i mention its detachable? Good for traveling and fitting it into tight spaces.
 
  
  Overall the Les Paul is only worth buying if you have the money and want to feel up to part with 
 everyone else. Customizable faceplates and no wires make it feel like a real guitar.
  
  This game may be hated by others or thought lowly than Guitar Hero 2, but overall i think Guitar 
 Hero 2 was a let down for the whole franchise, but then this game was born. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGamer_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Just like Guitar Hero 2, this game is amazing. GH3 is an amazing game with improved graphics and 
 much more.
  
  The gameplay is just like guitar hero 2 nothing much has changed, except the online and different 
 online modes, and I love how they tell you your note streak.
  
  In GTH3 career mode. there is only 4 songs plus an encore and every other city there is a battle 
 with an opponent which you go head to head against the computer, and instead of rockers its obstacle 
 to get your opponent to mess up, for example, broken whammy bar or double notes. etc.
  
  The only thing i had trouble with and got annoying was every time i got a rocker it would go on 
 its on. I don't have the new guitar I've been using my other one and i hold my guitar a little 
 upwards but still it shouldn't go on its own. it gets frustrating. Overall. If you like GH2 you 
 will love GH3. Graphics-8.5
  Gameplay-9.5
  Sound-10
  Value-9.5
  Tilt-10
  
  PS ---GameSpot get your act together and start reviewing these games at least a day in advance, 
 y'all are slacking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huevo_Feo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to like, I didn't like the track list as much as GH II, but that because they really 
 did put a lot of different kinds of music into it to appeal to a wider audiance. So, people who 
 are saying oh 9 out of every 10 songs suck is just saying that (most-likely) because musically, 
 they are close-minded. So whoever you are you'll find some songs you're going to love to play, 
 and some you go... ehh ... but this was an attempt at making all players happy instead of all Death 
 Metal Lover's, Classic Rock Lover's, etc. Really happy. A great game for anyone, I mean who doesn't 
 love music. The game was wittily done, and has a nice series of unlockables. For anyone who's played 
 it before the battle mode takes some getting use to, but to my suprise I actually enjoyed it, as 
 my friends who mostly play on easy or medium, and me who can't stand to play anything less than 
 expert where put onto an even playing feild. Let me tell you they were very happy I got beat for 
 the first time, even if it was extreamly unfair and in battle mode. Another large trend I'm seeing 
 among reviews is Legends of rock HAHA where's Eric Clapton or Jimmy Hendrix or... etc. Many of these 
 people are very Impossible to get into a game, while some where either easy to get in or very willing, 
 and while it can be cool to play as your favorite rock legend it's obvious once again this is impossible 
 to attain. The only true negative I found to this game was the notes seemed to be a little different 
 in placement than before (in GH II) I increased my Lag Calibration 8 ms till I got use to it then 
 switched it back after a couple of hours. Might have just been me though.
  
  Anyways in conclusion, If your open to different types of music you will love this, You will always 
 have songs you wish were or weren't in this game, you will always have character's you wished were 
 or weren't in this game, Everyone has different styles and not everyone will be pleased with everything 
 (which goes for just about any game) .
  
  PS: even though I'm putting very hard for difficulty thats for doing every song on perfect on expert, 
 I always judge games difficulty by how hard it is to acheive perfection. Anyone can easily learn 
 to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III, what can I say, it's pretty much the same as Guitar Hero I and II with a few tweaks 
 here an there, but that's not to say that Guitar Hero III isn't a great game.
  
  First off, the tracklist is probably the best in any Guitar Hero series with classics like Paint 
 it Black, metal thrashers like Reign in Blood to fairly new tracks like Miss Murder. There are 
 tons of different tracks, and you'll find something in there that you'll love with out a doubt.
 
  
  Next is the wireless Guitar, just buy it. It's great. It feels a lot more sturdy than the X-Plorer 
 and thats because it is. The fact that it's wireless and has a detachable neck just makes it a 
 lot more convenient of a guitar. Just buy it, you won't be unhappy with it.
  
  Gameplay wise, the same for the most part. Notes come at you and you hit it. The two big additions 
 to Guitar Hero III are online play which players have been asking for forever, and Battle Mode 
 which... is sorta dumb. Some will love it, I personally don't really care for it. Its basically 
 like Mario Kart. You hit notes that WOULD be star power but instead of getting star power you get 
 a weapon, these weapons make your opponent get a broken string, flip them to a lefty or vis versa, 
 ups their difficulty or a few other things. Like I said, some people will love it, but then again 
 some won't really care for it.
  
  Inside the game, a lot of the old characters are there but they took out a bunch that fans really 
 loved. Gone are Eddie Knox (my personal favorite) , Pandora (who has merged with Judy) and Clive 
 Wilson. They have introduced a new character named Midori who is a Japanese Visual Kei guitarist. 
 Quite honestly, she COULD be a dude, just look at some Visual Kei bands. One thing that is disappointing 
 is that fact that there are no Japanese songs for Midori to play (Dir en Grey, Nightmare, L'arc 
 en Ciel anybody?) Also you have the ability to play as Slash, Tom Morello, and some other fictional 
 characters like a robot. Other little tweaks include a better organization of the song list and 
 little things like that.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero III is just great. If you played the other two, buy Guitar Hero III, and if 
 you've never played one before and want to get into it, buying the pack is a great start for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for sooo long, and finally I go to the midnight release and its 
 the start of something new.
  
  There are a few changes from the last guitar hero game. The board is a different color, its a little 
 smaller. Also the multiplier is different looking and the star power bar is really different looking. 
 The coolest thing about the setup of this game I think is that it counts how many notes you hit 
 in a row. And as the numbers progress (50,100,200 etc.) It pops up on the top of the screen and 
 tells you. But not in a bad way because it shows up in the top part where it wont interfere with 
 gameplay. The songs are pretty good too. A few good classics are on here as well as soon newer 
 ones. The biggest thing though are the battles.
  
  The battles are sooo much fun to do (in my opinion) . You can attack your opponent with things that 
 interfere with him/her playing. For example, if you two are playing and one of you hits these special 
 looking notes, it will show you the name of the attack you got. You then tilt your guitar as to 
 activate star power, to activate the attack. Its cool because some of the attacks are: Broken string, 
 which breaks one of the opponents strings so they have to rapidly hit it to make it work again. 
 Another is Amp Overload which is my favorite. It makes the other plays screen shake and the notes 
 flash, making it a lot harder to hit notes if its a faster song. Theres also whammy, which requires 
 the opponent to have to rapidly whammy before they can hit any notes. I think its a powerful attack.
 
  
  The xbox live for this game is pretty good. The only gripe I have with the online play is that 
 you cant kick other players from the room at any time. But other than that, the live is fun, it 
 doesnt take forever to load like some games, and its just overall fun to play.
  
  Overall I would definetly recommend this game to any rythm game fan. And if you were already a 
 guitar hero player, this one will NOT disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedragoneer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This will be short and simple this game is pure awesomeness from begging to the very end. With 
 Pandora gone Judy has picked up the slack by changing her look to little more Gothic. Dragonforces 
 song Through the fire and flames is great challenge for newcomers and previous Guitar Heroes. I 
 know its not supposed to, but this game has a pretty interesting story as you start in a garage 
 band and build yourself up from there. Eventually you will face off against bosses the last being 
 the best with a great song for the occasion, so if have or haven't played the other GH'S go get 
 this ASAP!!!! If you don't you will regret when you get interested and there sold out around Christmas. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
