-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero: Aerosmith
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/guitarheroaerosmith/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Includes Run DMC's version of &quot;Walk This Way&quot; and not the one with Britney Spears.
 Most people will appreciate the kinder difficulty.
 Motion-captured Steven Tyler.
 Aerosmith fans will love it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much Joe Perry solo music.
 Not enough content to justify full price.
 Ultraskilled players might find the game too easy.
 Not much here for people who don't like Aerosmith.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Jun 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest Guitar Hero is an Aerosmith fan's dream come true, but the game's narrow focus and lack 
 of content will prove unappealing to many others. 

  For those of you who are pressed for time -- or simply hate to read -- here's an abridged review of 
 the latest Guitar Hero: If you like Aerosmith, you'll like this game. If you don't like Aerosmith, 
 you will not like this game. Even dedicated fans of the group may have trouble rationalizing paying 
 full price for just 41 songs, but while GH: Aerosmith is a little short on content, it's plenty 
 of fun.  

  There are two versions of the GH: Aerosmith available: One includes just the game, while the other 
 contains a wireless guitar, some stickers, and the game. The guitar is essentially the same Gibson 
 Les Paul that came with Guitar Hero III, only now it comes with an Aerosmith-themed faceplate. 
 Several guitar controllers, such as the official controllers from Guitar Hero II and III, work 
 with the game, as does the Fender Stratocaster from Rock Band.  

           Hammer-ons and pull-offs seem to be a little easier this time around.      

  With 
 so many controllers compatible with GH: Aerosmith, it shouldn't be any surprise that it plays almost 
 exactly like previous Guitar Hero games. Colored circles that correspond to the guitar's five fret 
 buttons move downward along the onscreen guitar neck. When they reach the bottom, you press the 
 proper fret button (s) and strum. If your timing's consistently right, you'll go on streaks and 
 earn score multipliers. If you miss notes, you'll lose those multipliers, deplete your rock meter, 
 and eventually fail the song. Certain song sections are highlighted and will fill your star power 
 meter if played correctly. Once the meter is at least half full, it can be activated by tilting 
 the guitar upward. Doing so makes you look super cool and increases your score multiplier. You'll 
 want a high score not only because of the online leaderboards, but also because that's what determines 
 your star rating at the end of each song. The more stars you get, the more cash you'll earn. Money 
 earned in Career mode can be used to unlock songs, outfits, additional characters, and videos. 

  The big difference as to how this version plays compared with the last game is that GH: Aerosmith 
 is easier. This can be attributed to several factors, such as the fact that Joe Perry's riffs are 
 melodic and less complicated than GHIII's insanely difficult and often dissonant solos. But the 
 friendlier difficulty was also a conscious decision by the developer. Hardcore series fans loved 
 showing off their skills at "Through the Fire and Flames," in Guitar Hero III, but with each successive 
 game in the series getting harder, many people found them to be too difficult. Expert difficulty 
 in GH: Aerosmith is more akin to hard in Guitar Hero III, thanks to fewer notes and fewer chords, 
 as well as hammer-ons and pull-offs that are easier to perform. If you've uploaded videos of your 
 Guitar Hero prowess to the Internet, you'll likely blow through the game on expert on your first 
 try with no trouble at all and find the game too easy. The majority of players, however, will appreciate 
 the kinder, gentler, and more fun-to-play experience.  

  Career mode consists of 31 songs -- 19 from Aerosmith and 12 from other bands. An additional 10 songs 
 are unlockable, all of which are Aerosmith tunes or Joe Perry side projects. The Joe Perry stuff 
 isn't all that good (there's a reason why his solo career never took off) , but the soundtrack offers 
 a fairly comprehensive sample of the band's repertoire. You'll find older tunes like "Dream On," 
 "Toys in the Attic," "Sweet Emotion," "Uncle Salty," and "Draw the Line." You'll also find songs 
 from the post-1984 incarnation of the band, such as "Love in an Elevator," "Rag Doll," and "Livin' 
 on the Edge." The group's 1986 version of "Walk This Way" with Run DMC is here, and it's awesome. 
 The most recent songs are "Pink" and "Beyond Beautiful" from the band's 2001 album. Though most 
 of the band's big hits are here, there are some notable omissions, such as "Dude (Looks Like a 
 Lady) ," "Janie's Got A Gun," "Big Ten Inch Record," "Cryin'," "Crazy," and "Deuces Are Wild." You 
 can always nitpick song selection in a music game, but the band's catalog includes 14 studio albums, 
 and Activision is asking full price, so you'd expect  all  of the big hits to be here. There's 
 no support for downloadable content either, so you're stuck with what's on the disc. One song that's 
 thankfully MIA is "Don't Wanna Miss a Thing," the sappy theme song from the movie  Armageddon . 

  Only 30 percent of GH: Aerosmith's tracklist consists of bands other than Aerosmith. Most of the 
 songs, such as The Cult's "She Sells Sanctuary," The Kinks' "All Day and All of the Night," Ted 
 Nugent's "Cat Scratch Fever," and Mott The Hoople's "All the Young Dudes" are classic rock. The 
 rest of the songs, such as "Always on the Run" by Lenny Kravitz featuring Slash and "Hard to Handle" 
 by the Black Crowes are a little more modern, but none are more recent than Stone Temple Pilot's 
 "Sex Type Thing" from 1992.  

  There are plenty of multiplayer options in GH: Aerosmith, but none of them are new to the series. 
 You can play songs cooperatively with another player, though it's not necessary to do so to unlock 
 all of the game's songs. One person plays lead guitar while the other plays rhythm guitar or bass 
 depending on the song. Be warned: Even on expert difficulty, bass isn't difficult at all, so one 
 player might be in for a less-than-thrilling experience. You can go head-to-head with another person 
 both offline and online. Face-offs have you each play on the same difficulty and alternate riffs; 
 both people play the same parts in Pro Face-off but are able to choose their own difficulty. Last 
 and least is the lame Battle mode that lets you "attack" your opponent with broken strings or double, 
 flipped, or flashing notes. Losing because of a fake broken string wasn't fun before, is not fun 
 now, and will never be fun. Thankfully, the only time you're forced into a battle is during the 
 single-player career in a solitary encounter against Joe Perry.  

  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith's presentation isn't markedly better than the last game, but it does differ 
 in several ways. Steven Tyler, Joe Perry, Brad Whitford, Tom Hamilton, and Joey Kramer are all 
 here (though only Perry, Whitford, and Hamilton are playable) in slightly realistic, mostly cartoony 
 video game form. Career mode has also been tweaked a bit to take advantage of the band's presence. 
 Each of the six venues has a special meaning to the band. For example, the high school gym was 
 where they played their first gig, the Orpheum Theatre was the site of the band's big comeback, 
 and the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame is pretty self explanatory. Before your first gig in each venue, 
 a short video clip plays of the band members reminiscing about that particular location. These 
 videos look low-budget and certainly aren't in-depth, but they're a neat way of integrating the 
 band into the experience.  

           Band documentary or police footage of a victim describing a horrific crime? Play the game 
 to find out.      

  While it's entertaining to see a virtual Steven Tyler prance about the stage in a high school gym, 
 the band's music is the real highlight of the show. The music sounds great and the songs that the 
 band rerecorded for the game ("Dream On" being one) sound just like they did on the albums -- possibly 
 even better. It's always nice to have the original version of a song, but a few of the non-Aerosmith 
 songs such as "Hard to Handle" and "All the Young Dudes" are covers. All of them are well done, 
 so it's not a huge deal.  

  The biggest knocks against GH: Aerosmith are that it only has 41 songs (versus 70+ in GHIII) , and 
 if you're a Guitar Hero fan who doesn't like Aerosmith, you're not going to like a huge chunk of 
 the game. If you're a big fan of the group you might enjoy the brief documentary videos, as well 
 as seeing the band in video game form, but there's not much here for you if you're not fan or were 
 hoping for new game modes. What's here is a lot of fun, but there's not enough content to justify 
 charging full price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KBFTodd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Also one of the lucky ones who picked this up last week-end for 10 bucks. And it did come with 
 a free ( New ) wired guitar. Since I have Legends already...... now have 2 guitars and a Girlfriend 
 who now is hooked playing with me...... was def a plus to get some play with both....... The short 
 scenes before starting a new venue are pretty cool and heck I even learned to cool stuff that I 
 never knew about Aerosmith. Huh I am thinking they are much cooler than I thought they were.... but 
 that's just me. Anyway GH Aerosmith does not add anything to the series but some new tunes and 
 was def worth 10 bucks...... The wired guitar is ok but I am glad that it was free cuz I would 
 be kinda peed if I actually paid 40 bucks for it, but it plays fine. They only real complaint against 
 it is the cord is alittle short so you are stuck playing pretty close to the TV. But again it was 
 free so nevermind. Enough said.... Rock ON !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirv69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Picked this game up this previous sunday for $9.99 during the recent 50% off sale at gamestop, 
 and being one of the first people there, I was first to notice a little sticker on the game revealing 
 that by purchasing one of 3 varieties of the game, you get a free xplorer wired guitar ($39.99 
 value) . Noticing this, i brought it to the nearest clerk and asked, "so, I get a free guitar, right?" 
 he was like, "only if u buy certain" - i cut him off - "says here just this game." He responded 
 withoh ya, it comes with a used wired guitar if we have them, and i dont think we have any." 
 oh... that sux... but, another clerk overheard and confirmed that they do have the guitars and they 
 werent used.... score. Now this is my first time playing guitar hero, and it seams decent to me. 
 But, would I have got it if it didnt come with the free guitar? Nope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Great use of Aerosmith's best songs, with all main members of the band shown as characters, with 
 3 unlockbale members
  -Fun gameplay for single and multiplayer modes
  -Great use of Run DMC
  -Interviews are interesting to watch
  
  The Bad:
  -Not as hard as 
 other guitar heros
  -Only about 45 songs
  
  I just beat GH Aerosmith on medium and I am half way through hard (even though i cna do expert) . 
 I have enjoyed the gameplay so far, you really feel like you are a member of Aerosmith, and get 
 to find out how they started, even playing a show in their high school, all the way to the rock 
 and roll hall of fame. 
  
  It is pretty much the same as other guitar heros, and excatly the same layout as gh3, just with 
 a hint of AERO sprayed over. There are loads of great songs ; walk this way, Love in an elevator, 
 Train Kept a Rollin, Rag Doll, and so on, with some songs by bands Aerosmith are close too or like 
 alot.
  
  It is great, you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darrius117
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  I like the guitar hero series but this one was a real waste of my money it has less songs than 
 guitar hero 3 and it is more exspensive (it also has no dlcs to boost the song colection on the 
 game) . It has online play but no one is ever playing it online. So if youe thinking about getting 
 this game dont get it unless your a aerosmith fan. The guitar that is bundled with aerosmith is 
 just like the guitar which is bundled with guitar hero 3 but this one has a limited edition face 
 plate you can only get with guitar hero aerosmith, also it comes with sticker to decorate the guitar 
 and a little book book telling you about aerosmith. So if you realy want a guitar hero game buy 
 guitar hero 3 (that way you have some money left over) and if you have enough get guitar hero world 
 tour or rock band 1 or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Around my Northwest Indiana home, we have some stores called "Meijers". Like a Wal-Mart, pretty 
 much, but with another name. They were selling copies of this (bundles with the guitar, mind you) 
 for $40. I wanted some easy achievements and a spare Les Paul guitar, so I picked it up. What was 
 this originally? Like$120? I feel really terribly bad for anyone stupid enough to have bought 
 this full price. I mean, even an Aerosmith fan would probably hate this game.
  
  For starters, the game only has forty-some songs. As apposed to sixty-eighty like its current counterparts 
 have. This combined with the lack of any DLC means that after playing every song maybe twice, you'll 
 put this game on the shelf forever.
  
  Aerosmith is an okay band. Average by my standards. So they definitely, DEFINITELY didn't deserve 
 their own gig. I mean out of all of the classic rock bands with Hall Of Fame status, Led Zeppelin, 
 Queen, Jimi Hendrix, The Beatles, they did an Aerosmith game? This kinda screams "MONIES PLZ GH 
 FANZ AND SCOR HEROZ." The Beatles actually have the fans, history, influence, and catalog to deserve 
 a game in their honor. Which is why Harmonix is doing it.
  
  The charts are terrible. I've beaten Guitar Hero II and III on Hard and Rock Band 1 and 2 on Expert. 
 So I think I can safely say that it was the uncomfortable to play, tough for no reason charts of 
 this game that caused my left hand to start hurting. Not lack of experience, not over playing (this 
 game isn't even long enough for that to effect me-I've done RB1's Endless Setlist) . Compare Train 
 Kept A 'Rollin' on Rock Band and this game. Where did those GB, YB, GB, YB patterns come from? How 
 about the random hammer-ons and pull-offs thrown in? Oh, and silent guitar tracks. I love almost 
 failing a song I can't actually hear myself playing. 
  
  The graphics are pretty ugly, then again, so are Stephen Tyler and Joe Perry, so you really can't 
 complain about that.
  
  The only reason to play this is for achievements. And anything more than what I paid is a rip-off. 
 Even if you are a mega-fan of Aerosmith. Hopefully the announced Metallica Guitar Hero and rumored 
 Jimi Hendrix Guitar Hero will kick this game in the pants. This game is just a representation of 
 how greedy Neversoft and Activision have become in their new five Guitar Hero a year plan. Two 
 and a half out of ten. This game kinda makes me want to just shove a copy in Tyler's giant mouth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from Guitar Hero Aerosmith. I just got it because i like Aerosmith. The 
 graphics are good and has a lot of songs to choose from and a couple of songs that the bands chose 
 out do include in the game. It has songs from Joe Perry and a guitar battle that ends with a four 
 note (on expert) . The game does end fast but it has replay ability, very little though. The online 
 is just like Guitar Hero 3's online. This game includes all the guitars in the shop that you have 
 to unlock in GH3 by beating expert with 5 stars on all songs or beating easy mode. This game is 
 just like downloadable content, the creators could have just put a Aerosmith album for download 
 but it doesn't matter. This game is still good and it actually makes your characters hand move 
 when you use the wammy bar. The game is very easy compared to Guitar Hero 3. If you don't really 
 care about Aerosmith or don't want to play their songs then don't buy this, if you are a achievement 
 whore and/or just like the band and wants some other songs from other bands then get this. The 
 achievements are VERY simple and the songs are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I liked this version but only for the added benefit of the guitar. Although I really hate wireless!
 
  I expected more unlockables and downloads. GH3 is sooo much better. Even 2 is great. I would recommend 
 this to hard core Aerosmith fans. Everyone else should rent first then decide. The only reason I 
 still play is that it's great practice for those of us that have small hands and can't hit that 
 orange button yet. Also the interviews with the band in between sets is a nice addition. But I 
 could have done without it. Better choices in outfits and songs would have made this game better. 
 Also If you could have played as YOUR character WITH the band NOT as the Band, that would have 
 made me happier about spending $90 bucks! The innovations they waited to put into GH4 would have 
 been better received and used I think if they would have started slow, say with a microphone add 
 on to Aerosmith, or even maybe drums. Or even better say an added Guitar or Bass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero franchise decided that it's not content with coming out with a new game every year, 
 it's doing it every six months so that the developers don't have to take huge amounts of time making 
 songs downloadable. I fell for it hook line and sinker. 
  
  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith should really be titled 1/2 Guitar Hero: Aerosmith. You are paying full price 
 for 1/2 of a game. The track listing isn't nearly as long as the prior Guitar Hero installments 
 (much like Guitar Hero Rock the 80s) . There probably won't be much in the line of down loads for 
 this game. There isn't any new playcontrol updates, it'e exactly the same as GH: III but there are 
 some minor changes that make this game stand out, it's hardly worth the full price of a game. In 
 fact it should really be a down load. 
  
  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith follows the great American band, you guessed it, Aerosmith from it's beginings 
 to it's juggernaut that it is today. In between sets they have brief (I mean bried) interviews 
 with the band members. This is kind of cool for the Aerosmith fan and the fan looking for more 
 info on them. But it's hardly worth the extra playing time that it suggests. The set list is set 
 up differently. Aerosmith not only includes the bands older material, but new material as well. 
 It includes bands that opened for them in the past, and bands that are influenced by them. This 
 opens the set list up a bit which is nice. But it doesn't constitute a full game. 
  
  The graphics are cool, they are exactly the same as GHIII. Aerosmith provided their own animations 
 for the parts, which is cool. The sound effects are exactly the same as the prior Guitar Hero games, 
 and as usual the music sounds great. Most of the songs are the original pieces. Although Aerosmith 
 did re-record some of them. A stated before the controls are the usual tear drop pattern. There 
 are some decent unlockables too, including most of the band and several guests. The usual montage 
 of guitars, songs, and skins are available as well as videos. 
  
  I do have to say that the difficulty is toned down in this one. It's a little more possible to 
 complete the game on Hard, which is nice for the more casual gamer, but this game is really focused 
 on the Aerosmith fan. While most of the big hits are here, some of the songs arent really well 
 known. 
  
  While I acknowledge Aerosmith as a successful band, I don't really feel that they should be the 
 first band to have this happen as a game. This does open the future up for more games of this nature, 
 but as long as the asking price is lower, a game like that can be justified. At this point it just 
 seems like this should have been made downloadable addition to the GHIII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith was supposed to be the best in the series up to that point. More like most 
 boring in the series!
  
  GH: Aerosmith includes all of the band's iconic songs, except for "Dude Looks Like A Lady", seriously?! WTF?! 
 Guitar Hero Aerosmith is fun on the first setlist, but you will quickly become very very bored 
 by it's easyness, repetativenss, and just the whole game in general. The only kinda hard song in 
 the game is "Train Kept Rolling" which will only take about 2 or 3 tries becase only one section 
 is kinda hard. Total, GHA takes about three hours to complete so if that doesn't tell you anything 
 then you must have problems. Ya, this is a short review, but I am only making it to warn people 
 about this game's boringness.
  
  -ShawnEffect_58
  
  
  
  
  Seriously, please don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saginlow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  its a pretty good game, cant wait till metallica one comes out though! anyways, it grows on to 
 you the first time you play it. it has all aerosmith's great fast songs like dude looks like a 
 lady and walk this way to the more slow songs like dream on and come together! i havent played 
 it on xbox live yet though, i plan to. the graphics arent the best, but it definatly looks like 
 steven tyler and joe perry. im glad the finally brought in voice tubes like in come together, joe 
 perry uses a voice tube and guess whats in guitar hero, voice tube! sorry, i dont know what its 
 really called so just correct me nicely if im wrong! thanks for reading! hope you enjoyed it! buy 
 guitar hero aerosmith! this is kinda random, but add my xbox360 live account: saginlow
  no  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stage12
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright many people have compared this game to Guitar Hero Rocks the 80's. Well it really is not. 
 Guitar hero Aerosmith is meant to outline the history of Aerosmith and their adventures as a band.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Well it plays exactly as any other guitar hero game. 5 different colored note come scrolling down 
 the screen and when it gets to a certain point you are to press and strum you're guitar to note 
 shown. Not really a complicated concept. However quite difficult to master. Also those familiar 
 with the GH3 Hammer-on and Pull offs (HOPO's) are stricter in this game than in GH3. The game features 
 6 tiers of songs to play, each location ties into Aerosmith history in a way. Each of the 6 tiers 
 features 2 non-aerosmith songs followed by 3 Aerosmith songs
  Then you move onto the next tier. of songs. Along each of the songs depending on how well you do 
 you get money to unlock new guitars characters and the 11 bonus songs. While again really simple 
 it does get the job done.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good in thins game. The band members look great and the Aerosmith characters 
 look great and even do similar dances like do in real life. But other than that graphics don't 
 really matter in a game like this.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you have never played guitar hero but like Aerosmith i would recommend this game. If you do 
 not like Aerosmith then stick with Guitar Hero III. Hardcore guitar hero fans may not like the 
 fact that the charts in this game are a easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Neat Aerosmith design on the Guitar Controller.
  * Theres some nice, classic tunes to be played.
  * Video of the band recalling past shows and 
 experiences is good for Aerosmith fans.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Theres some tunes that I personally feel ought to be in there that are missing.
  * The games 
 short.
  * It's easier in comparison to previous Guitar Heroes.
  * Like them though I do, I know Aerosmith is not every ones first choice for a Guitar Hero game 
 based on a single band.
  
  
  I finished it not all too long after my entry yesterday, I think.
  And my opinion hasn't really 
 changed.
  
  It's Guitar Hero.
  If you don't know the gist, you've been living under a rock.
  Of course the big selling point 
 here is that it features songs from Aerosmith.
  I personally am quite fond of the band but I know it's not every ones first choice for a game based 
 around one band.
  
  While a good chunk of their hits are in there, there are some that I feel ought be there that aren't.
 
  
  Janie's Got A Gun.
  Amazing.
  I Don't Wanna Miss A Thing.
  Crazy.
  Wayne's World theme. Maybe.
  
  Just a few I'd have liked to have seen that were missing.
 
  
  While theres a sizable chunk of Aerosmith goodness it's not really enough to fill out a game, making 
 you wish all the more that more songs were added.
  You'll be done with it in a few hours, unless you're the completionist who just has to unlock everything 
 and complete every difficulty.
  
  Unfortunately for the game, I'm not that guy.
  
  Speaking of difficulty, it isn't difficult at all in comparison to past Guitar Hero's.
  Skilled 
 players wont be taxed much I shouldn't think.
  As much as I enjoy Guitar Hero I know I'm not that great at it and even I managed to five star 
 most of the songs and get quite a few 100% completions along the way.
  
  If you like Aerosmith or just want more songs to play for a bit give it a rent.
  If you like 
 Aerosmith, broke a previous Guitar and need a replacement as I did - buy it!
  I like the Aerosmith design.
  
  Otherwise, well there isn't a lot to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  -----------
  Pros and Cons:
  -----------
  +Some better music than GH3.
  +New character animations.
  +Great for Aerosmith fans.
  +New costumizable clothes and guitars.
 
  -Bad for non Aerosmith fans.
  -Follows the blueprint of GH3.
  -----------
  
  
  
  Just exactly what makes Guitar Hero: Aerosmith so bad? Well, it happens to be a sideproject of 
 Neversoft, $60, and alot of cut out things from Guitar Hero 3, making it look like a Rock the 80's 
 verison for the 3rd sequal.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  If you played Guitar Hero 3, your not gonna get anything new in Guitar Hero: Areosmith. Sure, maybe 
 some new costumes, new heros, and obviously new songs, but everything is nearly identical. The 
 menu is pink instead of yellow but the characters, shops, song selection, and everything else is 
 exactly the same to GH3. The Gameplay has improved slighty, new camera cuts have been added, and 
 the 'sing along' feature with the other band members has been used dramaticaly, but this is the 
 same old button mashing, with an easier difficulty, but this is a disguised GH3 any way you look 
 at it.
  
  
  
  Every 2 normal songs you play, an Areosmith encore appears. You then completly forget your band, 
 and begin playing as Joe Perry in every Areosmith song (Who has too much solo music to say the 
 least) . After about 5 areosmith songs, you can switch back to your oringinal band, and repeat til 
 you finish all 30 songs.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The Graphics haven't changed at all.
  
  
  
  
  
  The Sound can be quite pleasent. If your new to GH3, this proves as a gentler verison 
 for beginners, considering the easy and eye-popping songs. Still, there is too much Areosmith, 
 and that's no surprise. In fact, every bonus song is Areosmith, or side projects of Joe Perry. 
 This is obviously a rare source of fun for the non-areosmith fans.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  For $60, you get 30 songs, no downloadable content, all Joe Perry bonus tracks, all areosmith-inspired 
 guitars, 30% non-areosmith songs, and some bonus characters from... you guessed it... MORE AREOSMITH. 
 Why did I rate it so high because of it? Despite its flaws, you'll probably have some fun out of 
 it, areosmith fan or not. But if you don't like game boomerangs, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkluvgames
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Don't give in to the hype if I were you I would rent it first, Guitar Hero will NEVER be better 
 than Rock Band AGAIN! The 3rd guitar Hero is better than This game, who ever says it is probaly because 
 they REALLY LOVE Aerosmith. I like them but this game doesnt represent them well. So if they wanted 
 a Music game to represent them you'll be better off with Dance Dance Revolution or Singstar. If 
 you want a game that you will stop playing in 2hrs then guess what You're lucky because this is 
 the game. So PLEASE DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY, SAVE IT FOR ROCK BAND 2!!!!!!!!! Guitar Hero World Tour 
 may be better than this agme but I don't know ,I will rent it and see, but please don't just throw 
 money away!!!!!!!!! Make Sure you go and get the best music series out there Rock Band ,and Rock 
 Band 2 is out right now, Forget about Guitar Hero: Aerosmith and get Rock Band 2!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The newest addition to the Guitar Hero franchise features the classic rock band Aerosmith, as well 
 as others from the same era. The game's career mode has only thirty one tracks, sixty percent of 
 which are Aerosmith master tracks. While the gameplay is still just as fun as in the earlier games, 
 it is a very short lived experience.
  
  The addition of a "meet-the-band" like segment will surly appeal to Aerosmith fans, but it will 
 otherwise most likely be overlooked. As the career mode progresses, the songs from tier to tier 
 do not really increase in difficulty, aside from a few challenging guitar solos. 
  
  The overall difficulty of the game seems a lot easier than Guitar Hero III. Those who have mastered 
 the previous games will probably be disappointed by the lack of challenge in this installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  So, A lot of people call this game a 'fail' without even playing it, And to be fair it isn't a 
 fail but at the same time it is a bit of a letdown.
  But it is NOT just Aerosmith songs. In each tier you start of with ONLY 2 songs which aren't by 
 Aerosmith, Then you complete them and you get to play the Aerosmith songs. You do 3 after that 
 until the tier is over.
  
  The gameplay has not changed at all, You still have the 5 fret colours and strum bar. Joe Perry's 
 (lead guitarist of Aerosmith) style of music is not flashy and fast solo's, But Neversoft try to 
 make this game hard by putting a lot of 'Green Yellow Orange' patters in it. So Overall, If you 
 found GH3 hard as hell, this is going to be suited for you.
  
  
  The Controller:
  
  Its more Reliable but the tilt censer its just like... ok, Whats going on? Thats what You think. 
 The tilt is WAY to light, The slightest nudge sets it off, most of the time it sets of the second 
 it gets Star Power. So, If you enjoy having your console on the roof then.. ha.. Here you go, Heres 
 the perfect controller for you.
  
  WHAT I DON'T LIKE:
  Yet again, Its another one of those games that makes you say "Oh what, it is over already?" The 
 difficulty on Hard is too easy, I went through the whole career and I didn't FAIL A SINGLE SONG! 
 On Expert thats a different story, And like most GH games the difficulty has been set out bad again. 
 The jump is too big, it feels like one giant impossible leap.
  The achievements are too simple. In 2 days of this game I got 330g. The achievements are A MASSIVE 
 improvement over GH 3. If you complete Medium you get the easy achievement too, and if you do Expert 
 you get all the difficulty awards, So its nice. But there's some dumb ones like 20g for playing 
 as Izzy or a Girl.
  
  Something mayjor that upset me was some of the missing songs, such as Dude looks like a lady, crazy, 
 Same old song and dance (in GH3) and I don't want to miss a thing. Such classics and a shame not 
 to see them. 
  
  
  Overall: Its not the greatest, Not worth buying the bundle unless you are a hard Aerosmith fan 
 and a GH fan. I give it 7:5/10, Just because its too damn easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The game is ok not the best guitar hero out there.
  
  Graphics.
  
  The game looks great but Aerosmith them self look alittle weird. Alot of detail but Guitar Hero 
 3 looks better. But Guitar Hero Aerosmith has better animations.
  
  Soundtrack.
  
  The 41 songs in the game are good not all of them are good. Some are fun to play some really suck. 
 The Aerosmith songs are ok not the best choice but theres songs like Sweet Emotion.. Love In An 
 Elevator but not Dude looks Like A Lady and that sucks.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is like any other guitar hero.. But this one is way to easy for expert players like 
 my self. I got 100 % on every song in the game. But its still a ok game for hardcore guitar hero 
 fans. You can complete the game in less than 6 hours. Songs in the game like Cat Scratch Fever 
 are the best they have some challenge to them. No DLC so this game gets boring fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigasteam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a GH3 type game but I was completely wrong. Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is nothing you'd 
 expect, until you've tried it. Don't listen to the bad reviews cause they could be persuading you 
 not to try a game you think is very good. Although it didn't have my favorite Aerosmith song, Take 
 Me To The Other Side, I was very satisfied with the game. My personal favorites are 
  
  The Cult - She Sells Sanctuary
  The Kinks - All Day And All Of The Night
  Run DMC feat. Aerosmith 
 - Walk This Way
  Aerosmith - Love In An Elevator
  Aerosmith - Dream On
  Aerosmith - Kings And Queens
  
  Gameplay is cool, playable characters rock, hammer on and pulls 
 offs never been better, Aerosmith still got it, some world class songs, and DMC looks like one 
 badass.
  
  All in all, It's a great game. If your unsure then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekRubin
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Is the great Guitar Hero gameplay there? Yes, but that's not the question we should be looking 
 at. It might be a kickass game, and entirely worth the money, for someone new to the series. But 
 for someone like me who would be expecting a good amount of content, giving the game a fresh breath 
 of air. Instead it feels like Guitar Hero 3 with a few Aerosmith tracks, plenty of filler, and 
 a couple of palette swaps.
  
  There are good moments of course, and good tracks. King of Rock by DMC was a nice addition, and 
 all the Aerosmith classics are there. It's just hard to sell a game full price with all of the 
 classics of only one band and a couple of other songs thrown in. This should have been thirty bucks 
 at most. Also there's no downloadable content of any kind, and not even any new characters to play 
 (except Joe Perry) .
  
  Playing this I really can't help but shake the feeling that a couple of Aerosmith songs could have 
 been released out of a downloadable pack. If you skip this title all you are missing is about six 
 good Aerosmith songs, and three or four others. It's really not worth the pricepoint in the end 
 if you already have 2 and 3. If you want to get started with Guitar Hero though, this ain't a bad 
 place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Czenkus
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  First off lets just talk about the fact you are going to have to pay for a full game, when in fact 
 it totally feels like a strung together piece of work that someone over there just tossed out and 
 was surprised they ran with it. The songs at least must be good!? No. not even going to get started 
 on the failure to toss in decent Aerosmith songs I'll just stick with the fact that everything 
 that was not sucked aswell, This game is just a shameless poke at Guitar Hero fans wallets, Now 
 if you are going to play this either way like most will, Please do yourself a favor and just rent 
 it. I totally hope for the future of games that could "feature" an artist/band that they take a 
 lesson from this garbage and at least look into what type of game play is fun for their own consumers.. 
 my god, Every single song in this on expert felt BORING and not a single challenge that is worth 
 mentioning in the whole playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is part of the Guitar Hero series by Activision. Its a spin off of Guitar 
 Hero 3 and its basically all aerosmith songs and a few other.
  
  The game is a short set list and in career you must perform every song on that difficulty to complete 
 the career where as GH3 (Guitar Hero 3) you can skip some songs. Some of the songs are great aerosmith 
 new and old classics and some songs i have never heard of. They lack poor when missing a few out 
 and also missing downloadable content to download more songs.
  
  GHA (Guitar Hero Aerosmith) is relatively easier than GH3 and there is less songs so it is easier 
 to complete the career mode on hard/expert. The emblems are also a lot easier than in GH3 aswell.
 
  
  The online play is good, but there is never anyone online to play but when i do get a match there 
 is little lag and disconnection. I have'nt played the coop career with another person but i did 
 play it once online and its ok but it would be hard to sit and complete 31 songs as the lead guitarist 
 and then repeat a the bass guitarist for the coop achievements.
  
  I think this game is good but the lack of songs and downloadable content brings it down a little 
 but otherwise you can get a good many hours of gameplay out of this game if you like the GH series. 
 Its also a good game to get you started to the GH series as it isn't as hard as the other ones.
 
  
  Thanks for reading (Im no good at writing reviews) , Dj :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagivercetti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, is basically a stand-alone expansion to Guitar Hero III: Rock Of Legends, 
 which was the best-selling game in much of the world last year. So while you won't need Guitar 
 Hero III to play the Aerosmith version, what is disappointing is that outfits, guitars and other 
 extras obtained from it cannot be carried forward to this game. The continued success of the franchise 
 is a significant step forward for publishers Activision and RedOctane, as it signifies the popularity 
 of a game that was initially shunned by the music labels. 
  
  When the first Guitar Hero was launched, none of the recording labels wanted to license music rights 
 to what was seen as a silly guitar game. Today, the game is instrumental in helping bands sell 
 their music. One week after Guitar Hero III was launched, all of the songs in the game saw a sales 
 boost of 250 per cent throughout its traditional retail and online channels. Now, not only do bands 
 want their songs to be featured in Guitar Hero III, they want to appear as avatars in the game 
 and to "cut their own album" in the Guitar Hero world. A former Guns N' Roses guitarist made such 
 a special appearance in Guitar Hero III and Guitar Hero: Metallica, based on the iconic heavy metal 
 band, is next on the set list. In real life, musicians are taking to the game. The game requires 
 you to be very coordinated to keep up with the beats. But when you're strumming a guitar, it should 
 be more relaxing, compared to what you've seen of the game. 
  UPDATE: Warner now wants more money from Activision!
  
  The highlight for me is 'She Sells 
 Sanctuary' by the Cult. BAD/GOOD?? I got 160 achievement points after playing the game for a total 
 of five minutes. They left out many of Aerosmith' more familiar hits?? 
  Dude looks like a lady, Janie's got a gun & Love in an elevator are all MISSING. 
  If ur deciding 
 between this and gh2 buy gh2.
  Ghero WT with drumkit just announced!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClintCrumpler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the music genre games. I have played everything from all the guitar heroes, rock 
 band, and even taiko drums. I have become decent at playing all of them so when it came to this 
 game I figured I would give it a try. Then I realized I don't like aerosmith that much and now 
 playing this game nor will I ever. If you wanna play their hits than two bad because most of the 
 songs are all older to unpopular songs.
  
  The best thing about this game is how the guitar reacts to the notes and the person playing it. 
 They have done something new to make it way easier and hammer ons and pull off glide as the slightest 
 touch. I did like that. I played through the entire setlist on expert with no problems what so 
 ever. I never even left yellow at my worst. 
  
  So if you like aerosmith try it otherwise rent it for the easy achievements then return it the 
 next day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Before you rant about my review, just listen. If you like Aerosmith, that's great, go enjoy the 
 game and leave me alone. If you don't like Aerosmith too much, don't get the game. They're the 
 main feature of this game and chances are, if you don't like them, you won't like this game.
  
  Let me start by saying that this game is pretty much Guitar Hero 3 all over again. Same introductions, 
 same gameplay (by that I mean nothing new at all) , same graphics, same everything. Even the loading 
 screen has all of the same "funny" quotes as the last game.
  
  I'm glad I rented this game, because I sure wouldn't want to spend a good 60$ on this. The sound 
 quality sucks in this. All of the guitar is way too quiet and is not as sharp and distinct as the 
 last game. They also made Stephen Tylor (I beleive that's the lead signers name) look like a monkey. 
 No joke, just look at him and you will see.
  
  The game is also a lot easier. I beat expert with no trouble at all. At least in Guitar Hero 3 
 they had some really hard songs, as well as easy ones. These ones are all easy which have no challenge 
 at all to them.
  
  Well, if you like the band, you will like the game, vice-verca as well. Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Man the game missed "I don't want to miss a thing" "Crazy" "Crying" "dude looks a lady" "Just push 
 play" .
  
  Also the setlist was really shot only like 40 songs.....
  
  I hoped a pack of songs to contain all i mentioned above but no.... Oh and the bonus songs are only 
 Joe Perry's.... No other bands.
  
  The graphics were good. Steven tyler really looks funny. There are guitar players from the last 
 game if you liked them. I liked Johnny Napalm. Oh and the singer is ehre also. But they shouldn't 
 have removed Grim Reaper and Guitar God.
  
  Another good point is that achievements were easy. Guitar hero III's were way too hard especially 
 for newcomers like me. Also the difficulty achievements are now stackable.
  
  Buy this game if you like aerosmith, If you don't... well don't buy it. Anyways the value isn't 
 worth for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Aerosmith soundtrack with a slew of other good classics, good facial animation, difficulty 
 has been dubbed down...
  
  CONS: If your a GH junkie the dubbed down difficulty is too easy, only 41 tracks (which is about 
 half of what GH3 was sporting) , overpriced for what it is.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I laughed at the very moment I saw the reservation boxes for this game back in April. I seriously 
 thought to myself, "Damn Activision, you sold out your own GH franchise." But in all fair honesty, 
 isn't Activision the one who is giving us more of what we love? Well... sort of. More of what we 
 love for more money than it should be. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are an exact replica of GH3. There has been little, to no changes made whatsoever, 
 aside from alot of the characters being replaced with the Aerosmith band. The facial animations 
 on the band, specifically Steven Tyler look great, which should come as no surprise considering 
 Steven Tyler provided complete motion capturing. 
  
  THE SOUND obviously is awesome. All classic rock is to be found here. But this all depends on how 
 much you love classic rock or Aerosmith. But all in all, this is one amazing soundtrack, even if 
 it only has 41 tracks. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is typical GH. Not much more to be said here that you don't already know. The gameplay 
 is almost identical to GH3, aside from the fact that the difficulty is much easier this time around. 
 You can easily blow through this game in one day on Medium. Also easier is the achievements, which 
 is a plus due to the fact that the achievements in GH3 were much more difficult to obtain. If you 
 love and have played GH before then there is nothing new here.
  
  OVERALL GH: Aerosmith is almost like a big expansion pack for GH3. Its definately a good game, 
 with some great songs to back it, however the $59.99 price tag doesn't really help warrant a purchase. 
 But considering this is basically an expansion to GH3 in the form of a full retail game, this game 
 should be priced at $29.99. And if it was, then it definately is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is overall good game. Online multiplayer is fun, but the career is way to 
 short. There is only 31 songs on the main set list, and a few bonus songs. The bonus songs are 
 mostly Joe Perry solos which are pretty boring. There is also no DLC for Aerosmith. The game also 
 left out a few other great hits by Aerosmith like "Dude Looks Like A Lady," "Crazy," "Cryin," and 
 "I Don't Wanna Miss A Thing." In my opinion if you get the game and the guitar together, you get 
 a better buy because it is a $100, but a guitar or a game alone is $60. So its like getting $20 
 off and getting a Aerosmith faceplate, stickers, and a tour book. If you don't need another plastic 
 guitar laying around then go ahead and get the game only because you will still get the same experience. 
 So all in all this game is great and very fun, but is way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  consider myself a 'casual' Aerosmith fan.... I like most of their 'greatest hits'... everything off 
 of Big Ones and some of the more popular songs on albums released after that..... Most of my favorite 
 Aerosmith songs are MISSING from this game!!
  
  Crazy, Amazing, Cryin, Angel... all the 'ballads' are my personal favorites, and arguably best known 
 songs... none of which are in this game.
  
  I suppose that for the hard core Aerosmith fan.. they would love this game, as it is filled with 
 obscure songs that i, personally, am not familiar with.
  
  I like the 'opening act' bands/songs... adds a little twist to the game (and the Run DMC song... the 
 main guitar riff is freaking HOTT!)
  
  All in all.. I would rate this game a 7.5 Seems somewhat easier then the other guitar hero's and 
 the hammer-ons and pull offs seem more realistic to playing them on actual guitar (I SUCK at them 
 on GH2 and 3... but can nail them in Aerosmith) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themeparkfreak1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is overall good game. Online multiplayer is fun, but the career is way to 
 short. There is only 31 songs on the main set list, and a few bonus songs. The bonus songs are 
 mostly Joe Perry solos which are pretty boring. There is also no DLC for Aerosmith. The game also 
 left out a few other great hits by Aerosmith like "Dude Looks Like A Lady," "Crazy," "Cryin," and 
 "I Don't Wanna Miss A Thing." In my opinion if you get the game and the guitar together, you get 
 a better buy because it is a $100, but a guitar or a game alone is $60. So its like getting $20 
 off and getting a Aerosmith faceplate, stickers, and a tour book. If you don't need another plastic 
 guitar laying around then go ahead and get the game only because you will still get the same experience. 
 So all in all this game is great and very fun, but is way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotMinute
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so first off let me start by stating that I really didn't like Guitar Hero III that much. 
 Too be honest i was disappointed by it. So the day that this title was released a good friend of 
 mine actually went to Best Buy at 9 a. m. to pick it up saying that it "Looked amazing". So a few 
 hours later I went to his house to see what all the fuss was about and I have to say... I was impressed.
 
  At first you think that it's going to be another cheesy rip off of GH3 but with a few Aerosmith 
 skins on the same old characters kind of like "Rock the '80's was. But after about 15 minutes of 
 gameplay you start to realize that this really is a game all its own. It has tons of Aerosmith 
 themed content including song, characters, venues, guitars, and even in-between your completion 
 of venues in Career Mode you see a short video of Aerosmith themselves telling you a story involving 
 the following venue.
  
  About 3 hours later i had beaten the Expert Career and realized something great about this game... the 
 achievements are stackable!!! One of the main things about Rock Band that I loved was that in order 
 to unlock all of the achievements for beating said instrument on all of the difficulty levels you 
 simple had to beat it on Expert. There is nothing more frustrating and tedious then having to go 
 back and do every difficulty level over again when you just proved your skills by beating the hardest 
 difficulty they had to offer just to get 10 or 20 Gamerpoints. One place that Guitar Hero 2 and 
 3 really dropped the ball.
  This brings me to another great thing: the achievements. I found the achievements in this game 
 to be perfect. Not too hard and not at all too easy either. Someone who is relatively good at the 
 game can easily get anywhere from 900 - 1000 points within a week. Now this is not to say that 
 it doesn't have great replay value, because it does. But it just means that you can easily get 
 all those achievements out of the way quickly. Now if this were a fully fledged sequel and not 
 a spin-off then yeas, i would be complaining that it's too short. But knowing that it's not a sequel, 
 and seeing the great job they did on these achievements really makes me look forward to see what 
 Guitar Hero: World Tour will have to offer.
  
  So all in all I would have to say that if you're a fan of the Guitar Hero series borrow this one. 
 If you're also a fan of Aerosmith then pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carano789
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is a fantastic game if your a fan of aerosmith, if not then to you it's just 
 a guitar hero 3 spin off and you will mostly find the song choices very limited. (Im not an Aerosmith 
 fan by the way)
  Aerosmith still has the same gameplay as guitar hero 3, quite hard and addictive, but you will 
 find youself not so addicted because of the bizzare limit of song choices picked out and chosen 
 by Aerosmith.
  The songs besides Aerosmiths are quite impressive including songs from The Cult, Run DMC, The Clash 
 and Joan Jett And The Blackhearts.
  Special features in the game are pretty cool including exclusive interviews with Aerosmith as you 
 work your way through career mode.
  Career mode is very short if you happen to be an ultra skilled Guitar Hero player and play it on 
 expert straight off the bat, but if not it could take you some getting used to, and you may want 
 to begin playing on easy if your a beginner. The mode is basically you playing through early Aerosmith 
 gigs beginning at Nipmuc High School and eventually ending up at the rock and roll hall of fame, 
 the mode will most likely take you 3 hours to complete depending on skill level.
  The game comes with a pretty snazzy new special Guitar Hero Aerosmith controller, aswell as some 
 other bits and pieces consisting of an Aerosmith tourbook with pictures of early Aerosmith at their 
 earliest gigs.
  Overall Aerosmith is an average game and may keep you busy until Guitar Hero: World Tour comes 
 out later this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  I was hoping for something more than what was offered. I didn't really enjoy this game as much 
 as I like Guitar Hero III. Aerosmith (as in the game) is similar to Guitar Hero: Rocks the 80s 
 because it's a short game with not that many songs. The only difference is that there's bonus songs 
 in Aerosmith and Rocks the 80s didn't have that. At least you can play GH: Aerosmith online and 
 that makes up for everything. There's songs by Cheap Trick, Joan Jett and the Blackhearts, Run 
 DMC and Lenny Kravitz feat. Slash and others being covers. There is a lot of songs by Aerosmith 
 in this game. (well DUH this IS Guitar Hero Aerosmith) and if you are an Aerosmith fan, then you'll 
 like this game. I'm not a huge fan of the band but I don't think they're bad either. They ARE rock 
 n roll hall of fame legends. It's cool that they talk about their history a little after you played 
 the concerts. It's funny that they use some exaggeration with Steven Tyler since he has a wide 
 mouth. If you're a fan of GH, you won't find anything special if you were expecting a lot except 
 for songs by Aerosmith. Some of the songs I liked were Love in an Elevator and Walk This Way. (the 
 one featuring Run DMC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  
  Well Guitar Hero: Aerosmith certainly doesnt introduce anything new to the guitar hero series, 
 but it does offer a preety nice distraction to hold you off until Guitar Hero: World Tour releases. 
 It contains a little more than half the number in songs as GH3 and has only 10 bonus songs! Not 
 to mention the huge lack of challenge for Guitar Hero veterans.
  
  GH: Aerosmith sort of gives you the feeling that they kinda just threw it together at the last 
 minute. All the menus and HUDs look identical to GH3, with the exception of a few new color schemes 
 and the addition of new loading screens. The tranining is also exactly the same as its predecessor, 
 I didnt find one difference in it. Although the loading screens and menus look identical, they 
 at least put in a few new bonus characters, even though all the standard characters are exactly 
 the same.
  
  If this game does get one thing right, it certainly has a good setlist because Aerosmith is an 
 excellent band. It has all the classics you would hope for, but the career comes up a bit short 
 at only 31 songs. = ( You could probably finish this game in about a day or two because of its length. 
 Thats why i strongly recommend that you rent it.
  
  Well, i guess theres really not much more to say about this game other than its not going to be 
 anything new to you if you played GH3, it plays exactly the same. But if you are having a craving 
 for more songs, and you like Aerosmith, then you should definitely give this game a rent. And another 
 bonus for 360 owners is that this game has really easy achievements. Just beat it on expert and 
 you should have over half of them.
  
  Thank for reading, and please rate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I was seriously considering buying this game. I don't know why, I guess because Guitar Hero III 
 was so addictive. I'm thoroughly, incredibly glad that I didn't. Thank God for renting. The game 
 was not all too bad, but it certainly makes you long for GH World Tour to come out... maybe that 
 was the plan, though.
  
  On the plus side, it was awesome seeing Aerosmith in video game form. Their mannerisms are pretty 
 funny.... for like, the 1st two songs. I have never played a game that got old so quickly. This 
 game is nothing like the other titles. Sure, I know that this game has Aerosmith in the title, 
 but they really cram them down your throat. 
  
  The disappointment starts when you get to the difficulty screen. You see that there's 31 songs 
 in the setlist, which is about 10 less than normal. I think about 18 or so are Aerosmith songs, 
 and one is a Joe Perry guitar battle (GET RID OF THE BATTLES.. THEY ARE LAME) . You basically play 
 two normal songs, and then three Aerosmith songs in each set. It's ridiculous. They should have 
 had more songs, with 4 other songs 1st and then 1 Aerosmith song as an encore, and then put all 
 the other Aerosmith crap in "The Vault." This would have made the Vault a lot better, because probably 
 more than half of it is Joe Perry solo stuff... which is awful.
  
  I think the main reason that makes the game such a flash in the pan is that the songs and achievements 
 are insanely easy. I half expected to see "Play one note" and "Choose a Character" as achievements. 
 I think in the 1st song, I unlocked 4 achievements. I played this game for two days and unlocked 
 more stuff than I have yet to unlock in GH III.
  
  I'm really glad my brain begged me not to buy this game. I played it once thru on hard, 5 starred 
 every song on the 1st try, and went to play thru Expert, but was so bored with it I didn't even 
 play it the last three days of the rental. If someone were a gamerscore-monger, they would really 
 enjoy tis game... just don't buy it.
  
  On a side note, the game did have one awesome thing... a Joe Perry clear Plexiglass guitar.... oh 
 yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is a Guitar Hero game that focuses a little bit more on a specific band, 
 and that is Aerosmith. However not all the songs in this game are by Aerosmith, there are other 
 songs from other bands from around that time.
  
  You start out playing some songs not by Aerosmith. IN every set list, the first two songs are but 
 other bands. Then after that, you move on to Aerosmith. They got a loy of the good songs in this 
 game like Kings and Queens, Walk this Way, Dream On, etc. But I wish they had the song Eat the 
 Rich.
  
  The main Problems with this game is how easy it is, and how much content there is. There is not 
 a lot of content, and the songs are a lot easier than other Guitar Hero's. One small complaint 
 I have with this game is why would they out the Run DMC version of Walk this Way in the career 
 mode, but make the real version something you have to by from the on disk guitar shop. No offense, 
 but I do not like rap music, so I found this version of the song horrible.
  
  The graphics in this game look a lot like the other Guitar Hero games, though there are features, 
 like character models that look a lot better in this game. Not to mention that they have captured 
 the moves of Aerosmith. SO the character movements are a lot better.
  
  The sound depends on mow much you like the music. My opinion is that this is the best sounding 
 Guitar Hero game, because, I like old style rock, and one of my favorite bands is Aerosmith.
  
  If you like Aerosmith, or just want another Guitar Hero game, then you must check out Guitar 
 Hero Aerosmith. If you are a hardcore Guitar Hero player, then this game might be a little bit 
 too easy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is the first time i've played guitar hero... don't know why i haven't picked 
 it up until now... but i didn't... simple as that.
  first of all, i wish i could compare this to any previous installations of the game... but that 
 would be difficult. i'll be explaining everything and rate from here. Oh, and just so you know, 
 i'll explain it as if i'm speaking to someone like me, that is, someone who is extremely new to 
 this game... (i've at least been able to finish the career mode in easy and medium, currently working 
 on Hard) .
  
  Gameplay: As we are all (or at least should be) familiar with, this game is played using a very 
 special, very good-looking i might add, guitar shaped controller. The way to play the game doesn't 
 really need explanation but here goes... the colour of the "notes" sliding towards you on screen, 
 symbolize a particular button on the guitar (green, red, yellow, blue or orange) and all you need 
 to do is basically get you're timing right. and then it's all about skill, managing to keep up 
 with the rhythm and go with the flow. On a sidenote, i suggest beginners start off with the tutorial 
 mode.
  Score: 8/10
  
  Visuals: Well... there aren't a whole lot of visuals... apart from the character models, which 
 are pretty simple, but you can recognize them all, since their most "famous" characteristics are 
 spot-on.
  Score: 6.5/10
  
  Sound: This game is after all about sound, so if that part wasn't any good, nothing would be. just 
 one thing, i felt that some notes timing was a bit off, not that it ruins anything... but it felt 
 weird.
  9.5/10
  
  (i would add "Story" here, but i don't see any need to, since there is no story)
  
  Other info: 
 This game is fun, it really is... but it get's harder and harder... right now, i'm not sure if 
 i'll ever be able to reach "expert" at all.
  guess time will tell. not much of other info i need you to know... except for that it seems people 
 would rather not spend their money on this if they already have GH:3 legends of rock... which i 
 think could be true, you be the judge.
  
  Overall Score: 7.5/10 (not an average)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanpride83
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Yes. Neversoft and Activision have release another GH game, this time the focus point is on the 
 legendary rock band, Aerosmith. The game includes cartoonized versions of the band members Steven 
 Tyler, Joe Perry, etc. with most of the moves mo capped to make them more authentic. 
  
  Not only is the band in the game, so are most of their songs. They include hits like Dream On, 
 Walk this Way (original and the rerecorded one with Run DMC) and much more plus some songs from 
 other bands. 
  
  This game is good for beginners who are sorta new to GH because it's a lot easier compared to GH3, 
 mainly because Joe Perry didn't really do a lot of complex solos and riffs. Also, the HO's and 
 POs are a little easier to hit this time around.
  
  
  The game is pretty much the same as GH3, just with an Aerosmith twist on it. And their aren't that 
 many songs (around 41-43 if you include the bonus songs you buy) and there isn't any downloadable 
 content. But this isn't really a new game (more like an expansion pack) . If you're a die hard Aerosmith 
 fan, pick this up. If not, then just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremePhobia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The first episode from Guitar Hero's line of single band themed games, Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, 
 is slightly different than what you've come to expect from GH.
  
  We all know the GH formula by now, good songs, a few covers, some goofy cartoonish videos and some 
 major guitar shredding. For the most part, GH: Aerosmith sticks to that formula. It's got the good 
 (scratch that, great) songs, a few covers (don't worry, non were original Aerosmiths) , some goofy 
 cartoonish videos (mostly starring a guy with a really intense mouth) , and some major guitar shredding 
 (on two or three songs) .
  
  Ok, so I'm sure there are two things you really want to know, what's the set list like and how 
 hard is it. The latter is a lot easier to answer. GH: Aerosmith is nowhere near the finger bleeding 
 difficulty of GH3. In fact if you can play the first quarter of GH3 on Expert then you should be 
 able to handle almost the whole game while failing at all on only a hand full of songs. There is 
 a single battle in the game against Joe Perry and trying to play the whole thing yourself is by 
 far the hardest thing to do in the entire game. While the difficulty is hardly, well, difficult 
 by the series standards, it is perfect for non-guitarist junkies and it is difficult enough that 
 you will gladly accept it to play Aerosmith songs because, we all know, that's what this game is 
 really about.
  
  For a list of songs it has pretty much all you could want if you're really an Aerosmith fan. Of 
 course it's got the classics like Sweet Emotion, Dream on, and Walk This Way - both versions! For 
 those of you who were a fan of Aerosmith's less rocky "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing," I'm sorry 
 to tell you that it's not here. It also throws in things like Toys in the Attic, Make it, and the 
 originally Rock Band exclusive Train Kept a Rolling (as the final song) as well as a few re-recordings 
 of songs like Mama Kin and Movin' Out. 
  
  As for non-Aerosmith things in the game, the entire regular roster of rockers returns who you'll 
 play as during the non-Aerosmith and non-DMC songs. They included just as many guitars and clothing 
 styles for your rocker though it seems that, for the most part, everything is cheaper than it was 
 in GH3, which is good because there are only about 30 songs in the regular set list and 10 in the 
 bonus list. As for the rest of the songs, Sex Type Thing (Stone Temple Pilots) , Complete Control 
 (The Clash) , and King of Rock (Run-DMC) are scattered amongst Aerosmith gold. Also worth noting 
 are a few songs in the bonus list from the Joe Perry Project like "Shakin' My Cage" and "Mercy."
 
  
  Obviously the game sounds fantastic with all that Aerosmith in there and minus what seems like 
 a slightly lower volume on the screeching sound of when you play the wrong note, there really isn't 
 much to say about it which you would think would be odd for a music game. The truth is there is 
 no real need for sound effects in this game so all that's really worth noticing is the music which 
 will of course be pleasing if you like Aerosmith's music.
  
  As far as graphics go, the game isn't really all that different from GH3 for all the regular rockers, 
 who are largely unchanged. The stages don't look as cartoonish as GH3 though they seem to have 
 managed this, oddly, through an art style that feels very reminiscent of cell shading. The place 
 where the graphics really will amaze you is in Aerosmith. The band looks fantastic in almost every 
 way and Steven Tyler in particular steals the show with a few extravagant and extravagantly detailed 
 outfits. 
  
  The last thing of note would be the interviews and loading screens that are filled with tidbits 
 about the band. They'll give you a bunch of things you didn't know about the band to fill your 
 time between songs. The unfortunate part about these is that there are only a few interview videos 
 (I think six) and all together they are probably no longer than the two interviews from GH3. In 
 fact, you are probably more likely to learn from the loading screens than from the interviews. 
 So if you were hoping for some kind of biography in this game, it isn't really here, but if you 
 like Aerosmith and are more focused on playing the game then the information is just enough to 
 keep you entertained and a little bit extra to the game.
  
  All in all, GH: Aerosmith is pretty good game worth playing if you're an Aerosmith fan of any measure. 
 Perhaps the most unfortunate part of this game is that you can't take all this Aerosmith greatness 
 off the disk and bring it with you to other Guitar Hero games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadySpecimen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Being an aerosmith fan, I was excited for the game to come out, but waited to buy it after reading 
 all of the negative reviews. People said things like 'only hardcore aerosmith fans will like the 
 game', or, 'there's not enough songs.' While I do like Aerosmith, I'm not familiar with any of 
 their songs that haven't been radio-hits. So I waited. And then I couldn't wait anymore, I got 
 the game, and here's the deal:
  It was awesome! Sure, there are less songs, but each song is awesome! You have to remember- Aerosmith 
 is a classic group, and even though some of the songs on this guitar hero are a little obscure, 
 they've never written a bad thing in their whole career! (except maybe 'Don't wanna miss a thing', 
 which wasn't on there, thank the lord.) And the other songs on there are all pretty decent as well. 
 Does anyone remember how awful the song selection on guitar hero three was? That was a major disappointment 
 for me- not only were they weird newer songs I'd never heard, but they weren't fun to play. Guitar 
 hero Aerosmith has a compilation of good songs that fly off the fingers well. (Not too many repetitive 
 riffs, fun solos, etc) . Perhaps I would complain that it's a little bit too easy, even on expert, 
 but for the majority of players, I don't think they would have a problem. Difficulty level is akin 
 to Guitar Hero One. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  You don't HAVE to be an aerosmith fan to play this game but it definatly helps. If your not a fan, 
 go out and atleast rent it. Has many Aerosmith classic but missing too many of them which doesn't 
 make this game worth buying. It's missing songs like Dude Looks Like a Lady, and I Don't Wanna 
 Miss a thing however it does have Walk this Way and the DMC version. They will probably come out 
 as dc which is bs. A great game to boost gamerscore. In a week of playing got every achievment 
 but 3 of them which gave me over 900 points. Game is definatly fun and worth playing and boosts 
 your score for those of you who play games for this reason. The game is also easier then Guitar 
 Hero 3, so even if your can't beat gh3, you'll probably be able to beat this game on expert. Now 
 i'm definatly looking forward to the Metalica version and wonder what other bands they will come 
 out with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has changed music games forever, but this version is an enigma. Aerosmith and Activision 
 have given us an entire game in which to rock. The gameplay is very a kin to that of GH3 (which 
 isn't a problem) albeit way more easy. The enitre game is a clone of GH3 with a new skin, some 
 intros by Aerosmith themselves and Aerosmith playable characters and band. Despite fan hatred, 
 one boss battle remains and its jut as frustrating as the GH3 battles. Most of the songs are Aerosmith 
 "Classics" (I stress the quotes on that one) and the remainder of them are bands that Aerosmith 
 has toured with, worked with, or likes (which is a weak tie to Aerosmith in itself, had Activision 
 said that the other songs were just tracks that they could get approved in time it would have made 
 more sense) . Hard core AS Fans will love the setlist, since it is compromised mostly of stuff from 
 their early career. 
  
  Tracks like Mama Kin, Dream On, Sweet Emotion, Back in the Saddle, and Draw the Line are legit 
 classics from their early career, but many of the other old songs will fall on deaf ears. Toys 
 in the Attic, Uncle Salty, Bright Light Fight, No Surprize, Nobody's Fault and Make It are good 
 but not part of the Aerosmith hit cannon. The absence of some of their bigger tracks is VERY noticeable. 
 The only track from their hugely successful Get a Grip album is Living on the Edge. Cryin,' Amazing, 
 Eat the Rich, and Crazy are all missing. I know they are not all guitar heavy songs (in fact they 
 are more pop songs than anything) , but their exclusion from even the bonus tracks is inexcusable. 
 Also missing, What it Takes, The Other Side and Janie's Got a Gun from Pump, Dude Looks Like a 
 Lady and Angel from Permanent Vacation, and Jaded from Just Push Play. Even cheese fest worthy 
 I Don't Want to Miss a Thing should at least get included. Instead of these fantastic songs that 
 could have been bonus tracks we get 2 versions a of Walk this Way, Pink and 3 Joe Perry songs to 
 round out the measly non-memorable 10 bonus tracks.
  
  The Non-Aerosmith tracks are good but not great. Tthe highlights are The Cult, Cheap Trick and 
 Lenny Kravitz but it obvious that Neversoft is not using these tracks to sell the game.
  
  My final complaint is about the use of songs that Rock Band already has in it's stable. Sex Type 
 Thing and Hard to Handle were already available as downloadable tracks in the Rock Band store and 
 Train Kept a Rollin' was in Rock Band's main setlist. The inclusion of the later is acceptable 
 since its a fantastic classic of a song (not to mention an original recording, unlike the RB version) , 
 but to put it as the final song is very ill advised. This makes it seem as if Neversoft is admitting 
 to being one upped a year prior by its competition.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I loved GH: Aerosmith and it was nice to have a Guitar game I could actually 
 finish on expert, but I strongly suggest checking out the full setlist before picking this one 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westmasterz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  the game was a decent game, did a good job of holding up the guitar hero name but it will never 
 escape a rental at the least. because there are so little songs, about half the usual amount put 
 in a guitar hero and also many songs arent that exciting and your just going through them bored 
 thinking about other better songs to play in the game, and in my opionion there are about 7 ish 
 really fun songs to play which really isnt enough, the multiplayer is good same as GH3. GHA is 
 a good game to rent for all guitar hero players just to play classic aerosmith songs and to earn 
 easy achivemnts but good player might find the game very easy, but all aeromsith fans should give 
 this game a look. for me i am a small fan of aerosmith mostly just intrested in the famous songs. 
 i. e Dream on, Walk this way. e. t. c but i am a savy guitar hero player so got bored first play through 
 so i wont be going back to challenge myself. the only thing i could play over again would be the 
 joe perry battle which is quite fun or train kept rolllin which i already played in rock band. 
 still check the game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoticusPlatt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I recently had the opportunity to put some time into Guitar Hero: Aerosmith for the 360. For those 
 of us that are GHIII players, there isn't much new here. Starting the game, you have the choice 
 to play online, a career, or local multiplayer, or just plain quick play. 
  
  In career mode, you name your band, and choose your rocker, and start moving down the set list 
 either on easy (3 buttons) , medium (4 buttons) , hard (5 buttons) , and expert (5 buttons) . The career 
 mode consists of 31 songs spread across 6 venues. At each venue, you play 2 opening band songs 
 then 3 Aerosmith songs. The last venue has a battle with Joe Perry which adds the one extra song. 
 The opening band songs are often catchy, but I found that the cover bands lacked charisma. Not 
 being a fan of guitar battles, the Joe Perry battle could have been dropped as well. Otherwise, 
 I found the track listing to be fantastic  aside from some notable songs missing that I would 
 have liked to play. Difficulty-wise, I found this guitar hero to be the easiest in some time. I 
 was able to beat the career mode on hard, only having issues with the Run DMC version of "Walk 
 This Way".
  
  Many people looking for a challenge may cry foul over this, but I see it as a good thing. Let's 
 make the game accessible to all fans, not just the freaks that should be playing a regular guitar 
 instead. After beating the career mode rather quickly (it is way too short) , I was left wanting 
 more. 
  
  The money you earn from the career mode (there isn't enough money for those of us that can't play 
 expert well to buy everything) can be used to purchase guitars/finishes, songs, characters, videos, 
 clothes/styles for characters, etc. Only bother buying the songs, characters, and guitars/finishes. 
 They are the only ones you get achievements for. The characters cost $15,000 each which is too 
 much. If you beat the game by gold-starring medium you would only net about $20,000. I have issue 
 with not being able to earn money on bought songs and co-op. If I play the game on hard, I should 
 not have to go back and play it on medium and easy to earn money to buy everything.
  
  Let's talk about the 'extra' 10 songs. This brings the song list to a measly 41. 2 of which are 
 instrumental tracks, and a few of the extra songs are Joe Perry tracks which aren't that catchy 
 or fun or good. I played through them once for the achievement then it was time to forget about 
 them. I have a problem with a game that charges $60 for $40 worth of product. When you put an Aerosmith 
 skin over Guitar Hero III and change little else, I really question the value.
  
  Co-op is fun; I just wish I could earn money for playing the songs. Don't feel bad if you have 
 to play bass or rhythm sections, they are as good or difficult (or more so) at times than the lead.
 
  
  What about online play? Plenty of people are playing across all difficulties and modes. You can 
 take turns playing in Face-off mode, play the same notes in Pro Face-off, play co-op or Battle 
 mode. Pro Face-off is my favorite, and Battle mode will always be my least favorite. Perhaps because 
 I play to satiate my rock star fantasy and that does not include fixing broken strings and getting 
 screwed over in the middle of a solo. In my time playing, I experience no lag and generally had 
 a good experience playing online, except for when I lost.
  
  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is not worth $60. It is worth a rental definitely or $20-$30 if you are 
 a hardcore fan. There is nothing wrong with this game aside from some poor cover bands, a suspect 
 economic reward system and slim and crappy bonus track selection. This is a great starting point 
 for band/genre focused music games, and I look forward to similar games from different bands in 
 the future. Just think: a Nirvana or Stone Temple Pilots Guitar Hero. Commence daydreaming now!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have been playing rock band for about 3 months maybe without touching any guitar 
 hero franchise during that time, now, after playing Rock Band that long, you get used to Rock Bands 
 scheme and setup. When i made the switch back to GH: A there are many problems i faced that I would 
 have never forseen unless I had gotten used to rockband. 1: Notes dont seem to be placed as well 
 and as realistically as in RB, it seems like every other not is a chord of 2 or 3 and just seems 
 like activision tried to make the game too hard yet it still doesnt seem as difficult as GH:3 anyway. 
 Its a weird feeling you get after playing GH: A, to me I felt like i wasnt playing most any of teh 
 songs, just hitting random buttons to Aerosmith songs. thats the only true place I think GH: A faulters. 
 And its too short, but most people know that already. 31 regular venue songs, and 10 extra to unlock 
 for a total of 41 songs. Not much but not horrible. Plus the songs are all very good and even if 
 your not and Aerosmith fan, i guarentee you that you've heard at least one of the Aerosmith songs 
 on GH: A. I not gonna explain the premise of GH games, we should all know by now. If you dont go 
 dig yourself out of your hole youve been living in. Anyway, the career spans you through Aerosmiths 
 career from when they where in high school to when they got inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall 
 of Fame. There are a few songs from other bands Aerosmith met along th way like Cheap Trick, Joan 
 Jett, Run-DMC etc. but the main focus is on Aerosmith. there are 4 unlockable characters, a bunch 
 of decked out guitars and costumes and bonus vids to give you some extra entertainment. Guitar 
 Hero: Aerosmith is not just a game for Aerosmith fans. If you like Guitar Hero games and you like 
 rock music, you'll probably enjoy GH: A, 
  GRAPHICS:9/10
  GAMEPLAY:8.5/10
  STORY:8/10
  DESIGN:7.6/10
  ONLINE:9/10
  OVERALL:8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Well time has passed since the greatness that was Guitar Hero 3 came out. GH3 offered a harder 
 difficulty and great songs, making it a fantastic addition to past Guitar Heros, possibly the best 
 so far. GH Aerosmith had promise when first talked about, it did deliever is many ways. They picked 
 mostly all the best Aerosmith songs we know and love, from Toys in the Attic, all the way to Walk 
 This Way, the game offers some great Aerosmith and some non Aerosmith. Bands like the Cult made 
 it in here, which make some sense to play and She Sells Sancuarty, great song, fun to play. Then 
 for some reason you have Stone Temple Pilots in there, i love their music, but they seme out of 
 place here and almost feel like a filler song. Another thing to knock on this game is the value, 
 it's kind of bad. What made me get this game was i paid 46 bucks for it brand new, at 60 dollars 
 for a game that really is an expansion, 60 bucks is steep. Had there been some DLC for this game 
 and maybe had 10 more songs thrown in or had the otion to download 10 songs, there could have been 
 more value. This game is fun, but its up there in he leagues of being an Expansion off of GH 3, 
 not offering us anything new, except new music, but in this Genre of game, new music says a lot, 
 especially when you do at least pick good music. This is a game worth picking up, if you want it, 
 love Aerosmith, and love GH, then this might be worth the 60 bucks to you, hey even at only 40 
 ro so songs for 60 bucks, still cheaper than most single DLC songs, otherwise if you like Aerosmith, 
 and love GH or like GH and love Aerosmith, this might be worth you picking up at a value of 50 
 dollars or cheaper, I know i waited till i found a new copy for 46 bucks, heck of a deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilpots86
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  If u are new to the series there are certainly better places to start. GH:2&3 are both more in-depth 
 but tend to have a steeper difficulty curve, but with a much greater variety of songs. I would say 
 that on the whole you have to be a fan of the Band and I am by no means an Aerosmith fan, which 
 dampened the experience no end, but i am sure for those of you familiar with the series and of 
 those that like Aerosmith, u will find something to enjoy even if its just the music. Some improvements 
 to the stage and background while playing were visible, but by no means as immersive as its counterpart 
 Rock Band. As a stop-gap game until GH: World Tour arrives GH: Aerosmith really doesnt warrant 
 the full price tag, get out GH:2 or 3 again and nail that toughy, alot more satisfaction in that 
 id say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranaky
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, I like Aerosmith. I'm not a huge fan but I do occasional like to listen to their 
 music so I was a little excited about this game. Let's dig into this one.
  
  Gameplay: It's the same old Guitar Hero set-up. Not much different. It uses the same set up as 
 III, which isn't bad. It's a little bit easier this time around but I welcome that as I thought 
 III was a little intense.
  
  Story: There really isn't one. It's just a look at gigs Aerosmith played and they only get like 
 2 minutes to explain each venue you play at. This really could've been better.
  
  Graphics: The game retains its cartoony look and somehow manages to capture the look of every band 
 member. They even got Steven Tyler's big mouth right, which is kind of creepy.
  
  Song list: It boasts some good songs from the band's career. Of course you have to play an opening 
 band first. Most of those songs aren't very interesting and they really could've picked some better 
 ones. Aerosmith has a decent set, though I felt they could've put a little bit more in. There are 
 a total of 42 songs in this game, which is very small compared to the past games.
  
  Overall: If you're an Aerosmith fan and like Guitar Hero, you'll probably get a lot of enjoyment 
 out of this. For everyone else, at least wait until the price drops before buying it. It's asking 
 a lot to pay full price on a game that feels more like an expansion pack than an entire game. I 
 would recommend a rental first, you'll probably be able to finish most of the game in that time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Having played all 3 GH games now I had to play this. I like Aerosmith, not majorly but enough. 
 Was this game an improvement over the last one? Well no. But unlike most people I don't know why 
 they expected it to be. Its doesn't say GH4, its titled like an expansion of sorts so thats what 
 I expected and thats what I got.
  
  The song list wasn't bad. Some of the non Aerosmith songs were kinda boring. Perhaps the best songs 
 I played were actually the DMC songs. Rock and Rap sounds so great together and they really made 
 look and sound wonderful on here! The song list was a little on the short side compared to GH 3 
 though, well if you want to consider this a full game.
  
  The graphics weren't bad either for the characters. Same engine and all but you could tell who 
 was who from the band. The difficulty wasn't that bad either and I use a controller! I actually 
 made it into the last difficulty. I couldn't really do that with GH 3. So that tells you how much 
 easier this was and should be for guitar users.
  
  Theres not much else to say about the game. Probably not worth its initial release price of $60. 
 I'd wait until it goes down simply because its more of an expansion then a full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I was told that this would not be a very good game so I decided to simply rent it, beat it in a 
 day and am returning it now with no desire to ever play it again.
  
  The game was very short, it had 6 teirs instead of 8 like the other Guitar Hero games, and "the 
 vault" only had 12 bonus songs instead of nearly 30 like in GH3.
  
  The game also did not include some of their greatest hits, the ones that I ACTUALLY know and hoped 
 to play: I don't Want to Miss a Thing, Crazy, Cryin', and Janie's Got a Gun. The game could have 
 had many more songs, and was pretty much 1/2 a Guitar Hero game for the full price.
  
  I have been hoping that they will soon come out with a Guitar Hero: Metallica which would be awesome 
 and much better suited to my tastes. But in the meantime, this game was lacking in many ways. I 
 played it just to say I played it, and up my gamer score, but would have no desire to ever play 
 it again, nor buy it. For the poor souls who paid full price and bought this game... I feel sorry 
 for you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I loved Guitar Hero 2 and Guitar Hero 3 was also great. So, why not try Guitar Hero Aerosmith? 
 Aerosmith has some great songs that would be fun to play. Unfortunately, most of those songs are 
 not even in the game, though! The first half of the game is all a bunch of songs they played before 
 getting famous to make it to where they are today. Songs that I have never even heard before that 
 pretty much all sucked. I made myself play through them (while trying not to fall asleep) thinking, 
 "this has got to get better soon." Well, it doesn't really. After you complete those songs you 
 have to play songs from other bands (which none I cared for except the Run DMC song and Stone Temple 
 Pilots song) so that you can be "rewarded" with another Aerosmith song. I thought this was supposed 
 to be Guitar Hero Aerosmith... not a bunch of other bands where you play with the exact same characters 
 as number 2 and 3 on stage. There ARE a few great Aerosmith songs such as Rag Doll, Dream On (which 
 isn't even the original, but one with Run DMC singing it, meh) , Kings & Queens, and Back In The 
 Saddle. But I think they sould have just cut all the beginning crap and other bands stuff out and 
 just filled the songs list with ALL the great classic Aerosmith songs. To me this game just feels 
 like "half a game." There are only 31 (I think) songs on the song list and only HALF of those are 
 Aerosmith. Only a third of those Aerosmith songs are great. I'm glad I picked this up to rent instead 
 of waste $60. This game is woth $30 at best. Only for the hardcore Aerosmith fan in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero has been an explosively popular series in both the music genre, and the gaming industry 
 by itself. After neversoft managed to create a well-crafted sequel to Harmonix' Guitar hero series, 
 it was obvious that they were at least on the right track, and could improve off of it over time. 
 After seeing previews of Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, there was a chance that it could possibly outdo 
 the mediocre expansion from harmonix, Encore Rocks the 80s'. Well, no such luck this time : (
  
  The graphics have, for the most part remained the same - the drummer still looks like he was 
 built in disneyland, It still looks like it plays on a later graphics of ps2: at the very least, 
 they've kept it as solid as possible. On the brighter side, the facial animations of steve tyler 
 and Run DMC are clear and concise, with some clever camera movement for specific songs. The venues 
 recieved a clever touch from the band's more popular album hits, everywhere from Nipmuc high school 
 to the superbowl.
  
  In terms of soundtrack and audio, you get exactly what's labeled on the front of the game: 1/2 
 of the soundtrack is all aerosmith classics, and the other half were some of the artists that inspired 
 them personally, including Ted Nugent, black crowes, and stone temple pilots. Just like the previous 
 expansion, none of these songs necessarily challenge you to the extent that you may have seen in 
 Guitar Hero III, the hardest is ironically enough from Rock Band, and feels less like an ending 
 and more like a broken record.
  
  All in all, the simple fact is in terms of guitar simulation games, you could be doing much better 
 than this expansion - Even CC3 Wrath of kane brought its price down from $60 to $40 from its popular 
 predecessor. Do you really want to spend that much on a game that takes around 4 hours to beat? 
 If you love aerosmith, it's worth looking into - otherwise, I'd advise trying GHIII/Rock Band DLC 
 or drooling over the E3 Rock Band 2/GHWT previews like yours truly.
  
  -Vita 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THECELLMASTER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero aerosmith was a good side game for the series in in guitar hero that really gave a 
 good look at what guitar hero is about. one thing i really liked about was that it wasn"t just 
 a whole bunch of differnt bands it mostly compiled of aerosmith songs that are fun to listen to 
 and play on the system. Another thing i think other people will like about the game is that it 
 won't only peak to the younger audience of gamers out there but the older ones that used to listen 
 to aerosmith in there younger days. The last thing i will say about guitar hero aerosmith was is 
 that i am sure for anyone who hasn"t played the game or even played any guitar hero game can enjoy 
 the game like i did. Also for first timers out there who haven"t played the game i suggest the guitar 
 controller because it is easier to play at higher difficulties and is easier to get those extremly 
 fast notes that you can never get with the regular controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DYSTOPIAN_BITE
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Recently I received my "economic stimulus check" from our government. Mr. Bush wanted you and I 
 to spend it, so I followed orders and used a sixth of it to purchase GUITAR HERO: AEROSMITH (with 
 wireless Les Paul, my sole reason for buying the game) .
  
  So I'm thrilled to pack away the X-plorer and fire up the Les Paul, but not as anxious to rock 
 out to the likes of the multi-platinum selling group of old men from Boston, ladies and gentlemen, 
 Aerosmith.
  
  As a Guitar Hero game, this disc is fine by me. The difficulty is more forgiving than previous 
 GH games. The achievements stream quite freely and easily. The online filtering for match making 
 is slightly better. There are good looking arenas, when they could have dropped the ball and rehashed 
 stages like ROCKS THE 80's did. If you enjoy the concept of Guitar Hero, this game is good. 
  
  If you enjoy the music of Aerosmith, this game is also for you. 
  
  Myself, on the other 
 hand, dislike Aerosmith more than I did before. I didn't think it was possible, but if my fondness 
 of the band were on a numerical scale it has delved into negative numbers.
  
  The music is terrible and for the most part does not lend itself well to the GH spectrum of tunes. 
 I know songwriting should not be factored into this review, but I can't help it. Steven Tyler writes 
 some of the dumbest lyrics out there. Joe Perry's quasi-blues guitar playing is boring and uninspired. 
 The tracks remind me of a scene from the film "Ghost World". "Up next we have from the way down 
 delta south your favorite and mine, BLUES HAMMER!"
  
  Actually, 45 percent of the music is tolerable, with 40 percent coming from the NON Aerosmith songs. 
 Offerings from The Cult, The Clash and Run-DMC are fun to play.
  
  Oh, and then there are the self-important cut scenes in between the unlocking of venues that discuss 
 Aerosmith's rise to the top. Tyler and Kramer come off as pompous and pretentious, otherwise it's 
 a nice break from the action.
  
  Okay I'm done. Buy this game if you like GH. If you happen to like Aerosmith then it's actually 
 worth the money, but God help us all if you get a job in radio programming.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  The guitar hero franchise is spiraling downward. This is good. But It is only worth a rent. I rented 
 it. It did not have much to it really. it was fun and all and a good guitar hero game i guess. 
 But there is too much aerosmith! i know ir is guitar hero aerosmith but i feel they need a larger 
 focus. great for fans of the band. terrible if youre not. But if you like some songs of thiers, 
 rent it. One thing i adored however is that they put lenny kravitz. I have wanted him guitar hero 
 for a while and he was a good choice. there is some very good songs and some awful songs. There 
 are also just not enough songs.40? come on! Rock band 2 is gonna be 80+ songs. Hopefully the dont 
 continue what theyre doing with the franchise and maybe they will make GHIV. World tour is not 
 solely guitar. I want one of those. Anyways one thing i did like is how if the song was covered 
 they told the band who covered it.
  
  Overall this game is good but not great. More songs and a larger focus could have made this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Guitar Hero is great, fun and overall a good idea. This game, in theory was ok. But remember, 
 theory is a dangerous thing and can fall apart at any given moment. This theory fell apart at the 
 main menu. Aerosmith, a good bad none the less, but to make an entire game devoted to them, well, 
 kinda sucks the fun out of Guitar Hero. I was in anticipation for this game, but I didn't want 
 to buy it because well, I wanted to see how it was first before I flung $60 of my hard earned cash 
 down the perverbial crapper. So I tried it from a friend who said it was an ify game. Ify was well 
 overestimating the game entirely. The only good thing about this game is that the load times are 
 quick. Otherwise the songs suck and uberly difficult. Now don't get me wrong, I've beaten Career 
 mode on hard in GH3, but this was rediculous. The only good songs on this game were Dream On and 
 Walk This Way. That's it and they got methodically boring after a while. Personally if you like 
 the game, go ahead and get it. But if you're iffy like I was on this game, don't. Pass this one 
 by and keep the small, glimmering hope the GH: Metallica will be alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pizzaro13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is a good game overall. The songs are great and the gameplay is pretty good. 
 This game is basically the same as the last one but with different songs. It focuses on Aerosmith 
 a lot but also makes room for the other bands to play in the opening act. There is only one guitar 
 battle which was a letdown to me but it was pretty fun. On the last game i could get through most 
 of it on hard but in this one i can complete is on expert all the way. The achievements in this 
 game are easier to get than in the previous games which i like and also there are more of them. 
 I love the game also because i am an Aerosmith fan so that is one of the reasons i bought it. If 
 you are looking for a another good guitar hero game then i wouldnt buy this but if you are looking 
 for an Aerosmith game this is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This has to be my second guitar hero favorite game of course I like aerosmith. The songs are love 
 in the elevator walk this way the walk this way rundmc and steven tyler. This game is ftw better 
 than guitar hero 3 or another. But some lag problems and some hammerons arent that great but other 
 all the graphics the singing and I always liked that your playing the song hit the colors goes 
 to the note this has to be a buying game note you dont need the aerosmith les paul controller but 
 if you dont have a guitar hero 3 slash guitar i guess you might well spend $99 on the bundle of 
 the guitar hero aerosmith anyways they have videos of the some of the aerosmith and some of its 
 performances and my favorite song to play is sweet emotion love in the elevator walk this way and 
 beyond beatiful etc but this is a sweet game to play walk this way!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The BAD:
  
  So, you've just come from playing Guitar Hero 3 and you're all physced up to play Guitar Hero Aerosmith. 
 You get the game and after the first 4 songs you realize that there has been little to no effort 
 put into the game. Guitar Hero Aerosmith lacks many elements of previous Guitar Hero games that 
 renders it nothing more than a lame attempt by a gaming company to make some extra cash. Firstly, 
 the songs in Guitar Hero Aerosmith are not nearly as good as those on previous Guitar Heros. They 
 are not nearly as intense or charged up, and they aren't very appealing in themselves. That brings 
 me to my next issue with the game - how the notes the player plays in correlation to the actual 
 song.
  
  The note placement in this game isnt very accurate, and because the songs themselves are much more 
 tame than regular Guitar Hero games, one could easily jump from Medium in a regular Guitar Hero, 
 to expert in this one.
  
  The GOOD:
  
  I ocassionally came across a song in this game that was appealing.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
 
  This game should have been released as an expansion pack costing much less then that of a normal 
 game. Or even better, this game should not have been released at all. My suggestion to anyone who 
 reads this review is to skip this game and wait until Guitar Hero World Tour comes out. Hopefully 
 it will not be as big of a letdown as this one was... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Man there was so much controversy over this game that it definitely made you wonder if it is worth 
 getting. At first I was like ya ya whatever and being a fan of Aerosmith I had to give it a try. 
 Here was my conclusion.......... WOW! This game is a must have for any Guitar Hero people. The good 
 thing about this is lets see.... Its Aerosmith people. You know Rock Legends.
  
  You get kinda nervous playing this one though. You wonder how did they make some of there songs 
 on the list work for the game, Point blank they did it and they did it great. There is a great 
 list including over 44 Aerosmith songs that are all great. Even if your not a big fan of Aerosmith 
 this game is just plain fun and will have you feeling like a rock star in no time.
  
  Another postive is the graphics are pretty decent and the gameplay is completely solid in my opinion. 
 Also if you have the guitar from guitar hero 3 then you dont have nothing to worry about. All you 
 need is the game. So go buy your Guitar Hero now and get your Aerosmith on. Cause remember, Janies 
 Got a Gun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is basically just a fancy guitar hero 3 expansion pack, but being almost 
 completly focused on Aerosmith. This makes the feel of the game become quite repetative as many 
 songs will sound very similair and you're obviously playing the same style of music the whole time, 
 and it makes you wish there was a little more variety to the game. This game feels pretty much 
 exactly like guitar hero 3 in every way, and everything in this game looks like it did in guitar 
 hero 3. One thing that is different is the hammer notes. In guitar hero 3 you could hold down the 
 button and automatically count as hammering it, but in this game you have to tap each hammer note 
 as they pass on the fret board, which is good in some ways, because the game is already insanely 
 easy. I mean I understand guitar hero 3 was really hard, especially in the last setlist, but I 
 mean this is just way to easy. At least in guitar hero 3 it took me several days to beat the game 
 on expert, because some songs were real hard. I 5 starred every song on expert in one day, never 
 failed a song, and 100% some songs on my first try. Hopefully future guitar hero games will make 
 more of a happy medium between the hard guitar hero 3 and the super easy guitar hero aerosmith. 
 Beyond the to easy difficulty, small amount of content, and a repetative feel to the game, there 
 is still a lot of fun to be had. There are still a lot of fun songs to play in this game, however 
 probablly not as many fun songs as guitar hero 3 had. Guitar Hero Aerosmith has all the same features 
 as guitar hero 3 but it would really have benefitted from adding some new things, because it ends 
 up feeling like a guitar hero 3 expansion pack. Overall 7.5/10 This game is possibly worth a look 
 if you want some new songs to play and you're bored of guitar hero 3, but if you're already content 
 with what guitar hero 3 has, you're probablly better off skipping this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360chad360
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith a game that will please aerosmith fans and fans of the guitar hero series. 
 But a let down to some. This game was a pleasure to play but didnt please for too long. This game 
 has a exteame lack of content compared to other guitar hero games and i finished 2 difficultys 
 twice as fast as i could the others and manged to rack up 400 gamerscore without thinking about 
 achivements.. This game featured many aerosmith song as you follow them from their first gig to 
 the rock and roll hall of fame. This game also featured song by other bands to give it a blend 
 of 60% aerosmith and 40% other. Graphics on the 360 were not as good as they could be. if it werent 
 for the intruments, telling some of the band members apart would be HARD. unlike the other guitar 
 hero games for the xbox360 console the achivements were easy to earn. In past guitar hero games 
 achivment were very difficult to get. so i give this game a 9/10.
  
  This review was so short because the game has nothing to review about. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero series has taken twists and turns lately. The latest, Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, is 
 the first in the series to be based on one band. The game shows how Aerosmith took their rise to 
 fame. Taking the player through their first days all the way to the hall of fame. Guitar Hero: 
 Aerosmith doesn't do anything new with the gameplay or visuals but it still is fun to play, if 
 you like Aerosmith that is.
  
  The back of the box says the game has over 40 tracks, and it means just that. Toping at 41 songs, 
 the career mode has 31 plus 10 to buy. Most of them are ofcourse Aerosmith songs, but you will 
 find some from The Clash, Run DMC and Lenny Kravits. The career mode is set up differently than 
 the rest of the series. At the beginning of each set you'll have to play a couple songs from bands 
 that inspired, or just toured with Aerosmith, as if supporting the band as opening acts. After 
 those few opening songs, Aerosmith will take the stage. You'll find that the majority of the Aerosmith 
 songs is their earlier stuff, "Sweet Emotion", "Uncle Salty" and ofcourse there are more recent 
 ones such as "Beyond Beautiful". "Walk This Way" featuring Run DMC even makes an appearance. Paying 
 full price for 41 songs is a bummer, especially since there wont be any downloadable content.
 
  
  All of the venues in GH: Aerosmith are all real and have some significance with the band. There's 
 six venues to play at. You'll start at Nipmuc High School, make a stop at the Super Bowl halftime 
 show, and play all the way up to the Hall of Fame. There's nothing new visually that makes it look 
 better than Guitar Hero III, but it's all about the details in making Aerosmith look right in the 
 video game. You'll notice Steven Tyler's outfit get more crazy after every set, Joe Perry will 
 use the talk box during "Sweet Emotion", even Joey Kramer moves fluidly (unlike the Guitar Hero 
 III drummer) . The band members look almost realistic but they have that Guitar Hero look to them. 
 At the beginning of every set, you can watch a short documentary video which includes the band 
 members talking about the venues meaning or what was going on with the band at the time.
  
  The difficulty compared to Guitar Hero III is vast. Skilled players will be able to play through 
 on expert with ease. Some may find it too easy. Hammer-ons and pull-offs seem easier to perform 
 and you wont find any excruciatingly hard solos to practice and master. Though that doesn't mean 
 the game lacks any difficulty, "Walk This Way" can get a little tricky towards the end. You will 
 need to get good at some of the songs if you want to get more money to purchase songs, outfits, 
 characters and videos. The game comes equipped with online leaderboards so you can see where you 
 stack up with other players.
  
  If you've played Guitar Hero III, you're more than likely familiar with the multiplayer options. 
 All of those return in GH: Aerosmith. You'll be able to play cooperatively with another player, 
 which has one person playing lead guitar and the other with rhythm or bass. If you want to test 
 your skills with another player, Face-off will have you alternate parts of the song and each player 
 will be able to choose their difficulty. Pro Face-off has players playing the whole song on the 
 same difficulty level. Unfortunately, Battle mode returns. Instead of star power, you'll receive 
 attacks to throw at your opponent such as a broken string, an over-loaded amp, double notes. It's 
 still not fun. Luckily this time around you'll only be forced to play it once against Joe Perry. 
 Even if you fail a few times, you'll have the option to skip it and continue on to beat the game.
 
  
  With fun songs to play, video documentaries to watch, leaderboards to climb and Run DMC, Guitar 
 Hero: Aerosmith is overall a good game. Aerosmith fans will adore this game while others may loathe 
 it. It seems like they could of easily replaced some of the solo Joe Perry songs with other Aerosmith 
 hits, or just add a bunch more songs in general. It's hard to justify the $60 purchase price with 
 only 41 songs and straight up lack of content. If you like Aerosmith, by all means pick this game 
 up. But if you're looking for something more than Aerosmith songs in a Guitar Hero game, you may 
 want to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  GH: Aerosmith has some cool and fun to play songs on it. It keeps the familiar and well-liked gameplay 
 style of GH 3, with just the little weak on the hammer-ons. You can no longer hold down the fret 
 and just have the note activate when it passes by. This adds a touch more realism to the game and 
 goes back to the style of GH 2. This isn't a big deal at all, but there are a lot of people complaining 
 about it. The timing window is also a slight bit tighter, but only very slightly. The interface 
 and display are the same and overall it keeps the same gameplay.
  
  The basic characters are the same as GH3 but the unlockables are different (don't want to spoil 
 anything for anybody lol) . As in all GH's there is unlockable characters, outfits, and guitars. 
 These are all good, but really aren't a factor in the game. The venues are unique in their own 
 ways and the character animations are good, but not a sizeable improvement on GH 3. 
  
  The music is good. Most songs are licensed master tracks which is nice. The covers all sound good 
 as well. The songs are all pretty good songs, with the exception of a few, but not everyone is 
 gonna like every song. Overall the music is interesting and none of the songs are too difficult. 
 The game is easier than GH 3 and maybe even GH 2. Overall GH: Aerosmith is a good game, but should 
 have just been an expansion not its own game. It's really not worth the money for the content.
 
  
  Good: Difficulty, Master Tracks, Setlists
  Bad: $$$$$$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  If you played GH3, GH2, or Rock Band then you know this game is horrible. I didnt fail a song on 
 expert first time through. There is only 31 songs and what 10 bonus songs? Plus most of Aerosmiths 
 best songs arent even on there! This game is worth a one night rent thats about it. The best part 
 of this song IMO is cat scratch and its not even an Aerosmith song. The songs are way too long 
 and boring. I cant wait for Guitar Hero World Tour, Hopefully activision doesnt mess it up like 
  
 A very POSITIVE 4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Aerosmith, one of the bands that defined rock and Guitar Hero, one of the most popular rythym games. 
 Sound like a match right? This is the newest game in the Guitar Hero series and the first band 
 inspired game in the series. But, can this game hold it's own to the others in the series? In some 
 ways it does, but in some ways it doesn't.
  
  The gameplay is just like any other Guitar Hero game you've ever played. Hit the fret buttons while 
 strumming to raise your score, hit 10 notes to raise your multiplier, gain star power to raise 
 your score. In fact there are only two differences. For one, now you can play as Aerosmith themselves. 
 Also, the game's difficulty is lower so more people can play the harder difficulites.
  
  The visuals are exactly like Guitar Hero 3's which is great because Guitar Hero 3 looks great. 
 The sound is perfect, which would be expected from a rythym game, and the replay value is high 
 with 4 difficulties.
  
  There are quite a few problems with this game tough. For starters, this game is missing some of 
 Aerosmith's great songs. A couple of these being, Dude Looks Like A Lady and Janie's Got A Gun. 
 For Aerosmith fans, you might be baffled by some of the songs that made it in over those especially 
 since there are so few songs. For the exact same price as Guitar Hero 3 and 2, you would expect 
 just as many songs. But, instead of the 70+ songs from Guitar Hero 3, plus downloadable content, 
 you get just over 40 songs for the exact same price. Plus, if you are a good Guitar Hero player, 
 this game will feature no challenge at all. In fact, you will probably 5* every song on expert 
 first try if you can beat Guitar Hero 3 on expert. Now, for a game that has been becoming harder 
 and harder to make it so the better players, the ones who will be dishing out the most money on 
 the game, will still play. But the difficulty in this is a few steps backwards. So for good Guitar 
 Hero players, if you are looking for a challenge I would recommend waiting for Guitar Hero: Metallica. 
 The last complaint I have is that, while playing through the course of the 40+ songs in the game, 
 you will only get to use your character on 12 of the songs. The other 30 you will be playing as 
 the band which while it is cool, it ruins the experience in the fact that you are just an opening 
 act now.
  
  So basically, this is just an easy version of Guitar Hero 3 with mostly Aerosmith songs. I only 
 recommend buying this if you are either a huge Aerosmith fan or love Guitar Hero. I give it a 7.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero juggernaut is pretty much everywhere being the cultural phenomenon it is in media 
 today. With Activision and Neversoft in charge of the franchise, it feels like deja vu releasing 
 game after game every year similar to hey they approached the Tony Hawk franchise. Guitar Hero 
 III was the beginning of a new era, but not the new beginning hardcore fans wanted. It was criticized 
 for being too hard in the end and the notecharts didn't have the magic that Harmonix had (who moved 
 on to Rock Band) . The developers have seem to learn their lesson slowly with Guitar Hero: Aerosmith, 
 which is the last game with Aerosmith slapped on it. For the normal retail price of 60 bucks, you 
 get about 40 tracks in which the majority of them are Aerosmith songs, but mostly the old-school 
 ones from the 70s and 80s. That is actually half of what Guitar Hero III offered and for the same 
 price, it is not really as worth it as the previous game. However, if you're a Guitar Hero fan 
 craving for more rocking with new songs, this game is recommended for them, but you're better off 
 saving your money for World Tour this fall.
  
  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is pretty much the same old game with career mode, co-op, and online multiplater. 
 The career mode is pretty short and can be beaten in three or four hours on the expert difficulty. 
 The structure is similar to Legends of Rock with playing some songs and then playing the encore 
 in various locations. There are also videos of Aerosmith recalling their glory days during the 
 breaks of career mode, which is cool. The slightly different twist is that each set begins with 
 two non-Aerosmith songs from bands that supported the band over the years that ranges from Stone 
 Temple Pilots, Cheap Trick, Lenny Kravitz, Ted Nugent, and more. The rocking part is still the 
 same of nailing notes for star power and then tilting the guitar for more points. Neversoft has 
 indeed toned the difficulty down for an easier experience with slightly improved notecharts, so 
 you can breeze through the game on hard or expert if you're really good at Guitar Hero. Once you 
 finish the career mode, the game is pretty much over, but the co-op and online multiplayer does 
 give it a more little replay value along with leaderboards and achievements. The online options 
 are also the same from the last game of face-off, pro face-off, co-op, and battle modes. Performance 
 wise, online works smoothly with little to no lag at all. The songs also make or break the game 
 of having fun rocking to them, in which I'll mention later.
  
  
  Graphically, the game looks like Guitar Hero III as a whole. Aerosmith themselves look accurate, 
 but not amazing as Steven Tyler can be creepy at times if you're paying attention to his appearance 
 rather than staring at the notes. The other Guitar Hero characters are there with different outfits. 
 The video quality of the band talking about their memories might be as good as it could be. There 
 are also the cartoony visuals at some moments which look great especially with Aerosmith looking 
 like midgets during loading screens. The backgrounds are at least varied from high school auditoriums, 
 clubs, and stadiums. Of course, Guitar Hero games are not really graphical powerhouses, but the 
 game still looks good enough to rock out.
  
  The music selection for this Aerosmith game is mostly hit and miss with the Aerosmith songs chosen 
 along with the other bands. It also comes down to whether or not you're an Aerosmith fan as well 
 as the majority of the list is from their early days of the 70s and 80s. There are some obvious 
 favorites like "Sweet Emotion," "Love in an Elevator," and "Walk This Way" with Run DMC, but the 
 lack of 90s songs like "Dude Looks Like A Lady" and "Cryin" does make the game feel a little incomplete 
 with no plans of DLC for more Aerosmith songs. The sound effects are borrowed from Guitar Hero 
 III of the same sounds of missing notes, star power, and completing songs. For more Guitar Hero 
 songs to play, the soundtrack is decent, but certain songs stand out from the pack of being memorable.
 
  
  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith feels like another cash-in for the franchise and should of have been DLC 
 instead of being out in retail fully priced. It is a shorter affair like Rocks the 80s lasting 
 only a few hours to unlock the majority of the content available of more characters, guitars, songs, 
 and outfits on the shop. It is definitely Guitar Hero with trying to 100% songs, activating star 
 power, and one boss battle in the end. The music that can be played does boil down to whether or 
 not you're an Aerosmith fan. It does feel like you're just playing Guitar Hero III with Aerosmith 
 integrated to the presentation. If you're craving for new songs to play since the DLC provided 
 with Guitar Hero III are not your preference and a fan of Aerosmith, this game is worth checking 
 out. It is a good rental for a week, but not worth paying 60 bucks for which should be saved for 
 World Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abeard424
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I wasn; t going to buy Guitar Hero: Areosmith, but my dad preordered it for my birthday so what 
 the heck. I was pretty excited to get it. The first day I didn; t have much time to play, but started 
 a career anyways and in 90minutes was over half way through the game. Only 31 tracks flys by for 
 a guitar hero player used to playing 2 and 3. Yesterday I beat the game on expert and was glad 
 I didn't pay for it. I can play guitar hero on expert, but have never been able to fully beat a 
 career on expert because of those insanely hard songs like "Reign in Blood" or "Hangar 18." But 
 this game I beat every single song in the tracklist first try. I was shocked to get through the 
 hardest song with total ease. The game has some great Areosmith songs, but is missing big hits 
 and has songs from their mediocre album that came out in 2007. guess they're still scrounging for 
 sales. The bonus songs aren't any different and the similarities in Joe Perry's solos can be seen 
 after a play through of most of the songs. I would only recommend this game to a hardcore guitar 
 hero fan, and even then it would just seem like an easy gamerscore booster to them posing no real 
 challenges in gameplay at all. Not to mention all the documentary footage between songs sets are 
 30 seconds of pure mashed up sentences from the skill level of a 13 year old film maker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I have to admit something right here, I actually didn't purchase Guitar Hero's own tribute to the 
 hugely popular rock group Aerosmith with their intelligently named 'Guitar Hero: Aerosmith'. I 
 got the chance to play it through at a mates house, playing through all the list and modes. Its 
 an ok game, I wish I could come up with something ever so funny but thats how I trully felt about 
 GH: Aerosmith. Its ''OK'', nothing special and nothing specifically to bad. I'll admit I'm not 
 ultimate Aerosmith fan so maybe that as something to do with my general judgment of the game, but 
 even fans will feel a little bitter when a number of Aerosmith classics have been missed out of 
 this so called tribute to the band. 
  
  Of late, its hard not to feel that Activision and Neversoft have whored out the name of Guitar 
 Hero. Once a name that would make grown music fans wet in a second as lost some of its fanbase 
 and since games such as Rock the 80's on PS2 and now Aerosmith, you can't also help but feel that 
 it deserves being smacked in the face by some of its most dediated fans. Aerosmith is not a bad 
 game, infact if your a fan of the band you'll probably like it. You just won't love it. Why you 
 ask? well you only have to consider the simple fact that this same type of concept is also being 
 done on Harmonix's Rock Band in the shape of Albums and although you don't get weird representations 
 of the band like you do with GH: Aerosmith you still get more options in gameplay modes then you 
 do with GH: Aerosmith and you get them all for cheaper. I think that is one of the reasons GH: 
 Aerosmith fails, maybe even in the view of fans. Its also hard to justify the overal price of the 
 game with it selling for around 69.99 (guitar and nice Aerosmith faceplate included) or 39.99 
 for solus game when all you get is a pretty average setlist of songs for none Aerosmith fans. But 
 lets be fair, the people actually buying this game are mainly Aerosmith fans, and for that it does 
 its job, but I still feel it could have worked aswell on RB and would have been cheaper, you kind 
 of feel that the purchaser as been laught at by Activision and Neversoft for the high price you 
 pay. Gameplay wise its still Guitar Hero, and despite feeling quite limited compared to Rock Band 
 its still a lot of fun and works well. Nothing as changed their, and sadly way to much hasn't changed 
 from GH3 (which the game is based around) either. It feels a little to much like Guitar Hero 3, 
 and again you just wonder why this couldn't have worked better as DLC rather then making fans pay 
 39,99 for the songs.
  
  The setlist is solid but there are some average picks in there, and again (sorry to bring this 
 up) you can't help but feel Rock Band is getting the better of the music licenses because some 
 of the choices are a little questionable. But its solid and there are some fun songs in there, 
 even some I had never heard before from Aerosmith. But theres also some absolute classics missing 
 which is criminal and will no doubt upset fans.
  
  OVERALL:
  Generally, Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is a solid game. But even for fans of the band it'll feel a little 
 half baked and is yet another average Guitar Hero game. There are some fun songs, but overuse of 
 Guitar Hero 3 graphics and design, plus some criminal missing of Aerosmith classics ends up making 
 me wonder why it was made in the first place. Wait for Guitar Hero: World Tour.
  
  PROS:
  - A solid setlist, if unspectacular.
  - Aerosmith fans will enjoy it.
  - Same Modes that made 
 Guitar Hero 3 a fun game are here.
  
  CONS:
  - To similar to GH3.
  - Some Aerosmith classics are missing.
  - OverPriced and limited in areas.
  - Should have been 
 DLC.
  
  Wait till World Tour, it'll be a much better game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdevils420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a 'casual' Aerosmith fan.... I like most of their 'greatest hits'... everything 
 off of Big Ones and some of the more popular songs on albums released after that..... Most of my 
 favorite Aerosmith songs are MISSING from this game!!
  
  Crazy, Amazing, Cryin, Angel... all the 'ballads' are my personal favorites, and arguably best known 
 songs... none of which are in this game.
  
  I suppose that for the hard core Aerosmith fan.. they would love this game, as it is filled with 
 obscure songs that i, personally, am not familiar with.
  
  I like the 'opening act' bands/songs... adds a little twist to the game (and the Run DMC song... the 
 main guitar riff is freaking HOTT!)
  
  All in all.. I would rate this game a 7.5 Seems somewhat easier then the other guitar hero's and 
 the hammer-ons and pull offs seem more realistic to playing them on actual guitar (I SUCK at them 
 on GH2 and 3... but can nail them in Aerosmith) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game ever since they made the first announcement of it being 
 in the works. I am a major Aerosmith fan. Yes, Janie's Got a Gun is sadly missing, but thank goodness 
 the Aerosmith song from Armageddon is missing, that was Aerosmith's weakest song. I have played 
 GH 2, GH 3, and Rock Band, and I am not sure where some of these reviews are coming from. Yes the 
 game is shorter than the others (i've beaten it twice already) , but easier? Half way through the 
 setlist on Medium the songs were harder than the Hard setting on Rock Band. I know, I own Rock 
 Band and I've beaten it twice and working on it a third time around. I've beaten GH2 and GH3. The 
 GH Aerosmith boss battle is way easier, the non-Aerosmith songs are easy, but the Aerosmith songs 
 are fairly challenging. I also believe that a game can be fun and enjoyable without a psycho difficulty 
 level. Sometimes games are made so hard that its not even fun anymore.
  The animations of the Aerosmith band members are really good. The documentary style cut scenes 
 are well done. Being able to unlock DMC from the rap group Run-DMC is pretty sweet. The Lenny Kravitz 
 song was fun too. Maybe they should do a GH Lenny Kravitz edition. After all, games are suppose 
 to be a fun outlet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDaddy878
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a quick review; GH: A is a great rental. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in GH: A is the same like in GH: 3. It is still very fun to play, but lacks the number 
 of songs that the previous installment had. You can zip past the expert career in less than 3 hours 
 without even failing a song. This doesn't mean the game is bad. It has great songs, especially 
 for Aerosmith fans, and it still has online and battle mode. It's just not worth paying full price 
 for. 
  8/10
  
  Graphics: 
  Graphics don't really matter in a game like this, but it does look nice. The band looks pretty 
 good and everything is colorful and crisp. 
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  The Aerosmith songs are really good and they sound great, but the other songs done by different 
 bands are not as great.
  8/10
  
  Replay Value:
  I am a GH fan, but this game got old for me in a week or so because of the lack of songs, very 
 easy achievements, and easy expert mode. It would make for a great rental, but if you are a GH 
 vetern, don't buy this one. However, if you are just starting to get into the world of rock, this 
 game is perfect for you. 
  7.5/10
  
  The Good:
  - Great soundtrack - Aerosmith band looks great - easy achievements - gameplay still as fun as 
 ever - a great place for new players to start
  
  The Bad:
  - not much replay value - short setlist - easy career, even on expert - songs not done by Aerosmith 
 are not that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: envomtonix
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Aerosmith is, and will be, a great band but with the lack of insight in their musical collection, 
 you'll have to figure to yourself that about 24-30ish Aerosmith tracks isn't pretty intimidating 
 for a video game. There could've been some more work in the game to expand for more songs; some 
 might seem dull and slow, or some might not seem adequate enough to be 'great' but fine by me. 
 I felt the game was fairly good, but not something enough that I feel it is something that I must 
 need.
  
  There seemed to be some distraction when the game was made, perhaps it was a tool to guide us away 
 from the more constructive game of the series, in hopes it'll buy us all off for the means that 
 Neversoft and Activision can rival against EA and Harmonix... or maybe they just felt the game seemed 
 fine and let things go as-is. I don't know, but each time I saw Steven up there, either his puffy 
 face looked like he was going to hurl, or there was just a sense to make it seem real enough without 
 the cartoonishly drawn figures (I know Joey Kramer looked darn realistic enough in some band intro 
 segements) .
  
  To finish this all off, if you love Aerosmith, you might find yourself enjoying this game. If you 
 love to rock out, it's a pleasant game to have but nothing in the depths of setlists to keep you 
 amused. You might like this, or you might not but that depends how pleased you might be with a 
 bunch of other band songs... to note, it's not entirely Aerosmith (2 various band tracks per venue, 
 with 3 Aerosmith songs; plus a handful of 10 or so other Aerosmith bonus tracks)
  
  Does anyone know what Joe Perry is doing at the end of some shows? It's like instead of smashing 
 his guitar, he whips it... confusing, since his wife is on one of his guitars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-unit_9001
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  "Rocking Isnt Just About Hitting The Most Notes At The Fastest Speed"
  
  That the 1st thing I have to say about this game, one thing I think that Neversoft learnt from 
 working with Aerosmith, yes GH has done games with calmer songs, but from my point of view they 
 have focused too much on trying to make those songs appeal to the riff-lord wannabies abit more 
 than appropriate
  
  Aerosmith's style is sometimes fast yes, but they're more about the melodical slow beats from my 
 point of view, this is especially true for songs like 'Dream On'. Maybe an easy song for the average 
 GH player, but the difficulty of the song isn't the spirit of Aerosmith in their most passionate 
 songs
  
  I know this might not be a review about the game as much in a traditional point of view, but since 
 GH Aerosmith is about the bands journey, that makes this even more important and is also a reason 
 why this game is intended for fans of the band, although I do encourage others to play it with 
 a open mind to learn the lessons that can be learnt from it
  
  although so far this review has been praising the game and asking others to give it a chance, the 
 problems I found with it where that it missed a few key Aerosmith song I love, such as 'Jaded' 
 and 'I Don't Wanna Miss A Thing'. And I know I am not the only one to disagree on the absence of 
 those songs so I demand that they do put them into a downloadable content pack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I'm torn about Guitar Hero, Aerosmith. On one hand, I beat it on expert without failing a song. 
 I got 495 gamerscore without breaking a sweat. The career mode was only 31 songs long, and there 
 are only 10 extra songs. Steven Tyler looks like some sort of freaky gremlin (even moreso than 
 in real life) . But the Aerosmith songs they picked were (mostly) good ones, and I did get to play 
 "Kings of Rock" on a Guitar Hero game. 
  
  Let's break that revies down, shall we?
  
  I'm a pretty good GH player, but I'm not great. I 5 star hard, and currently have beaten GH1 on 
 expert and have 1 song left on GH2, GHRt80's, GH3 and Rock Band. All that being said, I 5 starred 
 all but 2 songs on expert on my first playthrough without failing. I would have really liked a 
 little more of a challenge. 
  
  As far as the achievements go, don't get me wrong, I love a good achievement, but in this game 
 it seemed like every time I'd pass a song, I'm getting 3 of 'em. Such hard achievements as "played 
 as a female guitarist", "played as Izzy Sparks" and "gold starred a song on harder than medium". 
 And when I beat it on expert, like in Rock Band it assumed that I could beat it on hard, medium 
 and easy and gave me those achievements while they were at it. It lost something getting them for 
 seemingly everything I did. 
  
  There are 41 songs total on the disc. Really worth $60? No.
  
  The graphics in the game are 
 good. Everyone in the band look like awesome cartoons of themselves. Except the guy they put scary 
 close-ups of every 14 seconds. Video game Steven Tyler will give me nightmares.
  
  The good, I got to play the greatest rap single ever recorded, "Kings of Rock". There's also a 
 poorly charted version of "Complete Control", but i'll stick to Rock Band for that one. 
  
  So unless you're a HUGE Aerosmith fan or crazy Guitar Hero guy, rent this one. It's fun for almost 
 a week, and you can pad your gamerscore fairly easily. Just don't forget to get the one for "buying 
 DMC at the Vault" sigh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satross
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  "Rocking Isnt Just About Hitting The Most Notes At The Fastest Speed"
  
  That the 1st thing I have to say about this game, one thing I think that Neversoft learnt from 
 working with Aerosmith, yes GH has done games with calmer songs, but from my point of view they 
 have focused too much on trying to make those songs appeal to the riff-lord wannabies abit more 
 than appropriate
  
  Aerosmith's style is sometimes fast yes, but they're more about the melodical slow beats from my 
 point of view, this is especially true for songs like 'Dream On'. Maybe an easy song for the average 
 GH player, but the difficulty of the song isn't the spirit of Aerosmith in their most passionate 
 songs
  
  I know this might not be a review about the game as much in a traditional point of view, but since 
 GH Aerosmith is about the bands journey, that makes this even more important and is also a reason 
 why this game is intended for fans of the band, although I do encourage others to play it with 
 a open mind to learn the lessons that can be learnt from it
  
  although so far this review has been praising the game and asking others to give it a chance, the 
 problems I found with it where that it missed a few key Aerosmith song I love, such as 'Jaded' 
 and 'I Don't Wanna Miss A Thing'. And I know I am not the only one to disagree on the absence of 
 those songs so I demand that they do put them into a downloadable content pack!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seamus555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero.... possiably one of the best series ever made... so its got alot to hold up.... the first 
 4 games.. guitar hero one was decent it started it all... guitar hero 2 was better than the first 
 and rock the 80s eh kinda of a dissapointment but the fans dealt with it and than the last one 
 guitar hero 3 which was amazing and now guitar hero aerosmith.... dont get me wrong it was a good 
 game but it could have been a whole lot better... for instince they left out a lot of good aerosmith 
 tracks... they also made the game way too easy myself being a pretty good guitar hero player beat 
 it on expert in 5 hours but maybe im just werid either way it was alot easier than the third game... 
 but enough of the bad qualties it also has many good ones such as the graphics are amazing aerosmith 
 looks really lifelike...2nd the tracklist although short has quite a few good song like dream on 
 of course or love in an elvator or sweet emotion... this is a good game over all but if ur a hardcore 
 guitar hero fan its too easy and the tracklist is 2 short... maybe worth renting but i dont know 
 if you would want to spend 60 dollars on it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Obviously from the title you can tell that this game has alot of Aerosmith songs in it so if you 
 absolutely can't stand their music don't buy this game. However, if you are and Aerosmith fan or 
 you liked the few songs you played of theirs in previous guitar hero or rock band games then I 
 suggest you give this game a try. Graphically this game looks really similar to guitar hero 3, 
 but you can tell they stepped it up with the animations of Aerosmith. Basically this plays exactly 
 the same as any other Guitar Hero game and you still have to do a really stupid boss battle like 
 in Guitar Hero 3. Note to develepers, please don't force your customers to endure the torture which 
 is battle mode. A surpisingly enjoyable part of this game is watching the animated Steven Tyler 
 perform exactly how he would at a concert, which means crazy and slightly amusing. One thing that 
 you will either love or hate about this game is the toned back difficulty from Guitar Hero 3. If 
 you found the Hard and Expert difficulties to be almost sadistic at times then this just might 
 be the perfect level for you, but if you could breeze by everything in GH3, then you might find 
 yourself getting bored because their definitely aren't any songs in this game like Through the 
 Fire and the Flames. I am disappointed that they didn't include more songs of Aerosmith or other 
 bands. There are only 31 songs in career mode and nine in the vault ( but I don't count a few of 
 them because they are sung by Joe Perry and make my ears bleed) . They don't even have Dude Looks 
 Like a Lady which is one of the few songs I actually knew by Aerosmith. 
  Pretty much if your a fan of Guitar Hero and you like Aerosmith you will probably enjoy this game. 
 If you haven't listened to much Aerosmith like I me then you should probably give this game a try 
 because I found it to be more enjoyable after I played through a few times and got familiar with 
 the guitar parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laytoncc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game, a little to easy and to short. Still worth a 9.0 though. A fan of Guitar Hero must 
 own this game. This game has the best story line of all the Guitar Hero games. With exclusive Aerosmith 
 interviews you can't see anywhere else. I really wish it had more than 31 songs though, (Counting 
 the Joe Perry Guitar battle) it doesn't make for very long game play. Of any of the 38 Xbox 360 
 games this has the easiest achievement list, which is great if you're looking to bumb up your GamerScore. 
 Still worth a 9.0 though. So long, see you for  
 Can't wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I was so psyched about this game, especially when I heard that it would mostly be older guitar 
 heavy 70s Aerosmith. Then I started hearing the tweaks like that even though it had the GH3 engine 
 it couldn't play DLC. I've heard rumors there will be no DLC for this game. I heard it was only 
 40 songs (I guess 41 if you count Joe Perry's boss battle) and that it was easier. I heard that 
 many of their biggest hits are missing. Now I regret to inform that everything I heard was TRUE! 
 As a big Aerosmith fan, this breaks my heart.
  
  We'll start with the good. A lot of big hits and great guitar heavy songs are present. The animations 
 of the band are incredible and the updated guitarists for the opening band look really good. I 
 also like the interviews with the band as they tell the tale of Aerosmith, it was a great touch. 
 Many people (like me) also liked the fact that the game sways easier and that they nerfed the boss 
 battle, but both of these things can also be bad. The boss battle is so weak I wonder if there's 
 even a point (I flew through the Hard and Expert battles pretty quick) and the easier game means 
 you're playing every song once and never worried about losing.
  
  Now for the bad. The setlist is a biggie, both because of its small size and lack of true hits. 
 The game tells you that Aerosmith has 13 complete albums to date, and yet they could only come 
 up with about 24 songs by them? What gives? Even worse is the fact that the average 15-year-old 
 kid can name many songs that were missing like: Janie's Got A Gun, Dude (Looks Like A Lady) , Crazy, 
 Amazing, Eat The Rich, Jaded, Don't Want To Miss A Thing, and many others. Even if they aren't 
 very guitar-heavy, I don't think anyone would even care! Also the achievements are really easy 
 and given the fact that achievement names, venue names, and album names referenced in the game 
 are vacant as playable songs in the game makes it even worse! The $60 price tag for the standalone 
 game and $100 price tag for the guitar bundle is just an insult. In 5 hours I'd beaten the game 
 on Hard and Expert and was already done with it. 
  
  Sure, it's good Aerosmith tunes and it's made with the fun and accuracy of a guitar hero game, 
 but the easier settings and lack of songs (plus the fact that no one knows most of these songs 
 so all you play is Walk this Way, Dream On, Sweet Emotion, and Cat Scratch Fever) makes this a 
 game not worth owning. Couple that with Rock Band's presence and this game will fail. I hope Activision 
 and Neversoft keep this in mind for the Metallica game, because this is a scary beginning to a 
 band-centric game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_1078
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I picked it up because I was bored, and blew through it in about a day. I'm not sure what they 
 did to the game play, but hammer ons and pull offs aren't as responsive as they were in guitar 
 hero 3. I liked most of the songs on it, but some were, dare I say, boring? I used to think I was 
 an Aerosmith fan, but that must have been because I missed all of the crap they put out before 
 I was born. (Okay, so most of the stuff I hated wasn't from way back, but it did suck) . The only 
 thing this game did for me is it gave me hope for the future of band specific Guitar Hero games. 
 Personally, I hope they offer GH World Tour functionality (vocals, drums) with GH Metallica, and 
 I really hope they eventually put out a System of a Down title (I don't want much, just every song 
 in their library) but I digress. Guitar Hero Aerosmith is a great game if you love Aerosmith, and 
 are bored with the other music games out there. If you don't care so much for Aerosmith, I recommend 
 picking up DLC for GH2, GH3, or Rock Band, it keeps your games fresh and fun. 
  
  
  
  
  btw, Why are people complaining about the lack of DLC for GHA? Odds are it would just be more 
 aerosmith music anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteSoxBud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  It basically the same as GH3 but better. You have many more guitars great songs. Also the non-Aerosmith 
 songs are great. I love the fact that you play as Aerosmith, not just Joe Perry. I never play bonus 
 songs but because all bonus songs are Aerosmith or Joe Perry I play them all the time. I have this 
 for Xbox and GH3 for Wii so I'm used to no DLC. I guess the reason why I love this game is because 
 it has great songs. Still I'm disapointed with the fact that some songs that should have been in 
 there and they aren't like Dude Looks Like A Lady and Jaded. Also some songs that were in past 
 Guitar Heros should have at least made it into the vault like Last Child and Same Song And Dance. 
 But it will change the way future Guitar Heros will be, exspecially GH Metallica. I don't know 
 why people hate this so much, it's so fun. The game wasn't supposed to be part of the main series, 
 it was supposed a spin off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  You would think that a review of Guitar Hero Aerosmith would be as simple as asking the player 
 two questions: one, did you like Guitar Hero 3 and two, do you like Aerosmith (and perhaps three, 
 are you offended by Steven Tyler's massive virtual pie hole) . Thankfully there is just a little 
 more to it then that. Liking, or at least tolerating, Aerosmith is still a requirement, but there 
 have been a few subtle changes since the last game, and all of them for the better.
  
  It would seem that Activision actually listened to at least one major complaint about Guitar Hero 
 3: that the boss battles were out of place and far too difficult. There is still one boss battle 
 here, this time with Joe 'effing' Perry (no, they don't call him that, but it would have been awesome 
 if they did) , and it is no where near as sadistic as Lou was. It shows up quite late in the set 
 list, in the middle of the last tier, and then it's done. It still doesn't quite fit, but at least 
 it isn't very hard to get past. It took me months to get past Lou on hard, and then it happened 
 quite by chance and I have never felt the need to do it again. At least I have a fighting chance 
 to beat Joe Perry on expert without growing extra fingers.
  
  The note charts also feel less ridiculous this time, though that may have something to do with 
 the limited set list, which thankfully avoids any of the super cheesy Cryin'/Amazin'/Crazy/Don't 
 Wanna Miss A Thing sound alike power ballads. Without gushing (and yes, I do like Aerosmith, screw 
 you) Joe Perry has a very distinctive style. The songs featuring him on guitar in either Rock Band 
 or Guitar Hero 3 always felt a little different, but at least consistent to each other. There is 
 an odd, off beat, bluesy rhythm to his solos and once I figured that out they became much easier. 
 I have yet to go back and try anything on expert, and I will probably hurt myself doing so, but 
 again, it feels like I have a decent shot which is more then I can say for the last two groups 
 of songs in Guitar Hero 3. I'm looking at you, Raining Blood, I hate you.
  
  If they made the game easier, so be it. I have no problem with that. There is a fine line between 
 challenge and frustration that Guitar Hero 3 jumped across and kept running, Guitar Hero Aerosmith 
 took a few welcome steps back from that. My only real complaints have nothing to do with the music 
 itself, but with what a missed opportunity this is to really showcase a band and its history. For 
 a group that has been around as long as Aeromsith, there just isn't a whole lot of them here. There 
 are short interviews between tiers that look they were recorded with a cell phone, and that's it. 
 No music videos, no stills, no record covers, nothing. They even used the same character models 
 for the band members for every venue even though it is tracing the history of the band. I know 
 the entire band spent most of their early years in a drug induced haze, but they still shouldn't 
 look that wrinkly in the 1970's. There is definitely potential here, but if this is to be the first 
 in a series of artist themed Guitar Hero's they need to spend more time on the extras to make it 
 worth the $60 ticket price.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlySlapshot
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith
  
  Overall:
  
  If you are not an Aerosmith fan you probably won't find much to love or even like here. However, 
 if you are an Aerosmith fan, you will find this to be a short but sweet ride through history.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay in GH: A is still rock solid like it is in GH3. The major tweak here seems to be that the 
 hammer-ons and pull-offs work better than ever. If I remember correctly, there was one song that 
 (on hard) I didn't have to strum for 50 notes or more.
  
  Sound / Tracklist:
  
  Overall the game has a decent tracklist although it is too short and limited. Many obvious songs 
 seem to be missing like "Janie's Got a Gun", "Cryin'", "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing", 
  
  "Falling in Love (Is Hard on the Knees) ", "Eat the Rich", and even "Dude (Looks Like a Lady) " just 
 to name a few. Allowing for downloadable game content for GH: A would have been a good idea. 
  
  Difficulty:
  
  I know many people won't agree but I think that the difficulty in this game 
 is just right. The difficulty progression between the levels has been flattened out so that it 
 is not a big change to progress from medium to hard as it was in the past. I would say that most 
 people will probably be able to beat this game on at least the medium setting if not the hard setting.
 
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The GH: A rendition features the requisite multiplayer options: CO-OP, Face Off, Pro Face Off, and 
 Guitar Battle. Nothing new here but the modes do seem to work properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Now I understand that the game quite frankly deserves it's 7.0 rating and I'm not complaining; 
 it's the right synopsis to go with in the fact that the game is pretty much set on a one way track 
 and you can't really steer.
  
  When this game was first announced I knew it was strictly for fans only, sure there are some opening 
 act songs that serve as somewhat of a distraction but it doesn't do enough to justify the low song 
 count; but as for a die hard fan like myself that grew up listening to this music and love the 
 series in general, I can pay for the full price and not really give a hoot.
  
  Good clean fun is all I'm looking for and this game will prove to be quite fun, because I get to 
 play and listen to songs I've never heard from the band and get some colorful commentary on their 
 history; granted it's history that's pretty much cookie cutter and isn't what you'd see on VH1's 
 behind the music kinda thing, but it's interesting.
  
  So please think about if before you get this game, it's just for the fans and those that aren't 
 fans should shy away until either World Tour comes out or wait for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'm not a Guitar Hero shredder. I've never posted a YouTube video of myself playing 
 Through the Fire and Flames, because frankly, I barely beat it on medium. I beat Guitar Hero II 
 on hard by the skin of my teeth. Guitar Hero III, I haven't even five-starred the medium songs 
 yet (I hate the Slayer song) . I'm saying all of this to say that Guitar Hero - Aerosmith is pretty 
 easy. I've five-starred all medium songs in their first or second attempt, and I've four-starred 
 a good portion of the hard songs. I've almost gotten through the hard career mode. I don't love 
 Aerosmith, but I like them, and I like their hits. Unfortunately, there are some hits missing from 
 this game that should be there instead of some lesser known songs that made the cut. Only 31 tracks 
 in career mode, with an additional 10 you can buy in the Vault.
  I enjoyed playing the game, it's not extremely hard, and that's ok with me. I would have liked 
 to have seen more songs on the game OR a reduced price. $60 at midnight release for GH: Aerosmith 
 was too much, and I was disappointed with the quantity released. The cutscenes of Aerosmith are 
 extremely cool, and that was a really neat part of the career mode (they show different cutscenes 
 for each venue you unlocked during career mode where they interview different members of the band) . 
 Achievements are much easier to come by in Aerosmith; the first song I played was "I Hate Myself 
 for Loving You" on medium, got 100% and unlocked six achievements. You won't find that on the previous 
 installment. On the same note (no pun intended) , there are quite a few secret achievements on the 
 game that you'll have to figure out for yourself (I've yet to get a lot of them) . Anyway, the game 
 is fun, and GH fans will enjoy the game, but it won't hold your attention very long. It really 
 just seems like something to do until World Tour debuts later in the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gil003
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This newest installment of Guitar Hero had people really looking forward to a refinement of the 
 gameplay from the last GH. Reports had said that the devs had listened to the players who complained 
 that GH3's difficulty was too hard. I completely agreed with this assessment and was looking forward 
 to a much more polished and accurate game, much like GH2. 
  However, this is not the case. This game is by far the most difficult in the series. At first, 
 you may think you will five star all the songs and that this game is TOO easy. But then, once Aerosmith 
 comes in and you have to play Joe Perry's songs, things go from easy to crazy. Apparently, they 
 wanted to make Mr. Perry look like a guitar god. I hope you have been doing your finger exercises, 
 because your fingers will be all over your fret board and they will be cramping up in no time.
 
  So the bad news is this: 
  1. The songs kind of suck. Lots of Aerosmith songs that are relatively unheard of, unless you are 
 a hardcore Aerosmith fan. Plus, the non-Aerosmith songs are not so great, either.
  2. Not many songs. If you somehow manage to get through the high level of difficulty of playing 
 the songs, you'll be done in 2-3 hours, depending on how good you are.
  3. The difficulty of playing the songs is much harder. The notes seem to come by at 1.5x speed, 
 much faster than normal, the fret board graphic is a funky kind of yellow skull that makes it VERY 
 hard to see yellow notes, and the notes are spread around in a fashion that will have you tying 
 your fingers in knots.
  4. Overall, this game just seems to be lacking soul. It really isn't worth the $60 that you have 
 to pay for it. It just doesn't seem to be an upgrade or what you would expect from a new version 
 of a game.
  
  The good news:
  1. If you really love Aerosmith, this is the game for you. Lots of in game video footage with special 
 interviews and the history of how Aerosmith got their start and thier rise to fame. Plus, the venues 
 you play in are modeled after the real life places that they played in.
  2. Lots of custom Joe Perry guitars.
  3. You get to play as Aerosmith three times during every 
 set.
  4. Some cool and popular songs are available that you get to jam to, even with RUN DMC.
  Final 
 Verdict: Rent this game before you buy it to make sure you are enough of an Aerosmith fan that 
 you want to cough up the full $60. I think this would have been better as a full album download 
 than as an independent game. GH2 and Rock Band are still better games than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Leo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith does some things better than previous titles, but ultimately falls short 
 of expectations. First off it has a good selection of songs from Aerosmiths hit records although 
 you'd expect it would have them all. Most notetably "Janies got a gun", "Dude looks like a lady", 
 and my personal favorites "what it takes" and "crazy" are missing. The animations are much better 
 this time around with great steven tyler mouth movements and stage moves. The difficulty is a little 
 more forgiving as well, so all of us who have lives can continue through the songs with an enjoyable, 
 but still rewarding experience. The game also features actual real life interviews with the band 
 throughout the game, which like the rest of the game are too short to give merit. When it comes 
 down to it if your an Aerosmith fan this is the game for you. If your not I would suggest waiting 
 for World Tour.
  
  Gameplay: 7 - too short and a lower level of replay value than previous titles
  Graphics: 9 - 
 solid all around with some great steven tyler animations
  Sound: 7 - a lack of tracks, the ones present are well done
  Value: 6 - low number of tracks (hmmmm 
 i see a pattern)
  Tilt: 8 - I love Aerosmith and guitar hero, but i dont love short games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Well its hard to review guitar hero games. Thers only a few things you can the graphics, songs 
 and career, maybe even the online. 
  
  Well in this game the graphics are great. the dudes on stage move around all cool andinteract and 
 pick up the mic stands and stuff so graphics is a 10. I didnt see any flaws since i was playing 
 notes.
  
  Ove only done one online match and the guy quit so i gotta win and achievement.
  
  The career 
 is really cool, instead of the lame cartoons we get to see Aerosmith talking about the experiences. 
 Its a lot more enjoyable to me,
  
  The songs... all 40 of em. Wait... only 40? Im not an aerosmith fan but the songs ive played are 
 great, ive unlocked all the songs and dont hate any of em except mama kin, im happy i only have 
 to dothat song once more on expert. But theres not enough the careers to short, only 31 songs. 
 
  
  Not to mention that its supposed to be structured. From one venue to another, its supposed to emulate 
 a timeline but were playing the 2007 songs in the first couple gigs. and there older songs at the 
 new ones... I dont get that.
  
  Hey but DMCs in it and im happy.
  
  Its basically guitar hero 3 with less songs amd cooler characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost_Planet123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good --- Great songs, of course its aerosmith,
  Continues the great legacy of guitar hero
  Good career mode with interviews from all the band 
 members.
  The Bad --- Almost too easy
  Doesnt include some great hits from aerosmith like crazy, cryin, dude look like lady, and janies 
 got a gun.
  
  I'm so sick of people complaining about how to easy this game is. Just play expert or just have 
 fun even though its easy. I mostly play hard and a little expert and I do agree it is easy and 
 the setup of the sonds could be better. I mean Dream On should of been in the first or second set 
 of songs but it was in the lower half of the playlist. Also the critics and users gave this a pretty 
 low score considering its guitar hero.
  Overall I think this is a solid game and pumps us up for guitar hero-world tour, guitar hero-4, 
 and guitar hero-metallica. cant wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKingCrab
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  would I say this is better than other guitar heroes? No. It's not worse either, though. It's just 
 different. I agree with some people saying that there's not enough songs, but how many aerosmith 
 songs can you fit in a single game? Plus, unlike rocks the 80's, this game isn't just a rip off 
 of GH3; there's actually new stages, characters, guitars in this game. Also, the timing window 
 is a bit shorter, so that compensates for the fact that the songs aren't as hard as in guitar hero 
 3 (which, quite honestly, i don't understand why people complain... it's not about the difficulty 
 of the song, but about how fun it is to play. You can't expect every song to be a ttfatf [horrible 
 song, but fun to play, btw] and tdwdtg and still be good.)
  
  I found it interesting that this has "Dream On" in it, too. First song to be in 2 console guitar 
 hero games (On Tour has some, but I can't count that really) .
  
  Oh, and for those complaing about the lack of some songs... come on, they've got to save a few 
 for other guitar hero games. "Jane's got a gun" would be fun here, yes, but how much more fun would 
 it be in GH4? Think about it.
  
  overall I'd say this is a pretty good game on its own, specially if you're an Aerosmith fan, but 
 definitively not superior to some of its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith rocks, try it if you wanna find out for yourself. 
  If you're hesitant about buying it, rent it. Like it? Then buy it.
  
  Simple as, Guitar Hero: 
 Aerosmith brings to the masses a brand new range of songs that most rock lovers were waiting on 
 for a long time. 
  From the presentation to the gameplay, the experience is flawless. Same cartoony look as Guitar 
 Hero III, the humour was also kept intact, the charm still lives on.
  Only flaw I found is that there is no downloadable content, I could be mistaken, but could not 
 seem to find any.
  I also found that the difficulty level has been dropped a notch too, could just be me though...
 
  
  Well, if you liked previous titles and if you're one of many Aerosmith's fans, I would suggest 
 you get the game, if you're still not sure, at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Wow, is it sad that my current status of gaming is buying rythym games?
  
  So i am calling this an un-biased review of Guitar Hero: Aerosmith because i am not a huge Aerosmith 
 fan. I had one of their CD's (get a grip) when i was a kid... but i couldnt tell you where it is 
 now. With that said, this game is GH 3 with some Aerosmith skins and motion capture.
  
  When you play the game you get to play the first couple of songs (the non-Aerosmith songs) as your 
 main character and the standard other band members. Then, after passing those songs, you get to 
 bring on Aerosmith and play as them.
  
  The songs are good, and playing as Aerosmith at least spices up the animations that you have seen 
 (or at least I have seen) since GH 2. The cutscene information and videos from the band is poor 
 quality, but is short enough to not deter from playing the game.
  
  All-in-all the game is a lot of fun if you dig the Guitar Hero franchise. I knew about 10 of the 
 songs before I started playing, but they are all really good.
  
  Good - Everything you liked about GH 3, just with Aerosmith
  
  Bad - Can get a little taxing 
 on the difficulty levels... Boss Battles again
  
  Ugly - I am pretty sure I won't be able to give an un-biased review when Guitar Hero Metallica 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnet0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, as a fan of Aerosmith, & Guitar Hero, i was counting down the days since this was 
 confirmed. I then came across Rock Band at a friend's house and forgot about GH the next 2 weeks.
 
  
  Finally, the release date came and i bought it. I thoroughly enjoyed playing Aerosmith, and being 
 my "type of music", it fit right in in my shelves. Laughing at all the puns and the laughably easy 
 achievements was half the fun.
  
  The game as a whole runs smoother the GH3, and has had a few newer tweaks to it. The band has a 
 new member, a rhythm guitarist, which in my opinion is a waste of space, but you get over it. 
 
  
  The difficulty varies depending on how fast you play through the game. The last 2 tiers seem to 
 jump from fairly easy to quite challenging. Especially with the likes of Toys in the Attic & Train 
 Kept a Rollin'.
  
  There's a lot to choose from in the store, including more costumes, should you care. All those 
 guitars which you struggled through 5 starring the difficulties can be bought for a measly $500, 
 but to replace it, you have to put yourself through the career and 5 star it all anyway for Aerosmith 
 themed guitars.
  
  The absence of Co-op Career is still quite clear, but the online co-op seems to make up for a lot 
 of it. Making those co-op achievements slightly more possible. 
  
  All in all, i've enjoyed Guitar Hero Aerosmith. The songs included are missing some big names such 
 as Dude Looks Like A Lady & Just Push Play, but the in-game choices are still satisfying for any 
 Aerosmith fan. Its good if you are just looking for more songs on Guitar Hero, and the lack of 
 DLC has been annoying you, its a refreshing thought that you can play some new songs. Only if you 
 like Aerosmith though. If you aren't a fan of Aerosmith, i can guarantee that you won't like most 
 of the support songs. 
  
  Activision seem to be branching out with this, and the recently confirmed Metallica. Assuming that 
 Metallica sells well, being another big name in the music business, this could turn out to be a 
 new and interesting choice for the GH series. As long as they don't release GH: MCR, then i'll 
 be buying everything they throw at me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Socrates
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: Aerosmith actually has a lot more differences than people notice; however, they're 
 only things someone who's looking for them and wants to like the game will notice. Most people 
 here are convinced it's "Guitar Hero III with an Aerosmith paint job", but I actually have noticed 
 a good number of differences.
  
  Anyways, I'd like to note now that yes, I am an Aerosmith fan. However, I'm not letting that impact 
 my rating.
  
  Career Mode: The first thing to note is that this time, there's a little bit of a story here. Aerosmith's 
 got a long band history, and it's actually pretty detailed in comparison to some other bands (see 
 Kansas) . However, we don't get most of this band history, from what I've seen; it's kind of confusing, 
 because they never showed us a point where the band even really lost Perry and Whitford, and as 
 far as I can tell, Tyler never went into rehab (or brought it up.) If they're going to make a game 
 and tell us it'll follow the band history, do it a little better.
  
  Meanwhile, the timeline seems a little screwed up. The tier containing classics "Rag Doll" and 
 "Love in an Elevator" comes before the tier containing "Walk This Way (feat. Run DMC) ", and "Draw 
 the Line" comes before any song from Toys in the Attic. However, it also doesn't entirely seem 
 like it's in some sort of difficulty-based tier system for the Aerosmith tracks; "Dream On" is 
 on tier 5.
  
  But don't worry; there's still a flow to the way the career works; as you'll read in every other 
 review, the ol' Guitar Hero crew (with a new sexy rhythm guitarist) gets on stage and plays two 
 songs for the opening act (which tend to be pretty awesome) , and then Aerosmith gets on and plays 
 two of their songs (which tend to be kind of meh-ish, excluding tier 3) , followed by an encore 
 (which all rock) . All the songs fit together pretty well by tier, so it's not a big deal.
  
  With those complaints mentioned, I'll say what's good about the career. Each starting guitarist 
 has six styles for their two outfits; two new styles for each of the old outfits. These new styles 
 do a lot, actually; I can actually tolerate Midori now, and Izzy's outfit's actually pretty cool. 
 Casey Linch looks less like a whore, and it's nice to have a little more variation for Axel and 
 Xavier. That said, the new outfits for Johnny Napalm and Judy Nails are ridiculous. But if you 
 dislike them, just use the old ones! Some guitarists feel out-of-place in an Aerosmith game, but 
 oh well. Each Aerosmith guitarist also has six styles, but only one outfit.
  
  The ol' Guitar Hero crew is same as always; if you thought the drummer, singer, etc. were lame 
 before, that opinion is not going to change a bit (literally; they used the exact same models. 
 No costume change or anything.) The new rhythm chick is okay, but the cavemen (as I like to call 
 them) are still ridiculous.
  
  However, Aerosmith looks awesome. Not surprisingly, I'm especially impressed with the detail Steven 
 Tyler and Joe Perry put in. If you haven't read the articles, Steven Tyler spent a month in mo-cap 
 to make sure he was perfect, and the rest of the band took one month as well. You'll see Steven 
 getting close to Perry as always, and you'll actually see Perry singing along. Kramer makes drumming 
 look fun (as opposed to the Caveman) , and I was surprised to see Perry with the slide guitar on 
 Rag Doll and the talk box tube in his mouth for Sweet Emotion (having Tyler use the maracas was 
 brilliant.) They definitely put in the effort to make sure they looked and sounded their best.
 
  
  That said, the song collection is pretty good, but not perfect. Songs like "Cryin'", "Crazy", " (Dude 
 Looks Like A) Lady", "Hangman Jury", "Just Push Play", and "The Other Side" should have been in 
 the game, but weren't. Meanwhile, not including "Last Child" and "Same Old Song and Dance" as at 
 least bonus songs (or DLC) confuses me. Also, the choice of "Train Kept A Rollin'" confuses me; 
 didn't everyone say that the song was terrible after playing it in Rock Band? It's also the last 
 song in the game before the surprisingly anticlimactic Joe Perry Guitar Battle (it's really not 
 his fault; his forte is awesome riffs and improved solos, not seven minutes of guitar madness) , 
 which probably led to many of the bad reviews. But with both "Walk This Way"s, "Dream On", "Sweet 
 Emotion", "Rag Doll", "Love in an Elevator", "Livin' on the Edge", and "Draw the Line", there's 
 plenty to like by Aerosmith, and with "Dream Police", "I Hate Myself for Loving You", and Lenny 
 Kravitz (can't remember the song name) in the game, there's some good variety.
  
  Bottom Line on Career Mode: If you like Aerosmith, you'll love the Career mode. Otherwise, you 
 might get kind of bored. I suggest reading up the band history on Wikipedia either way.
  
  Multiplayer: Largely the same as the other Guitar Heroes (including online play) , but with a couple 
 of differences that are good to note.
  
  Pro Face-Off Difficulties can be different now (hence, you can have one person on Expert and one 
 on Medium now!) However, there's a balancing system in the game that leans towards lower difficulties, 
 so in a battle of two people equally skilled at their level, the Expert player won't always win 
 based on the fact that he had more notes.
  
  No Co-Op Career! This disappointed me a lot, because a game based around one band should really 
 offer a way to play it with a friend. Plus, there's always riffs to be played in the background! 
 This actually affected my review a lot.
  
  Also, I noticed this while playing. I ran into a few on a surround sound system while playing multiplayer 
 at a friend's earlier today. However, it works fine when it's on a normal sound system.
  
  Bottom Line on Multiplayer: If you like Aerosmith, you'll be the guy who buys this game so everyone 
 will play it at your house. If not, you'll be the guy who goes to your friend's house to play the 
 game.
  
  Unlockables: There are some pretty nice new guitars in this game, and the amount of outfits is 
 always a plus. That said, the bonus songs are kind of lacking (the only three I'm ever going to 
 play are Walk This Way (1976 edition) , Let The Music Do The Talking, and Joe Perry Guitar Battle) . 
 Haven't payed for any of the videos yet; wondering how those are. Also, stating this now; according 
 to another review, you will not have enough money to pay for everything included in this Guitar 
 Hero. Use your money wisely (for example, if you don't know anyone who plays Judy Nails, don't 
 make her outfits a priority) . However, I have a feeling that by playing on more than one difficulty, 
 you should probably be able to get the money to pay for everything.
  
  The Unlock All Songs code is still permanent, by the way.
  
  Bottom Line on Unlockables: Same 
 as always; pretty nice!
  
  So with all that out of the way, I'll just throw a few things out there now.
  -The loading screen 
 is an example of many small Aerosmith layovers that any Aerosmith fan is going to appreciate. Your 
 average player won't care, but the game isn't aimed towards them.
  -The hitboxes are somewhere between GH2 and 3. Be more precise with your hammer-ons.
  -There 
 are many songs with a few strums tossed in during a section that is mostly comprised of HOs&POs 
 to represent Mr. Perry strumming. These apparently "make the notetracks terrible". Personally, 
 I think that the notetracks for the most part are pretty wicked, but those strums are pretty annoying. 
 Prime Example: Joe Perry's Guitar Battle.
  -The game, as an Aerosmith game, is heavily focused on riffs and what I like to call "Aerosmith 
 solos". There are three generic types of rock solos; metal solos (see Through the Fire and Flames, 
 Jordan, One) , classic rock solos (see Free Bird, Green Grass and High Tides) , and "Aerosmith Solos" 
 (see Last Child, Train Kept a Rollin') . Aerosmith Solos wouldn't really be their own kind of solo, 
 but they're really lacking in predictability for the most part.
  
  Bottom Line on Guitar Hero Aerosmith: If you like Aerosmith, you're going to really like this game. 
 It's probably the best made game in the series, if it's not the best sound track. If you don't 
 like Aerosmith, but you want to like the game, you'll find it okay. Otherwise, just rent it and 
 beat it; it won't be too hard to beat. The game is on the easy end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Obviously, this game is meant for idiots. People who blindly follow the series and by anything 
 by them. Or for people who love the band so much, they cannot realize that each song costs more 
 than it should.
  
  Take a look at the song list. It is terrible, the list fails to contain any definitive Aerosmith 
 song. Each of the songs are a breeze on the guitar so the mappers of the song charts upped the 
 difficulty beyond any realism. It isn't even accurate. A long note would instead be turned into 
 a mess of hammer-ons and pull-offs (check train kept a rollin') . It is pathetic that the developers 
 need to alter reality to extend the playtime.
  
  The graphics have only changed in the band likeness. Well only the guitarist for certain people. 
 The drummer still looks like crap (you know know who I'm talking about) and the singer is still 
 a giant faced muppet (It is still accurate though) . The background is very annoying and distracting. 
 It tries to compensate for it's lack change in its graphics and gameplay. The unlockable characters 
 are idiotic, I mean, a rapper? Seriously, are you even trying anymore Activision/Neversoft.
  
  You really don't have to play this game to know it's a piece of crap. If you already have a 
 guitar, only rent if you are an achievement whore. Because the achievements are pathetic. I haven't 
 even played this game to know how bad the songs, the graphics, the achievements and the everything 
 is about this game. It is uninspired, and a pathetic attempt for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draconos137
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Aerosmith is the first band-centric game in the Guitar Hero series. Upon first hearing 
 about it, I almost dreaded the end product, thinking it would feel like a cheap cash in. After 
 having played through the setlist and experianced the game however, my opinion has changed. The 
 game as a whole turned out to be vastly more fun than I had thought it would be.
  The first thing I would like to touch upon are the graphics and animations in game. Comparing them 
 to Guitar Hero 3's, they have been vastly improved. Animation is smoother and looks more realistic, 
 as the band interacts with each other in some occasions. Also, if an instrument is featured in 
 a song but isn't actually in the band normally, it will be added into the actual game screen by 
 one of the band members, making it feel more realistic. The band members themselfs also look very 
 good this time around, acting accordingly to each song that is played. They will move with the 
 song's beat and do motions that would make sense if the song were actually being played. 
  The venues are also a treat for the eyes, as they are much more elaborate than GH3's were. The 
 only dissapointment was the final venue, which seemed lacking after having encounted all previous 
 venues.
  Next, I'll cover playable guitarists. The roster is seemingly unchanged from the last installment, 
 except that the previous secert guitarists have been removed and replaced with the bassist and 
 guitarists from Aerosmith. The only exception to this is the unlockable DMC, whom was an intresting 
 addition into the roster. 
  Now to the part most of you are probably waiting for, the songs. The song selections in this game 
 are actually quite enjoyable. Although there are less songs overall, most of the songs themself's 
 are actually quite long in length. This helps in making the game feel a little longer. The bonus 
 song selections are exclusivly Aerosmith songs and songs by the Joe Perry project. They are fun, 
 but there aren't many of them. 
  Multiplayer has gone essentially unchanged in this version, still offering the Battle, Face off, 
 and Pro face of modes. The only diffrence is the removal of Co-op career. Co-op has been returned 
 to it's original state as just a normal setlist that can be played at any time through the multiplayer 
 menu. 
  Overall, the game is a very fun experience. Before buying it however, I would reccomend renting 
 it first, as it may not be a title all people want to own. I give this game a 7 out of 10. It's 
 enjoyable, but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you can name something and right off the bat know exactly what you're going to get. For 
 instance, if I said I was going to make you a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, you'd probably 
 figure that you would get two slices of bread with peanut butter on one side, and surely enough, 
 jelly on the other. This also be used to describe Guitar Hero: Aerosmith. It's a Guitar Hero game, 
 and the band you'll be playing as is Aerosmith. Wasn't that easy?
  
  To play and enjoy GH: A means that you'll have to adjust your expectations just right. Let's face 
 it; You know from the moment this game was announced if you would like it or not. You know if you 
 like Guitar Hero or not, and you know if you like Aerosmith or not, as well. Anyone else has no 
 business here. This is a niche game, and it's true qualities lie not in it's flaws, but the overall 
 value, and how it handles it's remarkable mediocrity. Make no mistake. All GH: A is GH3 with and 
 Aerosmith paintjob. Think of it as a giant DLC package.
  
  The song selection and value are the only villians you'll encounter here. Granted, there's nothing 
 wrong with the songs in the game. Each and every one is fun to play, even the ones not by Aersomith. 
 (Which do a good job of added some much needed variety. Some of Aerosmith's best songs didn't make 
 the cut, although they're obviously aware that these songs exist. (Look at the achievements) Also, 
 $60 for 41 songs isn't the best deal in the world. The visual changes do little to justify the 
 extra price. I beat it all in less than a day.
  
  Other than that, you know if you like Guitar Hero or not. It was a longshot, but somehow we, the 
 members of today's gaming culture, have accepted plastic guitars of all things into the mainstream. 
 If money's no issue to you, and you're a fan of the series and the band, there's no reason not 
 to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarnetboggy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  So I guess we've got this new Aerosmith game out and there are a ton of mixed reactions. The Aeroforce 
 is amazed at the new game dedicated to their favourite band, and it seems many hardcore Guitar 
 Hero players are turned off by the fact that it's basically just one band. While the game engine 
 has been tweaked and some new venues have been added to keep the series from going stale, Guitar 
 Hero: Aerosmith is just the Same Old Song and Dance. See, I know Aerosmith songs, too.
  
  Before the review starts, the most important thing to point out is what you're getting for your 
 hard-earned $60.00 (in my case, it was $62.95 thanks to provincial tax) . You'll get 41 songs, 12 
 of which are by supporting acts, AKA NOT AEROSMITH. There's six tiers in Career mode, 10 (I think) 
 bonus songs, and some neat little videos and unlocks here and there.
  
  I'm not going to go into all the details about Guitar Hero and how the game works. If you're reading 
 this review, you probably already know about Guitar Hero and want to know if you should buy this 
 game, or spend your money on more entertaining things like dirty magazines or a crapload of Mountain 
 Dew to fuel your all night marathon of Halo 3.
  
  Basically, Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is an expansion pack to Guitar Hero III. No, you don't need GH3 
 to play it, but it's basically the same game.
  
  First, and probably most importantly for all the hardcore players, the hammer-ons/pull-offs have 
 been tweaked to a GH2-like state, so people who were able to flail wildly on the very pretty, coloured 
 buttons and nail the solo in Cult of Personality on expert will fail miserably here. Gone are the 
 little kids from XBOX Live who think they are the next best thing because they got lucky and hit 
 the solo in We Three Kings while their mom happened to be videotaping. There is a lot more skill 
 required to solo in Aerosmith, which actually makes pulling off more complex riffs rewarding, but 
 if you've been playing a bit too much GH3, there is a learning curve, and it is noticeable. 
  
  Another change in the gameplay are the band Animations. They are insane. 
  Perry jumps around 
 the stage, Steven acts like a total nut job, and the rest of the band stands there playing like 
 a bump on a log. Steve and Joe are the stars of the show. The mo-cap they did is remarkable, and 
 it is a blast watching them.
  
  The Career Mode, much like Guitar Hero III, is centered around your band's rise to fame. Actually, 
 now, it's about Aerosmith. Kinda.
  
  The six main tiers in Guitar Hero Aerosmith include two "Opening Act" songs, and three Aerosmith 
 songs. Complete the two opening songs, Aerosmith comes out, plays two songs, and then you get the 
 option of performing an encore, just like in Guitar Hero III. Play, the encore, a new tier opens 
 up, and then it's just repetition for five more tiers. For the opening act, you can choose your 
 guitarist (the entire roster of GH3 comes back, save for a few extras) , but for the Aerosmith songs, 
 you are restricted to Joe Perry and his rediculous fretboard. There is no story in Aerosmith, each 
 new tier is introduced with a short, VH-1 like video with a description of the location you're 
 about to play at, and the band talking about old times and remembering the "gigs" they played at 
 said location. Speaking of gigs, the band is very careful to use the word "gig" around every corner. 
 It gets annoying. Now that I pointed that out, you will notice it too :)
  
  So, you play in Russia, a New York club, a High School, the "BIG GAME" (Super Bowl XXXV halftime 
 show, which is not lisenced, and it is only called the Super Bowl ONCE by Steven Tyler in a bonus 
 video) , the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Ceremony... and a few other places that I don't remember. 
 All of the places you play at are special to Aerosmith, but taking a closer look, many stadiums 
 are simply re-skinned to be a different arena. The "Orpheium" Theatre (God knows I didn't spell 
 that right) looks almost identical to the "Royal Odeon" from Guitar Hero III. Maybe it's because 
 they are both theatres, but the similarities are there.
  
  More returning features from GH3 are the Music Store, Boss Battles, almost the entire character 
 lineup, most of the menus, the entire online experience, and the rediculous charting of 99% of 
 the songs in the game.
  
  We'll start with online first. Online is almost the exact same. Well, it is the same. Not a lot 
 has been tweaked. Actually, nothing has been changed. Even the menus are the same. Sorry if you 
 were looking for a revolution. I did notice there were a bit less annoying little kids online though. 
 
  
  Multiplayer on the same console has been changed a bit. You can now play Pro Face-Off on two different 
 difficulties. This is cool if you want to show your friend how awesome you are at a certain song 
 without alternating every five seconds. The scores are also balanced, so the person on expert doesn't 
 have a guarnteed win if they play someone on easy.
  
  The In-Game Shop (called "The Vault") houses practically all of the game's content, which can be 
 bought with the money earned in Career mode. There are a ton of Aerosmith guitars, guitars from 
 GH3, and even the Les Paul and Xplorer XBOX 360 guitar controllers, with accurate details right 
 down to the XBOX guide button. The only catch is, it's impossible to buy everything from the vault 
 with hard earned money. Unless there is an UNLOCK EVERYTHING cheat, be warned that you have to 
 spend your money carefully. Even if you master all difficulties in the Career mode, you will not 
 have enough cash to buy everything in the vault.
  
  And now, the songs. 41 tracks are present in the game, about 70% are Aerosmith songs, and the rest 
 are bands that were either influenced by Aerosmith, or bands that Aerosmith likes. One very notable 
 band left out of this "friends of Aerosmith" group is KISS, which did an entire tour with Aerosmith 
 in 2003. I heard it was because more people went for the KISS part of the show than the Aerosmith 
 part... but I'm not going to start a huge discussion. 
  
  To keep it short, and without listing every song, roughly half of Aerosmith's career (1975-1989) 
 is represented. No "Janie's Got A Gun", "Dude Looks Like A Lady", "Jaded", "I Don't Wanna Miss 
 A Thing" (which is even referenced in one of the unlockable videos) , "Crazy", "Cryin", "Angel".... 
 I could easily go on. Sure, you get both versions of Walk This Way, but why is the Superbowl Halftime 
 Show in the game, yet every song they played at the show (save for Walk this Way) is missing? It 
 doesn't make a lot of sense. Oh, and Devil's Got A New Disguise. And they also could have easily 
 included the two Aerosmith songs from past GH games (Last Child and Same Old Song and Dance) That's 
 not in there either. As for the songs not by Aerosmith (Opening Acts) , there are some awesome songs. 
 Cat Scratch Fever, She Sells Sanctuary, and The Dream Police are just a few.
  
  How do the songs actually play? Terrible. Random strums. Everywhere. I understand that the team 
 wanted to make the game more realistic by including strums where Joe Perry actually strums, but 
 on many solos, it kills the gameplay. Some songs are just not fun, and others, like the Joe Perry 
 Boss Battle, are almost unplayable. Sure, it's realistic, but when Neversoft is trying to make 
 the game accessible to everyone, this is truly a step in the wrong direction. However, even with 
 all the chord-fests, many songs are extremely easy. Even on expert, the only song I didn't get 
 five stars on was Train Kept A Rollin. Guitar Hero III pushed the envelope with ludicrous overcharting, 
 but some of these songs are just plain retarded. Random strums in the middle of large hammer-on/pull-off 
 sections, and simple sounding riffs are turned into finger-cramping orgies. I don't know about 
 you, but I would like to keep my fingers for another year or so.
  
  If you can't decide on whether to buy Guitar Hero Aerosmith, it all depends on if you liked Guitar 
 Hero III. Other than the decreased HO/PO window, nothing has really changed. The menus are the 
 same, the characters are the same, and the songs are still insanely over-charted. If you can somehow 
 justify paying $60.00 for 41 songs (that's $1.50 per song, $0.60 more than RockBand DLC) , go ahead 
 and get it. It's still the same gameplay you know and love from the Guitar Hero series, but that's 
 about it. More of the same. Too bad that's not an Aerosmith song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosierdude4950
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking foward to this game. Call me stupid but i thought this one wasnt going to 
 be a rip-off like 80's. It is not as bad as 80's was but this 1 is wayyyyyy tooooo easy. I beat 
 the game without being in red one single freakin time. I am a pretty good player but im not amazing 
 by any means and it seems like they forgot about their hardcore fans. ( their real fans) . They 
 need 2 stop trying to be accesible. Big deal if u cant play expert go to hard!!!!!! If u cant do 
 that play medium!!!! if u cant do that easy and if u cant do that then kill yourself. I am really 
 frustrated also because they missed many of aerosmiths best songs. I mean cmon how do u have a 
 game with them without Janies got a gun!!!!!! no dude looks like a lady or jaded!!!!! This is still 
 guitar hero and has good online play so that saved it a little but cmon activision u dont have 
 2 sell out and make ur game too easy to make it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid setlist of Aerosmith classics and other bands, less boss battles is always a good 
 thing, pre-set interviews with Aerosmith are really cool and let you learn more about the band's 
 history, is a bit easier.
  
  The Bad: Several hits are missing and there is no DLC option, only has 40 songs total, really isn't 
 different from GH3.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There is no question, Aerosmith guitarist Joe Perry is definately a Guitar Hero, but when Activision 
 first announced that the "Bad Boys from Boston" would get a Guitar Hero game devoted to them, I 
 was a bit skeptical. I mean, yeah Aerosmith has a ton of big hits, but can one band carry an entire 
 game? The answer to that is yes and no. Guitar Hero Aerosmith may be an easy way for Activision 
 to make some big bucks by not doing too much to the Guitar Hero 3 formula, but it's still a solid 
 entry in the series for fans of Aerosmith and music games in general.
  
  The game is pretty much identical to GH3 (it has the same engine and tutorial to prove it) , but 
 it does have some differences besides the setlist and the inclusion of Aerosmith as a playable 
 band. First, you still have to play as your old Guitar Hero band, then after two songs from other 
 bands, Aerosmith takes the stage and you play two songs and an encore as Aerosmith. Before each 
 venue, real life Aerosmith introduces why each of the featured venues was important in their history 
 as a band. Each venue was modeled after real venues where Aerosmith had major moments in there 
 history. These live action videos are quite interesting for Aerosmith fans, but most casual Guitar 
 Hero gamers won't probably care.
  
  Also, for better or for worse, the game is easier than GH3 and the achievements are quite a bit 
 easier to earn. I was able to beat the career mode on Hard with little trouble, and I can't do 
 that on GH3.
  
  As far as the setlist goes, there are a ton of big hits on this game. Some of the Aerosmith hits 
 include "Walk This Way" (both the Run DMC and original versions) , "Dream On", "Sweet Emotion" and 
 "Draw the Line". There are other big hits as well from bands who inspired Aerosmith. Some of these 
 include "Dream Police" by Cheap Trick and "Complete Control" by The Clash. The non Aerosmith songs 
 are a nice change of pace, but aren't that outstanding by themselves. This game is about Aerosmith, 
 and it shows. The single biggest problem that I had was that there were a bunch of big Aerosmith 
 songs missing from the setlist, including "Dude (Looks Like a Lady) ", "Cryin'" and "Just Push Play". 
 The fact that the game doesn't support DLC is just a kick in the face for fans hoping that more 
 Aerosmith hits would become available at a later time. Sure, technically we could see an Aerosmith 
 pack for GH3 or later on ofr GH: World Tour, but it would have been nice to have some more Aerosmith 
 tunes on GH: Aerosmith. 
  
  The setlist for the game has only 40 songs total, which is pretty low for a GH retail, non DS release, 
 but there are definately some gems here.
  
  As a big music game and Aerosmith fan, I am glad I purchased Guitar Hero Aerosmith because of the 
 backstory to the band as well as all of the big Aerosmith hits on the disc. If you are not a big 
 fan of Aerosmith, this is probably not going to appeal to you. If you are a big Guitar Hero fan 
 and a casual Aerosmith listener, you might want to consider giving this one a shot.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero Aerosmith is a solid addition to the GH series, but the lack of DLC and missing 
 Aerosmith hits may make fans of both GH and Aerosmith a bit disappointed. Still, it's worth a purchase 
 only for hardcore GH and Aerosmith fans and a rental for those looking for some new tunes to play.
 
  
  Gameplay: It's the Same Ol' Song and Dance, but Aerosmith fans and Guitar Hero fans will enjoy 
 what Guitar Hero Aerosmith has to offer.
  
  Graphics: The animated Aerosmith looks really good and captures the look and feel of the band.
 
  
  Sound: With mostly original recordings, GH Aerosmith has a soild setlist, but several big Aerosmith 
 hits are missing.
  
  Value: Unless you are a big Aerosmith or GH fan, this is probably not worth $60.
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 Just Push Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dude_98
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The first Guitar Hero game to be centered around just one band - and it's what you'd expect. It's 
 Guitar Hero - based on Aerosmith...
  
  The interface of the game is very similar to that of Guitar Hero 3 - same graphics, mainly the 
 same characters, same interface on the fret board side of things - but there's a few changes between 
 this and Guitar Hero 3.
  
  First of all the Hammer ons and Pull offs are closer to that of the second game in the series - 
 however not quite as harsh. If you've only played Guitar Hero 3 then it might take you a while 
 to get adjusted, but once you're there it's just the same as the 3rd game.
  
  The game features around the band Aerosmith as the title suggests - in the career mode you "relive" 
 Aerosmith's career, starting from their first gig and beyond. There's 6 different sets of songs 
 - each containing two "warm-up bands" then 2 Aerosmith songs followed by a an Aerosmith encore. 
 This is a bit of a disappointment when GH3 and GH2 both had 8 sets.
  
  This game also features a few bonus songs - around 10 or so, all of which are performed by Aerosmith 
 or members of the band. There's no plans for DLC content on this game and I believe the final song 
 count is only 42 - And two of the songs are the same however are just different versions (Walk 
 this way) .
  
  Another change is in multiplayer - There's no co-op career this time round which is kind of sad. 
 A huge plus point to the games multiplayer is Pro-Face off has been improved, no longer do you 
 both need to play the same difficulty, great for casual - competitive play,
  
  The Achievements in this game are a huge let down, after one song I had 50 points. They're just 
 far too easy - which may give hope to those players who thought GH3's were too tough. Although 
 as with a lot of things in this game - there have been improvements with the achievements now stackable, 
 so you no longer need to beat it on easy as doing it on a higher difficulty will unlock that achivement.
 
  
  Overall this game gives you too little for too much. If you're bored of GH3 and want more songs 
 to play - Get Rock Band (solus) and enjoy that, much better value for money. It brings a lot of 
 good things forward but just fails to deliver on others.
  
  The only people who'll enjoy this game are hard core Guitar hero fans and casual Guitar hero fans 
 who also happen to like Aerosmith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Lately Guitar Hero's path has been a little typical of any popular franchise. While Guitar Hero 
 World Tour looks to take on the more critically acclaimed Rock Band, there are some still lingering 
 cash ins Activision has up their sleeves, and Guitar Hero: Aerosmith is the first, soon to be followed 
 by Metallica and then who knows what. 
  
  Lets get one thing out of the way, GH: A is Guitar Hero and you can't really change that. It is 
 pretty much an expansion pack to Guitar Hero III being that it has many of the same features and 
 plays the same way. If you're looking just to get a new Guitar Hero fix, check here because that 
 is what you'll find. But for anyone else, there isn't really anything new to warrant a purchase 
 here unless you're a huge Aerosmith fan. 
  
  While the game's set list isn't completely Aerosmith, it's not a lot of fun to play a Guitar Hero 
 game based off of one band. After a little while you'll want some variety. The good thing about 
 Guitar Hero 1-3 is that there was a ton of variety. That being said, playing songs like "Dream 
 On," "Sweet Emotion," and "Walk this Way (ft. Run DMC) " are very fun, but you have to wonder why 
 songs like "Crazy" and "I Don't Wanna Miss a Thing" got left out. 
  
  A few miscellaneous improvements are very aesthetic. The animation and mocap have been improved 
 a little bit, but only one models of the band and DMC, when you're playing other songs with the 
 Guitar Hero characters, the animations are as stiff as ever, and don't compare to the likes of 
 Rock Band. The achievements in this version are far more attainable than those of Guitar Hero III, 
 but other than that, there are no other real improvements.
  
  When it comes down to it, it's just Guitar Hero. And the fact that we're at a point where we can 
 say "it's JUST Guitar Hero" is a bit disconcerting. But like I said, some fans will see this as 
 a bastardization of the series, some will just want new Guitar Hero, and some are just wanting 
 a fix, and some will love it due to their love of Aerosmith, it's all up to preference. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Ok im going to make this short and sweet. I don't know if i like this game !
  
  Well i have Guitar Hero 3 so i thought i'd give this a go and i am kinda regreting that desicion 
 this game isn't awful but there is something cheap about it.
  
  I Think that this game is another flop just like rock in the 80s on guitar hero and don't get me 
 wrong i love the guitar hero series but unless your a freak about guitar hero or aerosmith then 
 this game is a NO NO.
  
  Summary: Well i gave it a 7 because i've seen the other reviews and they give ridiculous scores 
 like 10 ........ This game doesn't deserve a 10. All in all it is fun and very creative but damnit 
 it is boring and gets repetitive.
  
  In a few months time guitar hero 4 will hit the shelves so i advise you wait for that if your going 
 to get a guitar hero game.
  
  P. S The singer of guitar hero looks like a really pissed off fish having a go at singing .... Oh 
 and yes i like  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii60own
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  well to start off guitar hero areosmith has around 40 songs on it and 25 of them being from aerosmith, 
 if you like me and a fan a aerosmith this is a must have games hands down. Also I am a die hard 
 rap fan so Run DMC was a great add to the song (walk this way and king of rock) .
  
  The Thing that disapointed me about this game is the lack of songs. I payed 40 for 40 songs thats 
 like 1 a song ( which is around $2 a song ) when i bought GH3 for 70 (with guitar) and got over 
 70 songs with alot of downloadable content. Just hope GH Areosmith has alot of dwnloadable content 
 to get the number of songs on par with GH3
  
  Well the achievements are a hell of alot easier than GH3, just to put down a comparison. In GH3 
 its 2000 note streak on co-op (highest note streak achievement) but in this game its 600. Also 
 in single player its 1000 note streak in GH3 and only 500 in GH areosmith. i think it was a very 
 good idea for the creators to tone down the achievements difficulties because in GH3 it was just 
 SOOOOO hard to get most of the achievements, but i think they may have made them a little to easy 
 this time around. Hopefully make it perfect in world tour :)
  
  So like Aerosmith? Like Easy achivements while having a hell of a lot of fun? well GH areosmith 
 is a game for you. MUST BUY in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Ninja
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The essential game for any Aerosmith fan, so obviously any Aerosmith fan will love (or at any rate 
 like) it.
  And anyone who dislikes Aerosmith will not like this game (Duh) .
  
  I personally love Aerosmith so I like the game, and I think it's the best game in its genre, because 
 it's no different to the rest (Previous GH's and RockBand) because it's the songs that make the 
 game as the game play is identical.
  
  My only problems with the game is the fact that their most famous songs, like "Dude (Looks Like 
 A Lady) ", are not in the game but other less successful Aerosmith songs are. (WTF)
  And also therseems to be no Content Download for the rest of Aerosmiths songs.
  
  And RUN D. M. C 
 are in the game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
