-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/guitarhero2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb gameplay that deftly simulates the act of rocking.
 Competitive and cooperative multiplayer modes.
 74 total songs, 48 licensed from major bands.
 the practice mode is easy to use and wonderfully configurable.
 Leaderboards and downloadable content are hard to argue with.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not every song is a thriller.
 some of the cooperative parts are highly dull, even on expert.
 No online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 9.2, 63 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 7,759 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: RedOctane
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Apr 3, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A fantastic debut for the series on the Xbox 360, Guitar Hero II adds great new content and even 
 tweaks a few small problems from the PS2 version. 

  If you're an Xbox 360 owner, a lover of rock music, and someone with close to $100 burning a hole 
 in your pocket, your day has finally come. RedOctane's once PlayStation 2-exclusive Guitar Hero 
 series has come to the 360 in Guitar Hero II. As you would expect, this is primarily a port of 
 the PS2 version released last year, with all the same hard-rocking tracks and play modes. But the 
 360 version adds a significant chunk of content, with additional songs, online leaderboards, and 
 the promise of downloadable content. Longtime Guitar Hero fans might be a bit wary of spending 
 another big chunk of change for a new guitar and an updated version of a game they probably already 
 own, and that's fully understandable. But for 360 owners that haven't already invested heavily 
 in this series and have the unquenchable desire to get their rock on, Guitar Hero II is absolutely 
 a must-own.  

          Xbox 360 owners get their first shot at guitar heroism in Guitar Hero II.     

  For 
 those who aren't intimately familiar with the Guitar Hero series, here's a quick primer on how 
 it plays. The guitar controller features a strumming button, as well as five color-coded fret buttons 
 on the neck of the guitar. Onscreen, notes color coded the same way as the fret buttons travel 
 down the screen, and you need get your fingers on the correct fret buttons while strumming in time 
 with the notes. Each hit note scores you points, and creating lengthy combos ups a score multiplier. 
 Your progress is tracked by a "rock meter," and if you miss too many notes, you'll eventually hit 
 the red and fail the song. Furthermore, every now and again you'll gain "star power" by perfectly 
 hitting a section of notes. This star power feeds into a meter, and by tilting the guitar at an 
 opportune time, star power will deploy, giving you twice as many points per note as you'd normally 
 get. Oh, and there's a whammy bar.  

  That's a fairly technical explanation of what basically boils down to hitting the notes and making 
 with the rock. In the case of the Xbox 360 version, you'll be doing this using a different tool 
 than the PS2 version. The guitar controller is fashioned after the Gibson X-Plorer brand of guitar, 
 which features a more striking body design than the standard SG model the PS2 game used. Longtime 
 Guitar Hero fans might not love the change to the way the guitar strap sits. It hooks into the 
 back of the neck, as opposed to the body of the guitar, which occasionally leads to the strap getting 
 twisted, making it uncomfortable to play. This one quibble aside, the X-Plorer is a much more solid-feeling 
 controller than the SG model. The buttons are raised slightly higher off the neck, and they, as 
 well as the strummer, don't clack as much or as loudly as the PS2-model controller. You might also 
 run into some awkwardness if you like to hit the select button to deploy star power. But frankly, 
 you should be tilting the guitar anyway. It's all about showmanship, after all.  

  As mechanically excellent as the Guitar Hero series has been up to this point, the truth is that 
 much of its appeal comes from the song selection. The first Guitar Hero nailed the song list almost 
 perfectly, primarily focusing on memorable rock riffs that any armchair shredder would be stoked 
 to play. Guitar Hero II went a bit more obscure with its soundtrack, changing the focus from classic 
 riffs to insane solos and reckless acts of guitar wankery. Not a bad choice, mind you -- just a different 
 one. Of course, there are plenty of major artists to be found in this game. Just to name a few, 
 songs by Aerosmith, Cheap Trick, the Rolling Stones, Nirvana, Guns 'N Roses, Rage Against the Machine, 
 The Police, Megadeth, and Lynyrd Skynyrd all make an appearance. But wait, there's more! The 360 
 version adds 10 new songs to the mix, including tracks like Iron Maiden's "The Trooper," Rancid's 
 "Salvation," Pearl Jam's "Life Wasted," and, in the most inspired of selections, Rick Derringer's 
 "Rock and Roll Hoochie Coo." This brings the overall song total to 74, with 48 of those being licensed 
 tracks from major artists and the remainder coming from smaller independent bands.  

  While the song list might be bigger, there are definitely a number of included tracks that aren't 
 necessarily stand-outs. There are some legitimate classics here to be sure, like every metal head's 
 favorite love song, "Sweet Child O' Mine," or the Southern rock anthem "Free Bird." But if you're 
 going to get Aerosmith in your game, why would you pick a song like "Last Child" over any of their 
 numerous bigger, just as solo-heavy hits? And is "You Really Got Me"  really  the best Van Halen 
 song that could be dug up? Of course, even the oddball choices are usually still quite fun to play, 
 and there are a number of fantastically fun songs that you probably never would have thought of 
 on your own, like The Pretenders' "Tattooed Love Boys" or The Police's "Message in a Bottle." You 
 also probably won't be able to shake the feeling that you'd rather be playing just about any other 
 Van Halen song, though.  

          Weird as it is to say, online leaderboards totally make the 360 version of Guitar Hero 
 II the best one. Downloadable songs don't hurt, either.     

  Save for a couple of original master tracks (Primus' "John the Fisherman" and Jane's Addiction's 
 "Stop" from the original crop, as well as My Chemical Romance's "Dead!" and Toadies' "Possum Kingdom" 
 of the 360-exclusive tracks) , all the major licensed tracks are covers, played by studio musicians. 
 Some of the covers in the game are legitimately tough to pick out, such as the fantastically produced 
 "Carry on Wayward Son" by Kansas and "Woman" by Wolfmother. Others are a bit more scattershot in 
 quality. Some of the vocalists in particular don't come off much like the real-life singers. The 
 fake Ozzy Osbourne and Dave Mustaine in GH II aren't quite spot-on (which is odd, since the first 
 Guitar Hero game had near-perfect soundalikes for both vocalists) , and the guy portraying Zach 
 De La Rocha in Rage Against the Machine's "Killing in the Name" comes off like an awful rap-rock 
 karaoke performance. Still, these less-than-stellar examples are more aberrations than the norm, 
 and the vast bulk of the songs are excellent renditions, especially in the guitar parts; and in 
 a game about playing the guitar, ultimately that matters most.  

  Apart from the added songs and new controller, other 360-exclusive additions to the game include 
 online leaderboards and downloadable content. The leaderboards are pretty self-explanatory, and 
 they track your high scores across every single song in the game, and there's also an overall career 
 score that combines all your scores into one gigantic number. You can filter the career score to 
 include only the career mode or factor in high scores from other modes as well. Considering that 
 Guitar Hero is, by nature, a highly competitive game, the addition of leaderboards is a huge boon 
 to the game. Now you can finally show all your online buddies just how much you stink at "Psychobilly 
 Freakout." The downloadable content isn't currently up for download, but we do know that the bulk 
 of the new content is going to be added songs. Pricing isn't set at this moment, so things could 
 potentially get expensive. Still, having the option to add even more songs over time is pretty 
 awesome.     

  The holdover modes from Guitar Hero II have gone mostly unchanged, but are still excellent in their 
 own right. The PS2 version of Guitar Hero II saw the debut of the practice mode, which was a highly 
 welcome addition, especially considering the occasionally overwrought difficulty level of the harder 
 tracks. Since you aren't able to play through songs in quickplay or the career mode without being 
 tied to the rock meter (and potentially failing before you get to the end) , the new practice mode 
 lets you play through any of the songs without fear of failure. What's more, you can play any specific 
 section of a song you want, at the speed you want. Songs are broken down piece by piece, and you 
 can pick any starting and stopping section you please. When you complete songs in the quickplay 
 or career modes, you can access detailed stats that depict exactly how well you did on each individual 
 section, so it's not tough to figure out where you need to improve. Three slower speeds are included, 
 letting you slow a solo to a crawl so you can identify just how crazy that solo is.  

          Go ahead, use the practice mode all you want. Five stars on 'Jordan' will forever escape 
 you.     

  It's an incredibly useful tool for figuring out ways to best some of the game's peskier parts, 
 and it's very easy to use. There's even an option to jump right into practice mode from the options 
 menu that pops up when you fail a song in one of the other modes. Unfortunately, this mode doesn't 
 show star-power sections, nor does it give any indication of how close you might be to failing 
 a song. Not letting you fail is good, but some kind of indication to see just how badly you're 
 screwing up would have been nice. And being able to figure out where best to use star power would 
 also have been good, since often you can only survive some of these crazy solos with well-placed 
 star-power usage. The mode also lacks any sort of loop feature, meaning each time you complete 
 a section, you'll have to reload it to play again.  

  Career mode is where you'll spend much of your time initially as you work to unlock the game's 
 many songs. The career progression works much the same as it always has, with four sections broken 
 up by difficulty. One thing that has changed in the 360 version is the track order. While having 
 a different order to the set list might not sound like a huge deal, it improves the flow of the 
 career mode significantly, as the difficulty balance is much, much better. In the PS2 version, 
 there were some songs that felt totally out of whack where they were, and here the tweaks pretty 
 much eliminate that feeling, save for a few rare instances ("YYZ" is still way too easy to come 
 as late as it does) . As you play through the career, you'll unlock a bunch of new songs, as well 
 as earn cash to spend in the game's store. New characters, costumes, guitars, guitar finishes, 
 and yes, even songs can be purchased here. There are some truly fantastic axes to be unlocked, 
 most of which are licensed Gibson guitars, but a few of which are so comically bizarre that you 
 can't help but love them. Viking guitar, anyone?  

  Multiplayer includes two forms of competitive play. One has you and a friend trading off sections 
 of a song, and the other has the two of you playing through a whole song the whole time. The other 
 option is cooperative play, and in this mode, only one of you can play lead guitar. The other player 
 gets to pick up the rhythm guitar, or bass, depending on the song. When playing lead and rhythm 
 guitar together, the game splits up the guitar parts you've been playing in the single-player in 
 such a way that you realize you've often been playing two guitar pieces mashed into one all along. 
 There are times when rhythm sections are actually more challenging than the lead sections, though 
 they're also decidedly lacking in solo action, for the most part. The split between guitar and 
 bass is more pronounced. Bass is, after all, a more repetitive instrument, and some of the bass 
 parts in the game are flat-out boring. But a good number of them are also extremely fun, especially 
 in any song where the bass is a more pronounced instrument within a band, such as Primus or Rush. 
 Perhaps the scattered level of quality of the secondary parts is why these aren't available for 
 play anywhere else in the game besides here and practice mode. Still, you could easily argue that 
 in a band like Primus, the bass is practically the lead instrument, and not being able to play 
 the bass in even quickplay is a bit disappointing.  

  What's weird about the cooperative mode itself is that you don't always get the sense that you're 
 playing  with  someone, so much as playing next to another person. Obviously, the different instruments 
 play into each other within the song, but there's something slightly mechanical about the way the 
 two instruments play together in this mode. This is less a problem with rhythm guitar tracks and 
 mostly an issue in bass songs that aren't crazy in the way that the Rush or Primus songs are. Basically, 
 it's frequently hard to hear the bass guitar, even with the bass audio cranked up as much as it 
 is, so it's tough to gauge how much effect you're really having on the song when playing bass. 
 Seemingly, the developers realized this and tried to give the mode a bit more oomph by tying both 
 players into a single rock meter and combo multiplier. So if your friend is really tanking on their 
 part, you'll both lose your combo buildup and potentially fail the song. You even engage star power 
 by both tilting your guitars. While that could be potentially disastrous if you're playing with 
 a less-experienced player, the game mercifully lets you select individual difficulty levels for 
 each part in this mode.  

  As you would expect from any 360 game, Guitar Hero II on the 360 tosses achievements into the mix. 
 There are 50 achievements, and the difficulty of them covers both ends of the spectrum. There are 
 some jokingly easy achievements, such as the points you earn for failing a song on easy or refusing 
 to do an encore in the career mode. Then there are such gems as the "Yngwie Malmsteen" achievement 
 for getting a 1,000-note streak on a single song (if you don't know who that is, look him up, and 
 you'll get the association) , or the achievement for getting 500,000 points in a single song. You'll 
 get a bunch of achievements quickly and then have to work hard to get the rest. It's a nicely balanced 
 list. The only bummer is that the game still doesn't support online multiplayer, meaning you'll 
 need to drag another expert-player friend over to get all the cooperative multiplayer achievements. 

          If your buddy starts screwing up your note streaks, punch them in the face until they get 
 it right. It worked for the Brian Jonestown Massacre!     

  Guitar Hero II's graphics aren't exactly the most impressive out there, but the game has an explicitly 
 goofy and decidedly rock-and-roll in-joke visual style to it that just works. From guitarists like 
 Lars Umlaut, a hulking Norwegian death metal guitarist with a fancy for elaborate costumes and 
 breathing fire, to the insanely elaborate stage sets, with tons of flashing lights, pyrotechnics, 
 and big cutouts of the grim ripper fighting a giant octopus monster, among other things, you can't 
 be a rock fan and not chuckle at how totally bananas the game's look is. Granted, most times your 
 eyes will be squarely focused on the fret board and the notes flying at you, but even if you're 
 just catching it in the periphery, it's great to see. The 360 version of Guitar Hero II doesn't 
 do a ton to improve the overall look of the game. It runs in HD now, so some of the details of 
 the guitarists and sets are more discernable. Everything also looks crisper and brighter than it 
 ever did on the PS2, even if you're running in SD. You can't quite call it a great-looking 360 
 game, but the graphics more than get the job done.  

  That 360 owners can now see what PS2 owners have been enjoying so much over the last couple of 
 years with the Guitar Hero series, and do it with even more added content, is a fantastic thing. 
 The track list is gigantic, the multiplayer is a great deal of fun, the practice mode is a godsend, 
 and the downloadable content is sure to give this game a long shelf life. If you've never had the 
 opportunity to try Guitar Hero before, this is the definitive way to do it. PS2 owners might be 
 reluctant to drop nearly another $100 on a game they've already played a bunch, but there's an 
 investment-like quality to this game. Guitar Hero isn't going to be coming to the PS2 forever, 
 and with the series starting off with such a bang on the Xbox 360, it might just make investing 
 in Guitar Hero II again worth your while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (523 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  In 2005, Harmonix released Guitar Hero. Now, I will review it's sequel, Guitar Hero 2, which is 
 a great game, combining great songs with cool charcaters, awesome guitars, and an effective atmosphere. 
 
  
  The Good:
  -Dozens of great rock songs
  -Lots of crazy and difficult solos
  -Awesome character and guitar designs
  -Great graphics work
  -Cover singing is mostly good
 
  -Very Addictive
  
  The Bad:
  -Some of it is way too hard
  -Some of the singing is real bad
  
  Overall, The second Guitar Hero games is one of the best 
 games ever, and it's got lots of cool unlockables. You can play as a huge jock guy, a crazy-haired 
 hippy, a fat viking dude, and even the grim reaper. Your guitars range from coffins to sytche, 
 and there is lots of cool bands like Bloack Sabbath, Aersomith, Guns N Roses, Motley Crew and more. 
 I think that this game is a bit too hard on the higher difficulties, but it still rocks!!!!
  
  Overall, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I first got this game on PS2 and I found it to be a highly addicting, rewarding experience. It 
 had some great songs, and a cool Co-op mode. Now I borrowed the 360 version from my friend and 
 I find I am hopelessly immersed in the simplistic gameplay.
  
  PROS
  
  + Great graphics and art style.
  + Pretty sweet song selection
  + Co-op is a very nice addition
 
  + 10 more songs than the PS2 version.
  + Excellently designed achievements.
  
  CONS
  
  - Some of the cover bands suck.
  - Less songs than some of the newer games.
  - No online.
 
  - Glitched leader boards.
  
  Seriously, some people have like 999,999,999,999 on Easy or something for a few songs. The gameplay 
 is smooth sailing and the colored circles are very fun to look at. (Weird huh?) 
  This baby is like, 20 bucks at Gamestop for a whole lot of enjoyment. Highly recomended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshiman411
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Let me Just Tell you that GH2 is a pretty awesome game as it is but there are A LOT of down parts 
 to this legendary game, first I would like to mention that it does not have online play which sucks 
 ,especially if your a guy like me who pays $50 a year to have online play, then buys the game and 
 realizes that I cant play against my buds i other parts of the state. But a good thing about this 
 game is well... guess.... the game play. the Game play is really fun because of its wide highway 
 (the thingy that the gems are on) and its simplicity.
  A really bad thing about this game is that its looks like a game for 5 year old's , because the 
 graphics suck and half the characters look like there in a Children Program.
  The Song list is pretty amazing with well Known songs like "Stutter" and really unknown songs, 
 but 9/10 of the songs in Gh2 are NOT master tracks so there not the original songs and they're 
 and made by random people and all the songs sound like if they used fenders but really 7/10 of 
 those songs are supposed to be played with Gibson guitars so the sound more like the original songs 
 and for crying out loud the controller is a Gibson .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Guitar Hero II, it was an amazing experience. You truly felt like you were 
 a rockstar playing in a huge arena filled with thousands of screaming fans. But after playing countless 
 hours of Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, Guitar Hero: World Tour, and Rock Band. Guitar Hero 
 II simply feels like an okay rhythm game with no online play and setlist composed of nothing but 
 mediocre cover songs (with the exception of Primus's master track of John the Fisherman) . Guitar 
 Hero II is much more limited in how many ways you can play the game. You can play a Career which 
 lets you unlock songs and earn money to buy new things, Quick Play which simply lets you pick a 
 song and play it, or two-player co-op or versus mode. The Career mode is fun, but completing it 
 feels less satisfying than it does in Legends of Rock or World Tour. Arguably, the best feature 
 of Guitar Hero II is the setlist. The only problem is that it's entirely covers. Ranging from Cheap 
 Trick to Motley Crue, to Kansas, to Lynyrd Skynyrd, GHII's setlist covers nearly every genre of 
 rock. And while it would be nice to have a few more 60's songs (as well as a Rolling Stones song 
 that people would actually recognize) it's nearly perfect. And despite the covers, most of them 
 sound great, while some sound awful (Rage Against the Machine's Killing in the Name Of cover is 
 horrible) . In terms of graphics, they are decent, but far from pretty. The framerate is excellent 
 and the strumming and player's flying fingers on the guitar look excellent (In fact, it looks better 
 than in GHIII) . I never bothered playing co-op mode because I didn't have any friends who had a 
 guitar controller that worked with the Xbox 360. (And heck, Xbox 360's were still somewhat hard 
 to find when this game was new.) But the solo modes can easily keep you occupied. So if you've 
 never played Guitar Hero before and you're debating over which version to buy, get Guitar Hero 
 III: Legends of Rock or Guitar Hero: World Tour, they're much better! But if you still want to 
 give it a try, feel free. Just don't come crying to me if you don't like it as much as the newer 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  One day I was bored so I decided to pick this up at Gamestop for $19.99, pretty good deal. I chose 
 this after Guitar Hero III and when I played World Tour at my friend's house. The songs, in my 
 opinion, are not as good as the World Tour songs and nothing compared to the awesome songs on GHIII. 
 Some songs that were my favorite include Sweet Child O' Mine by Guns n' Roses, Dead! by My Chemical 
 Romance, and Killing In The Name by Rage Against The Machine. The songs are on the hard and expert 
 difficulty are a greater difficulty than those on III and WT in the middle of the career, but the 
 final songs are basically the same difficulty as the final songs in any other guitar hero game. 
 
  I did not like the fact an online play wasn't available for GHII even though I got it late. I also 
 found that the hammer-ons and pull-offs weren't as responsive as they were in III. Overall this 
 is a great game still even though some of the songs are booooring and never heard of. It doesn't 
 matter though because this is still guitar hero, and we all love guitar hero.
  AND I STILL DON'T LIKE ROCK BAND. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Well its Guitar Hero. You should know what the gameplay's like by now. I played this after GH 3 
 & Rock Band so theres going to be some comparisons.
  
  The track list isnt that brilliant IMO, theres a few good-great tracks but a lot are just okay 
 or bad. Just about everyone os a cover version too. You can tell this was before it became popular 
 & they could get the real artists on board. But on a whole they are good covers so you wont or 
 shouldnt really mind. 
  
  Where this does shine though is in the fret placements, the hammer ons & offs & the difficulty 
 level. First, the frets are just placed in the right place, or how you'd imagine them to be. It 
 just [i] feels [/i] right. Whereas the more recent GH 3 just seemed a bit random on some tracks. 
 
  
  The hammer ons & offs arent too forgiving or too hard either. On GH 3 you could press them at almost 
 anytime & it would usualy play it. On this you have to be bit smarter with your timing or you'll 
 miss it. But its nowhere near as hard (ie impossible) as they were in GH1 either. They are also 
 slightly easier than in Rock Band. The perfect balance? Possibly. 
  
  & lastly the difficulty level seems perfect on this one. On GH 3 its way too hard & on Rock Band 
 it seemed fine then it just spikes on the last couple of tracks. I played them on hard difficulty 
 by the way. This has some that were quite difficult towards the end, but a few practice goes later 
 I could scrape through. 
  
  So I prefer this for its fretwork & difficulty but the soundtrack in GH 3 is much better IMO. Although 
 I prefered it to Rock Bands. Obviously this is a personal thing & some of you may like GH 2's more 
 than both GH 3 & RB. Check out the set list & make up your own mind. I'd definitely recommend it 
 though even if you've played the others first. It was still fantastic fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 9/10
  +Song quality is outstanding.
  -Crowd effects are annoying and usually too loud.
  
  Music: 
 9/10
  +An amazing song list with many different genres and decades of rock represented.
  -Almost all of the songs are covers, and only a few are close to the real thing.
  
  Visual: 
 8/10
  +Same unique style from Guitar Hero I, but touched up for next-gen.
  +Venues look great and feature their own encore animations.
  -Not as good as other games from 
 the time period.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  +Hammer-On and Pull-Off system is improved since the first game.
  +Most songs are very fun to 
 play over and over.
  +Plenty of outfits and songs to buy.
  +Most of the really difficult songs are bonus tracks, and don't need to be beaten to continue your 
 career.
  -You probably won't go back to play this if you have Rock Band.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  +Playing Co-op with a friend is a lot of fun.
  +Songs with boring bass lines 
 have rhythm guitar instead, which will make whoever you're playing with a lot happier.
  -No online playability.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  So this game has been out for a while, and I've been so caught up in it that I failed to rate it... Well 
 shame on me! Now it's time that you know the greatness that is Guitar Hero II.
  
  So let's go back in time to the first Guitar Hero. You have a plastic guitar strapped to you. Your 
 friend wants to play. All you can do is go head to head and talk trash to each other. Wouldn't 
 you like to cooperate? Everyone likes to get along don't they. Multiplayer video games since the 
 dawn of gaming have been all about who is better at it. Frankly I've been gaming for a long time, 
 and I still lose a lot more then I win. In fact I prefer to team up in order to tackle a problem, 
 that's where Guitar Hero II comes in. 
  
  Guitar Hero II is a really good update to the first one. It includes many modes that I believe 
 the first one lacked. While the argument could be made that the first game had more of a head banger's 
 delight sound track to it, Guitar Hero II includes some great metal titles and also brings in many 
 classic rock titles as well. It's a far more firendly game. Although there are several covers that 
 are less then stellar (see the Alice in Chains and the Pearl Jam covers) the majority of the songs 
 are well covered, sound great and are good choices (although I still yearn for some Led) . The play 
 list has been expanded from the previous game, that adds some more replay value. 
  
  The graphics are slightly better. Not much has changed from the engine. The last group of players 
 are here, they have added some new ones that are total spoofs of well known gutiarists. The thing 
 I wish the most is that they create a "make your own rocker". There are more animations, more details, 
 some really good lighting and shadowing, all in all it's a slightly better looking package. 
  
  As stated before the sound quality is pretty good. The music for the most part sounds great. 
 The sounds are wonderful, the crowd really gets into your good playing and heckles you for the 
 bad. Plus the missed note sound is so grateing you don't want to miss any. 
  
  The best part of Guitar hero II is the multiplayer content. You can go head to head, cooperative, 
 and head to head where you get the same exact notes. That way no one can cry wolf. The only issue 
 is that only two people can play. So there will probably be a line at your parties for this. 
 
  
  Guitar Hero II is a friendly game for the casual gamer, and a hard core game for the person looking 
 for a challenge. If you are playing on a higher difficulty, the game forces you to play better. 
 It really makes you feel like you are a rock star jamming with the worlds greatest band. The "tear 
 drop" musical scheme is good, and I can't picture playing a "guitar wannabe" sim anyother way. 
 It's no wonder that the game has struck quite the cords (total pun) with players around the world. 
 It's a wonder it hasn't been thought of before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  When the first Guitar Hero was released, it was something completely different. While there had 
 been other rhythm games long before Guitar Hero, they hadn't made much of a splash outside the 
 arcades or Japan. Guitar Hero offered a fantastic guitar shaped peripheral and a song list to die 
 for, and shot to super stardom with little effort. Unfortunately however, Guitar Hero II suffers 
 from a lack of any real improvements and a decent song list to boot.
  
  GHII plays exactly the same as the fist game, but for those who haven't been tearing things up 
 for a good while, the basic gameplay is very simple to understand. On the plastic guitar you play 
 the game with, there are five coloured buttons and a little strumming bar. On the screen, you have 
 a barrage of coloured notes coming down the screen, and when the notes hit the bottom line, you 
 have to strum and hit the corresponding button on the guitar. There's also a whammy bar which you 
 can push up and down on extended notes. There are certain notes which are small stars, and if you 
 complete the set, then you'll attain a small amount of star power, which acts as a score multiplier. 
 At the end of each song, you'll get a rating out of five stars and some cash to buy various bonuses. 
 
  
  In this respect, Guitar Hero II is fine, as it plays just how you would expect it to, although 
 there have been a few bumps in difficulty since the first game. For instance, there are now triple 
 chords instead of just double chords, and there is now more emphasis on hammer ons and pull offs. 
 What makes the higher difficulty somewhat more bearable is the new Training mode which allows you 
 to choose any part of any song, and play it at a much slower speed in order to really master it, 
 though it's depressing that this is the only notable improvement over the first game.
  
  So what does make Guitar Hero II such a disappointment? A lot of things, actually. Firstly, the 
 song list is dreadful. The first game had a wonderful set-list filled with well known classics 
 and undiscovered gems that resonated with me at least long after I was done with the game. GHII 
 has complete garbage from most of the bands that have been chosen to be included. Why would I want 
 to play "Life Wasted" by Pearl Jam when there are dozens of better, and less repetitive, songs? 
 Warrant's "Cherry Pie" is easily one of the worst songs ever, and having Kiss in a game is always 
 a bad sign. Even the songs that are obvious classics, such as Guns 'n Roses "Sweet Child of Mine", 
 and Nirvana's "Heart Shaped Box" are butchered by people who have blatantly never heard the original 
 version, as if they had, they would have never sung it so bad. The only song that is worth anything 
 is the token Freezepop song "Less talk, more rokk", and that's a bonus song!
  
  Further problems arise with regards to almost everything else. For a 360 port of a PS2 game, there 
 doesn't seem to be any real graphical upgrade, apart from the generic use of light bloom to make 
 everything look shiny. There is no online play, which was granted for in the PS2 version, but on 
 a system where online is so important; the lack of it really does detract. Finally, the downloadable 
 content available on Xbox Live is dreadful and overpriced, to the point where you just shouldn't 
 bother at all. 
  
  After six months of continuously playing the original Guitar Hero, and becoming desperate for new 
 material to work on, being lumped with GHII was saddening, as I soon lost the urge to continue 
 as most of the songs just didn't appeal to me, and the ones that did had been murdered by Harmonix. 
 While most second albums are a sophistication of the original, GHII falls flat on its face compared 
 to the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 was the first Guitar Hero game I've played and I have to say, it was fun as hell. 
 The whole Guitar Hero series is easily one of the most innovative games I've seen and Guitar Hero 
 2's music selection is pretty damn good... for the most part.
  
  Some of my personal favorite songs from GH2 would be "Surrender" by Cheap Trick, "Sweet Child of 
 Mine" by Guns N' Roses, "Carry on My wayward Son" by Kansas, "Crazy on You" by Heart and of course 
 "Free Bird" by Lynyrd Skynyrd. Although there are a decent amount of awesome songs like these, 
 the game seems to have it's share of mediocre songs as well. When playing through the single player 
 mode, there are times when you wish you could just skip some of the songs because they aren't fun 
 to play. Luckily, there are quite a few gems that will make up for the boring parts. 
  
  All and all, GH2 is a blast. I would recommend this to anyone who doesn't mind rocking out like 
 an idiot with a plastic guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is the second volume in the highly popular Guitar Hero series. I started play with the 
 third one, so this game is like a prequel for me. As such, I can see the differences, one of which 
 is a beginner's setting that is so simple I beat it in under a couple of hours. Literally. I would 
 have appreciated more of a challenge, but then, it's fun just to get to learn the songs. 
  
  Much of the selections are classic rock and metal. Fine by me. Still, I would also like to 
 see a bit more old-school alternative -- this many games in, and still no chance to take a hack 
 at the solos in "Shoplifters of the World" or "Monkey Gone to Heaven." You can't have everything, 
 though. 
  
  I love a game that's just fun. I think Guitar Hero has made people a lot more interested in playing 
 music, and that's an added benefit.
  
  This is a perfect party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugsrock120
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  When you hear Guitar Hero 2, you think of the Guitar, the buttons. When I hear off Guitar Hero 
 2 I think of Disappointment. Don't get me wrong. Im a fan of the series. Just not a fan of GH2. 
 I own GH3 and GH: Aerosmith. 
  
  I rented GH2 and thought it was just like GH3. Fun, Exciting, Cool. Until I got to the song. One 
 of my favorites, Sweet Child O' Mine by Guns N' Roses. But the thing is, the GH2 version is a cover. 
 Most of them are covers but this cover was CRAP! The singing sounded NOTHING like Axl Rose's singing. 
 The guitar was nothing like Slash. When I play GH I want to feel like Im actually playing in the 
 REAL band.
  
  I wish it had a story to it. That would have been neat. Instead of just a map showing your van 
 moving from city to city and making wierd human-made screeching and horn sounds.
  
  One thing I really am glad about is in GH3 how they really made those great changes to it. Like 
 how the frickin' song titles actually now HAVE the artist under them instead of going, "Who the 
 hell made this song?" and then finding out once your actually playing the song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, but I like Guitar Hero 3: Legends or Rock a little more than I like Guitar 
 Hero 2. But I love both. Guitar Hero 2 is a great Guitar Hero game! If you want a Guitar Hero game 
 for the 360, get this instead of Guitar Hero Aerosmith. The game has like 70 awesome tracks, and 
 almost all are worth playing! The guitar that comes with the game (x-plorer guitar) is wired, which 
 means that you will be restrained to the tv, and feel imprisoned, but having fun. The start and 
 select buttons can be hard to reach on the x-plorer guitar, but thankfully I always tilted the 
 guitar. I like the character models a lot better than Guitar Hero 3's character models. For lefties 
 like me, there is always the lefty flip option. Be sure to pick this game up soon, if you liked 
 other guitar heroes and have a Mircosoft Xbox 360! Its great, and I was able to find a new bundle 
 in the middle of this years July! Sweetness! Also, The starpower effects are nice and add more 
 like into your favorite guitar hero characters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything I expected. The was great, the sound track was amazing, and the characters 
 were like I was dreaming of a game like this for years and years. If you have never played guitar 
 hero series you should be shot and buried in a unmarked grave. You know what I mean when you can 
 say hey I have friend who doesn't event know what the more than 90% of the tracks in the game but 
 they still play it. This was a instant classic back when it started to surface when they were going 
 to make a game that the controller for the game was shaped like a kid's version of a guitar. To 
 my surprise the game was a game that would just make you want to do the crazies thing in the world 
 because they actually made a game that made you fell like a actual guitar player. But i don't mean 
 to disrespect the game but they could have done a little better. What i mean was that some of the 
 songs drove me to want to go do a motley crue (what mean is put on make-up, pink spand-x, do lines 
 of coke, trying to get my hair to the puffiest hair style in the whole concert, and switch playing 
 wise from singing about the devil to singing about smoking in a boys room) . This Game how ever 
 made me fell right at home with the music and the fell of actually not caring about what people 
 think or what they might want you to do with your life like in the Twisted Sister song "Were not 
 going to take it" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ever since the immersion of the first Guitar Hero experience on the PS2, it captivated guitar enthusiasts 
 and avid gamers alike with it's unique and innovative control style and simulation. Now alas we 
 have the sequel, an extremely great and kick ass setlist for you to explore without the bombardment 
 of it's sequels and spin-offs to come.
  
  Gameplay:
  Now that Guitar Hero has been released on the 360, we not only get stuffed in the rectum with achievements, 
 but more songs than ever, leaderboards and a new, redesigned guitar controller which is dubbed 
 as the "X-plorer". The gameplay in every Guitar Hero games were always highly addictive and immersive 
 nevertheless ranging from exact timing on the chords and strumming on the guitar to simulate the 
 appropriate responses and avoid missing a string and hearing that HURRGGENNN moment emit from the 
 speakers on your TV. The difficulties range from sickingly easy 3 buttons to GODDAMMIT THIS VIAGRA 
 IS MAKING ME HARDER THAN GERMAN PHYSICS expert.
  
  Graphics:
  Even with the HD power of the Xbox 360 at hand there is an illuminous array of vibrant lights across 
 the board on your simulative guitar screen. The singer, drummer and lead guitarist although are 
 finely polished could use some texture work though. 
  
  Sound:
  If the sound were anything less than superb than the score would sink at least 2 HEFTY points. 
 The range of musical precision is on par with all of your reactions and movements ranging from 
 original recordings to those bland, tasteless but yet passable cover artists. Everything is in 
 melody and in sync and at your fingertips.
  
  Control:
  Using the X-plorer guitar controller you'll find yourself living your own rock legend experience 
 as the strummer and on command colorful button prompts never miss a beat. Although I found in the 
 beginning depending on if you have a HDTV or not you may have to tune your guitar in the options 
 menu. 
  
  Overall:
  Guitar Hero II and it's predecessor alike are both unique and highly addictive games that offer 
 gamers an escape from the real world as you enter the life of an amateur guitarist that rises to 
 the hall of fame. With plenty of tracks that are well over 60 I believe if I'm not mistaken, a 
 ton of difficulty modes and addictive songs that will keep you playing long after the 99 sequels 
 come out for it, this game is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Intro
  
  GH2 Is the best GH in the series hands down. It hit that sweet spot in every long-running game 
 series where the developers had hit the prime and knew exactly what they were doing with the tools 
 at hand.
  
  Overview
  
  So GH2 didn't have any new features over GH1, aside from more characters, guitars, downloadable 
 songs etc. but the gameplay and songs are perfectly put together. It slots together very nicely. 
 As usual the story follows the tale of a budding guitarist as he rises through the ranks of fame, 
 completing songs as he goes.
  
  Gameplay
  
  See Above
  
  Presentation
  
  The game is presented very slickly, and everything is very well detailed and presented. The actual 
 in-song interface looks almost 3D cartoony, but suits the game very well, surprisingly.
  
  Replayability
  
  In fact I'm off to play it right now. BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Okay, if you didn't understand what I said in the title, then basically, the deal is, when you 
 choose hard or expert, you have to play all the 5 songs, plus the Encore. Now, I found some songs 
 from that game, that I didn't listen to, and didn't know, but found them quite cool, and some of 
 them old singles which have very good melodies.
  
  I absolutely adore very lengthy stories, which probably make me a fan of RPGs. This game, can be 
 cool to play for a bit, but seriously, to play ALL the songs in the game? I can play hard on Guitar 
 Hero II, but the main thing about Guitar Hero III was, that they usually had 3 good songs, and 
 one sucky song in each category. That way, I could've skipped the bad song. Now, in Guitar Hero 
 2 I have to play all the songs. There are many songs better than many songs in Guitar Hero III, 
 but many of them equally suck as songs in GH III.
  
  The gameplay, it's pretty much the same as with Guitar Hero 1 and 3, and Rock Band's guitar part. 
 I personally don't own Rock Band, because it costs over 300$ here, but Guitar Hero is pretty decent 
 to buy. The graphics on the neck, the guitar's neck are definitely not better than Guitar Hero 
 III. I, as a graphic designer liked the idea of when you whammy, then it's half invisible, the distortion 
 that appears on your chord. But Guitar Hero II has too much of a plastic look to the guitar neck. 
 Now, the other thing, the "Rock Meter". The Rock Meter definitely falls and rises much, much faster 
 than in Guitar Hero III. Even if you play Dragonforce's, Through the Fire and Flames 100% on expert 
 in Guitar Hero III, when you have to go somewhere for a second, want to go get a drink, ice cream, 
 food or whatever, and you want to press the pause, then you may not find it, because it's too damn 
 small. By the time you find it, on expert, there are so many notes, the Rock Meter may have fallen 
 into the red section, or downright failed. And also, I don't know, who said Guitar Hero II is easier 
 than Guitar Hero III? The songs in the beginning may be super easy for the hard difficulty. But 
 when you travel from place to place, tour to tour you may notice, that the difficulty advances 
 faster than in Guitar Hero III. So the 7th and 8th can be pretty hard, if you're as "n00b" as me.
 
  
  Now, the store isn't as good also, it features 3 characters, very little guitar choice, some outfits, 
 some finishes, but if you play Guitar Hero III, you may notice, that Guitar Hero II's store falls 
 short. 
  
  The notes interface has been already discussed, but one thing I personally don't like, is that 
 the menus. Well, the track list, where you choose your songs is on a paper. That may be cool, but 
 again, me as a a graphic designer, I like more detailed and variable designs. And the menus, where 
 you choose your difficulty, loading screen etc they're all filled with horrendous pictures with 
 men with freakin enourmous pimples, eyes that are half-way out of their head, huge tongues hovering 
 over their mouths, and usually a crowd or a group of monstrous humans. Many would agree, but I 
 think that is ugly. Just plain ugly. But you choose. 
  
  The controller is pretty much the same, only it's colored white, it's modeled as a Gibson Xplorer, 
 it has freakin small "pause" and "select" buttons, it has different stickers, and the worst, it's 
 wired.
  
  Okay, I don't have anything to add, so I recommend, if you don't live in America, go pick up this, 
 if you do, atleast pick up this game guitar, and the rest of the Rock Band's gear. But even if 
 you own Rock Band, and get tired of the drums or singing, play this. :)
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10
  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  Add-ons (Guitar Controller) - 8.5/10
  Sound - 9/10
 
  Accessibility (all the songs, outfits etc) - 8/10
  Replay Value 4/10
  = 8,7
  I calculated the score from an average of these ratings, but I didn't include replay value, as 
 that is completely up to the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4
Date: May 25, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Well I finally got a chance to rent this. I wanted to rent the first one which had "Iron Man" on 
 it but got this. People say this is the best one. I beg to differ. 
  
  Yes I use a controller but that makes no difference when it comes to the songs. I only really liked 
 1 song and "kinda" liked 2 others. Everything just seem kind boring. GH 3 seems to offer more of 
 a variety then this one. Theres barley even anything to buy or do unlike in GH 3. You even have 
 to buy the bonus songs which kinda sucks too. However I did like seeing some characters that weren't 
 in GH 3. I wish they were back.
  
  I also didn't like the weird notes stringed together sometimes. They would be connected to each 
 other. Probably easier on a guitar but not so much so on a controller. Other then that songs aside 
 its the same as GH 3 really. Just not as much stuff all around. I'd say buy it only if you like 
 the songs in the game. Rent it first otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero reamins to this very day, a cultural phenomenon. People -- like me -- are obsessed 
 with that game. Of course, they needed a sequel to add more awesome songs to play. And fortunately, 
 RedOcatane and Harmonix don't let you down.
  
  THe gameplay is just about the same as Guitar Hero, which is by no means a bad thing. Unfortuanetly, 
 the big let down here is the soundtrack. Guitar Hero's was virtually perfect. However, GH2's has 
 a lot of songs that you probably don't know, and most of them aren't as fun to play. For example, 
 if you're going to have Aerosmith in your game, I'd expect something like Walk this Way or Sweet 
 Emotion. Last Child?! The f**k is that?! I'd never heard of that song until of this game, and I 
 didn't like it. Same for Alice In Chains. I'd expect Man In the Box. But no, They picked Them Bones 
 (awful piece of s**t) . Howveer, just because of that doesn't mean that the tracklist is total crap. 
 There are good and memorable songs, like Shout At the Devil, You Really Got Me (The Van Halen version) , 
 War Pigs, Sweet Child O' Mine (my favorite song to play) , Jessica, Killing In the Name, Laid To 
 Rest and of course, Free Bird. Another downfall is that you can't play online, but you can download 
 various track packs (for a whopping $6.25)
  Besides the lackluster soundtrack, GH2 is an excellent sequel to the acclaimed Guitar Hero. Have 
 a rockin' good time with this one, because you probably will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was so new and fresh when it came out most people didn't even realize how great it 
 was until after it's sequel came out. GH2 takes everything from GH1 and amplifies it. The graphics 
 are better, there's more and better songs, it have a tremendously improved multi-player and has 
 been ported to the 360. I have played both the ps2 version and the 360 versions in there entirety 
 and without a doubt the Xbox version is superior. It has extra tracks, a 1080 picture and downloadable 
 content. Even the tweaking of the setlist is welcome and better. 
  
  If a game deserves to launch Guitar Hero into a cultural phenom, GH2 is the one to do it. It has 
 done this and propelled Harmonix into a whole new realm of gaming. GH2 is the game that turned 
 the Guitar Hero franchise from "that silly music game that you play in the basement when you are 
 alone" to the "socially acceptable party toll that every one plays together" that is has become. 
 
  
  Now if you didn't like GH1 and you think strumming a tiny plastic guitar is stupid or your not 
 secure enough with yourself to look like a fool engaging star power then obviously GH2 is not the 
 title for you. For everyone else, GH2 is a game that everyone in your family will enjoy and can 
 build friendships and enemies at the same time. 
  
  I look forward to moving on to GH: Encore, 3 and Rock Band, these are exciting times in Video Games 
 and Guitar Hero has created a silver lining on an already beautiful library of current gen titles.
 
  
  One thing does bother me though. There are a few songs on the game where Harmonix took the liberty 
 in adding more detailed guitar parts to make the game more interesting on easier songs... this is 
 not ok. If you don't like the way the original was recorded then use a different song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsc23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is cool and all but i got sick of it way too easily, once i got rock band i got into 
 that, rock band is longer, harder, funner and just much better. what i am trying to say is that 
 rock band is much better, im not saying that guitar hero 3 is bad.
  i hope that they make the next guitar hero more like rock band, that would be soooo cool. they 
 should make a next rock band!! that would be so much cooler than a nother guitar hero. i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay so lets just start this with saying, they have great songs on this one. One of my favorites 
 of all times. Sweet Child O' Mine, Carry on my WayWard Song, Free bird, and so much more. This 
 game is a very long and challenging game but at the same time it is so much fun to play. You can 
 go in career mode, quickplay, multiplayer, and online. This game has it all and is so much fun 
 to play. Guitar Hero II is the second best game in this series. With all the great songs, guitars, 
 extra songs, shopping you can do is where it is at. You can play this game so much and not get 
 bored with it at all. If you want a fun and a game where you can just invite friends over to play 
 and have a blast, this is the game to do that with. This game is a challenging game and the better 
 you get at it the more fun it is to play. Even though it is challenging it is so much fun to play 
 and try to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I played this game second, after already havign played GH3 and dominating it until the end. This 
 game severely lacks compared to GH3 so it was sort of a drag when I started with GH3 and then moved 
 down to this. But if I had played this game first I know I would have enjoyed it more because GH3 
 would not have come out at the time.
  
  This is an extremely fun game with less to fofer than GH3, I would suggest buyign GH3 over this 
 hands down, but for those who wanted more songs to play, and had not played this yet, it would 
 be a great game to pick up.
  
  What this game lacks is the note streak, which I like in GH3 in which you can check how long your 
 streak it... GH2 does not have this and GH3 does. Also GH2 has fewer characters than GH3 does, 
 but that is typical when a game advances that more things get added. Another thing that really 
 dissappointed me about this game was the fact that nearly EVERY SONG is a cover of someone elses 
 original song, there are pretty much no original songs sung by the original artist. Once again 
 I am certian that is because this game came out a while ago before Guitar Hero was hyped up and 
 it was probably harder to get the rights to put in real songs from the artists when this came out, 
 and as the game grew more popular artists were probabyl more willing to give our their rights to 
 songs as seen in GH3.
  
  Overall this is a stellar and awesome game, severely lacking compared to GH3, but this game is 
 definately an awesome addition to anyone's collection and I would recommend playing this game FIRST 
 before GH3 so you can see the game's progress as it moved on to GH3, otherwise if you play this 
 after GH3 you will definately notice what this game lacks in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_T
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was a revolution in gaming, with it's slight different approach to musical gaming. 
 With a guitar shaped control pad, the world's 360 owners waited to strum their way into stardom 
 (Xbox Live stardom that is!)
  
  With a great list of rock classics, and some indie bands as well, the players are in for many hours 
 of fun playing Guitar Hero 2.
  
  The difficulty of this game is dependant, like any game, on how skilled the player is, and this 
 game this is no different. Depending on how well you train, and how good your reflexes are, you 
 can gain scores in the 100'000 without breaking a sweat. And the Xbox Achievement list makes you 
 go for it, as with a series of high set points to gain this will push people even further to become 
 one of the best.
  
  There is truly no real faults with the game, but it is not perfect. Sometimes the song you play 
 does not fit in time with the guitar's notes, and feels off and late, which can be quite distracting 
 when your blasting out a main solo.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is still the favourite of the series so far, though the others are still classics 
 in the gaming world. And with the news of the Aerosmith version coming soon, Activison hope to 
 very soon, be rubbing their hands as the money falls onto their laps.
  
  Pros:
  - The music is amazing, and it really feels like your playing in with the song
  - The controls 
 are simple to master
  - The crowd makes the gigs feel real, and they push you on
  
  Cons:
  - At times parts of the songs can be tricky to get for casual players
  - Not enough 
 songs!
  
  Liquid_T
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun every time I play it. Granted I was pretty bad when I started , struggling on 
 the easy songs, but as the songs got harder it became easier to play the guitar shaped controller 
 and eventually it was easier to play every song there was. Which is one of the things I very much 
 enjoy about Guitar Hero II. It progresses very well so that if you really enjoy it and want to 
 be insanely good at it you don't have to constantly keep failing songs to get there. It kind of 
 works you to every new difficulty. Plus if your just looking for a good time with some of your 
 friends, it is fun for everyone even if they have never played before. However, the true reason 
 this game is so awesome is its song choices. Honestly, how can you go wrong with songs like Cherry 
 Pie, Sweet Child O' Mine, and Free bird (you can never go wrong with Free bird) . Even after you 
 have played through every song a hundred times there are so many great ones that you never get 
 bored of playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  With the launch of the XBOX 360, Microsoft has been searching for the first game to actually bring 
 a lot of people to it's new console. The port of Guitar Hero II is a good start. Guitar hero II 
 in most respects is no different than its playstation counterpart. They are basically the same 
 game. Although those that haven't yet got GH2 and have a 360 you should really pick this game up. 
 As it fixes the hammer on pull off system and contains bonus tracks that the playstation 2 doesn't 
 have. The explorer guitar is smaller than the old gibson, and the buttons feel closer. This is 
 great for smaller people, but for those of a larger size (like myself) i feel like the explorer 
 is a bit to compact and i feel like im playing with a toy instead of a real guitar. The game doesn't 
 have online co-op, but an online leaderboard, which is perfectly fine, but i guess they didn't 
 want to have to redo the entire game. The game runs almost as smoothly as GH2 for the PS2, except 
 in a few moments the game kinda lags and causes you to say "what was that all about?" Other than 
 that it has what you would expect from the guitar hero games. Adding pro face off, which is face 
 off, but both people play the entire song on the same difficulty. It also has downloadable content 
 for the first guitar hero just in cased you missed out on some rockin good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylin_prince
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  3 words awesome video game. what you really do in the game is you have you play notes with the 
 guitar and play tight songs like madhouse, free bird, and cherry pie but to gett all these songs 
 you have to play it in carrer mode where you get to choose from axl steel (arena rock and thrash 
 metal guitsrist) izzy sparks (80's metal guitarist) pandora (new wave guitarist) lars umlaut 9black 
 metal/detah metal guitarist) judy nails ( grunge guitarist) casey lynch ( modern rock guitarist) 
 and three 70's rockers xavier stone, clive winston, and eddie knox the last guitarist is grim ripper 
 .choose your guitar and rock like there's no tommorow this is one of the greatest games ever and 
 i suggest you play it if you like rock or not. the covers suck but i dont care it's a fun game 
 and ithink everyone can enjoy it. long live guitar hero! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game i got on the xbox 360. WHen i first played it, i was addicted to it. So 
 was my older sister. We played it all the time. Why because it is a great game. like the title 
 hint hint. The controls are easy and simple, press the same color as on the screen coming at you, 
 and strum the "strum bar." i dont know what it is called so thats what i am going to call it. =) . 
 anyways you strum it up or down. Then it has a great "band mode". where you complete songs and 
 then you go to different places. Guitar hero 2 has great songs such as strutter, them bones, and 
 cherry pie " (which by the way i own at on easy) " It has about 7 starting characters plus you can 
 unlock more. You can also unlock new songs like trogdor (which is awsome) . you can unlock guitars, 
 costumes.... so on so on. You can do the tutorials (which if you do all the tutorials on the 360 
 you get an acivement) . you can practice songs very slowly or very fast. I give this game a 9.3 
 out of 10 where 0 the worst and 10 the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II was my first rhythm game that I had ever owned. It's pretty fun as a multiplayer 
 game or if you simply have a friend over and you are passing off the controller to try and set 
 a high score. However, the controller itself is pretty annoying. You can't adjust any parts of 
 the guitar other then a strap that is optional. So if you happen to be a taller individual with 
 a larger wingspan, you'll feel cramped into playing in an uncomfortable position. One great thing 
 about the guitar however is that it's both lightweight and can be used by anyone who is left handed 
 simply by flipping it and changing a setting in the options menu.
  
  Overall it's fun, but a lower score is given due to lack of songs and variety adn to the difficulty 
 and the standard guitar having no adjustable pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The twenty first century seemed so dissapointing for rhythm games. DDR was basically the same thing 
 every time and other rhythm games really brought nothing new to the table. It felt like rhythm 
 games were just going to die, but then in 2005, a god came. This god was known as.. Guitar Hero. 
 Guitar Hero really kept people playing. It amazed us all because you could shred to your favorite 
 songs without having to learn it. It was a truley amazing game. The sequel had to be better than 
 a game thats incredibly hard to beat. It succeded. Its better than the original for numerous reasons. 
 Could it be the inclusion of over 70 songs, or maybe amazing co-op, possibly that its sometimes 
 insane difficulty keeps players wanting more, or maybe its D.) all of the above as well as other 
 reasons. GH 2 has an improved single player mode as well as terrific co-op play. Oh and did I mention 
 leaderboards to see if your totally rockin or totally suckin? Yeah, its all here. Jamming to some 
 of your favorite songs (my favorites are The Trooper, Heart Shaped Box, and Beast and the Harlot) 
 is incredibly cool. Also, you can jam to songs you haven't even heard of and end up liking them 
 (Psychobilly Freakout!) . The game just blows my mind. Newbies don't be frightened. The game is 
 not that difficult for beginners on the easy difficulty. But pros don't be alarmed, it still has 
 some insanely difficulty songs on exper (Freebird, Jordan, Trogdor) . Anybody who likes music, which 
 is pretty much everyone will enjoy this game. The game is also perfect for new gamers. The only 
 flaws I can find are that it doesn't seem to difficult and some of the songs aren't to good. In 
 conclusion, the game just rocks. Buy it, its worth it!
  
  Pros: Totally addicting gameplay, great for new gamers, great soundtrack, better than the original.
 
  
  Cons: Some of the songs aren't so great, sometimes feels too easy.
  
  Gamespot Score: 9
  Real Score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabio_21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  My palms were sweaty. My knees were shaking. My blood was pumping. The crowd was screaming.
  I help up my guitar... and missed the first note.
  Welcome to Guitar Hero.
  
  Man, this game 
 is AWESOME! Seriously! You get the actual feel of playing a guitar. Before you go all "I bet you 
 never even saw a real guitar" I play a real guitar, it's quite different. You won't learn how to 
 play a real guitar on GHII, but the feeling is there.
  
  The songs are really great. Yeah, sure, there may be MANY covers, but they aren't really bad. You 
 have all sorts of great guitar filled songs. From Nirvana to Guns N' Roses, from Cherry Pie to 
 Free Bird, you gonna love some one. 
  You can also download some new songs for cost of M$Points.
  
  The game has 4 difficulty levels: 
 Easy, Medium, Hard and Expert.
  Easy is for the absolute beginner to get a hang of the game mechanics. You use 3 fret buttons. 
 You'll be over it in 1 or 2 hours of gameplay.
  Medium is the real 'easy'. You use 4 fret buttons. First songs are really simple, and last ones 
 are more complex, but never too hard.
  Hard is the real deal. You use all 5 fret buttons. It requires effort and practice to master this 
 mode.
  Expert is MADNESS! It's just like Hard but with more notes and at higher speed!
  
  This game is a blast in Single Player, but the real beef is plugging the guitar on your 360 during 
 a party. Everyone will love this game. Who wasn't born with "guitar god syndrome" and just likes 
 to sit and watch, will enjoy their sitting and their watching also.
  What's AMAZING about this game is that everyone plays it! Either they're good at it or not, everyone 
 likes to give it a shot with the guitar!
  
  This game is fun! Even my mother plays it! Even my dad plays it! Every single person that has walked 
 into my room has asked if he/she could try out the guitar.
  
  Talking about the guitar, it resembles a Gibson X-plorer. It is white.
  It may feel a bit uncomfortable 
 at first, but it's not really. It is way smaller than a real guitar, but that's not really important. 
 With this size even 5 year-olds can play it.
  
  
  :::THE BOTTOM LINE:::
  
  FUN: This game is a BLAST!! One of the most fun games I ever played! Everyone will enjoy it. It 
 will be the center of attention of any party, even the ladies (and especially the ladies) will 
 love to play it.
  
  HARDNESS: The 4 difficulty levels provide a good challenge for everyone. It is as hard as you want 
 it to be, depending on the music you want to play.
  
  VALUE: Go ahead! Buy the thing! 90 bucks, why not? It will be one of the most (if not the most) 
 valuable game in your 360 collection! And why not get also the tracks available on Live?
  
  OLDNESS FACTOR: So Guitar Hero III is already out, but this game is different. All songs are different, 
 the guitar is arguably more awesome and you don't have the annoying "Battle Songs". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't own a PS2 and missed out the first Guitar Hero, then this is a good chance to get 
 Guitar Hero 2. Guitar Hero 2 did some improvements from its prequel. One thing is the graphics 
 has been improve because of the power of the 360, the hammer-ons are easier to press, and the guitar 
 is adjusted to be more comfortable. 
  If you haven't played any Guitar Hero games and have no idea what it is, Guitar Hero is game where 
 you hold a plastic guitar and press colored fret buttons at the right time as they hit the end 
 point. The main point of the game is to pressing the fret buttons and strumming on the strum bar 
 up and down in sync to the notes that are scrolling toward you on the screen. As you play you will 
 encounter special notes to hit that will give you Star Power which will fill up in a bar. These 
 notes will be noticeable because it is shape like a star. If the bar is filled then you can lift 
 your guitar and enter star power mode which will give you more points for a short period of time.
 
  If you're already familiar with Guitar Hero the good thing is that there is over 70 songs and 
 of course the new guitar made by RedOctane. One thing about the guitar is that that you can hold 
 it more comfortably because of the slim design. Also the whammy bar and the strum bar feels better 
 instead of like a loose plastic. Some of the new songs are Beast and the Harlot, Sweet Child O' 
 Mine, Surrender, Message in a Bottle, and many more. One of the new really helpful mode that the 
 developers added is Practice mode. From here you can pick what ever songs you want, pick what part 
 you would like to practice one, and adjust the speed of the song. In order to get better in Guitar 
 Hero you really need to practice and play a lot! 
  You must play alone in this game because thats how you unlock new songs in career mode! You need 
 to be a number of songs before you move down the list and earn some cash to buy characters, costumes, 
 new guitars, and even new songs. You get to start from 4 difficulties easy, normal, hard, and expert. 
 On easy you only need to press 3 fret notes. On normal the songs get a little faster and there 
 is a added fret notes which makes it 4 fret notes you need to play. On Hard and Expert there is 
 a total of 5 fret notes you have to play and the notes goes really fast. 
  If you want to jam with a friend then there is co-op or Pro Face-off mode. In co-op mode both you 
 and your partner share the same Star Power bar and you both need to work together through each 
 song. You get to choose to be the Rhythm, bass, or lead. In competitive play you just need to outscore 
 your opponent. 
  With Xbox Live existing you would of thought that there will be online play. Will there is not, 
 sadly you can only play with your friend. The other feature is the leader board where you get to 
 compare your scores to your friends in your friend list and other people around the world. Thankfully 
 you can download new songs from Xbox Live Marketplace. 
  Overall this game is really fun especially if you're with a group of friend and try to beat each 
 other scores. The new design guitar feels great and the songs are solid. If you want to unleash 
 your inner rock star then I will really recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well, considering this game came out my freshman year of college, needless to say it contributed 
 to my grades not being where they should be.. haha. A very addicting game with great features and 
 songlist. I truly enjoy over 3/4 of the entire set. Many classics included with some more recent 
 tracks. The 360 guitar was for sure a new thing to adapt to when compared to the ps2 one, but was 
 still a solid piece of equipment. There will be plenty of nostalgic memories with this one, as 
 im sure there will be for everyone who enjoyed playing it. The expert levels progressivly get harder, 
 and can really be tricky at some points. It has every kind of difficulty for all levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero II is a great game for parties and while hanging out with a group of friends. The thing 
 thats special about guitar hero is that is is like a guitar version of DDR. The graphics however 
 are ok depending on what console you get it for. But graphics aren't the main point of Guitar Hero. 
 The game play is what you really should give a crap about. Guitar may be a very fun and addictive 
 game but for some people, it could get quite repetitive and boring if they play it too much. After 
 all, if you think about, your just clicking buttons and matching it with a color. Here are t he 
 pros and cons
  
  Pros: Excellent game play. Superb choice in music. Addictive and fun. Sound is great, 
  
  Cons: 
 May get repetitive for some people. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  You've got a whole bunch of new songs to play, and the guitar hero madness is back! You'll work 
 your way through a career or play with or against a friend. It's very difficult but once you get 
 the hang of it, you'll be on a roll. What's also nice is that there are different levels of difficulty 
 to play at. I love the songs and the gameplay.
  
  Impressive graphics add up to the game's awesomeness. And of course, the music is great as well. 
 It's very well worth your time and money spent. Anything you give guarantees that you will be rewarded 
 with great guitar jamming and great music.
  
  I recommend this to everyone, especially fans of Guitar Hero or any of that sort of stuff. It's 
 got great titles and I think it's one of the best games I've played.
  
  All wrapped up, Guitar Hero II has great songs, great fun, and it (sort of) makes you a better 
 guitar player!! (sort of :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davepete22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the XBOX360 is a damn good game. But I have a couple major gripes with it. The 
 song choice is definitely not the best and of all the songs in the game, just a few are recorded 
 by the original artist.
  
  Maybe I feel this way about Guitar Hero II because I got it for Christmas after I had already played 
 GH3 and Rock Band so I was expecting a better song selection and original recordings. But with 
 that said, GH2 is still a good game and very addicting and a hell of a good time.
  
  The multi player aspect is also very fun when you get a friend over with another guitar and rock 
 out for hours. But you need a friend to be there and have an extra guitar because you cannot play 
 online multi player. 
  
  The X-plorer guitar that come with GH2 is very cool and you get a strap and some stickers with 
 it as well. The guitar is NOT wireless but the cord that comes on it is very long so that is not 
 too big of a problem but wireless would have been better.
  
  In all I would recommend GH2 only if GH3 is not available, like in my case.
  Although buying 
 the GH3 bundle and then buying the GH2 game by itself wouldn't be a bad idea either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I was wondering why this series didnt start out on the original xbox but either way us 360 owners 
 finallpy have the second one and its better than the ps2 version due to the fixed bugs and the 
 downloadable content as well as new songs, most noticeably the trooper by iron maiden. the second 
 installment in the commercially successful series is great and comes packed in with more tracks 
 and more things to unlock with five difficulties but the most obvious thing about this game is 
 that you need to lay a guitar controller to actually get the experience and thats another better 
 part of the xbox version, the guitar design which is the gibson explorer as of to the gibson sg 
 for the ps2 version. its alittle more comfortable but the pause and back buttons arent in a good 
 place but its an improvement. a flaw with the game is that the difficulties jump almost incredibly 
 from easy to normal it isnt THAT bad but from normal to hard its just massacre and that makes a 
 point that the game can be for the hardcore gamer or the really devoted ones cuz man that is hard 
 and bieng a REAL bass player myself i think its easier to play the actual instrument than this 
 game. but over all the game is worth buying and keeping and the online support gives it a good 
 selling point so yeah its worth getting and keeping and its also a good party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome gameplay, great songs, great replay value, good challenge, you really wanna complete 
 the game on all difficultys.
  
  The Bad: PS2 version in HD, no online, guitar not wireless.
  
  Before this baby came on the 
 360, i had only heard about the game, and played it in stores. I have always wanted to buy it, 
 but then i heard it was coming to the 360, and i thought, that with all the x-box live abilltys 
 added to the mix, i should rather wait for that version. Now its here, and its rocking. A lot.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Well as you probaly can guess, you play guitar. You get some rock songs to choose from, and then 
 basicly you play the guitar part of that song. Hit the notes, and itll sound great. Miss them, 
 and it will get reduced to the level of Hybrids music, which is crap. There are 5 diffirent tones. 
 Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, and Orange. Hit them, and youll play a note. Some notes need to be held 
 down. Nice and simple. The challenge comes at learning to play it, without looking on the guitar. 
 Yes when you buy the game, a special guitar controller comes along, and it looks a bit like a real 
 guitar. On the neck of the guitar, the note buttons are placed, and on the guitar itself is a big 
 black strum button. This button has to be clicked on, everytime you play a note, or the note wont 
 play. Then theres the whammy bar, which lets you put your own personal style into the notes that 
 needs to be hold down. The guitar is great, and it actually helps you play on a real guitar. But 
 theres one thing about it. Not wireless! The first 30 min to 1 hour, is basicly getting used to 
 pressed the buttons, while only looking on the screen, so its a job of memorizing. When thats 
 done, the challange is to hit the notes. The difficulty takes care of that. And heres where the 
 diffirences comes into the picture. On easy, you only have to hit green, red, and yellow. On Normal, 
 its green, red, yellow and blue. You earn money to unlock new songs, characters, guitars, costumes, 
 and finishes. An entire new set of songs becomes avaliable. And you have to play encore songs, 
 at the end of each set. The trick is of course that, you have to master the blue button. To do 
 that, you have to use your little finger. It takes sometime, but after a while you will have mastered 
 it. On hard it gets more difficult. You now have to hit the notes faster, and have to use the 
 evil orange button. And its here the real challenge of the game comes. You can only have 4 fingers 
 on 4 note buttons at a time. The trick? Whenever there comes a orange button, you have to move 
 your hand, so that your little finger controls the orange, and the other fingers, blue, yellow, 
 and red. The trick is getting used to both moving your hand, and reposition of your fingers. You 
 also have to learn pull offs, which is pressing 3 diffirent notes in fast succesion. Then theres 
 expert, where everything goes even faster. You really get the feeling that you want to complete 
 the game on higher difficultys, as it unlocks more, and is more challenging. It takes a while to 
 learn, but its fun nevertheless. Theres also co-op but its only offline. In fact the only online 
 about the game, is leaderboards. Its a bit disappointing, but it dosent ruin the game, and can 
 be looked past. The game in just loads of fun. Its one of the best games ive ever played. Its 
 loads of fun, and youll get hours of entertainment with it. Too hard? Only pratice will help. 
 Online takes a bit away from the score though. 9.8
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Visualy theres not much to look at. Just the board with the notes, and menu screens. There is 
 character animation while you play, but the dont look too good. Really its just the PS2 version 
 in HD. 7.0
  
  SOUND
  
  Theres a great list of songs, and they are all great. Some you know, some you might remember, 
 and some unknown. But its not perfect. The developers got the real artists to do their songs for 
 the game, but unfortunely not all of them. Like in Rage Agasint The Machines Killing In The Name 
 Off, you can clearly hear they havent got the real singer for it. If you know the songs of the 
 game, you will hear a diffirence between when they got the real artists and when they havent. It 
 does bring the score down a bit. 9.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The songs can be brezzed through in a day, but youll keep coming back for more. The game simply 
 is fun, and you wanna put it out, and show off in front of your friends. Then theres the games 
 50 achivements, which are a challange. In short, theres plenty to keep you playing. But more songs 
 is always wanted. 10
  
  OVERALL
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is a awesome game. Its fantastic fun, and it has a concept that sounds good on paper, 
 and carried on into a game very well. Its got challange, great songs, replay value, everything 
 besides a wireless guitar, better graphics (but do we want it?) , and online mutilplayer (which 
 there is in Guitar Hero 3) . In short Guitar Hero 2 is a must. If you are a fan of rock, youll 
 love it. If you like music, youll like it. If you dont like music, then its your problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is the first nex-gen guitar game and believe me, it lives up to the hype. To make 
 the game as interactive as possible, you play with a plastic guitar with five colour fret buttons. 
 As the notes come up on the on-screen conveyer belt, you hold down the corresponding fret button 
 and flick the strumming bar, up or down. You can even use a whammy-bar to bend the long notes up 
 or down as you like. Now, on Easy mode, this is VERY simple, but on the harder levels you will 
 find your self facing three-note power cords, and grinding solos where you will need to employ 
 pull-offs and hammer-ons. There are some very catchy riffs which will have you rocking around your 
 living room non-stop.
  
  There is no online multiplayer, but the single player Career Mode is unbelievable. You create a 
 band, and then choose to play as one of ten characters. You can purchase a wide range of authentic 
 Gibson guitars, and get different finishes for them all. You can also buy different out-fits for 
 all the characters, but that is where the customization ends. A career progresses through 7 or 
 8 concerts (depending on the difficulty level) . There is 5 songs in each, and then you get the 
 option to play an encore which you have to play on anything above Easy difficulty. There is noticable 
 transitions between the difficulty levels, and you will probably have to master the game on the 
 easier setting before attempting the MUCH harder levels. You can do Co-op with a freind which is 
 where you either go through the career, or battle it out to see who is the better guitar player. 
 Basically there is enough content to justify spending the pretty hefty price tag.
  
  The sound track is top-notch with lots of classic songs including Sweet Child O' Mine, Can't You 
 Hear Me Knockin'?, War Pigs, and Free Bird. There are also a big selection of songs which you can 
 unlock, so overall there is plenty of tracks to ensure that you will be rocking for hours. Only 
 about 3 of the songs are original recordings, the rest have been re-recorded by the developers. 
 However, they still sound almost identical to the originals so it isn't really a problem.
  
  The graphics are quite good, and there is a lot of sutff going on on-stage. Unfortunately though, 
 you don't really get to see much of it as you are too busy concentrating on hitting the notes. 
 The drummer looks quite last-gen and robotic but nether-the-less you don't see much of him anyway (!) . 
 
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 2 is a revolutionary game which will keep you occupied for weeks, and the 
 amount of pure fun you will get from playing it, makes it well worth the money you will need to 
 splash out.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManWithoutAName
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is the second game in a series of rhythm games. Players can either play on a boring 
 old controller or strum out their rock and roll fantasies on a realistic looking guitar where you 
 hit the strummer and finger chords and notes, just like on real guitar. One of the greatest things 
 about Guitar Hero II is the pick up and play style. You can play only a couple songs on the quick 
 play, or play a bunch of songs and advance through the "story" [basically just more songs and stages] . 
 I never had the chance to play the original Guitar Hero [ I never had a Ps2, and don't have Xbox 
 Live to download the songs] , but most say this one is better by far, from song selection, to ther 
 menu interface. There's really no need to buy Guitar Hero II right now, as Guitar Hero III and 
 Rock Band just came out, unless you are already bored with them. You shouldn't be expecting much 
 from the graphics, as really are they are are notes and a few characters and guitars, and a couple 
 stages. Needless to say, the graphics look don't look any different from it's PS2 counterpart, 
 but it doesn't even matter in this case. The song choice is excellent, and you'll be jamming out 
 to hits from everything to Pearl Jam to Aerosmith and the Rolling Stones and unknown bands you 
 have probably never even heard of. Even when you are done with the story mode, you will still be 
 picking this up once and a while to play a couple of your favorite songs. Also for veterans and 
 for people who like a challenge, try Expert mode. I have been trying a long time and am still stuck 
 about halfway through the game. The game does have its flaws, but the flaws are not really noticeable, 
 and don't detract from the overall fun and gameplay. Note also if you have Xbox Live [unfortunately 
 I don't] you can play wiht another person or play against them. Also, if you have a friend over, 
 you can hook up another controller and do the same as if you had played on Xbox Live. I highly 
 reccommend you buy the bundle packthat comes with the guitar, as the game is boring if you just 
 play with a normal controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinisterRhino93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Gutiar Hero make its debut on the Xbox 360 with this game. The game is very addicting. There are 
 lots of songs that you might know. This is a better version than its ps2 couterpart with new songs 
 and and a new guitar. The game has over 70 tracks for you to play anytime you watnt. There also 
 downloadable songs and content via Xbox live. On Xbox live there are also leaderboards. The game 
 also has local multi player. Which allows you to play in corrapitive. You can also face each other 
 in face off. The track list includes: You really got me,
  war pigs, beast and the harlot, crazy on you, carry on wayward son,
  heart- shaped box,
  killing 
 in the name of, sweet o child of mine,
  message in a bottle, shout at the devil,
  surrender and much more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D34DLY_V1P3R
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: CRAPPY
  
  GAMEPLAY: AWESOME
  
  CONTROLLS: FLUID
  
  ORIGINALITY: NOPE
  
  STORY: NONE
  
  IMMERSION: MILD
  
  RENT OR BUY?: BUY
  
  MULTIPLAYABILITY: MILD
 
  
  SINGLEPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  REPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Adult
  
  Aeroplane
  
  Air
  
  Aircraft Carrier
  
  Airforce
  
 
  Airport
  
  Album
  
  Alphabet
  
  Apple
  
  Arm
  
  Army
  
  Baby
  
  Baby
  
  Backpack
  
  Balloon
  
  Banana
  
  Bank
  
  Barbecue
  
  Bathroom
 
  
  Bathtub
  
  Bed
  
  Bee
  
  Bible
  
  Bible
  
  Bird
  
  Bomb
  
  Book
  
  Boss
  
  Bottle
  
  Bowl
  
  Box
  
  Boy
  
  Brain
  
  Bridge
  
 
  Butterfly
  
  Button
  
  Cappuccino
  
  Car
  
  Car-race
  
  Carpet
  
  Carrot
  
  Cave
  
  Chair
  
  Chess Board
  
  Chief
  
  Child
  
  Chisel
  
 
  Chocolates
  
  Church
  
  Circle
  
  Circus
  
  Circus
  
  Clock
  
  Clown
  
  Coffee
  
  Coffee-shop
  
  Comet
  
  Compact Disc
  
  Compass
  
  Computer
 
  
  Crystal
  
  Cup
  
  Cycle
  
  Data Base
  
  Desk
  
  Diamond
  
  Dress
  
  Drill
  
  Drink
  
  Drum
  
  Dung
  
  Ears
  
  Earth
  
  Egg
  
 
  Electricity
  
  Elephant
  
  Eraser
  
  Explosive
  
  Eyes
  
  Family
  
  Fan
  
  Feather
  
  Festival
  
  Film
  
  Finger
  
  Fire
  
  Floodlight
  
 
  Flower
  
  Foot
  
  Fork
  
  Freeway
  
  Fruit
  
  Fungus
  
  Game
  
  Garden
  
  Gas
  
  Gate
  
  Gemstone
  
  Girl
  
  Gloves
  
  God
  
  (THERE 
 U GO, 100 WORDS, U HAPPY NOW??) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnathug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 From Harmonix and RedOctane was released earlier this year in April, Already out 
 for the PS2 for some time, was it another port or is it worth the price tag? If you ever wanted 
 to feel like a Rock God, This is the Game for you. 
  
  Gameplay is really simple, the bundle that you buy comes with your very own Gibson X-Plorer and 
 that's where the game starts. This Guitar features a strumming button, five color-coded fret buttons 
 and a killer Whammy Bar. Onscreen, notes color-coded the same way as the fret buttons travel down 
 the screen, you have to press the right color and strum in time with the notes, the notes give 
 you points and streaks get you up to 4x the points. There's a meter on the side of the screen they 
 call "Rock Meter", miss too many notes and your getting booed off the stage. During your performance 
 you'll see certain button sequences that will give you a special called "Star Power" which when 
 used can give you up to 8x. Gamplay gets really hard on the more difficult modes (Hard, Expert) . 
 But practise and in no time you'll be pulling off stuff you never thought you could do. 
  
  Graphics are really updated (I Find) , you can see it in the fret board (on screen) and also with 
 the character models. The venues are also vibrant and are really nice to look at, 
  
  Sound on the Xbox 360, Dolby 5.1 is really clear and the bass pumps for every song. Sound is also 
 a really big part and they didn't miss, over 75 songs to pick from and all of them will have you 
 bobbing your head and tapping your toe. Really amazing song list. 
  
  Other Features to talk about, two player battle or Co-op, these are great to play at parties and 
 with friends. They have a couple of achievements in Co-Op so people will definitely check that 
 out. Online leader boards are also new to the 360 version, check where all your friends rank and 
 send them messages, good feature. 
  
  In Conclusion, This game will make you feel like a rock star and I found that I have a better appreciation 
 for Guitarists just because of this game, pretty crazy. It's really easy to pick up and even harder 
 to put down. It will have you downloading all the tracks so you know where the difficult parts 
 come up. I would have to say that if you haven't played this game, what are you waiting? This is 
 a really must buy for any music listener or general Xbox 360 owner, you won't regret the feeling 
 of a Rock God. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nxss-effa-sim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  When the first one was released a year or so ago I was rather surprised that it received a 9.0 
 from GameSpot. I figured it would turn out like all the other games that require devices (Time 
 Crisis) to play. It would just be another mediocre game right... wrong. It really caught on with 
 colleges kids -- my brother and his girlfriend made such a big deal of me not being able to play 
 it and even planned get-together parties to play it with friends ("O Rob, you just have to try 
 it sometime, it is so addicitive") . I of course did not believe them and was shocked when the sales 
 numbers were released (especially when considering the price of the guitar) , it was a huge success. 
 
  
  Well luckily for me, my college actually has Xbox 360s and PS3s in the "Student Recreation Center" 
 that students are more than welcome to play with on 46" flat-screens. I witnessed my fellow peers 
 playing GH2 before and at first it looked rather complicated. After over a month since I first 
 landed on the RU campus I finally tried GH2 today. It is like Dance Dance Revolution, just with 
 a guitar. I played multiplayer with a friend and had a blast. Half the time I was laughing because 
 it was going too fast. When you first start out and you here your opponent mess up (there's a noise) 
 it makes the experience that much better. The music you produce all depends on how familiar and 
 good you are with the keys. However the keys are played, that is how the guitar music will sound 
 in the song (short notes, long notes etc.) . But this does bring up an issue, sometimes the game 
 can become frustrating. There are times where you could have sworn you pressed a key on the guitar 
 at the exact moment the note passes. Also the the position of the tremolo arm can be rather inconvenient 
 (at least for me) . The soundtrack used for the game was also fantastic -- a lot of the music I never 
 heard before and I instantly fell in love with them. Some might be concerned with its replayability. 
 When I played I decided to go from easy to medium difficulty and I have to say, I am still challenged 
 by it. But hey, it was only my first day.
  
  For disclosure sake, even though I am in no way interested in playing or learning how to play a 
 guitar, or even being around guitars for that matter, I enjoyed it. Thus, it says something about 
 the quality of this game -- you do not have to be a "metalhead" or a guitarist to like the Guitar 
 Hero series. If you can afford it, I highly recommend you get a copy. The thing about this game 
 is that there is not much to say about it. It is more of an experience thing than anything else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a week ago. And this is my first guitar hero game and I played it on the ps2 
 at my friends house and... I sucked. I got this and now I play like a rockstar because the new 
 controller just seems built better. I loved the soundtrack and the rythym in the game just keeps 
 me pumped!!!
  I love the new graphical upgrade and the new songs, but the most awesome part.... downloadable 
 content!!! I loved the songs off of Xbox Live and the gameplay is just a fun experience and the 
 best game I have ever played in a long time since Assassins Creed. I love the songs, the gameplay, 
 the fact you can play with a friend, and the fact its on the 360. The only complaint I have is 
 the strap just feels wierd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOWfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero II came out in April 2007, I was very skeptical of it, I didn't see the point 
 of playing a game that simulates you playing the guitar, and wasted time from doing more important 
 things, like playing a real guitar. But then it got me thinking that that statement could be applied 
 to not just Guitar Hero, but all games in general. The game did look interesting, so I decided 
 to pick up a bundle and rock out to the fullest.
  
  What I didn't expect was to be playing the game for practically 2 months straight, and grow to 
 love the game very dearly. The graphics look much better than the PS2 version, and while gameplay 
 is identical, the X-plorer guitar feels just right and gives you no trouble or problems.
  
  To conclude, I would say that Guitar Hero II is one of my favorite games on Xbox 360, and one that 
 I am currently addicted to, as I cannot go a full week without playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolarman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  So guitar hero 2 for the xbox 360 is just awesome no other words can describe it. With exclusive 
 songs in this version that weren't in the ps2 version such as possum kingdom by the toadies, dead 
 by my chemical romance, billion dollar babies by alice cooper, hush by deep purple, life wasted 
 by pearl jam, rock and roll hoochie koo by rick derringer, and much more than that. On top of that 
 the game has made an outstanding graphical enhancment like some light bloom on the the backgrounds 
 and the character models as well. The core gameplay is intact with you getting a guitar controller 
 and there are five fret button's and you hit the strum bar and the notes on the screen play. A 
 big addition to the game is a new guitar controller and it is a gibson x-plorer shape and it also 
 has fixed problems on the guitar controller as well like the strum bar is little bit fluid the 
 buttons are sturdy and it is just a great guitar controller. With new songs guitar hero 2 for the 
 360 is the best guitar has been so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0gi_bear
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I like the songs in GHII better than I like the songs in GHIII, but It's so hard to identify the 
 hammer-on and hammer-off notes during game play on GHII. Hard mode is difficult (maybe because 
 at 50 yrs old I'm no kid anymore) , and expert mode is INSANE. The game is highly addictive, especially 
 if you have a 42" or bigger LCD TV, and a good home theater sound system. I've already gone through 
 2 guitars (the original wired guitar's yellow key stopped responding, and the wireless guitar's 
 green key started sticking) . So I'm back to using a newly purchased wired guitar because the key 
 setup has less chance of sticking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkb0x
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  GAMEPLAY: Incredibly fun game with a new guitar (Xplorer) and exclusive tracks.
  
  SOUND: All the songs sound great, some of the covered tracks are amazingly well done. 
  
 
  Cons:
  
  GAMEPLAY: Lack of wireless guitar is mindboggling. Even if at an increased price, a cord free axe 
 seems like a no brainer. Sometimes keys dont register, star power can be a bit difficult to activate 
 every so often.
  
  VALUE: The game + guitar bundle plus the pricey downloads are a headscratcher, even more so because 
 the guitar is not wireless.
  
  Verdict: From classic rock to melt your face metal, Guitar Hero has an impressive list of songs 
 to choice from and promises to entertain you and your friends for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Extremely addicting and it is a blast to have when friends are around.
  
  2) A huge selection of songs to choose from.
  
  3) A variety of unlockable things like guitars, 
 songs, and characters will have you playing for a long time.
  
  4) The guitar for the 360 version feels more comfortable than the one for the PS2 version.
  
 
  5) Gameplay works very well and make you feel like you are playing a real guitar.
  
  Cons:
  1) Some of the songs can get frustrating when playing on hard or expert mode.
  
  2) 
 Lag sometimes gets in the way during multiplayer modes.
  
  3) There is a huge difference between medium and hard mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  what a cool game. playing guitar on this is just awesome. i really got into it . Good track. Wish 
 they realeased downloads for new songs because playing the same songs (good songs though) over 
 and over agin can become a little dullwhat a cool game. playing guitar on this is just awesome. 
 i really got into it . Good track. Wish they realeased downloads for new songs because playing 
 the same songs (good songs though) over and over agin can become a little dull
  what a cool game. playing guitar on this is just awesome. i really got into it . Good track. Wish 
 they realeased downloads for new songs because playing the same songs (good songs though) over 
 and over agin can become a little dull 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FueledByMusic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 has everything a guitarist wants in a game. This game is highly addictive. A day 
 doesnt go by without me playing it. The game brings together old classics and new hits.
  
  If your just starting to play guitar this is definitially a game to get you into it. If your a 
 veteran guitarist this is a great game to keep your experience fresh. The variety of the songs 
 is amazing. Hard rock, soft rock, metal, pop rock, and metal. Theres just no way that this game 
 wont have what you like.
  
  The way the notes are set up on the board seem like the actual artist came in to show them where 
 to place each note. The game starts out with 50 some songs and then on the marketplace there is 
 close to another 20 more songs to pick from.
  
  The difficulty of the game is perfect for anyone. Starters can begin on easy, people who think 
 they have a nack for it can start on medium, experienced players can play on hard, and veterans 
 of the game can go straight to expert. Theres no reason to not play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAMAGE175
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is easily one of the most innovative series i have ever played in my life. Guitar Hero 
 has an original soundtrack. DDR not to offend any fans (because that's not my style) has techno. 
 nobody listens to techno any more. Rock in a rhythm game is original. Now I'm getting off topic 
 (sorry) . Guitar Hero 2 has a great soundtrack. my fav. is woman by wolfmother. The graphics amazing, 
 and gameplay is awesome. now to be honest i was sceptical at first but as soon as played it i really 
 felt like a guitar hero. i give guitar hero 2 for the Xbox 360 a 9.5 out of 10. the one thing i 
 would have change is to have a story mode (not like the career mode it has) . but other that guitar 
 hero 2 is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is the first game for the Guitar Hero series on the Xbox 360. And from it, you can 
 see that there is going to be a long series of Guitar Hero games. Guitar Hero 3 is coming out quite 
 soon it fact. Guitar Hero basically consists of you pressing down on coloured buttons and strumming 
 with a guitar controller that is given to you in the bundle pack. This really is very addictive 
 and very amusing.
  
  The guitar itself really isn't anything like a normal guitar. Someone could be an absolute pro 
 at Guitar Hero and rubbish at a normal guitar. Vise-versa.
  But it doesn't really matter because the same could be said about any game. I'm really good and 
 jumping on giant toadstools and riding Yoshi's. But are you really in reality?
  
  The soundtrack of the game is pretty good but serious random in many places. There are some really 
 good songs like Hanger 18, Laid To Rest, Carry On My Wayward Son, Gemini and etc, but there are 
 some really bad ones like Yes We Can. There are too many bad rock songs. That it what I feel about 
 the soundtrack. There should be more difficult metal songs rather than simplistic rock songs that 
 drag the whole thing down. I never really return to those songs and end up playing the same songs 
 again and again. There is a better soundtrack for the Xbox 360 version though. There are a few 
 better songs and the little problems that they had on the PS2 version have been edited slightly 
 for the Xbox 360 version.
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty good. They haven't really changed that much from the PS2 version 
 of the game to the Xbox 360 version, just a bit more glossy. They are really all that is needed 
 for the game. The lifespan of the game really does depend on the brilliance of the songs and there 
 are only a few really good ones which is a shame. But it is really addictive and you will most 
 likely play the game quite a lot.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 2 is a really good game that is immensely addictive. Many a time have I seen 
 the consistent movement of coloured notes just flash across my eyes. Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero II
  Xbox 360 
  
  Finialy a Guitar Hero on the Xbox 360, So this is Guitar hero II so it must be the same as on the 
 PS2 no this Guitar Hero has more songs, better graphics, and has a online leaderborad.
  
  As this is on the Xbox there are achevements like reach 200, 000 ponit in one song or finish the 
 Meduim tour, The game has a new guitar controller because this game on the Xbox you would think 
 that the contoller would be wireless but no sadly its a USB guitar.
  
  The game grachpic look awsome and are just fun to look at. Now because the game is on the Xbox 
 its got a online leaderborad were you can check your score against your friends and everyone who 
 play Guitar Hero. 
  
  Overall it just like Guitar Hero II but better if you do not have a PS2 then this would be a great 
 place to start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsnicket94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero I was a breakthrough game when it came out. It was on display in all the stores, everyone 
 was talking about it, it was just overall crazy. And then this came out. This broke through the 
 breakthrough game. I started to play this at Best Buy because it was so expensive. I loved it then. 
 Then my friend let me go to his house, and I got to play it there. That was amazing. I got up to 
 Medium that one single day (I was a beginner) . And then, my friend let me borrow it. I ended up 
 keeping it for a really long time, and I beat it on hard. Just before I returned it, my brother 
 bought me the XBox 360 version. And now, over 6 months later, I am one song away from expert victory. 
 I (just about two hours ago) beat the final set (Beast and the Harlot, Carry Me Home, Institutionalized, 
 Misirlou, and Hangar 18) , and now all I have left to do -- besides beating the rest of the bonus 
 songs -- is beat FreeBird on expert. I have almost conquered the best game on earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is remarkable, hysterical and a contender for the best video game ever made... then 
 again, you already know that. But if you've forsaken a PS3 in favour of Microsoft's next-gen offering, 
 get set for the best version of all.
  
  While the game plays and looks the same (well, the graphics are slightly sharper than on the PS2, 
 but not that you'd notice) , Guitar Hero II on the 360 offers a wealth of outstanding new features; 
 as well as 10 new songs in addition to the tracks in the last edition (including such delights 
 as 'The Trooper' by Iron Maiden, 'Billion Dollar Babies' by Alice Cooper and My Chemical Romance's 
 'Dead!') , players will be able to regularly download new tunes via Xbox Live, extending the life 
 of the game and constantly delivering new rock standards to master. The newly-designed X-Plorer 
 guitar also features a mysterious 'expansion port' on the side for future enhancements (rumours 
 that the next game will use effect pedals in addition to the guitar controller now seem more credible) , 
 and there are even online leaderboards where you can compare your blistering performances with 
 other players from around the world.
  
  While most developers are striving for increased realism and tangling players in a myriad options 
 and buttons, Guitar Hero II is like a pure distillation of what makes video gaming fun. And despite 
 what sort of game normally rocks your world, this is essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  If anyone love the old music rock this game is for you then, I really enjoy playing guitar hero 
 2. It's quite easy for me and I really enjoy everything about this game. The only thing is kind 
 not really good is that it's not live but everything else is really good. I really enjoy all the 
 music and it's very addictive game to play. The graphics are good. The achievements are quite easy 
 to get as well. I wasn't really into these kind of games, but when I finally got it I enjoy it 
 so much. Now the new one came out I also enjoy that one as well along with this one. I must say 
 this is an xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOCGK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  As someone who has never been a big fan of the music in this game, I originally picked it up just 
 because I had heard the gameplay was fun. Not only was I converted into a fan of the gameplay but 
 (most of) the music as well.
  
  I believe the most fun to be had here is using this with a group of people, preferably with multiple 
 Xplorer guitars. Once you take this out of solitary confinement and into a room of friends, the 
 fun factor goes up with everyone wanting a turn.
  
  The ability to choose individual difficulties depending on the player lets any beginner shed with 
 experienced players, not always the case with other multiplayer games.
  
  Some of the song choices are not only not suited to my tastes, they are just not fun to play. The 
 game can get fairly difficult near the end on expert so some people may get frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokiddjr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was surprised by how much I liked this game. While fun with just one player 
 (especially if you like the songs) , the game really shines with a live audience. In fact, I think 
 sometimes I like watching other users play as much as 'Rocking Out' myself.
  
  The button layout was very intuitive for me as I had little trouble picking up on the controls. 
 It would have been nice to really customize your rocker down to make-up, eye color and hair style; 
 instead, you get to pick from a small list of canned guitarists.
  
  Overall, a great game that you can play for hours or just a quick stress relieving 5-minute jam 
 session. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Do you wanna rock?! Then buy that guitar and game and start rockin' all night long. Playing songs 
 such as You Really Got Me, War Pigs, and Killing in the Name. With Guitar Hero 2 you have 70 tracks 
 of songs and the graphics a whole lot better than the PlayStation2. But with games like Guitar 
 Hero or up-coming game Rock Band it's not about the graphics, it more about the fun and the rock.
 
  
  One of my most favorite songs on Guitar Hero 2 was 'Sweet Child O' Mine' by Guns and Roses. Also 
 another one is 'Message in a Bottle' by The Police. Other great songs include 'Crazy on You', 'Carry 
 On Wayward Son', 'Surrender', 'Shout at the Devil', 'Trogdor', and 'You Really Got Me'.
  
  With the difficulties, Easy is simple, Medium is somewhat easy, hard is hard and Expert is very 
 hard. Unless it is the song 'Jordan' or Phycobilly Freakout' then expert is more like god.
  
  If you like to rock n' roll and like those classical rock songs from bands like The Police, 
 Cheap Trick, Black Sabbath, Guns and Roses, Heart and other rocking bands then this is the right 
 game for you. It is best with the guitar but a whole lot simpler with the controller in my opinion. 
 But you don't get into it with the controller. With the guiter you can feel like a rock n' roll 
 star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  If you like playing a guitar and loud music then this game is for you. The graphics in the game 
 are very good and sound is very good too when you play the guitar the notes are displayed on the 
 TV screen and you just hold the correct button and flick the strum button on the guitar and the 
 note will be played.
  
  It is also clever and tell you if you have missed a key and you score x 2,3,4, will disappear and 
 you have to get them back. The tutorial if very good if you are just learning how to play but also 
 complete the tutorial and you will get game points. This game is very good but I wonder what guitar 
 hero 3 will be like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable_fan88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I love this game. one on my favorite game i have played, besides zelda and fable. highly addictive!!!!!! 
 Songs are great, game play is nicely, and everyone loves it. you can't hate this game, even if 
 u suck at it. You just keep trying and u will get better. i can't wait until Guitar Hero 3 comes 
 out so i can rock and Aww on that!!!! i have beatting the game on expert. yes it took a while. 
 got stuck on Freya for a while ( ( like 3 months) ) but was ez after that. I prefer it to any musician 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGamer_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game i hated it, i sucked at it, i couldn't do easy. After hours upon 
 hours practicing getting better, i cant get enough. This game is good for ALL AGES, if your not 
 good go to easy, if your excellent go to expert. (YES its a challenge) The controls are nice and 
 easy I love the guitar controls, its simple and easy. and doesn't lag or anything to make you miss 
 notes
  
  There are so many songs to choose from you're bound to love one and play it over and over again.
 
  
  The only reason why I gave it a 9.5 and not a 10 is because there is no online.
  Luckily GTH 3 will have that ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  You cant go wrong with this awesome game for the 360, whoever does, I pity there soul. I must say 
 that its a highly addictive game and will want to keep you going from the begginng of the career, 
 to the end. But unfortuantly your arm and wrist starts to hurt so you take a break. WIth literally 
 tons of sweet and anjoyable songs plus some bonus ones there would be no reason to stop! Theres, 
 Nirvana, BlackSabbath, Avenged Sevenhold, and lots more famous artists. Strumming on a plastic 
 guitar, What fun! The game simulates every move you make when playing a song, if you miss it, wrong 
 note, or anything, it actually seems like your playing in with the band. Also you can choose what 
 Guitarist and Guitar you can have, if you want more you have to play songs to get money then buy 
 them at the store. Graphics are acceptional for the 360 and meet my standards and probably yours 
 too. The multiplayer seems awesome, you can jam agaisnt a friend or with a friend. If you dont 
 have another guitar you can see who gets the higher score on the same song taking turns. You can 
 use the 360 controller but its not all that great to the real shabam. The only downside is it costs 
 abundle. But I guess the producers need some money to eh, and its well worth it.
  
  To sum it all up, if you have a 360, its a must buy. I highly doubt that you'll never regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jingles92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  ok well i got this game for playstation 2 first but then my ps2 broke and my dad bought me a 360
 
  i got it for that after awhile and all i can say
  is that i missed the time in-between
  its awesome i love the fact that it makes me feel like i can actually play the guitar [whitch im 
 trying to learn to play but very hard]
  the songs are awesome expert really tests your skills no matter how good you are
  the bad parts 
 is that it doesnt have online
  if it had online it would have been even better
  the other let-down is that still they have not added any led zeppelin songs
  and im a huge zeppelin 
 fan
  over all though
  fun game youll be playing this for a long time
  looking forward to guitar hero3 though
  just for the online
  but even that has no led-zeppelin
 
  tsk tsk tsk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best music game I have ever played in my Video Game history. Although it takes 
 lots of practice and working on both the controller and the guitar. The songs are awsome to listen 
 to and there are so many of them to try. The shop is really cool and they offer a bunch of cool 
 features you can buy. The songs in Easy and Medium are easy to get down, but Hard and Very Hard 
 is just insane. The characters all are unique looking and get different costumes, but they are 
 no different from eachother and yes you can buy other characters to as well. The Star Mode will 
 give you bonus points and sometimes it can save your butt. The songs can make you dizzy and start 
 to make your hands hurt, but overall its a really well done game it gets a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stickynotz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  At first i was skeptical of this game. i never played #1 and i wasn't sure it would be worth $100. 
 My opinion changed after 5 mins of play. At first, the game is very hard, even at easy. But after 
 around 1 hour in, you will be playing medium no problem. The more you play, the better you will 
 get and you will increase the difficulty. ive been playin for 6 months now and I play expert and 
 can beat every song ( except Jorden, hardest song in game) . GAMEPLAY
  You are supposed to hit notes as they scroll down the screen. If u hit s certain bunch of notes 
 in a row, u get star power, which doubles your score. Simple. Addictive. The game features great 
 songs, like Cherry Pie, The Trooper, Free Bird, The Light that Blinds, less talk more rock, Six, 
 Woman and 60 other great songs ( well.. mostly great.) . After you play for a week and get decent 
 at the game, u will learn the real main goal in the game. beat Jorden, on expert. Jorden is abonus 
 song by buckethead, and is very very VERY hard. i myself can only get to 60% and i ve been playin 
 for 6 months! If this was in the main track list, I would be scared. 9.5 GRAHPICS
  the graphics are decent for 360, but you wont notice the graphic quality or pay much attention 
 to it. its all about hitting those notes.
  7
  
  SOUND
  The game is based on music so its bound to be good. The only problem is that some songs have terrible 
 covers.
  9
  
  LASTING APPEAL
  If you just want a game to beat and then throw in a dark corner, dont buy this game. If u want 
 a long game that will get u addicted for a long time, this is it'
  9.5 CONCLUSION guitar hero 2 is the greatest music game ever made. Its fun, addictive, and will 
 have you rockin out for a very long time...
  
  SCORE: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the very few games that is very fun, addicative, and innovative. You can also play 
 for hours again and again, day after day. The game revolves around a rythem game but practically 
 makes it feel like an adventure instead of a puzzle . There is no real story nor cutscenes, but 
 through out the whole game you play no waiting just playing which is good and bad. There are very 
 small annoying things about the game. First, the controller yet fun to play during the game looks 
 like a little kids toy with the green, red, yellow, blue, and orange buttons, but a lot of people 
 seem to know what guitar hero is and know that your little kids toy is a video game controller. 
 Secondly, the songs are great but there are very few that are classics and some I haven't even 
 heard of. The game is very fun, but you have to know what your getting into and you may became 
 addicative. Also it is preety expensive with the controller and full priced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnDeAdEviL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is a amazing game i had never played guitar hero 1&amp;2 but when i bought it was 
 amazing i soon became addictive i bought it when it first come out and i'm still playing it!
  
  Good points about Guitar Hero is:
  Wonderful Song list
  Amazing replay value
  Nice and 
 colourful graphics
  The Guitar controller works great
  
  Bad thing about Guitar Hero is:
  Well there is only one or two bad thing like:
  No Online
 
  Mulit-player can get boring for second player on some songs
  And that's it.
  
  Overall i love Guitar Hero i would try it if you got the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZackerThe3rd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is amazing, not because the graphics are spectacular, but because RedOctane figured 
 out a new kind of rhythm based game, a game thats fun, has amazing audio, ok graphics, and an awesome 
 new kind of gameplay. of course if your new you should do either easy or normal because normally 
 they are well easy, hard is a bit harder, but expert is literally insane, everyone who is saying its 
 easy, lets see you beat Free Bird on Expert, thats why the difficulty is just right, easy is easy 
 is hell, expert is impossible. Now a bit more about the music. There are great songs like: Jordan by 
 Bucket Head, Free Bird by Lynard Skynard, Monkey Wrench by Foo Fighters, and much, much more. Audio 
 is also amazing. This game is worth a buy from just about anyone, even if you don`t like Rhythm based 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmg051793
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The best game you will ever play. Enough said. Just can't wait until guitar hero 3 comes out. Nothing 
 will rock more than it. theres only like 13 more day. it will be so sick. this game has a great 
 soundtrack too. what i say is buy both of the bundles for guitar hero 2 and 3 so you can play multiplayer 
 on the same console. this game has quite an amazing sound track and so did the first one and the 
 third by what it looks like so far. i am so eager for it.
  yay i just cant wait. it will be so killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best party games I ever played even if you only have one guitar and you get 
 together with some friends and pass it back and fourth still a great time. Learning curve varies 
 if you play on easy its too easy, medium its ok, hard is very rewarding, and expert is a leap man 
 it may take you weeks to master if you had troubles if medium or hard. Nonetheless, this game is 
 just Fun Fun Fun. Buy it!!! Well as expected there is downloadable content which in my opinion 
 is just too expensive and not necessary if you have guitar hero II. Online play is ton of fun and 
 you will probably expend countless hours trying to get those achievements if you in that sort of 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Being a musician for over 36 years (semi professional guitarist) I was drawn to this game the first 
 time I saw it at the local Gamestop. At first blush... I thought it was just another kiddie game... 
 you know... simple and stupid... did my feelings change after playing it just a couple of times. 
 What makes this such an addictive game to play... let's take a closer look!
  
  First of all... the user has a guitar for a controller. This right away makes this game different 
 from all other games on the market being you get to actually play a mini guitar. Even though the 
 guitar has only 5 different colored buttons on it... which are there to simulate the notes/chords 
 you can play... don't let that fool you into thinking this is an easy game... because it is anything 
 but easy! The guitar also has a picking toggle switch that is used to simulate strumming and or 
 picking on the guitar. Then the makers of the game went and added a whammy bar which in my opinion 
 is probably the funnest thing on the controller. With it you can fluctuate the notes/chords sounds 
 that you play up and down in pitch with alot of vibrato or very little. It is pretty sensitive 
 to how you use it... but can change the entire sound of any note/chord you are playing at your 
 discretion.
  
  You have in the game three modes of play... either Freeplay or Career Mode or Co Op. In the Freeplay 
 Mode you can choose any song (ones that have been unlocked in Career Mode) to play. You can choose 
 the difficulty level as well. This is a great mode for those who just want to play around or for 
 those who want to work on a song outside of the Career Mode. In Career Mode... you choose a person 
 you want to be. They have several to choose from. Both Female and Male are avaliable to the player. 
 This was a big plus in my book because so many games only let you be a male model. Being this game 
 has both it is alluring to both male and female players alike! You can also name your band.... 
 and choose your guitar. Then you are on the road going from coast to coast playing at different 
 venues. If you do well in Career Mode... you will unlock new places to play... some are clubs... 
 some are arenas! You also will earn money for the songs you play and that will allow you to purchase 
 new items later mentioned in this review. In the Co - Op mode you can play with another player! 
 You can be the bass player while the other person plays lead or even go into a challenge mode called 
 Pro Face Off. I personally have not done the Co - Op mode yet as I only had enough money to purchase 
 the one Guitar (retail for around $80.00) . Now the game itself is pretty straight forward in that 
 on the screen you have a fretboard comming at you in a cascading fashion. As it does... different 
 notes (the different colors on the fretboard of the guitar buttons) come down in a rapid fashion 
 (depending on which skill level you are playing) . The objective is simple... you must press the 
 corrosponding button for the one that is just reaching the bottom of the screen and also pick it 
 as it goes by to play the song. Sounds pretty easy eh? Well it is alot harder than one would think. 
 In Easy mode... you only have to use the first 3 colored buttons. Notes come down rather slowly 
 (almost comatose in fashion) so the game play can be achieved by the average player. Kick it up 
 a notch to Medium level... and now you have 4 of the 5 buttons to manipulate. That doesn't sound 
 too hard being you have four fingers... one per button. The change is that the notes come at you 
 faster now... and you can also have combonations of buttons to press... along with off beat notes 
 as well. Now if you want a real challenge... try the Hard Level where you have all 5 buttons to 
 contend with! Notes come down even faster... and with mutliple combonations... and usually alot 
 of extra picking is required as you get more notes between the frets to deal with. Expert level 
 is by far simply put... INSANE! They just throw everything at you in a very fast order.... and 
 it usually is next to impossible to get past the first 20 seconds of the song.
  
  The screen is broken down into 4 parts. You have the band you are playing in on the top of the 
 screen. I personally found it next to impossible to watch them playing being I had to keep my eyes 
 on the fretboard (located just below them in the middle) being that is where you should be looking. 
 As you get better and can play the songs without looking at the fretbaord... the band can be alot 
 of fun to watch being they can do some interesting things. In the lower left is your score meter 
 along with the Multiplier Meter. For every note you play correctly... your score will increase. 
 For every 10 notes played in a row... your multiplier will increase 1 point. 1X, 2x, 3X, and 4X. 
 If you use Star Power (mentioned below) then your multiplier will double, which really makes your 
 score add up fast! There is a rock meter that tells you how well you are doing. It has 3 different 
 sections to it... Green, Yellow and RED!!! It changes as the notes go by. For every note you get 
 right on the money... it will increase towards the Green side of the meter... which is a good thing. 
 If it slowly (or as in the Expert mode for me) rapidly approaches the yellow portion of the meter... 
 you are missing notes... which the game also lets you know you have done with an annoying clunking 
 sound.... like that of a poorly placed note on fhe fretboard. If the meter gets into the red portion... 
 the crowd you are playing for will start to boo you... and if you are there too long... you will 
 simply fail the song. There are also star notes that come by. If you are good and can play all 
 of them without missing any of them... you will fill a meter called... the Star Power Meter. As 
 you fill this meter up... it will turn glowing white. When you get enough power in it... you can 
 then lift up the neck of the guitar in the air and use your star power. The screen goes crazy at 
 this point and all of the notes loose their color... which makes it alot of fun to try and play 
 right if you are going by the colors coming down the fretboard. After a while it gets alot easier. 
 The good thing about Star Power is that if you have your mutliplier up to 3X or 4X... your score 
 will now double as you play! Also it helps the crowd to rethink about your playing and if you are 
 in the red... it can be the boost you need to get back into the green fast!
  
  This game has alot of unlockable items as well... which makes gameplay just get better each time. 
 As you play in Career Mode... you will earn money to purchase new guitars, guitar finishes, clothing, 
 songs and alot more. Note that Career mode is how you unlock new songs to play in both Career Mode 
 as well as Freeplay! The other thing about Career Mode that I really love is that if you play really 
 well at a venue... the crowd just might ask for an encore! If they do... it will be a brand new 
 song for you to play when you complete it in FreePlay Mode! You also can (if you have XBox Live) 
 purchase new songs to play in your game! They currently have 4 different packages to choose from... 
 each has about 3 songs in it... but for 500 MSP (Microsoft Points) they are worth it in my opinion! 
 You can with XBox Live see how you rate against other players scores around the world! I have my 
 XBox 360 hooked up to a HDTV with 5.1 surround sound and that really brings the game to life. The 
 sound is just amazing in this game from the roar of the crowds... to the songs themselves. You 
 can in the options mode remove all of the sounds you don't want... but in my opinion... it ruins 
 the feel of the game. I personally didn't know that the creators of this game reproduced all of 
 the songs in it! They sound so much like the originals (singers and all) !!! There is alot of different 
 song content in this game. Everything from Heavy Metal Rock and Roll to Punk and everything in 
 between. From the Pretenders to Guns and Roses, Primus to Kiss, The Police to Heart. With the diverse 
 amount of songs in this game... you just can't get bored with it! There were songs I have never 
 heard before... so that made it very appealing to me being I found I liked most of them. Some songs 
 are alot harder than others... but each delivers a challenge no matter what level you are playing 
 on. Oh... did I forget to mention... each song... CHANGES the note patterns as you go up in level! 
 This makes it a challenge even more because not only are more notes added as you go up a level... 
 but the patterns change!
  
  In conclusion... if you are into music, and most people are, and you are looking for an adictive, 
 challenging, fun, intense game to play that is different from all of the rest, THIS GAME IS FOR 
 YOU! While it can be a pricy investment (at about $80.00 retail for the guitar and game combonation) 
 it is a great deal because of the hours of play you will get over and over out of it! They also 
 have coming out an expantion pack called Guitar Hero Legends which will offer both a wireless guitar 
 (Les Paul Standard) as well as alot of new songs to play! I played this game for over 5 hours the 
 very first night I purchased it... it is that addicting! A must for any musician or music lover... 
 Guitar Hero II is a ROCK SOLID GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moh2in
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game is great. It's a lot of fun and I've been hooked on to this game since the first 
 part Guitar Hero . I've played this game so much it's not even funny.. still not on expert mode 
 though but this game is fun!! you can spend hours with your friends just rocking out to this game 
 and the best thing is that there is down loadable content plus online play..
  The only problem is that while the emphasis is laid on most rock songs there aren't really that 
 many good songs.. i honestly think guitar hero 1 was better because of it's amazing rocking tracks.. Like 
 Iron man or Smoke on the water
  But hey, this game doesn't come anywhere short too. There are a lot of good tracks on this one and 
 my personal favorite: Sweet Child O' Mine.
  
  This game is rocking! Cant wait for Guitar Hero 3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of this game since my brother first showed it to me about 2 years ago on his PS2. 
 Now that the second installment is on the 360 I couldn't be more thrilled. I have been playing 
 the snot out of it too, not just by myself but with my friends and we will lose track of time so 
 much just playing song after song. Single player, co-op, face off and so on. They really did a 
 good job bringing it over to this system too. The graphics are nothing in comparison, they really 
 made it look alot better cause i can see alot more detail then I could before on my brother's PS2. 
 The best part has been the D/L content, they brought some of the old GH1 songs into this title 
 and that just adds to it. The only thng about it was there were just a couple of song sets that 
 just hung, they were dull, prolly cause i didn't like the songs, but they didn't have much pep 
 to em at all. Just didn't seem like rock songs but hey, it works. I just finished hard difficulty 
 and don't know if I wanna tackle much into expert, but since GH3 comes out later this month it 
 prolly wouldn't be a bad idea. Overall awesome game, keep it up and can; t wait for the next installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddubbz08
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Not only can you interact with your guitar, but it's extremely fun. Though it's hard for those 
 who are beginners not only at the game, but at the instrument. When I first played the game I was 
 like What a piece of garbage . Then recently, I went up to the mall and saw a kid playing it and 
 he did'nt miss not one note. So the next time I went up to a Best Buy, last Thursday, I played 
 it and it was sooo fun. Because at first I though only white people and people who know how to 
 play the guitar really well (Guitar Nerds) were into it. But even my lil' sister loved it. If you 
 don't have this game, buy it! If you don't have a game system, buy the Plug n' Play. The game is 
 very addictive and a definite buy for any system, because the graphics don't really matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heylin_Force
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest music game of all time. at least until GHIII :P it sets a new standard of 
 excellence and is a must play for air guitarists, head bangers or anyone who likes music or gaming 
 in general will appreciate this game. it has exciting songs and some true hits in it. also, part 
 of the magic of it is not only taking the most major bands of all time for it, but kinda opening 
 your eyes to a wider horizon of music. though it is excellent on single-player, like halo, multiplayer 
 is where it truly shines and imprints itself onto you. it's multiplayer can be cooperative or face-off. 
 in cooperative you choose either lead or bass or possibly lead and rhythm. then you choose your 
 in-game guitar of which they have dozens. then you choose your character. then you rock. it shows 
 you on a stage (wherever you chose to perform at) in front of a screaming crowd and then a digitilized 
 guitar neck comes on and scrolls down bearing differently colored buttoms or frets which have bars 
 behind them for chords. play it and you'll know what i'm talking about. then each player plays 
 and they share a Rock Meter that shows how good your doing. do it terribly and you'll be booed 
 of the stage. when someone does good it goes up and someone doing bad makes it go down. face-off 
 however is the epitemy of it's multiplayer where each player plays and a meter in between leans 
 toward whoever's doing better. as for the bad... covers. that's it. the voices for some songs are 
 absouletly terrible. such as Sweet Child 'O Mine that is done by one of my favorite bands of all 
 time but that Axl wannabe actually makes it less enjoyable for me. all in all though one awesome 
 game. a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Doom212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I wont be the first to say this but: Guitar Hero II is friggin fun. I mean REALLY fun... and addictive 
 once you get good. The sequel to the surprise smash hit Guitar Hero, and the remake of the PS2 
 Guitar Hero II , the 360 version improve on all scales of gaming greatness. Bigger soundtrack. 
 Downloadable songs. Better graphics. Better guitar peripheral. But there is a HUGE problem that 
 holds this game back from being perfect: online gameplay. Lets rock:
  
  Graphics: Much more improved in comparison to the PS2 one. The characters have more detail and 
 look much smoother and fluid. The nice little venues look great, with all the fans screaming and 
 your generic little band playing, it has the perfect rock and roll feel. Music: Guns and Roses, 
 Megadeth, Black Sabbath included, what more can you want? An extensive and great soundtrack that 
 will keep you busy for hours on end, with a ton of bonus tracks and downloads. Even though most 
 of these songs are not in their original form (Like the original band playing it) , the Harmonix 
 band does a great job in recreating the songs. Gameplay: Click the fret buttons (Green, Yellow, 
 Red, Blue, and Orange) and the strum button to hit the notes, and the whammy bar to vary the tension 
 of your long notes. You have a ton of songs to do this, a career mode, and difficulty settings 
 (Easy, Medium, Hard, Expert [I call that suicide] ) . Now, the multiplayer is great if you have a 
 friend over, where your options are Face Off, Pro Face Off, and Co-op... one problem: NO ONLINE 
 PLAY. C'mon Harmonix, you could of gave us that. *sigh*, at least Guitar Hero III is coming soon. 
 You see how I put Difficulty: Just Right. Well, thats because GH2 has a wide variety of difficulties. 
 Easy and Medium are a cake walk, and Hard takes skill, but you could get by. Expert? Well, lets 
 just say some songs are so hard, your gonna want to smash your controller. Practice! (Theres a 
 practice mode) .
  
  I can relate this game to a pizza: You order the most delicious pizza in the world, with a wide 
 variety of topping, and the nicest crust, and you can share it with people in your room... but your 
 not allowed to share it with your pal across the street or your friend in New York. Good game, 
 a must have if you love rock (You probably already have it) . 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenobody300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Plot: Weak
  You create a band and play as the lead guitarist. You play your songs in different venues and if 
 you do good enough you get to play an encore then move on to the next city. Game Play: Strong
 
  The Guitar Hero series has such a simple concept. Press a coloured button and strum at the right 
 time. And it's that simplicity that makes this game so good. Anyone can pick it up and learn it 
 in just a few minutes, but not just anyone can become a master at the harder difficulties. Finishing 
 a song with a good percentage and score is very rewarding. Probably one of the most rewarding games 
 around.
  
  Graphics: Weak
  A lot of the graphics in this game feel really last-gen. A lot of bright colours are use in an 
 attempt to fool the eye. Sound: Strong
  With about 75 songs in the game everyone is bound to find something they like. With bands like 
 Rolling Stones, Guns n' Roses, Nirvana and Kiss Guitar Hero 2 definitely has star power. Mix that 
 with a crowd that cheers, claps and chants and you got a great sounding game. Overall:
  This is one game that should be in every 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  WOW!!! If Halo didn't excest, guitar hero 2 would be the better reason a person should own an xbox 
 360. Not only are there better song choices as apposed to its Play station counterpart, its a way 
 smoother and higher quality game. The downloadable songs are well worth it and make playing this 
 game at any party a must have. I cant tell you how much exercise my fingers have gotten since I 
 started playing this game. I know that Guitar Hero 3 is on its way but to those of you who havnt 
 bought Guitar hero 2 I highly recomend practicing on this version first before touching the unholy 
 beast that is to become guitar hero 2. Only bad thing about guitar hero 2 is the controllers have 
 these phone ports that no one knows is for and the online gameplay is restricted to seeing a list 
 of top players and you. The ranking system does give you something to strive for though. Hope you 
 enjoy this game as much as I have. Can't wait for the third. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Before I start let me say that GH1 on the PS2 was, for me, a revelation. The first ten minutes 
 of playing that game will forever stand as some of the most memorable gaming moments of my life. 
 GH1 was as near to perfect as you can get... the only flaw being that once you'd bought it, that 
 was it for your song collection.
  
  Not any more with GH2 on the 360, thought I. Electing to drop &pound;60 or thereabouts on a new 
 version of the game which promised downloadable content, new modes, a brand new guitar, and of 
 course, dozens of new songs out of the box seemed like a no-brainer. Well, y'know, I kind of wish 
 now that I hadn't.
  
  GH2 inherits all of the dynamite gameplay of its predecessor and it's for that reason that I scored 
 it as highly as I have. The GH gameplay model is perfect, unsurpassed. Playing against tracks on 
 the hardest levels *literally* feels like you're playing the guitar. No other rhythm game has come 
 close. The extras - all the characters, outfits, guitars, skins and so on that you can buy, as 
 well as behind-the-scenes movies - are all excellent.
  
  With that out of the way, GH2 has been a huge let-down.
  
  First, the song collection... well, 
 there's no better way to say it. The song selection sucks. There are, of course, a few utter classics 
 from G'n'R, Maiden, Sabbath, etc., but these are the minority. Of the rest, the majority of the 
 songs are 'well-known' only insofar as you might distantly recognise them when you hear them. This 
 doesn't mean that a lot of them aren't fun to play, because they are, but one of the red-hot attractions 
 of GH1 was that the songs were more than just well-known, they were bona-fide classics. The GH2 
 selection, full of obscure artists and whacky riffs, is a legitimate let-down.
  
  Okay, I thought. I can see what's going on here. The out-of-the-box collection has been padded 
 with cheaply-licensed tracks in order to pave the way for really unmissable downloads. A cheap 
 trick, but I can understand...
  
  Not so. The downloadable content has been an unmitigated disaster. So far we've had a couple of 
 packs including a few of some of the better GH1 tunes, and a 'My Chemical Romance' pack that doesn't 
 even include their recent stuff like 'Black Parade' (Edit: Oh but it does, at least from the same 
 album. Mea culpa.) . Releases are few and far between, and excessively priced. What I *expected* 
 with GH2 was a trickle of micro-priced tunes, maybe 2 or 3 a month, to keep the collection ticking 
 over. What I *got* was a joke.
  
  I simply don't understand it. If you're going to just re-release the GH1 discography, I see no 
 reason AT ALL why the entire GH1 catalogue couldn't have been released over the first 6 months. 
 If reasonably priced (say, a dollar a track) , I would probably have purchased around 70% of the 
 catalogue by now. Instead I've purchased just *one* of the song packs, mostly to see how they integrate 
 with the game, and I will not be purchasing more at these prices. This laughable downloads policy 
 smacks of internal politicking on the part of Microsoft, Harmonix, and Activision, desperate to 
 keep the market for GH3 and Rock Band hot, and leaves me with a very sour taste in my mouth.
  
  The other major problem with GH2, as if it matters, is the guitar. It's awful: uncomfortable 
 to use, prone to breakage, and with a strap which the devil himself may well have designed to taunt 
 lesser mortals. How this device replaced the original Les Paul I don't know, but it's telling that 
 in a lot of the YouTube videos of people playing GH2 on the PS2, they're using the original GH1 
 guitar.
  
  Overall I *hate* marking this game under a 9.0. The gameplay deserved much better. But then, so 
 did we. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teklis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you even like rhythm games to begin with you need to try this one. Now if you are 
 like me and find rhythm games repetitive and boring, dont throw this one out yet you might be missing 
 something you could really enjoy. With a large song list from both mainstream bands and some less 
 know ones, the songs alone are worth listening to. The game starts off on easy and really helps 
 you along, allowing you to get used to the game. As you progress through the song list the difficulty 
 gradually increases, and when you jump to the next difficulty level you should be more than prepared 
 to tackle what they throw at you. Hard core gamers dont be disappointed though, when you hit expert 
 you will have more than enough to bite off. The difficulty finally reaches a good dose of insane 
 and you really have to work to get better at it. All this is excluding the fact that with the multi-player 
 capabilities and face-offs you can do, this game is great for playing with a group of friends or 
 just rockin out on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlanders
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. I have to admit I was making fun of the pre-teens at Gamestop 
 that were buying this, but afer trying it I was absolutely addicted. I bought this a week after 
 release and still play it 4-5 times a week. This game has the highest re-playability of any game 
 I have played. It also has the hardest achievements... possibly ever. Sure the gears seriously achievement 
 takes time, but I dare you to try and get 5 stars on all expert songs or even finish Jordan on 
 expert. The only thing keeping this from a 10 score is lack of online play (for co-op or battle) . 
 It you love music (rock out) , but can't play the guitar, pick this game up and live out your rock 
 and roll fantasies (groupies, hookers, cocaine and booze optional) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Ps2 version Review:
  
  A great game. It is very good much better than the first. Great songs, A few could be replaced 
 with some of my picks BUT OVERALL a great game.
  
  songs that should be on game
  
  1. All Along the Watchtower -- Jimi Hendrix
  2. Eruption -- Van Halen
  3. Jump -- Van Halen
  4. Stairway 
 to Heaven -- Led Zeppelin
  5. Every Rose has its Thorn -- Poison
  
  I think there are more but atleast 5 i think should be replaced with these above.
  
  Overall 
 good but i suggest getting it for 360. Better songs and better Guitar.
  
  
  
  360 review:
  
  Much better! Fixed all my problems except no online play the only bad part was 
 the fact that.. still crap songs from ps2 version (licensed to guitar hero cant remove = ( ) and 
 my song arent on it = (
  
  
  Cant wait till 360 gets hacked... Custom Songs!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conan6980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very fun and immersive. The graphics are not very high end but it does not detract 
 from the game. The head-to-head is a great way to compete with friends, if you have two guitars. 
 As far as the difficulty, very easy to pick up on the easy setting. As you increase the difficulty, 
 it really adds a nice level of self-competitiveness to the game. Decent replay value, due to the 
 downloadable content and songs available to unlock within the game. Lacking the ability to go on 
 XBL to play against others across the country. I do wish that there were different encore songs 
 with each difficulty that is played. Looking forward to GH3 to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  guitar hero 2 is the sequel of the rhythm playstation 2 blockbuster title guitar hero, as a sequel, 
 probably you would expect some significant changes over the previous game, unfortunately this is 
 not the case, dont get me wrong I am not saying this game is bad, but if you already played the 
 first one then, probably, you have seen it all since this sequel is almost the same game with different 
 songs and high definition graphics ( in case you own the 360 version that is) plus some tweaks 
 here and there.
  Guitar hero 2 uses a guitar-like devise that makes you feel as if you were playing a real guitar. 
 The devise doesnt make any sound because the sound comes from your tv or home theater speakers, 
 but at least playing this guitar is not as complex as playing a real one, and thats what makes 
 this game so fun, since you can master the guitar in a matter of minutes.
  
  You can choose the game difficulty and there is one for every kind of player out there, and if 
 you wanna unlock all of the guitar hero achievements you are gonna have to play through all of 
 them, but since guitar hero gameplay is so addictive it is a lot of fun trying to do the task.
 
  
  The graphics and character designs are very simple but the atmosphere of the game is great, and 
 you really feel as if you were playing in a real concert
  
  Now, lets go with the no-so-good parts of the game. The soundtrack has more than 50 songs but 
 only a 5 to 10 of them are remarkable, another bad thing is that it doesnt support online matches, 
 and it wouldve been great if you could play with ( or against) somebody online.
  
  At the end if this is your first time in Guitar hero youre gonna enjoy the game more than people 
 who already played the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to say that my fingers are a bit webbed (not flexible enough) , so I'm terrible at 
 this game, but who cares! It's a really cool game that I enjoy playing at my friend's house (since 
 I don't have it nor an Xbox 360 nor even a PS2) .
  
  The music in this game is awesome, and I love using the distortion thing on the Guitar Hero 2 guitar. 
 The graphics... well let's just say, for the sake of argument, that the makers of this game focus 
 more on the gameplay than on the graphics, meaning the graphics don't matter too much.
  
  Anyways, if you have an Xbox 360 or even a PS2, get this game, and if your fingers aren't very 
 flexible, just exercise them alot (keep stretching them apart sideways) and you just may become 
 a pro at this game. I hope I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_King
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, where do I start? For a kickoff, the replica Gibson Xplorer controller is a work of art. 
 Now, onto the game. The training modes ease you into the game nicely, and provide good tuition 
 so you should be able to pick up the basics quite easily. There is a 'Quick Play' mode which allows 
 you to play an unlocked song of your choice straight away. But to unlock your true potential as 
 a Guitar Hero, you've got to go into the Career Mode. Pick a band name and your lead guitarist 
 and you're off! You start small, in your local high school, with 5 rather easy songs. But as you 
 progress, more and more songs open up, and eventually you'll come to Stonehenge, England (if you 
 played on Medium or higher) and you'll have to play the massively intimidating song, Free Bird. 
 (incidentally if you want to see someone ace it, just check my videos) Also, there are bonus songs 
 that you can buy at The Shop with the money you earned. Note though, you can only earn money and 
 use The Shop on the Medium difficulty or higher. Also, there is a fantastic Multiplayer mode, with 
 3 game types, Co-op (self explanatory) , Face off (you play a different section each and the person 
 with the highest score at the end wins) and Pro Face off (same as face off except you both play 
 the whole song at the same time, Player 1's performance out of the left speaker on your TV, P2's 
 out of the right) . It features some great songs such as Jordan by Buckethead, widely regarded as 
 the hardest song in the game, alongside classics such as Can't You Hear Me Knocking? and Sweet 
 Child Of Mine. The graphics are excellent, the gameplay is brilliant, you cannot fault this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8sasquatch
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Everyone should own a Guitar Hero game. If you haven't played it yet, you really don't know what 
 you're missing. The music rocks. Playing with a guitar shaped controller rocks. Jamming with a 
 friend rocks. Did we mention that the game rocks? Everything from the presentation to the gameplay 
 in Guitar Hero II is universally appealing. If you haven't already played Guitar Hero II on PS2, 
 this is a must own game. Even if you already have done all of this before, you may yet find a reason 
 to grab the Xbox 360 re-release. With reworked graphics, sound, new songs, downloadable content 
 and more, this is easily the best Guitar Hero game yet. Introductions are in order. While PS2 owners 
 have enjoyed the Guitar Hero franchise for a couple of years now, this is the first time any guitar 
 music game has appeared on a Microsoft console. The premise behind the franchise began years ago 
 with Konami's Guitar Freaks but didn't grip the mainstream in the US until RedOctane teamed up 
 with developer Harmonix. The two companies put together a special controller to accompany the release 
 of an all new franchise, Guitar Hero. If you haven't heard about it yet, it's high time you came 
 joined the party. Guitar Hero and its sequel have been massive successes financially and critically 
 and with good reason. Who doesn't want to step into the shoes of Keith Richards or Eddie Van Halen 
 and shred some classic licks? We all do. And now 360 owners can join their PS2 brethren in rocking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemasta21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good alot of songs like 68 or so also its very immersive like when u playit on 
 normal hard or expert the fans want u to play another song which is pretyy tite they even make 
 u play free bird as the last song which is a great ending i passed it with johnny napalm the only 
 down side of the whole game is its too easy i passed every single song in the game and bought every 
 song character guitar and ouitfits i even went online and bought the my chemical romance songs 
 in the songs i passed easy songs with all 5 stars and on medium 5 stars on all its songs and i 
 got those two guitars that came with it on hard i got 5 and 4 stars on some three got those hidden 
 guitars and lastly on hard mostly 3s and 4s and 4 5 star reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceWarrior93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is probably one of the best party games to date. It is the most fresh and original 
 idea ever created. I this game you pick up the game and buy a xplorer guitar controller. The X-plorer 
 controller plays and feels like a guitar except it's plastic. It has a strum button and five-colored 
 fret buttons. To play this game you have to press the colored fret button that corresponds with 
 the one on the TV screen. It plays really well and it's has pretty much infinite replay value. 
 Guitar Hero 2 features some great bands such as Nirvana, Megadeth, Rage against the Machine, Lamb 
 of God, Alice in Chains, Heart, and others. And they all have rockin' songs on this game, such 
 as Heart-shaped box, Them Bones, Hangar 18, Laid to Rest, Killing in the Name, The Trooper and 
 lot's more. But some of the recordings are not master tracks, First of all on Them Bones, no one 
 could sing like Layne Staley, not that the cover guy is bad, It's just that is Layne's song and 
 no one could sing it like him. Zache de la Rocha's Killing in the Name has a wannabe Karaoke cover 
 guy, which ruins the whole song. But the game isn't about the cover guy's it's about how rockin' 
 the guitar riffs are. The only beef you'll have with this game is the lack of online play. It's 
 active you can put it on, oh well it's gonna be in the next game anyway. Overall Guitar Hero 2 
 is a must buy to anyone who has a XBox 360 or PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  i remember dance dance revolution psicing up arcades as well as psone consoles.
  
  guitar hero II for the xbox 360 while hard to master. is defintely fun.
  with both challenging 
 and enjoyable songs.
  
  its not hard to find youself playing for hours. developing what i call fret fingers. you may find 
 your finger tips a bit sore at first. however its a true showing on how in depth you find yourself 
 playing,
  
  easy mode to me is entertaining. yes the fret/guitar work is slow. it just simply is more fun. 
 you actually get to enjoy the music while hammering out the perfect rythm.
  
  to unlock freebird you must endure medium. which to someone like myself was a very hard task. i 
 found myself barely floating by. however i manager to somehow unlock it. coming down to red on 
 one of the last 2 songs.
  
  this does make you feel like you could pick up a real guitar and make yourself look like a fool. 
 is it worth the $80? yes and no
  
  yes mainly cause its just the right kind of game to fill in right before work.
  
  no well money 
 sucks.
  
  I am looking forward to rockband however i may not purchase it. but looking forward to guitar hero 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tybaudru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  the game is really good except for the fact the guitars cost so much and the whamie bars can break 
 but other then that a fantastic gane the song choices are good the game play is good and if you 
 dont have the game i strongly recomend you buy one and then buy guitar hero three when it comes 
 out and rock band is also going to be a great game for those who like to play drums base guitar 
 or even sing so remember to buy guitar hero 2,3 and rock band and then just keep playin tell you 
 cant play no mmore and remember you do not need a new guitar for guitar hero three thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCleba_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The music and rhythm game genre has really started to come into its own over the last couple of 
 years, attracting both seasoned and new gamers. Guitar Hero for the Playstation 2 was one of the 
 biggest reasons for this, so it is no surprise that Guitar Hero 2 followed, and continues to drive 
 the genre forward.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 is not a revolutionary step above its predecessor, but it makes 
 some decent steps to improve the formula. This means the same basic gameplay is there, pressing 
 the five coloured fret buttons and strumming the bar to match what is scrolling across the screen 
 (there is the option to use a standard controller but why would you?) . The biggest addition comes 
 in the form of practice mode. If you are an Easy or Medium player this probably wont be of much 
 use, however it can be a great help to Hard and Expert players, to aid in nailing difficult solos 
 or riffs. Any song can be played in practice mode, which gives you the ability to practice specific 
 sections, or entire songs, and play them either full speed, or one of the three slower options 
 (slow, slower and slowest, detailed right?) The ability to start at the slowest speed and work 
 your way up is very helpful, and can really make the difference between passing or failing a song, 
 or even between four and five stars.
  
  Practice mode may well become a requirement for those who haven't played a Guitar Hero game before, 
 and are taking the step from Medium to Hard difficulty levels. The difficulty gap here is far more 
 than it should be, even songs in the first couple of sets can be a breeze on medium, but go up 
 one more level, and you'll have to start moving your fingers like crazy just to be able to pass 
 the song. Having said this, once you do overcome the difficulty, you really get a sense of achievement 
 when you get a section, or a run perfectly, and you feel more like you are playing the notes of 
 a song, as opposed to pushing a few buttons for many notes to come out.
  
  As fun as the single player portion of Guitar Hero 2 is, the multiplayer is even better. The options 
 in this area are beefed up a bit over the original Guitar Hero, as there is now the option of either 
 Co-Operative or Face-Off play, where each player can choose their own difficulty, and play through 
 the song together. In Co-Op, one person will play the lead, while the other will play either rhythm 
 or bass guitar, depending on the song. Face-Off plays more like the original Guitar Hero multiplayer, 
 which is an unlockable mode of its own, called Pro Face-Off. There may be complaints of no online 
 multiplayer, but this shouldn't worry you too much, as it will probably be a while until they can 
 replicate the brilliant experience of playing along with a person next to you.
  
  The sound in the game is understandably fantastic, and playing a song with the volume up (whether 
 for fun or to drown out the clicking of the guitar) is a joy, given you don't miss too many notes. 
 The soundtrack is decent, with enough standout tracks to make each set interesting, such as Carry 
 on Wayward Son, Sweet Child of Mine and the marathon that is Freebird. There are a fair share of 
 OK but forgettable tracks, and a few that are a bit of a chore to play. This however, is depends 
 entirely on your tastes in music, and can effect how much enjoyment you will get from any given 
 song, or even the game. There are also 10 additional tracks in the Xbox 360 version over that of 
 the Playstation 2, giving a bit of a bonus to those who waited the extra time to buy it on this 
 platform.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 2 is a must have game, and it is easy to lose many hours trying to get certain 
 songs or sections correct. The new songs alone aren't enough to warrant re-purchasing the game 
 if you already have the Playstation 2 version, but if you haven't played this game yet it is most 
 certainly worth the time, and the extra cost, especially if you can get an extra guitar too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  For those of you who may have not noticed, Guitar Hero is a great addictive game for all ages especially 
 fans of rock music who would love to pick up a guitar and start jamming. The problem with VIDEO 
 game guitar is that it has no warning labels. First of all, keyboards such as excessive typing 
 can cause carpal tunnel. The chances of Carpal Tunnel on a keyboard typing is unlikely unless you 
 type 24/7 or work in an environment that requires you to use a keyboard and then after work jump 
 on a computer. Here's what I've noticed and you may want to try this at home. #1 Blurs your vision 
 You may not notice this, but if you try out one song and afterwards look at a picture you will 
 notice some morphing and your eyes trying to adjust after watching things move so quickly in front 
 of your eyes. This could cause you to screw up your vision and require a visit from your eye doctor.
 
  
  #2 Carpal Tunnel Disease DUDE, your not playing a real guitar. It's much smaller and requires your 
 hands to hold the fake guitar in an awkward way. I've noticed my left fingers getting numb and 
 my wrist starting to have pain shooting all over it especially on expert mode. This can cause you 
 to increase carpal tunnel if you use a keyboard and play guitar hero. You may ignore this warning 
 or you can listen to me and not bother with this. I understand everyone wants to be a rock star 
 but this is not the way to do it. Guitar Hero may seem fun, but it's a hazard to your health. I 
 highly recommend you not try this. If you wish to experience it for the first time, visit your 
 nearest game dealer and give it a run. I do warn you with caution, this game is not good for your 
 health.
  
  GOOD LUCK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is one of those games that when you pick up, you just can't put it down. From the first 
 time you play this game your are hooked on it, as if it were a drug its that addictive. Some of 
 the new features in this game are coop mode which allows one of your buddies to play base guitar, 
 this is a very welcome feature to the game. Also its a great add to your collection of video games 
 on your XBOX360. If u are looking for something new pick up this, i guarantee that you wont regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sYorch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  For all the gamers around the world who are Rock / Metal fans also, GH is what are we waiting for.
 
  
  GH brings to our hands all the power and feeling that just as our preferred bands do. Guitar Hero 
 got me on my knees several times while playing virtuous guitar solos. - I am not telling you what 
 themes made me come in order to avoid spoiler-ing some of the hidden ones. -
  
  During the Game I found difficult to believe that there are another bands that plays even better 
 that my preferred ones, so Guitar Hero may be educational.
  
  Talking about the controls, you may think that the it will become boring, my comment is: Not it 
 is not, just give it a chance, once you try some riffs, hammering or picking with your favorite 
 band and increasing the difficulty level you will become a Guitar Hero II Junky as I am.
  
  Just let GH to free your soul and carry you trough Rock and Metal and Drift Away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have both versions of GH2, and this one is superior in almost every way. The graphics are nice 
 and clean, the tracks are cool, and the new ones even cooler. The game plays easy as well. simple 
 as pressing down 2 buttons as the on screan prompt says. simple, easy to get started on, and almost 
 impossible to master. ive had the game for a long time and have just recently beaten it on expert. 
 Its fun and worth the play time. The only downfall of the game is the guitar itsself. The guitar 
 controller makes and breaks the game. compared to the ps2 SG, the XPLORER sucks. The buttons are 
 wierd to play on after playing on the rounded buttons of the ps2 version, a minimal problem, but 
 noticible to anyone who has played both for more than an hour. They also feel mushier, and get 
 stuck too. but the biggest problem is the star power controll. Sometimes it activates, sometimes 
 it doesnt. sometimes it activates when you dont want it to, which is sometimes unbearable. Its 
 a problem that should have been soorted out in product testing, but just wasnt.
  
  The presentation could use some work too. most noticible is the opening cutscene. Its obviously 
 an upscaled (and boxframed) version of the ps2 opening. Its quite blurry, dispite still being cool, 
 but it studders right when it starts. its just strange that this happens. also during some songs, 
 the screen will flicker and fuzz up. its usually good about getting back into tempo, but can sometimes 
 mess up note streaks. In all, if you want guitar hero 2 and have the choice, get the 360 version. 
 It has more songs, and even leaderboards, and if youv never used the SG, you dont know what your 
 missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Review: Guitar Hero 2 (360)
  
  The original Guitar Hero rocked my gaming world, as it turned me on to rhythm games. I wanted to 
 get this on the PS2, but when it was announced for my 360 I held off knowing I wanted it for the 
 360 Will Guitar Hero 2 on the 360 live up to my expectations, or will it fall flat?
  
  Story:
  You are still a local punk trying to make it big in the rock and Roll business. Simplistic 
 I know but it gets the job done especially if you are fan of loud riffs and hard rocking music. 
 Ok this story will not be winning any awards for innovation, but is good enough for what the creators 
 wanted to achieve.
  
  Graphics:
  Well as Music based games go the game looks good. Still it doesn't look as good as most 360 games 
 do but it is passable enough to get the gob done. Especially since if you are into this series, 
 you aren't looking at graphics but game play. But if you want a generalization of what the game 
 looks like, look no further than a graphically boosted Karaoke Revolution, meets Amplitude.
  
  Music:
  Once again The Music in this game is top notch, as one would expect from a Music 
 based game. But what sets this game apart is that instead of the typical pop, techno, and or occasional 
 rock tunes, Guitar Hero is all about Rock, from the classics of Kiss and Kansas to the blasting 
 riffs of Anthrax, and Lamb of God, to alternative bands like Foo Fighters, and Rage Against the 
 Machine. How ever if you were hoping for something a little more pop or techno you will be disappointed 
 to know that there are next to no pop songs in this game, although they did a job of grabbing a 
 soundtrack that would be more recognizable to more people. Though personally I thought the soundtrack 
 to the original Guitar Hero was better.
  
  Game play:
  Guitar Heroes comes with a guitar attachment for your 360, which does take a small lesson to adjust 
 to, but once you get the idea of how to play this game of it you will not I repeat NOT put this 
 game down for a minute, your life will be consumed by this game absolutely and unrelentingly. also 
 new is head to head play, now you and a buddy can shred, head to head! And now I will stop happily 
 ranting or I may never stop...
  
  Design:
  If you have played the other games (Amplitude, Frequency, Guitar Hero) the developers of this game 
 have made you know what to expect, but where the design sets its self apart is with the Guitar 
 controller which not only breathes new life into the genre but makes the game instantly cooler 
 and more fun than any other Rhythm or music game that has been released, and the fact that the 
 360 controller looks cooler than any other controller they have attempted yet. The 360 feature 
 10 more songs, online competition, and downloadable songs which seem steep at a price tag of $6 
 for 3 songs, personally I will be getting symphony of destruction, and I am debating about Bark 
 at the Moon. But beyond that the price of downloadable media will probably scare me off from buying 
 too many extra songs. On top of that the copy I purchased came with a defective Whammy Bar, which 
 was fixed yesterday with a patch on XBL and even then the game was so immensely addicting that 
 it barely made a difference.
  
  There may be a hefty price tag of $80 but it is still well worth it, you will not regret it! This 
 is an absolute Must Buy for 360 Owners.
  
  Graphics
  6/10
  
  Game play
  10/10
  
  Sound
  10/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  9.2
 
  
  Guitar Hero 2 (360) :
  
  Pros:
  Amazing Music
  Coolest Controller......... Ever
  Some of the best fun you will ever have on the 360
  
  Cons:
  Ok Graphics
  Not for everyone (hey 
 someone is gonna find fault with this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Hey, for rhythm games, you can't go wrong with Guitar Hero II. With co-op, practice modes and new 
 songs, seriously, what could be wrong with this game? Anyway, GHII has a lot of bravery for coming 
 to Xbox 360, but some of the reasons why are good. New songs only for the 360 like Rock and Roll 
 Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer, Dead! by My Chemical Romance, and Possum Kingdom . So what's the 
 bad stuff? Some of the songs in GHII. Although the covers sound good for some songs, Misirlou by 
 Dick Dale sounds nothing like the original song. Even for War Pigs , the guy who is trying to sound 
 like Ozzy, then he needs a mic check. The co-op in GHII is a blast. I've never had more fun with 
 co-op in a game since Halo 2. And that was classic but this is so much fun. Of course there is 
 still face-off... but no online multiplayer. I was sorta disappointed but with GHIII: Legends of 
 Rock coming out in October, I can wait. To sum this review up, Guitar Hero is still the king of 
 rock, and when Rock Band competes against Guitar Hero 3, then it's really gonna be a war. Thanks 
 for reading my review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuRRaY-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  For those of you looking for that game that will keep you hooked throughout the night, I think 
 we finally have something worthy of gaining a Heavy Metal Crazy Rock Award. The prior PS2-exclusive 
 Guitar Hero franchise has packed up its bags and gone on tour over to the XBox 360 and this is 
 quite some treat. If you have close to $90 to spend and a passion for rock music, then this game 
 is the perfect compilation for your XBox 360 collection. Adding on to the franchise in many ways, 
 this iteration of the game is one that people will stand up and play for some time.
  
  Being a fan of classic rock, there were a number of tracks that truly sunk in and seemed perfect 
 for the game. With over 70 total songs and more coming through downloadable content, there will 
 always be something fresh to play in this game. There are so many different bands from unknown 
 (The Butthole Surfers?) to rock-icon status (Guns N Roses, Lynyrd Skynyrd) there was a large variety 
 of music to play. All you need is a little Freebird to get you goin. Even the weaker music stood 
 out ( as you just couldnt wait to finish the song so that the pain would stop, and you get one 
 step closer to gaining an achievement.
  
  For those of you who have never touched a guitar in your life, have no fear. Becoming a true rocker 
 is as easy as entering the tutorial, where one of your fellow bandmates helps get you back into 
 the groove. Sure enough, the quick little tutorial teaches you everything you need to know to start 
 rockin. Basically after that, its up to you to put everything youve learned into performing 
 your best on stage.
  
  As a direct port of the Playstation 2 version, the game hasnt undergone much change other than 
 the fact that it is displayed in 720p if selected to accommodate the HDTV functions of the XBox 
 360. The game still looks sharp with limited jaggies on the straight fretboard constantly scrolling 
 on-screen. Along with the pyrotechnics in the background, the cartoony look of the characters complement 
 the over -the-top style of play by the rockers and constant special effects shown on screen. Combine 
 this with the style of the menus, which feature scribbled notes on a piece of paper for the song 
 list, and you have some original and nostalgic atmosphere created.
  
  Not only do you select the appearance of your character in-game, but also your choice of guitar 
 to play. The guitars range from the double neck Gibson EDS-1275 to the classic and ultra sexy Gibson 
 Les Paul Sunburst. If you are a guitar lover, this is the perfect place as there are over 25 different 
 guitar and bass to choose from, along with multiple finishes for most of them. Different venues 
 during the career mode add more vibe to the songs you play, as the Vans Warped Tour provides some 
 pop-rock to play and motocross daredevils jumping over you as you play. At the earlier school auditorium, 
 the scoreboard is hanging low and the entire place looks rather drab and boring. Hey, youve gotta 
 start somewhere.
  
  Well you wont be using your XBox 360 controller for this game, you will always be using the Gibson 
 X-Plorer Guitar Hero controller bundled with the game. Featuring a strummer (like the strings) , 
 five colored buttons on the neck (the frets) , a whammy bar (for those Hendrix moments) , and the 
 standard d-pad and XBox guide button, you have everything you need to rock out. Upon the time of 
 release, Red Octane has understood statements that the whammy bar for many models were defective, 
 and have offered returns for newer models on the guitar should you have a problem. Luckily, I had 
 a functioning whammy bar that kept me rockin.
  
  The frets are as responsive as the person playing with the colors ranging from Green, Red, Yellow, 
 Blue, Orange. This was basically done to distinguish between the notes you need to play. The game 
 looks really simple on screen but it takes practice with the guitar to really get going on some 
 harder songs. By the time you get to Hard mode, you will be pulling hammer ons, pull offs, arpeggios 
 (up and down the fret board rapidly, sounds nice) , and many other techniques that you can think 
 of (sorry rockers, no tapping) . Star power is a feature that few people have seen before, and it 
 involved tilting your guitar straight up at a certain point to jack up your multiplier. With more 
 notes hit consecutively, your multiplier increases to give you more points. Executing it perfectly 
 will give you the ideal number of points, as after a short amount of time your power fades.
  
  So I had just started playing the game for the first time the day of release, and for three 
 days straight that was the only thing on my mind. I would eat, sleep, breathe Guitar Hero 2. The 
 game gets very addicting after a bit of time learning how to play, but in a good way. It was in 
 a way that I wanted to play not only to get better, but because I enjoyed playing the songs and 
 completing everything. For a party game, it is even better as there are cooperative and competitive 
 modes of play. When you play a song together, the two people will select to play Bass, Rhythm Guitar, 
 or Lead Guitar depending on the song chosen. When it starts up, it is up to both people to get 
 the song going because they share the multiplier, points, and star power. The fun is trying to 
 hit star power together, as in the middle of play both players need to tilt their guitars straight 
 up at the same time. Tricky? Yes, but fun.
  
  The competitive modes are Face-Off and Pro Face-Off. Face-Off basically being a 1v1 guitar showdown, 
 each person has different licks to perform and they must stay on top of their game to take the 
 other person out. Sharing solos, this game mode becomes fierce as both try to outplay each other 
 to the end, seeing who places on top. Pro Face-Off involves both players playing the song at the 
 same time, with each of them being a different backtrack. Not as interesting as the Face-Off mode 
 I believe, because in Face-Off when it is your turn you can truly shove that guitar in your opponents 
 face and rock out.
  
  If you are a fan of party games, or just want something different and undone, pick this game up 
 NOW! Combining the best of all worlds, from audio to controls to ingenuity, you cant go wrong. 
 If you want, come on down to The Next Level and challenge me to a duel or check out the game for 
 yourself. Come on, dont be scared. I promise I wont rock you TOO hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is the second installment of the Guitar Hero series, and the first Guitar Hero game 
 to come to a Xbox console. When you first see Guitar Hero 2 in action, you'll question whether 
 or not it's actually possible to play it and actually be good at it. Well, fear not -- Guitar Hero 
 2 is one of those casual-gamer friendly games which anyone can pick it up nearly instantaniously 
 and be fairly good at it with some practice of course. The Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero 2 features 
 a song list of over seventy-four songs. With great classic such as 'Sweet Child O' Mine' by Guns 
 N' Roses; 'You Really Got Me' by Van Halen; 'Woman' by Wolfmother; 'War Pigs' by Black Sabbath; 
 and 'Free Bird' by Lynyrd Skynyrd. But unfortuately the famous and classic group AC/DC is no where 
 to be seen.
  
  The gameplay is nothing but perfection, nothing to change from an already proven formula. The player 
 may use the guitar peripheral, the X-PLOER controller, to play scrolling notes by holding the corresponding 
 fret button on the guitar neck and simultaneously pressing the strum bar. It seems difficult at 
 first, but after some practice, you'll get the hang of it and have loads of fun.
  
  The game consists of a 'Career' mode in which you name your bacnd and select a character from a 
 list and play songs at each location that you choose. Such as playing six songs in Ohio and completing 
 each song, you will now be able to travel and play at Boston and play the next six songs. On Medium 
 or any other higher difficulty, you earn cash for how well yoou play the song and the cash can 
 be used to buy new equipment such as guitars, new characters, bonus songs, ect. Once a song is 
 unlocked in Career mode, it is unlocked in Quick Play.
  
  The game also features a multiplayer option in which you and another Guitar Hero player can play 
 either cooperatively, in which one would play as the guitar and the other the bass, or face off 
 where you go against one another and whoever ends up having the most points wins. Unfortuately 
 there is no online multiplayer, but you can upload your stats to the leaderboards and see how well 
 you rank against other fellow Guitar Hero players on Xbox Live.
  
  Overall, this is definately one of the better Xbox 360 games out there, no Xbox 360 console should 
 be without Guitar Hero 2, this is a game in which someone from all ages can love and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_gamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is addicting. I just play for hours and I also play real guitar but i don't think that 
 guitar hero can subtitute real guitar. But anyways this game is really fun and the songs are great. 
 What is great about the 360 version is that if you have xbox live you can buy more songs but the 
 only bad part about that is that its a little overprice. I think the graphics are alright but they 
 could be better. The X-plorer guitar is great and it even has xbox guide button on it and its comfortable. 
 This game is great and people who do not own guitar hero and want it and have a 360 should go and 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomismocl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well if your like is boring, and you cant understand how to use xbox 360 without your chair... 
 this is the game to start moving your body.
  Get your xbox 360 with a couple of guitars, and turn on your hometheather... your house will be 
 a Auditorium for your fans!
  This brings the overall song total to 74, with 48 of those being licensed tracks from major artists 
 and the remainder coming from smaller independent bands.
  Apart from the added songs and new controller, other 360-exclusive additions to the game include 
 online leaderboards and downloadable content. The leaderboards are pretty self-explanatory, and 
 they track your high scores across every single song in the game, and there's also an overall career 
 score that combines all your scores into one gigantic number. You can filter the career score to 
 include only the career mode or factor in high scores from other modes as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  (to prevent gamespot from merging paragraphs, they are separated by --- . Thank you and continue 
 reading)
  
  The Good: Top notch gameplay that simulates the art of rocking, competitive and cooperative multiplayer 
 modes, large song list, tutorials and practice modes are easy to use, the X-Plorer controller is 
 a godsend, leaderboards and downloadable content provide high replayability -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad: not every song is a hit, no online multiplayer
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The finest of simulation games will take an experience that you will probably never have, and 
 simplify it just enough so that it's easy, but doesn't lose the qualities that made the experience 
 fun to begin with. In the the way flight simulator games can give the impression of actually flying 
 an aircraft, or cooking mama can make you feel like a real chef, Guitar hero will make you feel 
 like an armchair rockstar. After being on the Playstation 2 for quite some time, the Guitar Hero 
 franchise has finally made its way to the Xbox 360. If you've ever wanted to become a rockstar, 
 now is your chance to rock out.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If you've never played Guitar Hero before, it is similar to dance dance revolution in that you 
 have a series of songs to perform, but instead of stomping on the dance pad to hit the notes, you 
 strum in time with the music and press the corresponding colored button on the fret board. notes 
 can be played in single notes, cords, and long notes or sustains. If you miss a note, you will 
 hear a not musical noise, and you lose your note streak. When played correctly, this game gives 
 an experience only surpassed by playing an actual guitar.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  To the left of the fret board you have your point count and multiplier meter. The more notes you 
 hit without making any mistakes, the higher you multiplier goes (up to 4x) and the higher your 
 score. Missing notes however, will reset the multiplier. To the right of the fret board is the 
 star power meter and the rock meter. The rock meter indicates the audience's current opinion of 
 you. Hitting notes causes the meter to go into the green and the crowd to go wild, and missing 
 notes causes has you going into the red where you begin to set yourself up for song failure. Star 
 power is earned by hitting specific notes perfectly. When used, your character begins to do things 
 like spin the guitar, or other crazy stunts. Star power adds 2x to any multiplier you currently 
 have (effectively turning a 4x multiplier into a 8x multiplier) , and dramatically increases the 
 crowd's opinion of your performance.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If you are new to the guitar hero franchise like I was, don't fret because the tutorial is very 
 useful. The tutorial is very well laid out, explains how the game works, and shows you basic and 
 advanced techniques essential for shredding like a rockstar. The practice mode lets you slow down 
 any song and pick specific sections you need work on, and is absolutely essential just to complete 
 songs on harder difficulties.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  One of the things that makes this version of Guitar Hero 2 unique is the controller. The X-Plorer 
 controller features a much more appealing design than the standard gibson SG controllers, and is 
 overall a better guitar. The fret buttons are raised slightly, and the strum bar is quieter. The 
 only problems are that the strap often gets tangled, and it's difficult to hit the select button 
 to deploy star power, but you should be lifting the guitar anyway.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The bulk of the gameplay is in career mode, in which you name your band, pick a character, a guitar, 
 and commence rocking at different venues. The songs gradually become more and more difficult, but 
 the change in difficulty is never too much to handle. Depending on how well you play songs, you 
 earn money to buy new guitars, finishes, songs, characters, outfits, and even making of videos 
 (except in easy mode) . The achievements in Guitar Hero 2 are also very well implemented ranging 
 from easy, throw away achievements like failing a song on easy, or watching the credits to sadistic 
 things like getting a 1000 note streak or earning 500,000 points on one song.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Guitar Hero 2 may not be a graphical powerhouse like Gears of war or Bioshock, but the visuals 
 do get the job done. Everything looks a little crisper than the PS2 version, and the option of 
 rocking out in High definition is hard to argue with. The menus have a cartoony and goofy feel 
 to them, and look mostly like doodles. During performances if you ever get a chance to look away 
 from the flood of notes, it's cool to see smoke and light effects playing in time with the music, 
 the crowd going wild, or some of the crazy, random background animations like the grim reaper beating 
 up an octopus. The only complaint I have about the visuals is that the character movements can 
 get repetitive, and can look rather stiff. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The song list has it's ups and downs depending on your taste in music, but the list overall is 
 quite good. the original guitar hero focused on songs that have memorable riffs and any guitarist 
 would be stoked to play, but Guitar Hero 2's song list went a little more obscure. Most of the 
 unlockable songs are from bands you've probably never heard unless you already follow their work, 
 and are usually quite difficult to play. Some of the songs were performed live in the studio by 
 the actual band, but many of the songs are only renditions of the song performed by imitators. 
 For the most part, the vocalists sound at least somewhat like the real thing but sone songs like 
 Sweet Child O' mine, just get it wrong.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Aside from a few new songs and controller, the only other notable difference in the Xbox 360 version 
 is the addition of online leaderboards and downloadable content. The leaderboards are pretty self 
 explanatory, and track your scores on individual songs, and add them all up into one enormous number 
 for your career score. Downloadable content is a welcome addition and can extend the replayability 
 of this game even further, but they are too pricey unless you absolutely crave more songs to play. 
 You can also bring a friend along for the ride with competitive and cooperative modes for an amazing 
 multiplayer experience.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  If you've never had the opportunity to experience a Guitar Hero game before, now is the perfect 
 time to join the fun. You may be reluctant to spend $100 on a single video game but with a gigantic 
 tracklist, downloadable content, competitive and cooperative multiplayer modes, there is no reason 
 why you shouldn't party like a rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan1434
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2....... What is it? Ha well its a game were you play a guitar looking controller and 
 play the notes and chords on the screen. This game is soo much fun and its really addicting. I 
 dont know what it is but this game just has something that makes it so fun. It is easy at some 
 points and very challanging at others. It has a good mix of songs with even more songs that you 
 can download via xbox marketplace...... Their are not many flaws but one huge one is their is no 
 xbox live multiplayer which would of made this game 10x as fun...... dont let the Xbox Live on 
 the front of the box fool you...... all it has is leaderboards which is not much at all...... This 
 game is great fun with another friend and you can have some great memories playing at parties...... 
 But even though with no multiplayer I would say this is a must buy because of its great fun.......
 
  
  Pros- Hey its a guitar game, you really feel like you are playing it, great controls/ controller, 
 good songs (i. e. Free Bird..... O yeah)
  
  Cons- No Xbox Live, You have to pay for the songs on xbox marketplace
  
  I give it a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elwillo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Playing Guitar Hero 2 on both the PS2 and Xbox 360 I learned this highly addictive game works great 
 on both platforms. However, there are several things about the 360 version I found. First there 
 are more songs on the 360 version than the PS2 and you can download more songs with marketplace 
 points. Also graphically Guitar Hero 2 looks absolutely spectacular on an HDTV. The career mode 
 is quite extensive and addicting as you make your name as a band starting from the classic battle 
 of the bands. As you progress you open new songs and bigger venues. The style of the game using 
 a guitar controller is a great concept and many of the songs are rocking songs which a player may 
 find himself or herself singing, dancing, stomping the floor, and completely rocking out with. 
 Since the actual action of playing the game is similar to playing a real guitar many times players 
 can find themselves in a world where they are fully rocking out.
  However, some of the songs required to pass to the next venue are a little boring and do not fit 
 into the theme of the game. Another element of the career mode is the ability to buy new characters, 
 songs, guitars, clothing, and videos. Players earn currency by how well they perform on each song 
 given with a star rating and earning more stars means earning more money. Unfortunately other characters 
 and guitars do not provide any attributes other than aesthetics.
  Guitar hero 2 is a great game not only to play solo but is also a great fun with a group of people. 
 And with 4 different skill levels this game is for everyone from people who have never picked up 
 a guitar to those who can shred like no other. There is a major distinction between easy, medium, 
 hard, and expert levels. The songs are covers of well known songs and many are very impressive 
 covers. Although there are a couple which are a bit below par. The sound overall is very good especially 
 in Dolby Surround Sound.
  Overall Guitar Hero 2 is a bit expensive at $90 but it includes a guitar controller and the game. 
 However, this a highly addictive game well worth the cost and many will find themselves losing 
 many hours rocking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleT1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  RedOctane and Harmonix Music produced another great Guitar Hero. This game is just like the last 
 one but if you haven't played that its very simple. You are a guitarist in a band that is making 
 it big by going around to different cities playing songs from other bands. Its a great game that 
 will want you to keep playing more. The graphics are even better than before and so is the gameplay. 
 The Career mode has more people to chose from and even more songs. You'll never want to stop playing. 
 The game provides great songs from Danzig, Lynyrd Skynyrd, My Chemical Romance, All that Remains, 
 Shadows Fall, Stray Cats, and much more! If you haven't picked this game up yet do it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condog1702
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  To sum it up, this game is amazing!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome, you use not a real guitar but it makes the game very realistic.
 
  
  Sound: Well, the sound is amazing, because you have to play in sync with the song.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't amazing, but it doesn't really matter.
  
  Difficulty: This game 
 is fairly hard if you put the setting on hard, but on easy, its very easy
  
  Tilt: 10, a perefect 10
  
  To sum it up, this is one fantastic game that can easily be played 
 hours at a time, if you buy it, you will not regret it!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  So what is there to say about a game that you have invested about $160 and a couple of hundred 
 hours in? What do you say about a game that your mother-in-law plays along side your sister-in-law 
 with everyone else harping about when its going to be their turn. I guess you say, What a great 
 game. Before I go too far, Ill break down that figure above. $100 for the game, after tax, $40 
 for a second guitar controller and then all the downloadable songs from XBLive gets you up to $160. 
 Was it worth it? Well given that Ive only played the game through the Medium level and have beaten 
 just a couple of songs on Hard so far, and Ive still only played the game at least 200 hours, 
 Id have to say that I have gotten a lot of value for my money. Assuming you know that Guitar Hero 
 II is a rhythm game, you may be wondering if you have to be good at rhythm games to enjoy playing 
 through this title, and in short the answer is no. Speaking for myself, I am horrible at regular 
 rhythm games like Dance Dance Revolution and Parappa the Rapper. I was also pretty bad at two other 
 games that the Guitar Hero developers made some time ago for the PS2; Amplitude and Frequency. 
 Just as the dance pad made DDR accessible to the rhythmically challenged, so to does the guitar 
 shaped keyboard that comes with Guitar Hero. Yes, I said keyboard. If you look at whats going 
 on with the controller its just that, which makes it not in the least bit less fun, it's just 
 that perhaps a game called Keyboard Hero would not have gotten the same level of attention at the 
 outset. The controller really is the key to the game's success as it has legitimized an action 
 performed (usually in shame) by every member of western civilization - playing the air guitar.
 
  
  Who wouldn't pay just $100 to feel like a rockstar anytime you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Party like a star party like a rock star to tol todly dude. Sory but not in this game evry time 
 I play this game I know meating that the copany had lets make the same game we made for ps2 lets 
 put few new songs no new pepole and lets make sure how ever buy this game dies and also lets make 
 songs older then the player. This game does not want me to get the 3 one. I know what I want rock 
 band. I fell bad that I paid 80 dolars for some think I have on ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s7r1d3r2k6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  It had new songs, a new guitar and a game style, it was good on the ps2 but if you have to choose 
 between the ps2 version, wich i admit is cheaper, BUT if you want to play a better version, its 
 got to be the 360 version, you can download new songs, if you have an HD ready tv like i have, 
 then you will want to get the 360 version, its just better in so many ways plus you can alos get 
 the songs that they left out of the xbox360 verison off xbox live.
  So i think this game is incredible and i cant wait till Guitar Hero 3 and Rock Band!
  
  Reviewed 
 by:
  
  s7r1d3r2k6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MlKE-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The original Guitar Hero was released exclusively on the PlayStation 2 in November 2005. The game 
 abandoned the traditional controller and instead used a controller which looks and feels like an 
 electric guitar. The basic premise of the game was that a color would appear on the screen and 
 when that color appeared you would hit the matching fret buttons of the same color and hit the 
 strum bar at the same time so it would feel like you are playing the guitar parts of the songs 
 in the game. The original Guitar Hero won numerous awards for its terrific and diverse soundtrack 
 featuring the likes of Black Sabbath, White Zombie, The Exies and Audioslave. Just a short year 
 later Guitar Hero II was released on the PS2 and it was only a matter of time before this best 
 selling series was brought to life on the next generation of consoles. On April 3, 2007 Guitar 
 Hero II was released for the Xbox 360.
  
  Guitar Hero II comes to the Xbox 360 packed in with 10 addition songs that arent on its PlayStation 
 2 counterpart. On the 360 youll get new songs from bands like Pearl Jam, Alice Cooper, Iron Maiden 
 and My Chemical Romance. The gameplay for Guitar Hero II is rock solid, easy to learn yet hard 
 to master and offers great replay value because of cash you can earn to unlock new songs, guitars 
 and more. In addition to just playing the guitar you can use the whammy bar to alter the tone of 
 the note and add your own little spin to the song and give it that Tom Morello-like sound.
  
  Seeing as how the Xbox 360 is the best system for online play, its hard to believe that this 
 version of the game doesnt feature any online multiplayer. You can play multiplayer with someone 
 thats with you, which has one person playing the regular guitar and one person playing bass guitar, 
 but the game has no online play at all. In addition, on the 360 youd figure because the controller 
 was wireless, youd be getting a nice wireless guitar. But that is not the case in this game as 
 it still has a wire attached to it just like the guitar on the PlayStation 2.
  
  Guitar Hero II is a fun and innovative game that shouldnt be missed by anyone. There are more 
 songs on the 360 version than the PS2 version, there is the promise of downloadable songs being 
 available in the future, a virtual store to buy new guitars and songs, online leaderboards and 
 so much more. If you own an Xbox 360 and listen to rock music then there is no reason why you shouldnt 
 go out and buy the fantastic Guitar Hero II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II was originally announced for the PlayStation 2 on April 17, 2006. The Xbox 360 version 
 was announced on September 27, 2006 at Microsoft's X06.
  
  A demo version of the PlayStation 2 version of Guitar Hero II was released with issue #110 of Official 
 Playstation Magazine on October 5, 2006. Features of the demo included four playable songs on four 
 difficulty levels for single player and co-op modes. Demo releases do not feature the ability to 
 flip the notes for left-handed players. Demo versions feature the songs Shout at the Devil , You 
 Really Got Me , Strutter and YYZ .
  
  The retail game was released for the PlayStation 2 on November 7, 2006 in North America, November 
 15, 2006 in Australia, and November 30, 2006 in the United Kingdom and Europe. It was released 
 as both a stand-alone game and as a bundle containing the game and guitar controller.
  
  The Xbox 360 version was released on April 3, 2007 in North America and Australia, and then on 
 April 6, 2007 in Europe, only as a bundle containing the game and guitar controller. The Xbox 360 
 version of the game includes 10 exclusive songs and additional content available for purchase through 
 the Xbox Live Marketplace. The Xbox 360's X-Plorer controller supports an optional foot pedal for 
 effects, based on the game manual, but this is not yet available for retail. The game itself retailed 
 for US$89.99, US$10 more than the PlayStation 2 version. This is common amongst next generation 
 iterations of current generation games.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is based on the successful formula created for the first Guitar Hero game; the player 
 may use the guitar peripheral to play scrolling notes by holding the corresponding fret button 
 on the guitar neck and simultaneously pressing the strum bar. Alternatively, one can play with 
 the DualShock 2 or Xbox 360 controller by using 4 shoulder buttons and a face button, mapped to 
 specific fret keys.
  
  Several changes have been made to the gameplay mechanics for Guitar Hero II: hammer-on and pull-off 
 functionality has been improved, and three note chords have been introduced, scored as triple points 
 if played correctly. There are additional statistics available for a song upon completion, and 
 the scores achieved in either Quick Play or Career mode are saved to the same in-game high-score 
 list. The handedness of the guitar can now be toggled from the Pause menu when playing a song (previously, 
 this was only available from the game's main menu) . For the Xbox 360 version, scores can also be 
 compared with other players through Xbox Live via the Leaderboard feature, and there are 50 Achievements 
 that can be earned in the game.
  
  Career mode
  
  In Career mode, players create a band name and select a guitarist from among the available characters. 
 Eight characters are available from the start of the game: Eddie Knox, Axel Steel, Casey Lynch, 
 Lars &Uuml; mla&uuml; t, Izzy Sparks, Judy Nails, Johnny Napalm, and Pandora. Additional characters 
  Clive Winston, Xavier Stone and the Grim Ripper  can also be purchased, allowing them to be 
 used in later sessions.
  
  Only the lead guitar is available to be played in the Career mode. Over the course of the Career 
 mode the band plays at eight available venues. The venue system from the original game has been 
 altered slightly. Every venue is in a different city, and the Career mode has the band traveling 
 from town to town in order to play at the next arena. The band starts out at Nilbog High School 
 ( goblin backwards) , in an unspecified city in Ohio referred to only as the Midwest , at a Battle 
 of the Bands competition. Then the band progresses to bigger New England venues: the Rat Cellar 
 Pub in Boston, Massachusetts (paying homage to the legendary, defunct punk-rock club The Rathskeller, 
 or The Rat , which was located in Kenmore Square) ; the Blackout Bar in Providence, Rhode Island; 
 the RedOctane Club in Brooklyn, New York; and the Rock City Theater in Detroit, Michigan (named 
 after the Kiss song Detroit Rock City ) ; before crossing back to the West Coast, making a stop 
 at the Vans Warped Tour in Austin, Texas; the Harmonix Arena in Oakland, California; and culminating 
 at Stonehenge in the United Kingdom. The latter is a reference to the film This Is Spinal Tap in 
 which the band performed the song Stonehenge on stage with a model of the monument. The venues 
 feature lighting and pyrotechnics that are synchronized with the music.
  
  Not all songs in the main set list are available from the start. Once a song is unlocked for play 
 within Career mode, it becomes available for play in all other modes. When working through Career 
 mode at a specific difficulty level, the next tier of songs is unlocked once the required number 
 of songs on the current tier (3-5, depending on difficulty and console) are completed. Additionally, 
 the encore song for a particular tier is only made available once its requirements are completed. 
 On the Easy difficulty setting, there are no encores available, but the next tier will be unlocked 
 immediately after completing the required songs in the previous tier.
  
  Successful completion of a song on Medium or higher difficulty during Career mode will earn the 
 player in-game cash. Higher difficulty levels and better scoring performances are rewarded with 
 more cash. In-game money can be used at The Store to buy various items. Some items are available 
 only after completing all songs at higher difficulty levels or 5-star performances. Purchases in 
 The Store carry over to each difficulty in career mode and all game modes. Within The Store, the 
 player can purchase new Gibson guitars, guitar finishes, three additional characters, alternate 
 outfits for the eight characters available from the start, bonus songs, and videos. For unknown 
 reasons, the bonus videos are absent from the PAL version of the game. Within the Xbox 360 version, 
 there is also an option to access the Guitar Hero II content on the Xbox Live Marketplace.
  
  Multiplayer
  There are three different multiplayer modes available: * Cooperative One player 
 plays lead guitar while another plays either bass guitar or rhythm guitar, depending on the song. 
 Both players share a score, rock meter, star power meter, and streak multiplier. Cooperative mode 
 is the only multiplayer mode in which a song can be failed. Star power can only be activated by 
 both players simultaneously. * Face-Off This is the same multiplayer mode as featured in the original 
 game, though in Guitar Hero II both players can individually select their level of difficulty. 
 In this mode, players alternate between playing sections of each song. The scores are weighted 
 so that a player who hits less notes on Easy difficulty may not necessarily lose against an opponent 
 on Expert difficulty who hits more notes. * Pro Face-Off Players play the full lead guitar track 
 on the same difficulty. For the PlayStation 2 mode, this is available upon completion of any career 
 level, while for the Xbox 360 version, the mode is unlocked after completing the career mode at 
 Medium level or higher. The score system is identical as the song could be played alone, but songs 
 cannot be failed in this mode.
  
  While online multiplayer was not available at the release of Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360, RedOctane 
 has stated that they hope to be able provide this later once they are able to work out the technical 
 issues.
  
  Practice mode
  
  Practice mode is a new addition to the game, allowing a player to practice certain sections of 
 a song ( Verse 2, Chorus, Bridge 3, etc.) on different difficulties and instruments. Practice mode 
 gives the player the ability to toggle the speed of the notes (Full Speed, Slow, Slower and Slowest) 
 and does not stop a song no matter how many mistakes are made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtruegunner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  this game is pure genius i have spent hours on this game and it was worth the 65 pounds i spent 
 on the game with guitar i bought it the same day i bought my wii and its that good i spent more 
 time on this than my new wii console gr8 buy one ill be playing for a long time. the guitar is 
 also much nicer than the ps2 one and the game has more songs than the ps2 version. all in all better 
 than the ps2 version. the game hits every note every time and featuers some gr8 songs such as heart 
 shaped box and woman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickerscrt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  I was leary of buying this game as I would see people play it in Best Buy and think that it was 
 totally lame. Well not I can call myself lame because I simply love this game. The songs are almost 
 all great, and once you step up to hard and expert it will challenge even the best players! For 
 me it's just downright fun to try to get 5 stars on all the songs, but be warned you will get frustrated 
 as hell on some of the songs. Graphics are good but not great, but in a game where the main object 
 is to play notes that are scrolling down, flashy graphics aren't a necessity.
  
  Audio is great. Most of the songs that are cover songs sound almost exactly like the real band. 
 Notice I say almost all of the songs. Gameplay is slick and straightforward. Press the right button 
 on the fret and strum. Use hammer ons and pull offs, score big points, and feel like a rockstar 
 (ok, so maybe that's a stretch!) .
  
  I really wish this game had online VS mode as that would be a lot of fun. Thankfully Guitar Hero 
 3 is going to have that and hopefully it will allow spectating. It would be pretty cool to see 
 some of the top people on the leaderboards dual! Speaking of leaderboards, it adds a nice touch 
 to the 360 version so you can see just how good (or bad) you are at any given song.
  
  I've played both the PS2 version and 360 version and my money is with the 360 version. More songs, 
 much cleaner audio, online leaderboards, and downloadable songs through XBOX Live marketplace make 
 this a game that is fun for the whole family and a must own for any music loving gamer!
  
  (Note: My difficulty rating is for playing on expert. Easy, Medium, and Hard are just right for 
 their respective names) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeTheRage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting and waiting for this to come out for the 360... It finally did and it was well 
 worth the wait. I like the new songs they added (especailly dead!) The only 2 things i would change 
 about this game are more downloadable content, and online play. I can't wait for guitar hero 3 
 legends of rock and already have mine preordered! I have probably spent 500+ hours playing on guitar 
 hero 2. My Xbox live gamertag is Mike The Rage so check out my stats! Also mail me so I can check 
 out yours to! O and i wish it was wireless i pull my guitar out a ton! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game is very simple you play as a guitarist, and you strum its basically DDR with a guitar, 
 the game is a lot of fun. It has a lot of song track all be it a lot of the music is average to 
 sub par at best.
  
  There really isn't much to say about this game as you go from city to city and play 4 out of 5 
 or 5 out 5 songs to beat the level you're on and earn money, with which you can buy new songs, 
 guitars, characters and the likes.
  
  Graphics are great same with the sound.
  
  All in all the game is pretty fun to sit down and have a DDR type feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  GH2 IS freaking awesome. It has a great soundtrack and can be very challenging. This game make 
 s you feel awesome because of the cool controller. i never thought guitar hero would be so cool 
 i thought it was just a gimmick with the controller. But its not its a great game that just plain 
 rocks. It so fun to hit notes and hear the resulting awsome sound. Its the best rythem game ive 
 ever played ever in the history of the world its awesome. So reccomend it........ alot. Darn i have 
 to make this 100 words ok that should be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveBIRK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  wat to start with. its very fun. kinda fustrating at first but once u get used to it the game gets 
 rely fun. lots of good songs and some not so good ones. i wanted to shoot my self will playin yes 
 we can its such a bad so ng. only play it to get the acheivment. the only flaw to this game is 
 that they never encorrperated online play. a wireless controller would have been nice too. the 
 guitar that comes with the game looks like the gibson expoler and u cant play to well will sitting 
 down. just like te real version of the guitar it slides off ur leg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDiamnz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero 2 is a great game. the only thing missing is online play and better songs. you get 
 bored of the songs after you have played them a million times. but it is very addictiong if youve 
 never played it before and buy it. but if you want to get id say wait for guitar hero 3 or rock 
 band. but guitar hero 2 is great still. there is 48 songs plus downloadable tracks. their are four 
 track packs with three tracks in each of them and their is a my chemical romance pack with only 
 2 songs. th guitar is small but good. guitar hero 2 for the xbox 360 is the second best guitar hero 
 intll the 3rd. whats the best guitar hero? the first. wicked track wicked guitar. awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmanslim12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  it was great game. really smooth gameplay. great for the 100th time playing it. never had so much 
 fun in a game. the songs are great. just fun for anyone. easy to get tha hang off but challenging 
 songs make it enjoyable. i loved it 10. it is a little expensive but it is worth it. makes me feell 
 like i can actuaally play the guitar evern though i am teriable. sweet game highlt recomend. go 
 get it right now u shouldnt be reading this u should be on the way to the store buying this game. 
 halo 3 is going to be the best ever. For Those About To Rock We Salute you. ROCK ON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is a rock themed rythm game with a guitar peripheral.
  
  The story is very shaky but what do you expect from a game like this. You start by creating a band 
 of which you are the lead guitarist. It is now your job to take this band to the top starting with 
 a gig at your local high school and finally playing at stone henge in london in tru Spinal Tap 
 style.
  
  The game play is pretty much the same as every other rhythm game, you have to press the buttons 
 on your guitar in time with the music also while strumming on the strum bar. There are some great 
 songs with this game but also many i have never heard of and would not like to listen to. The star 
 power is a great idea, this is gained by playin certain notes on a song and it benefits the player 
 by giving him/her teh chance to miss notes without losing popularity with teh audience and also 
 times your multiplyer by 2 for a short period. The graphics aren't great but are updated from teh 
 playstation 2 version. The sound is what you make it lol.
  
  This is one of my favorite games of all time, i was shocked at how much i liked this game as this 
 was my first of hopefully many rythm games. The reason i loved this game so much were, great songs 
 which i loved and have learned to love, a very unique and fun gameplay style and the chance to 
 live my missed childhood dream of being in a band (i know i am sad) . There are very few negative 
 points to this game one may be that majority of the songs i have not heard of plus the fact that 
 extra songs are so dear on the marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game blow me away... to be honest
  
  This is probably one of the most funnest games i have ever played. as a guitar player i thought 
 i would be able to pick this thing up and just giver on expert but it really isnt that easy... 
 it is difficult which is try when learning any new song.
  
  The music in the game really rocks hard with great bands like Shadows Fall one of the songs you 
 have to purchase but make sure you get this song first it is really AWESOME... Alice Cooper, Aerosmith, 
 GNR, Sabbath and one of my all time favourite songs Free BIIIIIRRRRDDDDD which is the grand finale 
 on the game ... WOW i swear this game was made for me.
  
  I give this game a 9.5/10... this game has great replay value. i go bac kto this game all the time 
 and just giver... i love how you dont have to use the guitar to play and can play with a controller 
 as well so my fiance can play with me. its a great party game!!! Songs are really awesome...
  The downside for me is that there wasnt any MetallicA in the game but GH3 looks to have ONE by 
 MetallicA so look for me review on that game and i can most likly say that it iwill be a 10/10!!!! 
 Keep on ROCKING IN THE FREE WORLD!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan3414
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2....... What is it? Ha well its a game were you play a guitar looking controller and 
 play the notes and chords on the screen. This game is soo much fun and its really addicting. I 
 dont know what it is but this game just has something that makes it so fun. It is easy at some 
 points and very challanging at others. It has a good mix of songs with even more songs that you 
 can download via xbox marketplace...... Their is not many flaws but one huge one is their is no 
 xbox live multiplayer which would of make this game 10x as fun...... dont let the Xbox Live on 
 the front of the box fool you...... all it has is leaderboards which is not much at all...... This 
 game is great fun with another friend and you can have some great memories playing at parties...... 
 But even though with no multiplayer I would say this is a must buy because of its great fun.......
 
  
  Pros- Hey its a guitar game, you really feel like you are playing it, great controls/ controller, 
 good songs (i. e. Free Bird..... O yeah)
  
  Cons- No Xbox Live, Short campaign or whatever you would call it I give it a 9.0 with a Bama Choice 
 Award 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  The Good: The gameplay is smooth as silk, great song choice, engaging career mode.
  The Bad: The graphics&gt; not amazing.
  
 
  
  This game really rocks it is always fun anytime I play it, it has really solid gameplay and a great 
 list of songs that are fun to play.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 The gameplay is really great it gives you a great fell of really being a rock star.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.0 Even though the graphics are an improvement over the PS2 version, they could have 
 been better.
  
  Sound: 10.0 The sound is awesome it is really cool from the crowd screaming to the band playing, 
 it is really solid.
  
  Value: 10.0 This game is really worth the money, it is an awesome game.
  
  Tilt: I recommend 
 this game to anyone, it is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsdisforme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  I remember salivating with greed when I first laid hands on Guitar Hero II for my X-Box 360. It 
 was a triumphant moment filled with rock-star guitar solos and heavy, epic guitar solos that flailed 
 wildly in the background. I had envisioned just what this was going to be like, oh yes. I had envisioned 
 the perfect game and, to my dismay, I was disappointed.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, Guitar Hero II for the X-Box 360 is a great game. It could be considered 
 one of the rockin' top 10 of the entire library thus far... but to say that it does not come with 
 its own baggage and attempts to write off the heartbreak of faulty controls as every rose having 
 its thorns, well, that's just deluding yourself.
  
  I suppose I should start with the positives in this review (of which there are many of) . It would 
 seem fair and prudent to do so. The centerpiece of this game of course, would be the soundtrack. 
 Well-represented is the chugging, monolithic war machine know as Rock 'n' Roll in this game. From 
 the 70+ tracks to unlock, purchase, and hitherto choose from, there are some real classics wedged 
 deep down in there. From the likes of Motley Crue, Danzig, Stone Temple Pilots, and yes, even Nirvana, 
 we can also see the variety of the soundtrack with other efforts from the Allman Brothers Band 
 and the Stray Cats, which I'm sure shocked many others like it did me.
  
  You can't fault the guys at Harmonix for deciding to really open up the channels and bring in many 
 diverse sounds for this game. To be honest, it helps round out the experience much better than 
 a straight classic rock or straight metal approach would. I'm also happy to say that virtually 
 no contemporary bands have made the cut here... well, they did, but you have the choice to buy 
 their songs... and most of them, I still wouldn't pay fake money for.
  
  I digress.
  
  The point is, the soundtrack is solid. You can select from a range of classic tunes and classic 
 metals right up until the late 90's. And of course, Free Bird has finally been represented, and 
 is perhaps the most astonishing to play of all the tracks (being a massive Skynyrd fan myself) . 
 Yes, Guitar Hero 2 does a great job of capturing the true spirit of Rock, even if you don't really 
 have a clue as to what it is you're actually doing.
  
  And to me, therein lies the problem with this game. The controls are simple, really. Pull down 
 the corresponding colour-coded fret to the one appearing on screen, and strum the strum bar . Where 
 things start to go a little awry is when you try to put this into practice with techniques such 
 as hammer-ons and pull-offs . Now, I'm not complaining, mind you, because I think the closer they 
 get to the real guitar experience, the more rewarding it would be for gamers to perfect their Heroic 
 Craft. The problem, I think, lies in the fact that the 360 Gibson X-plorer is really nothing short 
 of broken. The strum-bar is very sensitive, which is nice, but the fret buttons themselves need 
 to be pushed down with such force that you think you might pop a blood vessel. There is no room 
 to Slow hand (Clapton, fools) , should that be more comfortable for you. No, instead you're forced 
 to laboriously work the fret buttons while trying to keep in tune with the beat, which, after awhile, 
 ends up looking like some kind of coked up Rock n' Roll version of Whack-A-Mole. And sadly, with 
 a game like this that is so dedicated to immersion and making the player believe that yes, they 
 are Gods of Rock, and have the power to Bring the Thunder... it just falls apart rather quickly. 
 In the beginning, you think that there's just something wrong with You think that you just need 
 some epic practice sessions... and for the most part, that may be the case. But for the frustrated 
 ones like myself, who feel that the broken fret board is holding them back, I can't help but feel 
 as though there could've been more done with the essential peripheral to this game.
  
  Really, it's a fine game. It's a fine rhythm game that for a few hours, lets you believe you're 
 a rock star... but that only lasts so long.
  
  While the game is definitely tricky even on the beginners levels, as you move through the ranks 
 and procure five stars from the easy and medium difficulties, you will start to realize something 
 as you ascend higher up the difficulty chain. The notes start coming at you in rapid fire succession, 
 leaving no room to reload (much like a Jon Woo flick) . And while this can definitely be a challenge, 
 more often than not you'll be breaking your X-plorer over the TV... and not because you just rocked 
 the house, but because the game is just pissing you off.
  
  And while there is something to be said about how well a game can hold you by the short and curlies 
 by being so difficult, there is also something to be said for being at least given the chance to 
 do something better. Sadly, even with the Practice Mode , the harder difficulty settings still 
 feel just damn cheap. While the extra orange fret is definitely welcome, it just feels like they 
 purposefully decided to amp up the speed of the notes, as opposed to letting it play out naturally 
 to the song's tempo. Iron Maiden? I can definitely see having a high tempo... same can be said 
 for even TROGDOR! ... but when you're pushing the break-neck pace onto tracks like Heart Shaped 
 Box , one must draw the line and simply say that the developers are just being pricks.
  
  And still, I feel that all of this would've been able to slide gently under the radar had it not 
 been for the practically broken fret board. When I first picked up a guitar, I had to train my 
 hands not to practically squeeze the soul of the strings, but to lean back and be a little easier. 
 This Gibson X-Plorer controller for the 360 is definitely for the more heavy-handed users out there. 
 Finesse not included. 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockapotomus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a total Guitar Hero virgin when I took the plunge and purchased this gem from my local 
 FYE, but this game did not fail to deliver on depth that can only be witnessed by owners, as well 
 as obvious and promised improvements from the PlayStation 2 version. An obvious place to start 
 would be gameplay, and the controller. Although playing Guitar Hero II is not the same as playing 
 a guitar, the designers managed to keep certain similarities (Frets, Strumming, WHAMMY BAR, Hammer-On's 
 and Pull-Off's) while making this game accessible to any non-musician. Nonetheless, this game will 
 make you feel like you're rocking. Seriously. You might get a little carried away. But what would 
 delectable gameplay be without an equally scrumptious set of songs? Surely a recipe for disaster. 
 This game delivers on all levels. From classic favorites (Sweet Child O' Mine, Free Bird, Jessica, 
 Rock This Town) to modern hits (Dead!, Woman) to Headbanging anthems (Hangar 18, Laid to Rest) . 
 And on top of it all, you get to hear some fresh tunes from unknown guitar heroes in every genre 
 imaginable. Throw in a freshly polished, hi-definition shell and you got yourself a keeper. Not 
 a game to pass up on by any means. Give it a couple of hours and you'll be Rockin' and Rollin' 
 All Night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_Scared
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I have to say this is one of my most anticipated games for 2007. I pre-ordered directly from red 
 octane 3 months prior to the release. I have been waiting for this game since the first one on 
 the PS2. I have to say that I am kind of disappointed that it took all this time to get GH II on 
 the 360 and we will have GH III less than a year later. As far as this game is concerned. I love 
 every aspect of the play. From the single player career mode to quick play to the multi-player 
 co-op and battles. The graphics are great and the venues are very well laid out. I would of liked 
 to see more master tracks in this game and less covers and a wireless controller would have been 
 nice but that being said I give the game an over all 2 devil signs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 may be pricey, but when it comes down to it, its all worth it. Theres no better time 
 than to own this game then there is with the 360 version. It offers you more song, updated graphics 
 as well as achievements. When you first start playing the game for the VERY FIRST time, then you 
 will more than likely be shredded apart due to its learning curve. It takes a little while to get 
 used to, but once you do your fans will be cheering for encores. It is easily beaten within a day 
 or so playing it on easy, however bump it up higher and it will prove more challenging, and the 
 game encourages you to get better and try higher difficulties by supplying you with rewards like 
 cash to buy new guitars, clothes, songs, as well as new characters (such as the Grimm Ripper who 
 is by far the best) . Doiong so will also result in unlocking certain song such as Sweet Child O' 
 Mine and War Pigs. And finishing the game ( medium difficulty and higher) with the finale of Free 
 Bird by Lynard Skynard? Genious. Offer a side of downloadable content, (new songs anyone?) and 
 you got yourself a highly addictive game that is hard to tire of. GH2 will release the inner rockstar 
 in anyone who plays it, no matter what your music preference. And believe me, this is coming from 
 a underground hip hop fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 2 is a great game if you like to play with our family or friends considering it uses 
 a guitar to play. The guitar consists of 5 buttons a switch that moves up and down at the bottom 
 and handle which you press to get extra points. The gameplay in Guitar hero is amazing it has some 
 of the best music rock has seen and becomes very addictive. The Gameplay value is great with 4 difficulty 
 levels it should keep you playing for up to about 20 hours of play. You could probably tell that 
 the sound s good because of all the great music so i dont know what else to say about the sound. The 
 value of this game should keep you going for hours and i suggest picking up the xbox 360 version 
 if you can aford it all in all guitar hero 2 is a great add on to the guitar hero series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazzo_Wisto_2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Well the game itself sounded good, literally. In fact, i bought the 360 just for GH2 The Gibson 
 guitars are the best in the world so it's great that the game features them all. I've known early 
 years' music thanks to this game i've learned to perform real guitar solos, i've spent my time 
 well, this game rocks, again literally.
  
  The songs are fckn awesome the downloadable content although i haven't dl'dd anything seems great 
 i hope one day Fat Lip was available to download. The game takes you in a very special way to the 
 music world even if you know it. This game has a lot to talk but not to write so well, this is 
 over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queek1313
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for over a month now and all I can say is wow. One of the 1st things 
 I love about this game is they are not messing around with the difficulty levels. Easy is a great 
 way to learn the controller and get a feel for the UI, as you move up the song list, even on easy 
 some of the songs get real hard. Medium is just that, time to learn the 4th button and speed up 
 the beat. Hard is HARD, time to learn the 5th button and get ready to play almost very note that 
 is hit in the song. Expert is OMG crazy at least for me at this time. You are playing every note 
 plus a few extras that belong to rhythm or bass. All and all I think this is a great game and I 
 can see many an hour getting passed by this game. If I had anything bad to say about this game 
 it's the play list. I think there is a lot of room for more hard core bands and there needs to 
 be more downloads for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the 360 is a wonderful addition to the Guitar Hero series. Most of the time 
 re-released games are just full of cheap additions to make it look like it's worth the money to 
 pick up again, but I have to say that this one really proves itself.
  
  Although this game is basically the same as the PS2 release there's enough to feel like it's brand 
 new. There are the 10 new songs in this game and the set list is rearranged quite a bit. Just this 
 alone makes you feel like your playing a different game, kinda funny the way that happens. The 
 10 new songs are actually all pretty good. The 360 is also a great system for picking up a game 
 like this because of the great achievement points that can be earned. Any skilled GH gamer can 
 rack up the points super quick. But there are still a few that will provide some good challenge, 
 perticularly the 500k and 1000 note streak achievements. There are only a few songs these are even 
 possible on, hopefully your good at one of them.
  
  There are of course downloadable GH1 songs to in case you only have a 360 and missed the first 
 game. Of course, they are over-priced (I mean, why shouldn't they be right?) and not packaged in 
 any logical order at all, but of course if you really need a few songs it shouldn't be to bad on 
 you to pick some up.
  
  There's not much to say about this game that hasn't been said about the PS2 version, since it's 
 pretty much the same thing besides what I said above, so if you can definitely check this out and 
 to all those with a 360 and PS2 you'll want to upgrade yourself no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CartmanIsKewl
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Get it if you don't have the PS2 version, and if you do, and if you have the money ($90) , try and 
 buy this version. It has 10 new songs, plus an online leaderboard.
  The leaderboard is sorted by total score, disregarding difficulty. So just the highest score overall 
 is #1. The leaderboards can be broken down by total career score and by each song itself.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  This is a definite pick0up-and-play game in terms of it's initial difficulty, 
 but the progressively harder difficulties (which get harder at a perfect rate) will keep you coming 
 back for more until you play Expert difficulty. This is where the most fun can be had.
  Co-op has one player playing lead guitar, and the other playing either bass or rhythm guitar depending 
 on the song. Each person can choose their own difficulty. There's also a Pro-Faceoff mode, where 
 2 people square off on the same difficulty and highest score wins.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The models of the band look decent (decend for 360, but a million times better than the PS2 version. 
 The game is nowhere near being ugly, it just looks plain, and good.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  It sounds great! Great sound quality. I give it a 9, and not a 10, because some of the covers are 
 done poorly.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Great multiplayer and it's easy pick-up-and-play qualities make this game great for anyone to play. 
 You're gonna be addicted playing this game alone for 2 reasons: 1) It's just so fun. and 2) You 
 want to make your scores better.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10
  
  This (along with the PS2 version) are 2 of my favorite games of all time. I'll always be playing 
 the past versions even after the new ones come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyinfinity
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is so completely worth whatever money you pay for it. Not only does it include the entire 
 ps2 version with enhanced graphics, but it also includes a handful of new songs. There is also 
 downloadable songs available, although they are just songs from guitar hero 1 and they are not 
 exactly cheap. The gameplay is as good as ever, and the graphics are noticeably better, and it 
 was hard to go back to the ps2 version after this. It has AMAZING replay value. Best of all, this 
 has achievements! The downside to the game is that the guitar is still not wireless and there is 
 no online play. Even so, this is an amazing game, so just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This past New Years Eve, Andy had a party. A large group was down in the basement, where he has 
 his games setup, and inevitably a game of Guitar Hero got started. While the people from GI in 
 attendance were already converts, what really interested me was the way that this game draws new 
 people under its spell. Id say that at least half of the people there were not avid game players, 
 some not gamers at all. Still, after an hour, there were constant lines of partygoers who  after 
 having just played a few songs  were working their way through the first batch of tunes and not-so-patiently 
 yearning for another turn. Suddenly, the line for Guitar Hero was longer than the line for booze, 
 which is saying something. Its pretty rare for a game to have this effect, and I think its a 
 testament to Harmonix development expertise that Guitar Hero is addictive and inviting for everyone 
 from the most novice player to the most hardcore.
  
  Guitar Hero II, as you likely already know, improved on the original by adding a great guitar/bass 
 duet mode, more real-world gear endorsements, encores, and Freebird. I heard some complaints 
 from people that felt the soundtrack could have used more hits, but I honestly liked having a 
 few more dark horses in the race. Those whiners should be happy that quite a few of the 10 new 
 songs are well-known songs by the likes Iron Maiden, Deep Purple, Rick Derringer, Rancid, and Toadies. 
 Also, I couldnt fail to mention just how crucial the inclusion of The Trooper is  Maidens 
 scorching leads have no peer in the world of metal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Ppl used to go to arcades to play games like this, but now, you can play anywhere in your home! even 
 if your not a rock Savy, youll definetly enjoy the game.
  
  The controls are pretty easy to get down. babysteps are a must for this. you cant just expect to 
 know how to play a song on hard because it will just end in failure. get used to the controls and 
 start off small.. then slowly work your way up to the next difficulty.
  
  The song list is pretty good. it ranges from alot of music, but mainly rock and metal. Songs that 
 u mightve heard on the radio or songs u heard before will help u feel what your playingl; also helping 
 u know what kind of note to play next.
  
  Career mode is well thought out. Starting from small gigs working your way up to the ultimate stage. not 
 to mention making money from shows to buy stuff like more songs 2 play, new characters, guitars, Outfits, and 
 guitar colors. theres also the encores which are somewhat challenging.
  
  The practice mode is super useful to help u master songs u just couldnt beat or finish. it could 
 also help you master any parts of a song u just did awful in.
  
  the only thing i didnt like about the game is that for some of the songs the vocals were made by 
 some other vocalist which makes some songs sound really strange (such as the song by rage against 
 the machine and Anthrax) .. other than that its a really fun game and even more fun with more ppl! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennytheking
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most fun game i have ever played for a long long time. ive had it since it came 
 out and i still do not get bored of it. IM STILL TRYING TO BEAT JORDAN but i am not having any 
 luck lol. i get to around 54 % and then just fail lol i have been playing this game since the ps2 
 so im not a noob, i just cant wait till GH3 that looks freakin SICK i love this gamei love this 
 gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this 
 gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this 
 gamei love this gamei love this gamei love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is uber pwnage awesome and anyone who likes guitars, music, and games will love it. This 
 game is so good and when you play the game for the first time you will never get bored and never 
 try to be like any one on youtube or something that are really good! It has almost infinite replay 
 ability it is super fun and challenging. The online play is really fun and eventually when you 
 get better you can show off your skills. It also has a greats soundtrack with songs like Dead and 
 Strutter. You have to get this game if you dont have a life and you just want to enjoy yourself 
 you might as well get this game and you can practice if you can not complete a part of the song 
 you can practice it. It also has great great graphics and i hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobo290
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  a very different game from other one yet it turned ou great!
  Directions: you hold down a fret button and strum the bar.... sound boring...... HELL NO WTF U TALKING 
 BOUT!!!!!! Huge list of songs to play from, but game would've been better if online play was on. 
 Four difficulties: Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert. i play expert except when I'm playin jordan 
 which is the hardest song in the game in expert difficultie. theres local multiplayer but if u 
 dont have two guitar controllers u can still ues a regular controller.
  
  
  1 1 11 1 1 111 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I've long been a bit skeptical of Guitar Hero. It just never looked like much fun to me. And as 
 a guitar player, I just didn't think that such a game could really deliver on what it promised -- the 
 experience of playing some of the most famous guitar-driven rock songs of all time.
  
  But I was wrong.
  
  The track list is excellent, with a decent mix of famous songs and more 
 obscure songs, recent and not-so-recent songs, and some real surprises. Out of the over 70 songs 
 provided, I knew most of them. And knowing them helped, because the game can be tough and unforgiving.
 
  
  Let's just say, playing some of these songs on the guitar is actually easier than playing them 
 in Guitar Hero. I was a bit worried that the game's rhythm wouldn't match well with the songs. 
 But it does -- perfectly. That's quite a feat. The controller, based on the Explorer guitar, is solid. 
 To play a game like this, with rigorous demands for speed and accuracy, you need to have confidence 
 in the controller. And no matter what I demanded of the controller, it seemed to oblige without 
 any trouble.
  
  Playing the songs is a blast. This kind of game appeals to perfectionist gamers, of course -- and 
 if you're like me, you'll never get tired of trying to get every last note of a song. And with 
 four difficulty levels, no gamer will be completely left behind, nor left without a significant 
 challenge.
  
  Most of the songs are performed by cover bands, and for the most part they're recreated with exacting 
 detail. Those of us who listen very closely will hear differences, but the solo details are actually 
 recreated well. It could have been distracting for those of us who know every note of Slash's solo 
 in Sweet Child O' Mine to hear something different. But the differences are negligible. Huge differences 
 would have been irritating and distracting, but they are kept to an absolute minimum.
  
  Graphically, the game is just average. Most of the time you're not able to see what's really going 
 on since you're focused on the fretboard. That's the nature of the beast. But it also means that 
 while they aren't great, the graphics don't really matter all that much, and don't detract from 
 the gameplay.
  
  The game has a cash system for its rewards, paying you for completing a song successfully (which 
 isn't that difficult) . Cash is paid only on medium level and up, but you'll find that you'll have 
 no problem racking up cash to purchase guitars, characters and even some new songs. Besides the 
 songs, though, all the other elements to buy are cosmetic and don't change the game at all, which 
 makes them rather pointless. It would have been better to have a system where you could create 
 your own guitar hero character, rather than use the ones the game provides.
  
  In the long term, I'm not sure the game has a great deal of replayability. Granted, it will take 
 a while for any gamer to finish off the game on expert difficulty. This is definitely a game that 
 rewards skill and practice. And some may never quite be able to finish. But after you've finished, 
 there may not be a whole lot of reason to come back to the game. But in the meanwhile, the game 
 provides a lot of challenge.
  
  It's hard to recommend the game to anyone who hasn't played it. So, go to Gamestop or wherever 
 they sell games, and play it. Most stores seem to have the game on their test systems. You'll want 
 to try it out before you buy, since the game is a bit expensive ($90) to buy cold. But if you like 
 hard rock music, you'll probably like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulknot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  hello to everyone who wants to play this game but isnt sure that its worth the money. tell you 
 what... IT DEFINATLY IS! even if there arent exactly the same kinds of song that there were in 
 the first one on the ps2 and even if most of them arent as good, you should really try out this 
 game! its really fun to rock out with this little white plastic controller with four of your friends 
 taking turns and having fun. but it kind of sucks if you play alone some times. all in all, this 
 game really IS worth the money and you should give it a try if you can afford it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  This game to put it frankly is supurb, the best game ive ever played for any console. I think this 
 because its new and its very different from just picking up a controller and playing something 
 like Forza 2 or Gears of war. To be fair, Forza and Gears are 2 of the greatest xbox 360 titles 
 released.... but it doesnt compare to this! I have 7 friends with Xbox 360's in my area... After 
 playing guitar hero 2 all 7 of them have it. The music ranges from very heavy metal (I like!) Lamb 
 of God, Megadeth to classic tunes (LOVE!) Guns n roses, Nirvana, and Avenged sevenfold also it 
 includes other great bands like Pearl Jam and Lynard skynard. The gameplay is brillient, and i 
 can back that up by saying 150+ hours of gameplay ive had on it! Yes i know im sad, but still... yes 
 still!!! i have not done expert with all 5 stars...
  The game ranges from Very easy to Expert where you'll be challenged by chords, single not streaks 
 or hammer on's and pull off's. Also in the game are some great bonus songs which you can unlock 
 by completing the game on any difficulty (No not easy though!) The downloadable content is awesome 
 and you dont have to play through the game to unlock the songs, just pay points for them. Awesome 
 really. Anyway this games deserves a 10.00 because its just that good! I have spent more than 150+ 
 hours on this, i am prolly around the 200-300 area. Guitar hero 2 for xbox is around &pound;59.99 
 or &pound;69.99 depending where you buy, Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Many believe that ever since the Xbox 360 set the market record for selling a video game for 59.99 
 for newly released titles was a bad move. And now this game comes along and shatters that by 30 
 dollars. But hey who could complain with such a great game? First, this installation on the Xbox 
 360 is better than the PS2's version in a few ways. One, there are more songs. Two, the guitar 
 for the console is insanely awesome looking (based on my own opinions) . And three, the graphics 
 are much better. Now, I've dabbled in the game when it came out for the PS2, but I was anticipating 
 it's release for the 360 to really get into the game. In the beginning, I knew the controls enough 
 to start off on medium. As I practiced further and further, I got better and maybe a month after 
 training, I rose to expert. Now, I play DDR (Dance Dance Revolution) a lot, and I suppose Guitar 
 Hero, in many ways, is like DDR, so that may be why I got good rather quickly. For others it may 
 be harder, but it still offers anyone of any skill level a great game. From novice to expert, this 
 game does a great adaptation between the guitar controls and the songs' sounds. The playlist will 
 please many a rocker, going from The Butthole Surfers to My Chemical Romance. And even if you don't 
 like a song, just playing it will make you respect that song. Also, this game may spark an interest 
 in some of the bands that are in it, to where you may regularly listen to them on your MP3 player 
 or CD player. The controls work for both left and right handed people so no one is left out, and 
 there are leaderboards for Xbox Live so you can know where you stand on a certain song, whether 
 it be your favorite to hear or favorite to play. All in all, if you want to play this game I highly 
 recommend buying it, because I don't know how else you're going to be able to play it without borrowing 
 it from a friend, but they're gonna want it back. So get it for the 360, and if you don't have 
 a 360, then get it for the PS2, and if you a PS2, then that's very sad... But this game made a 
 great start in its first version and it makes a great sequel. I and I'm sure many others are looking 
 forward to the next installment coming out this October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's Tilt. I came to this game at a friends and Ill admit I was not expecting much fun. 
 Just was talking into giving it a try. That night I decided I had to own it, haha. So this game 
 appealed to even a tough critic.
  
  Gameplay. Simple but very addictive and very fun. Takes a while to get really good at it but if 
 you commit to playing it and working to improve you will get better and you will have a lot of 
 fun with it.
  
  Graphics. Not the best but the visuals in this game are not really the point so I would debate 
 that they are good enough to serve their point. But I do hope they make an improvement on the next 
 game.
  
  Sound. A lot of the songs are killer, others are not near as good, but something about playing 
 the song good or bad often makes you find reasons to appreciate the tune. Value. I've replayed 
 the songs sooo many times. This games single and multi is a LOT of fun so the value is very high. 
 Its addictive as well so you get plenty of game play for your money.
  
  Really though. If you like music and you like games you will probably love this game. It's expensive 
 but very worth the cost so have no fear! Buy ME!
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insert_Clip
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first, to be honest. I have been playing real guitar (acoustic rhythm and some 
 folk) for about 4 years and always thought time myself, why not just play REAL guitar when I was 
 contemplating dropping a hundred some bucks for the game and xplorer game controller. But then 
 I was pleasantly suprised.
  
  There's just something about this game that is fun. And I think the big key to it is it just makes 
 you feel like a rockstar, even though you probably aren't one in real life. And it makes you feel 
 like you can rip a solo as good as Jimi anyday. I think that really sums up the appeal, and it's 
 even better when you have a buddy or 3 or 4 with you playing along and enjoying the classic songs. 
 There isn't much to say, most the game is put into the moveable Fret board which puts the notes 
 sliding down at you in a DDR-like-fashion. The difference is there are 5 circles, all of a different 
 color, which correspond to the 5 buttons you press on your guitar controller. Then, just like in 
 actual guitar, you must fret and strum the little strummer on your guitar in rhythm to mimic playing 
 the songs which range from heavy rock anthems to classics like Freebird and Jessica.
  
  And thats it. Sounds easy? not exactly.
  
  While easy and medium are definitely accomidating 
 for any casual player (it only gives you a small percentage of the actual notes to play) Hard and 
 Expert (expert giving you every note the guitar would play in real life) will keep you trying to 
 get 4 and 5 star ratings on songs or even trying to scrape by with a passing grade long long after 
 you have bought this game. The game can be a piece of cake, or a dawning from hell, depending on 
 song choice and difficulty.
  
  There is a career mode, where you choose an avatar from the handful of ones given to you, pick 
 an ax, then get to playing. The more songs you pass, the more money you make. Each time you beat 
 a difficulty you earn a guitar, and if you do perfect on that difficulty (5 stars on every song) 
 you'll get another guitar as well. The money you make can be used to purchase even more guitars, 
 additional songs, clothes, characters, and finishes for your guitars as well.
  
  Then there are the multiplayer modes, which consist of Cooperative playing in which two get together 
 and play lead and rhythm guitar or rhythm/lead guitar and bass just like a real band might. The 
 catch is you share the same rock bar or whatever it is appropriately called, which is a meter that 
 dictates whether you are doing well or bad. The meter goes slowly to red if your missing notes, 
 or up to green if you are doing well. Face-off lets two players play the songs regularly, except 
 they can choose different difficulties for themselves and the notes are given in a back and forth 
 fashion and then sometimes in tandem, sort of like a dueling banjos effect. Then there is Pro-faceoff, 
 which gives the players all the notes just like fi they were playing single player, but the catch 
 is they must do it on the same difficulty... perfect for competitions.
  
  Lastly there is a training mode where you can play any song you have unlocked or bought, and can 
 play specific sections and even slow down the song up to 4 different degrees. This is extremely 
 useful if you are having trouble on a certain song.
  
  As for the nitty gritty, and paying attention to the attributes of this rating and review of Guitar 
 Hero II, it's a game really focused on guitar simulation, so your not going to have the best graphics 
 and story obviously. That being said, the graphics are still pretty good (if you have time to even 
 notice... my eyes are always glued to the fretboard) and the sounds could be better, considering 
 its a game revolving around... well, the guitar. Pretty good value, but the game will eventually 
 start to get old, just because on expert especially I've noticed the game starts to use a lot of 
 the same patterns for the guitar solos. Once you get one or two of them, you can do more then you 
 thought.
  
  But, in the end, it's a game aimed at playing a more sophisticated air guitar and having fun doing 
 it... and that's definitely what this game is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisearll
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9.5.... Very addicting game. Very nice difficulty settings. Training mode is good for 
 new comers. Whammy bar needs to get fixed.
  
  Sound- 9.5.... RedOctane deffidently raised that bar for the music any type of rythum game.
  
 
  Graphics- 8.... obv Better textures count than the PS2 version The Single Player expierence is 
 where most players will find themselves playing. There is five difficulty settings going from easy, 
 medium, hard, and expert. The game has over 70 songs and takes about 5 hours to complete on one 
 difficulty. To get every achievement you will need to play through all five difficulty settings. 
 Now for some Guitar Hero vets they wouldnt want to play through the game on easy or medium so toggle 
 on the left handed guitar and play through the whole game lefty. Trust me, its like trying to learn 
 to play the game all over again.
  
  The gameplay to the Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero II is slight better than the PS2 version. The 
 hammer-ons and pull-offs are easy to do and the new guitar controller feels alot more comfortable. 
 The only thing that was kinda a issue was the whammy bar. The whammy bar doesnt respond somtimes 
 and it does get frustrating. When there is that long star power note and you want that extra bit 
 of star power, it just gets frustrating that the whammy bar doesnt respond. Now star power doubles 
 your score. To activate star power, you just need to tilt the guitar controller up and boom, star 
 power is activated.
  
  The difficulty to the game is really well placed. For new comers to the Guitar Hero franchise, 
 they will need to play the game on easy because if they went to medium and hard, they would fail 
 miserably. There is also a training mode so you can get familiar with the game before you start 
 your carrer. On the easy difficulty setting, only the first three buttons on the guitar are enabled. 
 On medium, the first four are enabled and on hard and expert, all of the buttons will be on the 
 screen with some crazy combinations that will make your hands hurt after awhile.
  
  The Multiplayer adds replay and it kinda hurts the game at the same time. You can play through 
 the whole carrer in Cooperative and you can go head to head and see who is the better rocker. While 
 there is a very good Offline Multiplayer expierence, there is no Online Multiplayer what so ever. 
 Theres been rumors that RedOctane will release an update and add Online to the game but its only 
 rumors right now. But what they do have in the game is Online Leaderboards. You can see where you 
 are and try to climb the Leaderboard to be the greatest rocker of all time. The Xbox Live expierence 
 doesnt end with just Online Leaderboards, RedOctane confirmed that they will be releasing downloadable 
 content to the game. You can go to the Xbox Live Marketplace and download new songs to rock to.
 
  
  Now the achievments in the game deffidently adds alot of replay value. You could be trying to get 
 one achievment for hours on end. While some of the achievements are almost impossible to get, some 
 are quite easy. If you play through the carrer, you will get like five or six by the time you are 
 done.
  
  Now the graphics to Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is deffidently a step up from the Playstation 
 2 version of the game but its not even in the same ballpark as Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 The character models deffidently look better and the animations are improved but theres still alot 
 to be desired for a Xbox 360 game. Well since most of the time you are looking at the fret board 
 and focusing on getting that one million point achievment, the graphics to the game doesnt effect 
 really anything.
  
  The sound to the game is really unbelievable. You will rock out to the Rolling Stones, Lynard Skyner, 
 My Chemical Romance, Guns and Roses, Pearl Jam, and the list goes on and on. Like I said before, 
 you have over 70 songs in the game covering decades of rock history.
  
  With downloadable content, improved gameplay and has over 20 new tracks than the Playstation 2 
 version of the game, the Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero II was deffidently worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Its alright.. could i say more.. actually yes i can.
  Okay here we have a game.. here we have a Guitar Controller. Here we have a floppy button here 
 we have 5 buttons.. Lets figure it out.. ohh yea..
  
  Maybe it sort of like playing..
  
  A Rhythm Based game where your hand and eye is put to the test!
  This game is perfect for 
 those people who want to become guitarists it has to do with the most important thing on a guitar.. 
 Timing.. the element of the metronome.. I see people all the time blabbing away like ohh this game 
 isnt for guitarists and blah blah blah. but i think the technology here is the best thing ever 
 made for video gaming and teaching time structures with music! And i do get sick of hearing the 
 same songs over and over!
  
  Graphics:
  1 word Cheesy..
  When i put this in i thought i was playing a dreamcast again. Sound:
  The sound is great it sounds 
 good through surround and when you mess up you always have that wonderful sound of a string breaking 
 or the sounds of a palm mute on a weird flat note on the bottom string.
  
  Value:
  Too much.. The money i paid for this is hardly worth it especially if i want more songs i have 
 to pay another 5 bucks for 3 more songs. i wish there was more talent in the music behind it except 
 for a few songs.
  
  Tilt:
  Its a fun game to play, it might cost as much as a used nintendo Wii but its more of a borrow from 
 your friend if he trusts you enough. unless your looking for a metronome program that teaches you 
 time sigs on the guitar just goto guitar center.. they only cost 20 instead of 90.. the song list 
 is almost endless if you suffer from amnesia . the songs they put on there are so much easier to 
 play in real life.. like alot of songs on there.. they could have kicked those songs off and put 
 some symphony x or some dream theater on there. atleast the hard playing would have made sense. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuntersPrey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game, but after playing it at my friend's house for endless hours, I can't stand 
 not having it. I love how the game was laid out and how easily it was to get to what you wanted. 
 Career mode puts you right in the hotseat of a rocker, performing amazing classics such as 'Free 
 Bird' and 'Strutter'. I wish there had been a better selection of songs made. Also, having the 
 Marketplace is a great advantage, being able to download packs with more songs, to increase the 
 play length to a right good amount. All in all, theres only a couple items that I would have changed 
 (song selection) but this game is simply amazing and a great item to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the original, you're not really missing out on a whole lot. If you were expecting 
 a completely different game, you'll probably be disappointed. But, if you were just expecting the 
 same game, with better graphics and new songs, you're in for a treat!
  
  Gameplay:
  Guitar Hero at it's release, was the best rhythm game ever made. Well, it's sequel has taken it's 
 place on the top, and if you play it, you'll see why. The difficulty in this one is a step up from 
 the last, but that's a good thing. If you've never played the first one, and start with this one, 
 you might be in for a surprise, and will need to take some time to get the hang of things, but 
 once you've mastered it, have fun.
  
  Graphics:
  Huge improvement over the past game. Everything seems more polished and shiny. That's all there 
 really is to say about graphics for this game.
  
  Sound:
  I, myself, didn't like really care for any of the music in the game, except the Dethklok song. 
 But hell.. I listen to black metal and death metal. I'm hard to please when it comes to music. They 
 did add Lamb of God.. which is fine if you're into talentless mainstream sellout metal. All of the 
 instrumental covers sound great, but some of the cover singers are just... terrible. The Rage Against 
 the Machine song is completely butchered due to the terrible singer.
  
  Value:
  Fun to play over and over. If you're into rhythm games, you can't go wrong with Guitar Hero 2.
 
  
  Even though I hated most of the music in this game, I still had a great time playing it, and regardless 
 of music taste, I can't see why anyone wouldn't like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say about it for a review, so let me get to the chase
  
  Gameplay:
  Awesome
  
  Graphics:
  Not as good as 360 standard graphics, but still great
  
  Sound:
 
  It all about the sound, and its awesome
  
  Value:
  Best value in a game ive ever seen, i cant stop playing it, never played a game this much ever.
 
  
  well, what else is there to say?
  
  I got this game in high spirit, because the first one was also highly addictive, when i got home, 
 i got something better than i thought it was going to be, great music, very addictive, and i can 
 never see my self getting bored of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is a very difrrent music oriented game. Rather than have you pick up a microphone 
 and sing, it places you in the role of the bands guitarist. The controller is has a nice feel to 
 it and overall is great except for the fact that the cable is so short (but I fixed that with a 
 usb extenstion) . There is a very broad track list for the game, and it continues to grow with the 
 addition of downloadable content. The difficulty varies enough to keep the game enjoyable for those 
 who who have no musical background to expert guitar players. At its heart, Guitar Hero II is the 
 ultimate party game. Wether you have any sense of rhythm not you will have a blast with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Ok now il'l explain why I said what: Gameplay: Ok the gameplay is like completly differnt than 
 other games because of the guitar controller. Ok there is a board on the screen and you have to 
 hit the differnt colored notes as they come down the board to score and if you miss to many than 
 a thing on your screen called the rock meter will go into red and you will lose. Now multiplayer 
 is great, but you must have guitar controllers which are hard too find and expensive. I think you 
 must own the game to totally get it and do well at it and the difficulty is from easy to expert. 
 I have tryed expert and it is impossable unless you are totally obsessed, and i hav e only beaten 
 1 song on hard. Graphics: Now there isn't much to talk about in the graphics department because 
 there isn't much use for graphics in this game because you will be looking at the board most of 
 the time and not the stage, but if you do the charecters look pretty nice, but you can tell graphics 
 wern't the main idea. Sound: Now the music in this game sounds amazing and sometimes you wish you 
 could just listen to the music and not even play. If you miss a note the game makes a twang sound 
 to let you know you missed a note. Value: Now the game has about 70 songs so if play them all on 
 all of the difficulties that is a long game and since you have to buy some of them with the in-game 
 currency it could take you awhile. Also there are some for sale on the marketplace the price is 
 about $6 dollers worth of MP for 3 songs a pack and there are about 4 or 5 packs out right now, 
 I think that is a rip off but it's your cash.
  
  Overall this is a great game if you have the cash to buy it!
  
  
  Mario2295
  
  XLG: wario2295 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjinhubgyvftcdr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the game i've been waiting for, GUITAR HERO II !!! It is the most fun i've had playing 
 a game. It has great songs and tonnes of em'. The game is so addicting I bought it yesterday and 
 have been playing it non stop. I love when a game like this comes out, you can play it over and 
 over and over and it never gets boring it actually gets funner because you get better and better. 
 The point is you could have Guitar Hero for a really long time and never get bored. And if you 
 havn't bought it yet DO. Dont hesitate because of the price all those dollars you put into it are 
 worth it. HELL YA !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Are you ready to rock? Zomg. Well, you've come to the right place, welcome to the music game of 
 the year that keeps on giving. Guitar Hero, for those who never played the original, is more than 
 a tribute to the Guitar freaks franchise in japan, but is a completely unique guitar simulation 
 game in itself.
  
  The song selection this time is less metal-rock ish (although they have plenty of it, Hangar 18 
 cough.) and tries to give a nice varied selection to all genres, even some before the 60's. Although 
 I can't say they're all big hits (John the fisherman) , you'll be both entertained and challenged 
 at the new array of song selections they have. The difficulty, at least for expert, has been upped 
 significantly. If you thought bark at the moon was tricky, Jordan on expert will give you a good 
 hour worth of practice gameplay...
  
  The graphics look a wee bit sharper than the ps2 version, although it hardly matters for a game 
 like this. It does make it a little easier to read the music notes that way. This game can eat 
 up Nearly infinite amount of time, almost comparable to the Legendary Elder scrolls IV: Zomg Oblivion 
 wtf.
  
  If you like music games, it's a must have. If you like music, it's a must have. If you like games, 
 it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolld6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Solid game play, a progressive play list, humor and enough variety to keep things interesting. 
 I know this isn't really like playing a guitar, but I feel the rythm, find myself tapping my feet 
 in time, smiling during the solos and singing along when I know the words. This game is fun and 
 approachable by even the most rythmically challenged (like myself) . However, the best thing to 
 come from playing GHII is the bridge built between my teenage daughter, myself and a love of rock 
 and roll. She listens to more guitar inspired songs on the radio and from my CD collection now. 
 We talk about things like 'how would this play on GH' and 'where do you think it would rank in 
 the playlist'. It is a dialogue between father and daughter that opens doors to talking about music, 
 what was happening when I first heard the song and just an appreciation for rock and roll. I just 
 wish guitar controllers were sold separately and widely available. I missed the boat on getting 
 one and cannot play coop right now because of it. I guess I'll wait for GHIII to get a second controller 
 at this point, but we will continue to enjoy and rock on until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but its hard for some of those who arent quick, the game can be pretty 
 tough overall but u catch on and its fun after that. like i said it ets a while to get use to this 
 game. the game play is just awesome u get to make ur own band, graphics are fair but u shoudnt 
 care cause wants ur haven fun u dont care. its perfect sound its just like listening to the songs 
 on the radio if u want my oppinion its just an awesome game but the thing is theres so many more 
 coming out so if i were u i would get guitar hero three or rock of the 80dys its on ps series and 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game if perfect for entertaining. Everyone wants to play it, even people who don't play video 
 games. This game offers 70 tracks, and downloadable content if you feel you really need more than 
 this. You start out by naming your rock band then you can play on any one of the 4 difficulty levels. 
 You work your way up to bigger venues and unlock more songs along the way. You can also earn money 
 and purchase more songs, characters, guitars, etc. What I love about this game is that you really 
 feel like you are playing the guitar, and you can see your results from practicing. When I first 
 played this game I could barely finish a song on easy. After playing it a long time I have worked 
 my way the hard level. When you hit all those fast pace notes on the hard level you get this sense 
 of greatness as people are watching you and commenting. I wish I could have played this game co-op. 
 Kind of expensive to buy 2 guitars, and no co-op play availabe online. Just wasted achievement 
 points sitting there. Everyone should own this game. Even if you are going to buy Rock band or 
 guitar hero 3, this offers tons of tracks to practice on in the meantime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLCdragons102
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  If you do air guitars all over the place, jump up and down randomly, or just love to play diffeent 
 kinds of games buy this game. s s s s s s s ss s s s s s ss ss s s s s s s s s s as sdf dsf ds 
 fdsf g dfg dfg dfg dfg dfg dfg dfg df gdf g dfg dfg df gdsf gdf g dfg dfg f g fdg df g dsfgdf g 
 df g dfg dfg df g dfg df g dfg df g dfg dfg df gf f f f f f f f f f ff f f f f f f f f f f f f 
 f f f f f f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game. Very addicting and funny watching yoruslef and other who try for the first 
 time losing. Now with the guitar and game it's alot of money but it is a great game. What I felt 
 that was bad was the fact to get more songs on the market you ahd to buy in packets that were alot 
 of money (I belevie about $10) and were about 3 or 5 songs I belevie. But it is fun playing against 
 people, alot of the songs were good, and when you get into it and get good it gets ver very addicting 
 and cool if your playing in the sotre and you get like a group of people watching you. :P This 
 gmae is worth it just it is alot of money. I can't wait for number 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_soulja22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II could possibly be the most innovative games since its original. It is fast, challenging 
 and just plain out fun. This game is a classic and it could also be the most fun game you play 
 against friends. The graphics have been revamped for the xbox 360 and the guitar has never played 
 better. So i'm not going to leave a big review im just going to say go buy the game if you want 
 a good a$$ time. The music makes you feel like you are actually in the rock hall listening to the 
 music, the camera in the game has a shaky and authentic feel to it which makes the overall game 
 just that much better. GO BUY IT NOW YOU WILL NOT BE DISSAPPOINTED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game, didnt even interest me to begin with, cos' i though i'd be terrible at it, but when i got 
 a bit of extra cash free, i decided to buy it and give it a shot, and boy, i've been hooked for the 
 past 3 weeks.
  
  Gameplay - great, its a pick up and play game, and the difficulty levels are brilliant. I found after 
 a day or two of playing, it was easy enough to play on a medium setting but i still cant get to 
 grips with the harder settings...
  
  Sound - haha, as you can guess, its good, the songs on this game are brilliant, from megadeath to avenged 
 sevenfold, guns n roses to kiss, its amazing, though, i would have expeted to see such bands as slipknot, queen 
 or even red hot chilli peppers, maybe rock band will have these...
  
  Graphics - erm... what is a fret board suposed to look like on a next gen console? i honestly cant 
 fault the graphics, cos iv never taken much notice of the preformers or anything, dont wanna miss 
 the notes do i lol
  
  Id say this game is worth every penny of &pound;70, its fun, great to play with friends, has pleanty 
 of replay value, and keeps your digits (fingers) flexible hehe and it just has so much replay value 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqareenixfan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great. And that's coming from someone who didn't even play the first one. 
 Even if you don't like the songs, you will love the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: You hold down a button on the guitar, and press the strum button to play the note. Sounds 
 simple and boring right? WRONG! After easy and normal, hard mode completely pumps up the action. 
 You have to have fast hands and even faster reaction time to get 100% on hard or expert. That doesn't 
 mean it's impossible however. You get used to the gameplay after easy, the only hard part is really 
 getting used to an extra button you have to use.
  
  Graphics: They're, um, great? I don't really know how to describe graphics, but don't worry, the 
 game looks awesome.
  
  Sound: I wanna rock! ROCK! *when rock is shouted it destroys your whole house* In other words, 
 it sounds awesome. It has to, the whole game is about music. However, if you listen to a song in 
 the game, then listen to it outside of the game, you'll notice that in the game the guitar is just 
 a bit louder.
  
  Value: This game shouldn't be $90. Even if most of it is the guitar, this game should be more like 
 $70.
  
  So, if you're willing to shell out $90 for a game, pick this up. You won't regret your purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  The second installment in this already famous series is a major improvement over the first game, 
 as this one manages to be more user-friendly in a sense. Hammerons and pull-offs in this one are, 
 through my understanding, are more realistic in the first Guitar Hero, but I know in GHII theyre 
 much easier to do and this greatly improves how fun each song is, or can be. This changes so much 
 of the game, and means a lot smoother play in GHII than in GH1. Another huge addition to this installment 
 is the Training mode where the game breaks down each song into two of three components (Guitar/Rythm 
 Guitar or Guitar/Bass) . After you select this option, you choose the difficulty you want to practice 
 (Easy, Medium, Hard, Expert) . Then finally the song is broken down into all of its parts (ie Verse, 
 Chorus, Intro, Bridge, Gtr Solo) . You choose which part of the song you want to practise or of 
 course the whole song. The coolest part about this mode is the fact that you can slow down the 
 song to really nail the tough parts. The speeds include full speed, slow, slower and obviously 
 slowest! The screen is much clearer in this one as well, making it easier to really work out what 
 is exactly going on during some of the more intense solos. On top of that, the whole game just 
 looks better, having more interesting menu screens, clearer note boards, updated character models 
 and even the guitars. One of my only critiques for this game is the track list, which most of the 
 time can not really compare to the list in GH1, but this one certainly has more challenging songs 
 overall. This is definitely a great game with amazing replay value. It should be in anybody's PS2 
 or Xbox360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Harmonix's Guitar Hero originated on the PS2 back in 2005/2006 and quickly gained attention, critical 
 praise, and mention as one of the best games ever. Just one year later, Harmonix followed up with 
 a sequel, Guitar Hero II. Only now, 360 owners can experience Guitar Hero II. And what an experience 
 it is!
  
  If you're like me, this is how your Guitar Hero experience goes:
  
  1. Hearing about its existance and that it is good.
  2. Seeing a guy play the game on Expert 
 without looking.
  3. Playing the game yourself, being unable to play the colored notes, and thinking your controller 
 is busted.
  4. Figuring out that you have to hit the Strum button on the controller as well as the colored 
 buttons.
  5. Trying it again and liking it.
  6. Buying the game with the X-Plorer controller.
  
  When you start out playing Guitar Hero, 
 it's a bit of a challenge. You have to play a few songs on Easy before you can really nail it. 
 After getting five stars on Easy, you are not satisfied and want to try it on Medium. But even 
 after getting five stars on Medium, you think that that was too easy. How did this game get such 
 critical praise? It's easy... and kinda boring. 
  
  Once you start getting good at Hard mode, the game really gets you rocking out. You'll want to 
 play each song again and again in order to get five stars on every song. It's a challenging experience, 
 but it's also a truly, truly awesome one.
  
  The only way they could have made this better is if the game had online multiplayer, which it doesn't. 
 It's the only reason I still can't get any co-op achievements. I hear that Guitar Hero III is getting 
 online multiplayer, so I guess I'll just wait for three.
  
  Graphically, the game is just fine for the 360. The characters succeed at looking cartoonish, and 
 the guitars succeed at looking like guitars. The entire game also looks like it had a neat coat 
 of polish on top of everything, adding to the cartoony effect.
  
  You earn money by playing songs on Medium or higher. Using this money, you can buy guitars, finishes, 
 songs, characters, outfits, and videos. However, only the songs are worth getting because they 
 give you something more to play. All the other items, except for the videos, only exist to have 
 something cosmetic to unlock. Thankfully, you get achievements for buying all of them, which is 
 a good enough reason to buy them.
  
  To sum it up, if you haven't played Guitar Hero II yet, you should. It is an amazing experience 
 which should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This was my first real experience with Guitar Hero. After a debate about getting it, I finally 
 decided to take the plunge and buy it. And I don't regret a cent. One of the few games my girlfriend 
 enjoys as much as I do!
  
  It speaks to this games credit that I took it to a 4th of July party with people who have never 
 played it before, and by the end of the night, everyone at the party was playing and jamming out. 
 One actually went out the next day and bought himself a copy of the game.
  
  If you haven't played Guitar Hero before and you are hesitant to get into the game, don't be. It 
 is incredibly fun, and the difficulty is easily accessible, yet contains uber-difficulty later 
 on in the game, and it ramps up just right so you don't get super frustrated.
  
  Easily worth $90, and in the top tier of 360 games to date. I would highly recommend this game 
 to anyone, from a casual gamer to a hardcore challenge hound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  As someone who can play then guitar (not very well but decent) I was looking forward to this game 
 when it came out and was very opened minded about it. The game itself is just another rythym game 
 but what makes it unique is the fact that it deals with one of the most popular instruments out 
 and can make you feel like you actually are playing a guitar. I recently got to play through the 
 first one and I have to say they could've made the set list for this a little better. The last 
 set has two bands that I had heard previously to the game, Aveneged Sevenfold and Lynard Skynard 
 while the first guitar hero I had heard of every single band in the last set. There are alot more 
 songs tough and I think this game would easily be that much better if they saved songs from the 
 first one for this from the last set (Godzilla, Bark at the Moon, and Cowboys from Hell) especially 
 since in the first one the HO/PO didn't work at all. That is a huge improvement into the 2nd installment 
 in this series tough. The set list overall is great and has 10 great song additions from the PS2 
 one such as The Trooper, Possum Kingdom, Billion Dollar Babies etc. The biggest improvement tough 
 is the multiplayer. There is co-op where one person play lead guitar and the other player rythym 
 or base guitar. There is also face-off where players take turn playing notes and can play on different 
 difficulties. The multiplayer shines tough in Pro Face-Off. Two players head to head same difficulty 
 playing every note. What really hurts this game is the multiplayer lag on HD-TVs. My Best Buy had 
 a GH2 tournament the week after it came out but even tough there were lag problems on HD-TVs they 
 used them for it they basically did a system link with all the 360's making the person causing 
 the lag to excel while everyone else had problems. That basically what happens when two people 
 play on an HD-TV. The graphics aren't that great but that can be excused since the sound is perfect. 
 Every now and then you can hear a cover singer miss a note but that's not GH's fault. Another place 
 where this game shines is the difficulty changes. It's almost perfect easy to medium is nothing 
 medium to hard is hard at first as it should be then hard to expert is a huge difference when you 
 get to the fast songs really making it so that you must be an expert at the game to succeed on 
 those. Overall this game is a buy but with GH3 coming out in just 3 months it might be best to 
 just buy GH3 bundle and then GH2 game only since GH3 will be carrying a wireless guitar. Or if 
 you want two guitars just buy each bundle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziiLver
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is cool
  
  if you like the music as i do you will like this game
  
  the songs are cool
  
  the content to download is nice
  
  the songs to download are tight
 
  
  the multiplayer style of game is awesome
  
  you can feel like you really are rocking with your friends =]
  
  some can be the lead guitar 
 and the other rhythm guitar
  
  or guitar and bass
  
  it gets a little boring if one player is playing with the guitar and the other one with the xbox 
 360 controller
  
  so it's better if you have the 2 guitar controllers =]
  
  keep 
 
  
  i do recommend it =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerb21
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I am, to put it bluntly, musically retarded. But this game is amazing. I question a few of the 
 musical choices for the game, such as Lamb of God, but I guess that they had to touch all the bases 
 and make everyone happy. The character detail isn't amazing, but it doesn't really matter because 
 you'll be staring at the fret bar the entire time. I'd say that with the wide variation in difficulties, 
 anyone can play this game, but I have seen one person that was unable to beat Surrender on easy 
 :X.
  
  The download packs are a little pricey, at around $2 a song, but there's plenty of content in the 
 game to keep you busy. Can't wait for GH3 and Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay on this game is great. Im sure most of you who read this have already played guitar 
 hero so you know what the gameplay is all about. It's just like guitar hero on the ps2 for the 
 songs. There is a practice mode which is somewhat helpful. In practice mode you can slow down a 
 song. There is no storyline thouhg which i thought they could have added that would just spice 
 it up even more than it is spiced but its not really needed very much.
  
  The graphics are ok. you wont really be looking at them though much because u will be to busy pressing 
 notes.
  
  The sound is fabulous. There are great songs by great bands like Lamb of God and All that Remains. 
 They had a good selection of modern songs this time around which i thought was very good.
  
  Overall, if u have a 360 this is a must buy and I would be very suprised if you dont already 
 have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanTorch101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Guitar Hero ever since the original came out on the PS2. Ever since then, 
 I have been one of the millions of crazy Guitar Hero fans. When I heard that Guitar Hero 2 was 
 coming to the 360, I knew that I had to get it and I was not disappointed. Now that the intro is 
 done, on to the review:
  
  Gameplay: The game play is very simple but it is so much fun. How can you not feel giddy like a 
 child on Christmas morning when you lift the guitar up to engage star power? I also love being 
 able to play a faux guitar yet know that I will never be able to play a real one. The simplicity 
 of how to play is also masked under an excellent way of showing you how to play. The fretboard 
 and the notes are all easy to discern so you never have to wonder what you need to do.
  
  Graphics: The game looks excellent on the 360 and even better on an HD TV but it does not strain 
 the power of the 360 at all. It is much sharper than the PS2 version but that is all that can be 
 said of it. This is the only part of the game that brings it down.
  
  Sound: Every sound you hear in the game is good except for some truly horrible vocals on War Pigs. 
 Other than that, everything else is either excellent or it does not offend me. Value: The replayability 
 of the game is immense as well. Since this is the 360 version we now have achievements that are 
 well balanced, from things that can be both super easy to get (opening all the venues) and to getting 
 500k on a song in single player and 1 million on a song in co-op. The multiplayer aspect is also 
 excellent and is the best way to play the game. When you have friends over, you can just enjoy 
 co-op or play face off or pro-face off if you are close to each other in skill level.
  
  Conclusion: The song list is something that I have not mentioned and now I will. When I first heard 
 about the songs that were going to be in the game, I was thinking that it would not be better than 
 the original because they had no way to surpass what they did with the song list in the first game. 
 They did not surpass what they did in the original game but they totally blew me away with how 
 good many of the songs actually are. From Who Was in My Room Last Night to Billion Dollar Babies 
 , these songs are all excellent with only a few bad songs (I'm looking at you Laid to Rest ) . This 
 game surpasses the original not in the song list, but in the so many different ways to play the 
 game and the help that is known as Practice Mode. I would highly recommend this game to anyone 
 who has been interested in it but has not bought it because of the price tag, for you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: The gameplay in Guitar Hero 2 revolves around watching the notes on the screen and 
 playing them in perfect sync with your guitar. This idea works great. If you hit the notes you 
 can tell when you're playing the song right, but if you mess up the song doesn't sound right. The 
 gameplay also gets very challenging when you move up into the normal and hard levels, as you have 
 to face a lot more weird note combinations. The gameplay largely suceeds and remains fun for the 
 whole game. There still are some minor problems that hold it back though. I don't like the fact 
 that there is nothing else to do but play the songs with the guitar and the whole gameplay kind 
 of gets repetative and frusterating if you play it for to long. Other than these minor qualms the 
 gameplay is fantastic. Graphics 7: Graphics look pretty bland for an Xbox 360 game, and the textures 
 look a little weird. But they did improve them from the PS2 version, and you can't hardly pay attention 
 to the graphics because you have to follow the notes. Overall though the 360 can do much better 
 than this. Sound 10: This game sounds absolutely fantastic. You can hear every sound with the guitar 
 and the music being played in the background is done extremlly well also. Value 8: This game does 
 have a lot of replay value, and some of the achivemnets are really hard to get. But the game costs 
 90 dollars. This price tag is a bit much for a game, but still is worth the money do to great replay 
 value. Overall 9/10 Guitar Hero 2 manages to have really fantastic gameplay that is the main reason 
 to buy the game. It does get repetative, the graphics are pretty bland, and it costs a whole lot 
 of money, but all these flaws are very minor and the big picture, and they don't prevent Guitar 
 Hero 2 from being a game that anybody of any age should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiddenzombie013
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero for PS2 launched in 2005, it changed music games forever. Now, in 2007, its sequel, 
 Guitar Hero II, is entering the next-generation with a bang, with new HD graphics, 10 additional 
 songs from its PS2 counterpart, and downloadable tracks, this game simply rocks.
  
  Gameplay:
  This where GH2 shines the brightest. While no drastic changes have been made to the 
 gameplay, if it aint broke, why fix it? Most people don't grow up to be rock stars, after playing 
 this game, you'll get a good idea of how it feels to be one after playing this. Weilding your ax, 
 you'll see there are 5 colored buttons on the neck. You press these as you also press down on the 
 strum, so it feels like you're playing the notes. In the career mode, you name your band and pick 
 your character as you travel across the country to different venues to play shows. The better you 
 do, the more money you make, which you spend at the unlock shop on new songs, videos, etc.. The 
 varying levels of difficulty range from anyone-can-play easy to expert, which is for guitar gods 
 only.
  
  Sound:
  Another very important aspect of the game, where would Guitar Hero be without good sound. The tracklist 
 spans across the rock time line, with some of my favorites being Sweet Chil O' Mine by Guns N' 
 Roses and Killing in the Name by Rage Against the Machine. Most of the songs, including those last 
 two, are performed by cover artists as oppossed to the original artists, with some exceptions being 
 John the Fisherman by Primus and Life Wasted by Pearl Jam. The sound itself is excellent, not just 
 the songs, but other touches such as when you mess up, you definataly know due to the sound ques.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This doesn't really matter in GH games, as you're not even looking at anything besides the notes, 
 but the developers did go out of their way to improve them. They're sharp and have some good detail, 
 but certainly aren't realistic. They certainly look better on an HDTV, but they will still look 
 good on an SDTV.
  
  Achievements:
  This will be where your lasting value will be. These range from being very easy to nearly impossible. 
 Anyone could probably walk away from this game with at least 300 or 400 points. I unlocked nearly 
 half of them in one day. However, if you want more, you're going to have to work a lot harder. 
 The easy points are awarded for things such as doing the tutorial or failing a song on easy, while 
 some are for doing every song on Expert with 5 stars or finishing the mother of all songs, Jordan 
 by Buckethead (look for it on YouTube) . There are also a bit too many co-opm ones, whuch means 
 that even the best payers may not get 1000, as they need someone just as good as them to get it. 
 Overall, I am missing 4 of the 50 and am giving them a 9/10 on the difficulty scale.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The game has two-player offline multiplayer in the form of a faceoff mode as well 
 as an all-new co-op mode in which the second player is the bass. This game is perfect for parties 
 or with a group of people. However, it would also be perfect online, which this game is sorely 
 lacking. The most it offers here is online leaderboards for each song as well as gamer's overall 
 score.
  
  Summary:
  Guitar Hero II is a great game for people of all ages (my mom loves it) . It makes you feel like 
 a rock star with a great track list and great replay value with challenging achievements. It is 
 also the perfect party game. Even at $90, its a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the first Guitar Hero so I decided to try this game out for the 360. I started 
 playing, Hey this is cool. Then I IMMEDIATELY became in love with this game. There are a few things 
 that frustrate me, but overall this game is FUN, Addictive, and just simply AMAZING!
  
  First off, you can choose your Band Name. Then you pick your difficulty. If your new to GH. I suggest 
 you start off on Easy, and progress up to Medium, then up to Hard. If your feel'n good, try Expert! 
 Make sure you have lots of FREETIME the first week of playing this game, because you won't be able 
 to put the guitar DOWN!
  
  You can go Face-to-Face with a friend. The Downside is you can't play over XBOX LIVE. You can also 
 to Quick Play and just play any song, on any Difficulty. There is also a great Tutorial to teach 
 you how to play. Good: Fun, Addictive, Creative, Interesting playlist that appeals to everyone, 
 Leaderboard to check what the competition is.
  
  Bad: Not online Multiplayer feature.
  
  If you play the guitar. If you like music. THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU!
  
  *BUY THIS GAME* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is the xbox 360's incarnation of the playstations 2's hit game of the same name; 
 which will have you strumming up and down at frantic speeds as you try to keep up with the solos 
 and rock'n riffs.
  
  The graphics in GH2 are fairly good and detailed. They are better than your usual cross-gen port, 
 but still not NEX-GEN 10 quality; i guess they do what is required for a rythem game. They'd just 
 distract you from the riff bar anyway if they were too good.
  
  The gameplay is the top notch rythem guitar action you love from the ps2 version, but a little 
 refined and updated. Some songs have been slightly changed but most the game is fairly the same.
 
  
  Sound is top notch. All notes and sounds are crisp sounding and high quality. The sound is probably 
 the best catagory this game excells in.
  
  The tilt os ok but on the slim side. The songs are fun to play again and again but after a while 
 they do get old. Some of the songs are dumb but the good outway the bad.
  
  Value is one place the game kinda lacks. Its expensive with the guitar add-on and you dont get 
 much more than the ps2 version but it cost 10 dollars more. It would help if the controller could 
 be used in different apllications but it cant be used in too many. But the online leaderboards 
 helps a little. Though, for most people it will just make them feel bad because Teh Pwnzor28 got 
 double the career score they got but only playing half the songs on medium. All in all the game 
 is very solid worth the purchase of anyone who hasnt already bought the ps2 versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Not much else to say that hasn't already been written about this game. It's just flat out fun and 
 a great diversion after a long day. Overall, the game comes with a nice set of songs, but you are 
 left wondering how some of them were picked over more popular songs by the same artist.
  
  The biggest thing here is the replay value. 90 bucks for the game and guitar may make gamers blink 
 initially, but you will more than get your money's worth playing this one. The game is challenging 
 but fun and you won't be able to sit it down until you get the song just right. You don't have 
 to be a rock fan to enjoy this game. Don't hesitate to scoop this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has to be the funnest arcade style video game of all time. You get to play from a selection 
 of great songs, and practice and practice until you master the game.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is the same as Guitar Hero, except with a whole new selection of songs that range 
 from genre to genre. Metal, punk, classic rock, techno, are all fairly represented in this game. 
 Amongst some of the favourite songs are Sweet Child Of Mine, YYZ, Free Bird, Jordan, and many others.
 
  
  The game comes with a guitar shaped controller. On the frets are 5 differently-colored buttons 
 which you have to press at the right moment. As you press the button (s) , you have to strum the 
 strum bar, where you would otherwise strum the strings on a real guitar. On the screen, the button 
 sequences you have to press appear as accordingly colored circles on a fretboard and slide down 
 to the bottom of the screen, and when it reaches the bar, that is the moment you have to perform 
 the sequence. The game plays beautifully in this manner. When you press a sequence, the guitar 
 part of the song plays and if you screw up, you hear an annoying sound instead. The game plays 
 beautifully in this manner. As you play in different difficulty modes, you will be pressing more 
 buttons to represent most of the notes in the song.
  
  If you get a note streak, your score multiplies and if you play a certain part of the song perfectly, 
 you earn star-power, which you can use by tilting your guitar to multiply your score even more.
 
  
  The best part about Guitar Hero II is it's replay value. If you are a beginner, you will play all 
 the songs on easy, then upgrade your skill by playing them all on medium, and then hard, and then 
 expert.
  
  And when you are an awesome player? You play your favourite songs over and over again so you can 
 beat your scores or the scores of others.
  
  There are different modes in Guitar Hero II as one would expect. You can play cooperatively with 
 your friends or face-off against them. Too bad you can't do this online though.
  
  You can play in career mode where you play a set of songs to unlock the next. On medium and up 
 you earn money when you beat a song which you can use to buy guitars, new characters, guitar finishes, 
 or exclusive content. TIP: Buying stuff unlocks achievements!
  
  As for what happens in the background when you're playing, you can choose a character, a costume 
 (for some) , and a guitar for your career and you see them rock out onstage. But of course this 
 is just to make the game seem more full because when you're playing, you are obviously not paying 
 attention to your character's antics. The character's graphics are obviously not the best, but 
 they aren't ugly either.
  
  I read a lot of comments saying people who play this game should pick up a real guitar instead 
 but in no way is this game meant to be a guitar sim, it's just another great video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  For years, many of us have been awed or found a guilty pleasure in music games. Whether it was 
 the Dance Dance Revolution craze during the late 90's, the current Karaoke Revolution games, or 
 PaRappa The Rapper back in 1997, we've consumed so much enjoyment of titles in this genre. For 
 the latest generation of gamers, Harmonix's Guitar Hero franchise takes center stage. After the 
 massive success of the first Guitar Hero on the Playstation 2 a couple of years ago, the direct 
 sequel, Guitar Hero II derives from it. This installment continues to maintain the same formula 
 which made its predecessor such an awesome game, this time for Xbox 360 owners.
  
  Being a total newbie to the Guitar Hero series, this is the first I've played. From the get go 
 the game becomes instantly addicting, and very user friendly. Anyone can pick up and play Guitar 
 Hero, especially with a highly useful practice/training mode right from the start. The package 
 comes with the X-Plorer Guitar controller and is used as your instrument to becoming a total rockstar. 
 From one aspect, GHII helps the player learn the basics of playing guitar. On the controller exists 
 five fret buttons (green, red, yellow, blue and orange) , a strumming bar, and whammy bar. Notes 
 corresponding with each fret color will slide down the gameplay interface on screen in different 
 speeds and combinations. Chords are when two different color notes pass by at the same time. There 
 also long notes or "sustains." As the rocker, it's your duty to hold the fret and strum simultaneously 
 as the song progresses. Playing the guitar controller properly with good timing will increase points 
 on your overall score for a song. Two new mechanics to the series are "hammer-ons" and "pull-offs." 
 Towards the left side of the screen the combo multiplier is shown. At standard you can reach up 
 to a 4x multiplier. A defining mechanic to GHII's gameplay is "star power." When deployed you become 
 an invincible God of rock! Well, not literally. A string of notes during play will come around 
 having star outlines around them. Hit these special batteries of notes successfully, and star power 
 will be added to a tube like illustration on the right side of your screen on top of a graphic 
 displaying the "rock meter." The rock meter justifies the audience's reaction to your performance, 
 staying in the green zone demonstrates how much you're rocking the show. The gameplay may appear 
 simple, but becomes a worthy challenge to master.
  
  Guitar Hero II is no slouch when it comes to presentation, and of course it wouldn't be a music 
 game without the music. The game contains a soundtrack of over 70 songs, ranging across all of 
 rocks' sub-categories i. e. punk, metal, etc. Although there have been complaints about this soundtrack's 
 lack of quality compared to the first by a number of players, it's better to see for yourself. 
 I enjoyed the vast majority of the songs here. It's highly likely that the game features several 
 songs that will fit your tastes. The most noteworthy is Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Freebird," which is the 
 climatic track of the game. Overall, GHII's soundtrack is pretty good.
  
  Graphically, Guitar Hero II utilizes the same visual tone as the first, with technical improvements 
 on the Xbox 360. The somewhat cartoonish character models maintain the same level of fun appeal. 
 The environments are more detailed, and each venue you rock out at has its own unique and distinct 
 flavor. The lighting and smoke effects look awesome as they coordinate with the sounds of the song. 
 For instance, when a guitar solo begins, the lighting effects become more dynamic and flashy. Even 
 though the graphics are pretty decent, you won't be paying much attention to them at times since 
 you'll keep your eye on hitting the notes.
  
  I don't remember a music having so much appeal in replay value. This game will keep you rocking 
 for months on end, I'm a living example. The career mode lacks story, but the true reward is scoring 
 high on each song of the eight main sets, honing your skills with the guitar, and trying the same 
 on harder difficulties. Beware. GHII becomes quite a challenge on hard and expert difficulty. It's 
 still offers a hell of a lot of fun nonetheless. Additionally, there are a healthy number of bonus 
 tracks to purchase from money earned by performing at the different venues. Unlockable characters, 
 guitars, guitar finishes and costumes can also be purchased. There's a multiplayer co-op mode as 
 well, in which you and a buddy can rock out together, finishing with a supreme overall score. Unfortunately, 
 no online play is included this time around, but worldwide leaderboards are implemented over Xbox 
 Live. The 360 version of GHII incorporates a long and very fun list of achievements to unlock as 
 well, which extends the games longetivity.
  
  In summation, Guitar Hero II is an excellent game. I don't remember having so much fun playing 
 a music game since PaRappa The Rapper. This game accomplishes what many other games cannot. It 
 allows the rockstar in all of us to break out. And that is definitely a huge accomplishment for 
 Harmonix. They have created music games for many years now. Cheers to their triumph of making gamers 
 RAWK all night and day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  For those who haven't played it, it's basically in a dancing game format, but the buttons are on 
 a guitar controller rather than on a dance mat.
  
  First of all, I myself play guitar and I can tell you, this game is nothing like playing the real 
 thing. Just because you win at GH2, doesn't mean you win at life.
  
  It's got some really decent songs on it, a bit of Lynyrd Skynyrd, Nirvana, Foo Fighters, and you 
 can even buy more songs to download at the Xbox marketplace.
  
  The only downfall of the game in my eyes, are the multiplayer achievements. Unless you or a friend 
 want to struggle using the Xbox controller while the other uses the guitar, you're gonna have to 
 lumber your guitar controller all the way over to your friends house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OluDara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  OK, Guitar Hero is pretty easy to pick up, you press one of the 6 buttons (Green, Red, Yellow, 
 Blue, Orange) and strum with them. It's easy to pick up, but hard to master. It's one of those 
 games where you have to practice a lot to get better. You can practice a song on full speed, slow, 
 slower, and slowest until you get it right. You can progress through all 4 difficulties without 
 too much problem. There's a big step between easy and medium and medium and hard though. The songs 
 themselves are good for the most part, I'm not even that much of a fan of Rock, but I still liked 
 a lot of the songs. The fact that if feels like you're playing them makes it so much more fun. 
 You want to get all the notes right, otherwise, the song won't sound good.
  
  The only thing I would say is bad about this game is that there is no online multiplayer on xbox 
 live and that some of the songs are boring and that there could be more variety, like more gameplay 
 modes.
  
  Other than that, this game is really good and fun. Just don't play too long, you'll get carpel 
 tunnel.
  
  Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about how fun this game would be at first, but when I tried it, I knew I had to 
 have it. This game has a lot of songs that you get to play. The difficulty also definately improves 
 in the different modes. Some songs on easy are even a little tough, and most of the songs on expert 
 are super hard and you have to be really good to complete one of them, let alone get 5 stars on 
 it. The sound in this game is very good, they sound just like the original song. I love how you 
 use the explorer guitar in this game too. The controls on it arent that hard to figure out, and 
 it's very fun to use. If you have played the first one and loved it, I totally recommend this one, 
 if you haven't, you should still try this game because its so fun and it takes a very long time 
 to get through all the difficulties. The graphics are also very well done too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the best rythym game ever made. It is perfect from the tracks, to the play, 
 to the fun, and even to the design.
  
  Everyone I know can have fun with this game, I have even had my 68 year old grandma try and play 
 Surrender on Easy. My brother plays it on medium (he's 11) , my friends on Hard (we're about 15-16) 
 and I on Expert (muahaha) . The accesibility of this game is unmatched and the draw of this game 
 is almost as strong as that of the Wii. One thing you can't complain about is the soundtrack. From 
 the classics (You Really Got Me, Carry on Wayward Son) to the modern (Woman, Dead!) , to the metal 
 (Laid to Rest) to instrumental (Misirlou, Jessica) , to punk (Who Was in my Room Last Night) and 
 even country (Free Bird) . This game easily has the best soundtrack ever compiled.
  
  No one could ever have guessed how much fun playing a fake guitar could be. The sliding jewels 
 have turned many an air guitarist into a Guitar Hero and the competition to be #1 on the leaderboards 
 is intense and takes a ton of practice.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is easily the best game on the 360, even without online multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascismo44
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Before the original Guitar Hero, the rhythm genre seemed to be on its last legs. The DDR craze 
 had all but died down, and people were too busy with their GTA clones and first person shooters 
 to notice. Then along came November 2005, and gamers the world over put down their air guitars, 
 threw up the horns and lived their wildest rock fantasies- all thanks to a plastic guitar. Two 
 years and a $100 million dollar acquisition from Activision later, the wildly successful Guitar 
 Hero franchise comes to the Xbox 360, retaining almost everything that made it so appealing in 
 the first place, and adding a next-gen sheen.
  
  Guitar Hero II's gameplay is much the same of what it was back in 2005, in fact it's almost an 
 outright clone. This is by no means a bad thing, there were few things wrong with it to begin with. 
 However, the original did have its share of kinks: there was no way to practice the game's more 
 unforgiving solos without having to play the entire song, and the Hammer-on and Pull-off system, 
 while a nice gesture, was essentially broken. Thankfully, both of these issues are addressed in 
 the sequel. The timing for Hammer-ons and Pull-offs is much more forgiving, and a new Practice 
 mode has been added where you can dissect a song and play any specific part that's giving you trouble 
 (or just for fun) at 4 different speeds.
  
  Also added this year is a super-sized multiplayer mode. The original Guitar Hero's multiplayer 
 had only one mode where two players would duel throughout the course of a song, trading off after 
 every measure or so. It was fun for a while, but the well would eventually run dry, and multiplayer 
 would become an afterthought as players spent the rest of their time trying to top their high scores. 
 This year, there's three multiplayer modes to choose from: there's Face Off, (a carbon-copy of 
 last year's mode) Pro Face Off, (where both players play the entire song just one player complains 
 about the other getting all of the 'easy parts') and the big new addition, Cooperative. The Co-op 
 mode in GHII allows one player to play the lead guitar part of any song in the setlist, while the 
 second player plays either Bass or Rhythm Guitar (depending on the song) . While it's a very nice 
 addition, the bassline in most of the songs GHII has to offer just isn't all that exciting (I'm 
 looking at you, The Trooper) . Still, songs featuring legendary bassists Geddy Lee and Les Claypool 
 might as well have been picked with the Co-op feature in mind, as they're a blast to play.
  
  However, a rhythm game is nothing without a good selection of songs to play, so how does the 
 setlist compare to the original? Well, it's huge. The 360 version of GHII has roughly twice as 
 many tracks as the 2005 original, ranging from Aerosmith to Wolfmother. But more isn't necessarily 
 better; while there are a few gems on the list, some of the choices just seem odd, if not stupid. 
 Chances are, would-be shredders could've done without classics such as The Pretenders's 'Tattooed 
 Love Boys' and Warrant's 'Cherry Pie.' Also, the big finale in the GHII main setlist is Lynard 
 Skynard's Freebird. It's not a bad song by any means, but it's certainly no Bark at the Moon, and 
 the first 5 minutes of the song are mind-numbingly easy, making it all the more frustrating when 
 you have to repeat the song in it's entirety if you fail during the solo.
  
  Despite some tracklist faux-paus, the feeling of letting your imagination get the best of you, 
 that moment in time when you believe yourself to be a rock god, remains intact, and Guitar Hero 
 II is a must-buy for anyone with even a marginal interest in rock music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtatfsu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  It may be hard to believe, but Guitar Hero II actually does a fantastic job of replicating the 
 feeling of practicing for an insanely difficult guitar part AND of replicating the feeling of finally 
 pulling that part off in front of a roaring crowd! OK, obviously 5 buttons is a world away from 
 15 frets and hundreds of different notes and chords, but hey: most guitarists will tell you that 
 the real challenges of guitar playing are soloing (which a VG can't replicate) and getting your 
 hands to deal with the unbelievably fast and intricate rhythms associated with playing difficult 
 parts. Guitar Hero II allows novice musicians to experience both the frustration and the eventual 
 feeling of accomplishment that comes with training your hands to do things at speeds you never 
 thought possible, all done to the rhythm of some pretty cool songs, although the songs definitely 
 could have been better. The song selection is good, not great, with a lot of forgettable songs 
 mixed in with a handful of truly great ones, like Sweet Child O' Mine and Surrender. If there is 
 anything bad about this game, it's that there really is no middle ground between breaking your 
 fingers and your brain going for it all on hard or expert and staying with the lame medium level; 
 all the latter will do is make it so any of the songs you actually do like in the soundtrack will 
 remain played out to you for years on end. If you want an easy, breezy fun-loving game, this isn't 
 it. Go play Final Fantasy for that. This game will teach you why: ROCK AND ROLL IS HARD WORK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCB-0608
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in the week it came out. I, of course, started out on easy and it took me about 
 an hour or less to learn to play the game. Then I started getting into medium in the next week. 
 The game started to get a lot more challenging for me. Then finally later, I was able to beat the 
 game on hard and now I've completed about 2/3rd of the expert career. I have put a lot of long 
 hours into this game and I've enjoyed every minute of it. This game has next gen crystal clear 
 images. The game is expensive, but worth it. Anyone should be able to play Guitar Hero. This is 
 a lot of fun once you get into it and anyone who loves music should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Just great fun... Innovative game play. Best rhythm game ever made in my opinion. Can be too hard 
 at time especially for non rhythm game veterans... I personally was a new to this genre and it 
 took some time before i could beat hard mode. Expert is really frustrating at times especially 
 in the later set lists.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Nothing really amazing about the graphics they look like a high rezzed version of the PS2 version. 
 Sound 9/10
  
  Great amount of good classics in this song like Sweet Child O' Mine and War Pigs . The sound is 
 just amazing even the non master tracks sound flawless if not better. I have two complaints 1. 
 In some of the cover tracks the singers voice is way off from the real singers voice (like Woman 
 and Killing in the Name) 2. NOT ENOUGH HEAVY STUFF!!! I mean come on there is way too much classic 
 rock in this game yet there coming out with an 80s edition... One songs amazes me in this game 
 and that is Six it is heavy and brutal. Value 8/10
  
  The prices are a little overpriced the game its self with the guitar costs $90 and the separate 
 guitar costs more than a full priced video game... But there is a new feature in guitar hero II 
 where you can play co-op which is fun because one person can take lead guitar and the other can 
 take the bass part or rhythm guitar part. Also no online in this game :' (.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  I've really enjoyed playing this game the only thing i dislike is the insane difficulty... 
 I know people are reading this saying wow what a noob well i really don't have a lot of time to 
 play guitar hero and i play a lot of other games so i never really got that great at the game and 
 the reason is guitar hero is one of those few games where it takes HOURS and HOURS of dedication 
 to become extremely good at, and i feel that Red Octane made the game not very accessible for newbies... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  i never thought i would dedicate this much of my time into playing this game, at first i thought 
 oh this game is just a piece of crap but once i started to play it on ps2 i thought it was a really 
 good game so i bought it for the xbox 360 and the guitar is shaped so its comfortable and i like 
 the design of it, the game play is just out of this world its aswsome. No lag in the buttons unless 
 yours is damaged ablivously. the graghics are mind blowing... i think these are the best graghics 
 i have ever seen in my whole entire gaming experience its just so relistic. i think it was cool 
 how they made it to where you can change your character's outfit because i get tired of the characters 
 and there same outfit all the time, and some of those guitars are really awsome like the coffin 
 and the axe and stuff nice job guys. and they have the best songs on there like nirvana, iron maiden, 
 My chemical Romance, i really hope that Guitar Hero III will be as good or even better than this 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twiztedmetal5
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  You guys if u havent played this game u must. its truly amazing! i just bought it recently for 
 the 360 and i havent stopped playin it since. its that addictive. even if u havent played guitar 
 hero before it doesnt matter because its very easy to pick up and play. also the graphics are amazing... although 
 u dont have much time to look at them. (only in the brief amount of time that u get a break from 
 playin ur part) haha anyways the game is all worth its price. its all its cracked up to be. definitely 
 believe the hype because this game will have u busy for years to come. now to the songs. from reverend 
 horton heat to kiss to my chemical romance this game has some of the greatest rock songs to date. (my 
 personal favorite is the trooper) i promise u u'll enjoy all the songs this game has to offer. 
 honestly this is the best game i have ever played no lie. if u like great graphics, pick up and 
 play gameplay, and awesome songs?.. this definitely is the game for u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JehovaWrinkles
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is definitely a view- changer for me. It has changed my views on classic rock, and 
 my views about playing the guitar, because I used to think that playing the guitar was easy, but 
 I recently found out it wasn't. I play the drums, and I really didn't give any credit to the guitarists, 
 but I do now. I also can't wait for rock band and guitar hero 3 to come out. Those two things are 
 coming out near Christmas, and that is the perfect time to get it. So if you have not played any 
 of these games yet, I suggest you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srrchode
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i played it for about 3 weeks straight. After that i started to get 
 bored of the songs that i had played at least 10 times each. Sure they came out with a couple of 
 downloadable songs but none of which sounded remotely fun so i didnt download them. Plus my friends 
 that did DL them said they sucked. I also found that almost all the songs i hated and only played 
 them because i had to in order to progress through the single player. The only songs i still play 
 every now and then are in the last two sections of the non-bonus songs. This wouldnt have been 
 so bad if they had continued to come out with new songs every month. For a while i would check 
 gamespot everyday to see if new songs were available, but alas, it was not so.
  
  The graphics are, meh , to say the least but who really gives a crap... when your really into a 
 song you cant really stop to take a look at the background behind the fret board on screen.
  
  If Harmonix could change anything i would recomend adding a difficulty level between medium 
 and hard because the jump from these two difficulties is immense.
  
  If you want a game that you will only play for a month tops and are willing to spend 90 plus dollars 
 for, then guitar hero II is for you.
  
  -srrchode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLatinSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Simply its amazing, a great system need a great game so GH2 its come to rock your world.
  Guitar Hero its never been about graphics, but its increible the 1080p its just looking increible, 
 but the power of the game come's of the true 5.1 Surrond Sound.
  The Gibson X-Plorer its dissapoint because the 360 was build with capatible of Wireless.
  Last 
 point: the songs! which they got alot of my favorite bands (Guns 'n Roses, Aerosmith, Toadies, 
 Pearl Jam, Megadeth, etc) there something for everyone. From Clasic Rock to Metal. But for some 
 reason GH1 was better not because the HO and PO but for the songs, there were less but there were 
 some tracks of the actual rock, the DLC is something that Activision or Red Octane say its was 
 the game with more dlc that any other game, since the 1st packs come, its been lonely knowing that 
 its was a 1/2 reason to buy GH2 on 360, but for those who have the PS2 version, stick with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harveyz01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I always loved playing GH1 and 2 on my friends PS2's but always wished it would come onto xbox 
 or Gamecube (being the Microsoft and Nintendo Fanboy I AM)
  My dreams came true when one day i was surfing wikipedia and to my amazement found the April release 
 day for GH2 for Xbox 360.
  I received mine the day after release and have not been let down.
  It is everything u would expect 
 from a Guitar Hero game except added factors.
  1. Crisp new Graphics
  2. New unlockable songs
  3. New Guitars
  
  Thats everything I could ask for and more.
  I 
 recommend it for anyone interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I really like Guitar Hero II. But one thing I really don't like are rhythm games. 
 The game keeps me interested only because it's more immersive than the average rhythm game because 
 of it's amazingly well designed guitar peripheral. I have absolutely no complaints about Guitar 
 Hero II's Gameplay. It feels just right and really makes you feel like your playing a guitar even 
 if it's not even close. One major problem I had is the song selection. Guitar Hero II has WAY too 
 many classic rock songs. It's nice to have a couple just too attract more people but I rarely found 
 myself playing these songs. Songs like Trogdor and Dead! seemed much funner too me then songs I've 
 been listening to on the radio my entire life. This problem also causes the other major problem 
 I have with Guitar Hero, it gets old extremely fast. Maybe I've got a really short attention span 
 but that is just how I feel,, but I think it is in need of more song downloads. If you haven't 
 already bought this game already I would wait for the promising looking Rock Band game and let 
 this one pass by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakbuky_ted
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 on the 360 is even better than the ps2 version which i did not think was posible. 
 better songs and graphics completed the game to an orginality beyong my dreams. It is definately 
 worth the money because its a game that u will never get tired of. It is also a game where u hav 
 to practice to get good at instad of just being naturally awsome. But if You just give it patience 
 you soon will become a Guitar Hero like many others. It has great songs from buckethead all the 
 way to Lynard Skynard. Guitar Hero ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilirch100302
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Only bad things about this for the 360 is finding a second controller in store without having to 
 order off internet is next to impossible... but the ps2 version has 2-3 different guitars including 
 a wireless one with about 10 of each in stock... but only one model with none in stock.. but enjoy 
 rocking out to this game cuz its awesome... some of the music isnt that great i hope they do one 
 with more of a heavy metal soundtrack like they did encore for the 80's cuz id rather rock out 
 to some songs that i know and not stuff that came out when i was a baby or not even born 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is an amazing game for any person: whether they are a casual gamer, a hardcore gamer, 
 or even someone who has never even attempted a video game before. The game gives you the unique 
 feel that you're actually a real rocker. You actually feel a sense of accomplishment when you beat 
 Free Bird and the game tells you YOU ROCK! to prove how how cool you are. The game is tons of fun 
 which goes along nicely with the games amazing soundtrack. The game doesn't feature online co-op 
 play but it does features lots of extras and unlockables for the player and even offline multiplayer. 
 Guitar Hero II is an unforgettable experience that everyone should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  So im a big fan of the original guitar hero and didn't buy this one for the ps2 and waited for 
 it to cum out for the 360 and it was worth the wait all along the new songs are good like the trooper 
 is great and they all are prety cool besides hush i hate that song. But the gameplay stays the 
 same as the ps2 and the graphics are nicer not perfect but they are good the sound is good but 
 some of the covers suck though but its still prety cool in all and this game is worth buying and 
 the achivements are easy youll play this alot and its fun for the hole family 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scot2020
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the most addicting game out there on the xbox 360, but thats all because its 
 the best rythem game out there today!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  =======================
  whether you cant play the REAL guitar to save your life or you can acually play, this game is gonna 
 keep you up all night. Guitar Hero 2's unique button system is surprisingly addictive and extremely 
 fun at the same time that will garentee months and months of fun gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =======================
  The graphics in this game is the only downfall, the flames that are 
 in the adiences lighters as they wave them around are 2D and look like somthing off of paper mario, 
 same with the stage, the characters u play as are a tiny bit blocky and all the effects (strobe 
 lights, stage lights, etc.) are a bit distracting at times and can mess you up, but otherwise, 
 the graphics are decent.
  
  SOUND
  =======================
  The sound of this game is its soul purpose, its all about the music. Without sound in this game, 
 it wouldnt even be a game, and the music selection is awsome. One problem with sound though is 
 the yelling of the crowd, it floodes over and the music is hard to hear somtimes.
  
  VALUE
  =======================
  The price for the game is reasonable enough, i personaly think 
 its a little overpriced, nuf said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAlabastor10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Basics- It's a guitar game. But if you think about it's better than that. You have a plastic guitar 
 with 6 buttons, a strum bar, and a whammy. Sounds easy doesn't it? Well, it is. You just strum 
 the right button at the right time.
  
  Gameplay- There are many ways to rock out. Career Mode for those who want to unlock songs or get 
 money to buy stuff at The Store. Quick Mode for those who need to rock out NOW. And there's also 
 multiplayer which is seperated into Co-Op, Face-Off, and Pro-Face Off. So if you have a friend 
 over and have two guitars, what do you think you should do?
  
  Graphics- The Graphics are like the PS2 graphics but a little more updated. You can see more lighting 
 effects, more clear animations, and more. But really, that's about it with the graphics
  
  Sound- My gosh where to begin....... There are over 70 soundtracks to rock out onto. Every song 
 is fun and sometimes challenging to play (like the song Jordan) . It hardly ever lags and the music 
 quality is great. The song selction is great. From country to hard rock there's a genre for everyone.
 
  
  Value- The game is $89.99 plus tax. Now i know this is a lot of money to some people. This is all 
 i got to say here- if you can afford it, buy it. If it's WAAAY over your price range, don't get 
 it.
  
  Tilt- There are some stuff that lowers the game's value. There are currently only 3 DLC packs- 
 each costs $6.25. It sounds expensive because.... it is. I suggest only buy the packs if you haven't 
 play GHI yet. Another problem is the lack in online multiplayer. It's great that they have a leaderboard 
 but come on, this is the Xbox 360 for peeps sake. That's all i can think of for now.
  
  Overall- It lives up to it's hype. If you don't have it, buy it. Trust me, you'll be playing this 
 until GHIII or Rock Band comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chameleon93
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero first appeared on the PS2 in 2005 and is still rocking that system today. Guitar Hero 
 II is now out on the X-Box 360, and it's better than ever. The new thing you'll see on the 360 
 version is the new X-plorer controller. It feels much better, but since the strap holder is on 
 the back of the neck, it gets all twisted up which is really annoying. Guitar Hero II for the 360 
 has alot more content than the playstation 2, for example new songs downloadable songs, ect. But 
 the best part about the game is the rocking. Instead of playing with a controller, you play with 
 a toy guitar, it has five fret buttons and a strum bar. what you have to do in this game is that 
 button icons come on the screen and you have to hit the fret button corresponding with the one 
 on the screen. The gameplay is highly addictive. It is probably the most stimulating part of the 
 game. When you start the game out you pick a song, and select the difficulty, between easy, medium, 
 hard, and expert. Each difficulty restricts to how many buttons you can use. If you pick easy you 
 will only use three buttons, if you pick medium you'll have to use four buttons. and hard and expert, 
 you'll have to use all five buttons. Guitar Hero can really be sadistic when you select the difficulty 
 on expert. the guitar bar comes dashing forward and they expect you to do sick fret button combos, 
 for example you start out with green red, blue green, and red yellow. And the guitar bar goes really 
 fast. Other than that the gameplay is really addictive. The graphics, you can't really focus on 
 the graphics. This is a game where eye candy doesn't matter. Guitar Hero really packs a punch, 
 and after you're done. You'll be extremely satified when you nailed that guitar solo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellar_door
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is one of the best and most accessible game for the Xbox 360. With its great gameplay 
 and a great soundtrack, it is a must buy for anyone who likes games or music.
  
  GOOD:
  
  Fun, addictive gameplay --- Great soundtrack with plenty of popular and undiscovered songs 
 --- Difficulty is well balanced --- Great achievements --- Short load times --- Short learning 
 curve --- Downloadable content on the Marketplace.
  
  BAD:
  
  90 dollars --- No online multiplayer --- Downloadable songs too expensive --- A few songs are boring.
 
  
  I would totally recommend Guitar Hero 2. If you aren't willing to pay the $90 though, try and hang 
 out for Rock Band or Guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero games are something of a legend. Who knew the best music series of games in existance 
 could come as late as it did. Guitar Hero 2 is the latest game in the series and it has already 
 been released on the PS2. If you have the PS2 version, you can afford to miss it on the 360 but 
 anyone else would do best to check it out.
  
  As you might of seen, Guitar Hero 2 is played with a plastic guitar controller made specifically 
 for the game. Playing it with a normal controller is possible but it just doesn't do. The controller 
 has 5 colored fret buttons on the fret board and a strum bar in the middle. Notes come down from 
 the top of the screen in 5 different colors mtaching to the buttons on the guitar. You have to 
 strum the strum bar as you press the fret buttons. There are normal notes as well as hold notes 
 and chords which are notes pressed at the same time as one another. There are notes which have 
 glowing tops which when pressed in 1 combo will give you Star Power . Star Power is activated by 
 raising the guitar nice and high. Star Power nets you more points as well as rasing your rock meter 
 higher.
  
  The rock meter is a meter with red, yellow, and green zones. If your in the green zone, your doing 
 great. if your in the yellow, your doing average and if your in the red, your doing bad. If your 
 in the flashing red, your close to failing the song. An explanation of how to play doesn't do the 
 game justice. It's something that must be played if your a fan of the real guitar or rock music.
 
  
  The game's main play mode is Career which has you naming your own band and choosing a frontman 
 or frontwoman. You progress through groups of songs which get more difficult as they go. Easy mode 
 consists of only the first three fret buttons, the normal mode is the first four buttons, and the 
 hard mode is all the fret buttons. Expert mode is all 5 buttons but with a faster speed and a lot 
 more notes. The next play mode is Quick play which allows you to play any song you have unlocked 
 for fun. Practice Mode is next which shows you tutorials of the game and lets you practice different 
 sections of songs at different speeds. The practice mode is easily one of the most important aspects 
 of the game and is essential in trying to master songs.
  
  Going through the career mode, you can get money to buy different outfits and guitars for your 
 character. You can also buy secret characters and bnous songs. You also have the option of downloading 
 songs that can be bought using Microsoft Points. Between all the game modes, the 4 difficulty levels 
 and things you can buy, the game has quite a lot of value packed in. The gameplay is perfect in 
 that it's easily to learn but difficult to master. Not only this but it's also addictive as hell.
 
  
  Besides the single-player, Guitar Hero 2 also sports a muliplayer game for up to 2 players. Both 
 players play against each other with their own guitar in modes such as Face-off, Pro Face-off, 
 and Co-op. The multiplayer is really fun if you can find someone with another guitar and is a great 
 addition to the game.
  
  The graphics of the game do what you need them to do. The characters rocking out on the stage in 
 the background are all nice and detailed. The environments you play in also have a lot of detail. 
 The Xbox 360 supports HD so a Guitar Hero game has never looked better.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is all about the music so of course the music selection is a big part of the game. 
 Most of the songs are covers with the exception of a few but the covers are all done well with 
 only a bit of them being lackluster. The music selection is nice and varied with some classic rock, 
 new rock, metal, and even some punk. You have some hits like Message in a Bottle by The Police 
 and Woman by Wolfmother. The sound effects of missing notes are appropriately scratchy and tingy 
 which is great.
  
  The 360 version of Guitar Hero 2 has some extra things in it that the PS2 version didn't have such 
 as the ability to download new content and new songs in the roster. Such songs include the Iron 
 Maiden classic The Trooper and Deep Purple's Hush. These new things are probably not enough to 
 warrant a purchase for PS2 owners however but 360 owners will be glad they are in the game. Overall, 
 Guitar Hero 2 is a game that must be played if you dont already own the PS2 version. It's a chance 
 to play the best music game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbhtaed
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 just plain out rocked. There were few if any let downs from this highly addictive 
 game. Once you get the hang of the gameplay then it takes over and you can't turn it off. The controller 
 was easy to understand and use after a few trys at some songs. The difficuiltys are what they say 
 and I would recommend starting on easy just to get the hang of it and then work your way up from 
 there. I had no problem with any of these songs and they all seemed to suit the game. The one thing 
 that bugged me a little was not being able to switch Grim Reapers guitar when I had spent my cold 
 hard cash on an awesome guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaun123101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a must-have if you own a Xbox 360. This game expands many new game play modes characters, 
 songs, hardware features, and software features to the already great Guitar Hero 1 to make it better 
 than ever. This series is great to have to impress your friends and play at parties. The price 
 is better than ever and this game is the only one of its kind and is so unique compared to other 
 games. This game proves to be hours of fun and all other games will dull in comparison. When I 
 first saw this I thought it would be one of those games like DDR with music noone would recognize 
 or like but this has some of my favorite songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenixMagerX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell ya what, Red Octane sure knew what they were doing. With the fact that Activision has 
 now bought over the Guitar Hero series for number 3, Guitar Hero is a series that rocks.
  
  Guitar Hero is truly a very good game. The music selection of it is very good, ranging from Alice 
 Cooper to Heart, from Suicidal Tendencies to Cheap Trick, Guitar Hero is suited all around.
  
  It took me maybe 4-5 days to finally play on hard more and let me tell you, hard is hard! I've 
 at least gotten to the second set of songs and I have beaten easy and medium modes. It's not as 
 easy as it looks.
  
  In easy mode you use the first three buttons on the guitar controller which are green, red and 
 yellow. Songs are at a slow speed for the guitar, not saying the song is slow but it is very easy 
 after the first few songs.
  
  Medium mode steps up a button with the blue button. It's fairly moderate with it's fair share of 
 chords, holding down green and yellow at the same time or blue and red. Songs are a little sped 
 up for the guitar part but not all that much different from easy except a little harder.
  
  Hard mode is definitely something you'll have to practice to play. It introduces you to the fifth 
 and final button, orange. Songs are pretty fast starting at hard more and you get a lot more chords, 
 some may range from green to blue giving you extreme carpal tunnel in your wrist for a day or so. 
 Expert mode is not all that difficult. It's sped up a little bit more than hard mode and uses chords 
 with three notes in stead of two. It also has it's fair share of going up the line notes to where 
 you have to press every single button in probably under 5 seconds to complete a riff. Even though 
 it's reputation makes it sound so horrible, it's not really. I completed Rancid's Salvation on 
 expert.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero is one of the best games for the 360. It's fun and highly addictive. Although 
 for soundtracks, it'd be nice if they'd add AC/DC, Def Leppard , Metallica, The Clash and a lot 
 of other good bands as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is without a doubt one of the best rhythm games in existence and one of the most 
 fun Xbox 360 titles to date. The presentation, gameplay and sound are all great to bring you one 
 great game that will blow your mind.
  
  Guitar Hero II may have a slight learning curve, but once you get used to it. you are off rocking. 
 The gameplay is extremely fun because having the feel of playing guitar to all time famous songs 
 gives you an excellent feeling. Just about anyone will find this game very fun to play once they 
 get the hang of it.
  
  The graphics aren't really important in Guitar Hero II, because it is the gameplay and music you 
 are focusing on. The game does have alright graphics, but nothing spectacular. You won't really 
 notice the graphics because 99% of the time you are looking at the notes to play rather than what's 
 going on in the background.
  
  What can I say about the sound? It's perfect. The music in Guitar Hero II is fabulous, songs from 
 all different era's to all different genres will keep you satisfied no matter what. Some of my 
 favourite songs are in Guitar Hero II and let me just say that playing the guitar to these songs 
 is really something special.
  
  Guitar Hero II is also fun to play in multiplayer and is very fun to take in turns. The game has 
 quite a long track list and 4 difficulty levels so it will keep you playing for quite a long time. 
 It is also fun to just go play your favourite songs in Quick Play mode for a burst of enjoyment.
 
  
  Downloadable songs is a nice edition in the Xbox 360 version. It helps make the games life longer, 
 even though it is fun to play the same songs over and over.
  
  In the end, I think that Guitar Hero II is a fantastic game that no rock fan on this earth should 
 miss. Guitar Hero II gives you one hell of an experience that you'll never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLAYSTATlON
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than ever. Evolving from the PS2 to the extreme! Has better graphics and new 
 songs. This game is a have-to-get! Just like the PS2 game, the front page is the same look. The 
 intro, song list design, are all the same look as the PS2. But it is better looking. I can't believe 
 my eyes! The characters are much better looking, the guitar looks are amazing, who could rate this 
 game a no-no! Don't get this game when you have the PS2 version already. The guitar they give you 
 is more harder to hold that the Gibson SG controller they give you for the PS2. But, this game 
 is all that matters! This is so cool! This game will never die!
  TY. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lomsgspot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? if you are a rock music fan, you must have dreamed of becoming a rock star. Well, 
 this game give you have a chance to do just that. It lets you in smoothly and holds you there. 
 I love the little quotes on the loading screen. And just when you think this is it, there can't 
 be anything else it hits you with a new twist. Bravo...
  
  Although I don't have any complains what so ever, I do have some disappointments...
  No METALLICA 
 : (
  They MUST have those about to rock, we salute you song
  They should provide downloadable songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  What can I say. Its the same great game as the PS2 version with a few more tracks, online leaderboards, 
 and the ability to download new songs through XBLM. Having the download feature will for sure extend 
 the life of this game. I don't see myself getting bored of this title any time soon. You get to 
 rock out to some great jams and rocking never gets old. Plus I hear rumors of effects pedals in 
 the future that can connect in that mysterious input on the guitar. Anyone looking for a great 
 new innovative way to play games for there 360 console should definitely think about investing 
 in this game, for it offers much more than your average shooter games that make up much of the 
 360's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citizen-legend
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a really nice game, but i think they could have put better music (wheres muse, modest 
 mouse, Sparta, system of a down, and queen oh wait queen ,you had to download their song.) Guitar Hero 
 has great music already and once you start you won't want to stop. the graphics are good, you can 
 see the stage lights changing on the character in the game. the sound is great just guitar solos 
 and and the rest of the band, and It's a worthy investment. The guitar it is easy to get used to 
 (if you just got the game and you didn't play the first one start on easy then to medium and so 
 on) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for XBOX 360 is probably one of the biggest money-makers since Nintendos, Duck 
 Hunt. Guitar Hero IIs graphics are poorly done and the music is old enough to avoid paying any 
 high royalties, but man is this game fun! The quality of the graphics is obsolete as all you need 
 to focus on is hitting the right note at the right time as it floats past you on a conveyer belt 
 that prompts you when to hit what note. The game provides hours of entertainment and is a great 
 game to play with friends. Even the girls are tempted to start strumming away at the notes to, 
 ----s Woman. The guitar attachment gives you the feeling of being in an arcade. The guitar is 
 much like the guns used in first person shooters that you can only really experience at an arcade. 
 It is similar to when Dance Dance Revolution was moved from the arcade to homes. the difficulty 
 levels were proportional to peoples abilities. People who are lucky enough to have mastered expert 
 level are all too eager to show-off their amazing abilities to hit notes that only seem natural 
 for a person with six fingers to play. Star power is another part of the game that increases your 
 ability to rock out. Just wait till your star power bar is full, tilt the guitar in the air 
 and start strumming away! The game is a great idea for a game and highly addictive. I hope to see 
 more attachments for the XBOX 360 in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicon1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Plus ----I think this game was fun and realy well put together there were a pritty good selection 
 of characters starting songs and stages.
  Downfall- I think the song downloadabe content should be one or the other cheaper or more songs 
 for the price !!! not a bad game ..... ... .. ... ... . ....... .... .. . ... ... ... .... ... 
 .. ... .. .... ... . .. ..... ... .. ..... .. .... ..... ..... ...... ... .. .. .... .. .... ... 
 .... .... .... .... . . ... .... .... ... . ... .. ... .. . . . .... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I've tried the guitar, the bass, even tried my hand at singing (which was much more successful) , 
 I failed at these and years after I wanted to give a shot to Guitar Hero II for kicks. It felt 
 great when I reached Expert, nothing feels better than perfecting a solo. After the RedOctaine 
 experience, I was not sorry. The game felt great from beggining to end which uplifted after everytime 
 I completed a song. But the only way to play Guitar Hero II was with the guitar, which enhanced 
 every second. There was a learning curve to it because you can only improve over time. As I've 
 said before, you cannot have a good rhythm game without great music which is what it had. If the 
 last song I'll ever play is Freebird, then bring it. The right songs only make it better at the 
 end and with songs like Girlfriend, I was going to break the disk because my ears blead from the 
 cover. You can't always have the originals I suppose but at least get great songs 100% of the time. 
 If you tell me not to play it, I must because of the higher difficulty setting which forces me 
 to play every song. With that all in mind, my problem with the game is the controller, after exactly 
 30 days; my guitar broke and no repairs would be sought out. For a game that costs over 80 bucks 
 (90 Canadian) I should be getting my moneys worth. Plus some multiplayer would have been nice but 
 that's comin' next.
  
  Even with those small problems, the great controls and sound make up for it. If you have the money, 
 I strongly suggest buying it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novo_24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of rock because this game brings out all the works. If you are a rock fan 
 like I am then you must get this game especially for xbox 360. The guitar is out of this world, 
 its much better looking and better than the ps2 guitar. The graphics are an improvement to the 
 ps2 the guitar has a better felling when you play. This game has some of the best rock songs ever 
 made. For example: Strutter: Kiss. Cherry Pie: Warranty Woman: Wolfmother Life Wasted: Peral Jam 
 Carry on my Wayward son: Kansas Message in a bottle: The police War Pigs: Black Sabbath Hush: Deep 
 Purple Who was in my Room Last night: The butthole surfers. Sweet Child O' Mine: Guns &amp; Roses 
 Last Child: Aerosmith Dead: My Chemical Romance Killing in the name: Rage against the machines 
 Madhouse: Anthrax YYZ: Rush The Trooper: iron Maiden Beast and the Harlot: Avenged Sevenfold Hangar 
 18: Megadeth Free Bird: Lynyrd Skynyrd Arterial Black: Drist
  
  These are just a few songs on guitar hero that are out of this world. So rock out all you rockers, 
 and good luck on expert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylekatarn10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start off this review by saying that my review (when comparing to the PS2 version) is unbiased 
 for i have played both for many hours. Anyways....
  
  Gameplay: 9, Guitar Hero II's gameplay is very unique for it uses a Gibson Xplorer to play. You 
 press colored buttons, or Frets and strum just like a really guitar. A very new take and unique 
 way to make playing a virtual guitar life-like and fun! You can also compare your score to others 
 in an online scoreboard.
  
  Graphics: 8, Since GHII focuses more on it's Gameplay and not graphics I was quite surprised when 
 it came with great graphics! This is also a major difference between the 360 and PS2 version. The 
 PS2 version had much weaker graphics.
  
  Sound: 10, Now you'd have to be an idiot to give the sound anything BUT 10. The music in this game 
 is amazing! Classic songs such as Sweet Child O' Mine , YYZ , Message In A Bottle and many, many 
 others make this game shine over the PS2 version as well. Along with downloadable content songs, 
 there are also 10 new songs exclusively for the 360!!!
  
  Tilt: 10, This game never gets old, for as long as you play it! I've played well over 20 hours 
 and I'm still in love with trying out new difficulties (Expert is quite a challenge) and improving 
 old scores.
  
  Rent or Buy? Buy! Though, expensive this game is well worth it's money. Pick up a copy as soon 
 as you get a chance. This is one game you will not want to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miningguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer knows what guitar hero basicly is. It Rock n' Roll goodness with DDR rythem put all 
 onto a guitar (and also a disc) . What gamers who have never played this game dont know is how freakin 
 fun and addictive this game can get. The other two versions of the game on the ps2 were very simmilar, 
 but with the new polished version on the X360 you can now download new songs, get achivments, and 
 also the 360 version come with about 13 new songs packed in with the other songs. Overall you cant 
 find anything great or new about the new game from the other games on the ps2. There are some minor 
 flaws like the guitar controller start button being like 1 cm big on the way bottom of the controller 
 and also the wammy bar can get worn out easily but overall it some helluva rock n' roll game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rusty -- Toaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm keeping this one short and sweet...
  
  This game rocks! Rocking is fun and easy, at easy levels, with the x-plorer controler. It's great 
 for parties, especially with 2 guitars. It's not a game you can sit down and ply every day though, 
 you have to be in the mood. And after awhile it does get pretty repetitive. Still it looks feels, 
 and sounds great!
  
  Sometimes it can be hard to get the starpower going if you don't tilt the controller perfectly. 
 This can cause frustration andserious loss of points. Another downer is that there's no online 
 co-op. This could have been amazing and made this game playable a lot longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  It's cliche, but this game rocks!
  
  Not only are the songs awesome, but the total experience is unbelievably fun. OK, its 90 bucks, 
 but it is money well spent. I have never picked up a real guitar in my lifetime, but you can definetily 
 imagine what its like to play in a concert. Good - Songs are amazing (i burned a CD of the songs 
 just to listen to) , there are only about 4 songs that I really don't like. Game play is awesome 
 and it really makes you feel like you are playing a guitar.
  
  Bad - the hard difficulty really lives up to its name, i doubt if i will ever be able to play expert.
 
  
  Ugly - you look like an idiot playing the game. Be prepared to get a lot of grief from anybody 
 that sees you play the game. Now, only if i could grow an extra finger..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldscooltennis2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I am a pretty good guitar hero player, but you dont need to be good to love this game. I couldnt 
 mark this down. This is a port of the PS2 version and yes i dont hink the setlist is as strong 
 as it was in Guitar Hero 1, but this is stil tons of fun. The difficulty is just right for anyone 
 depending on what they pick. This game is great for parties to and chicks do love Guitar Hero. 
 As far as sound goes the sound on the cboc 360 sounds better through the PS2, and also the graphics 
 are bumped up a little, but that shouldnt be the convincing factor to make you buy this if you 
 have it for PS2. It should be the new songs and this Guitar Hero adds one of the best songs in 
 the world Rick Derringer's- Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo. I was sold straight from there. This game 
 also has DLC which i am still waiting for more because i have to say the first batch was very expensive. 
 I still bought one just so i could play Higher Ground on expert on bass. The Guitar Hero franchise 
 will continue to produce great games, and this is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I've got to say that I really enjoy this game. I also have not played the PS2 version to any great 
 length.
  
  I was quite surprised that several songs were sung by the original artists (such as Possum Kingdom 
 by the Toadies, one of my favorite songs of all time) .
  
  Mutiplayer is meaningful in all forms, and the game is sufficiently challenging to not be an easy 
 6-hour completion.
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game.
  
  The bad? Nowhere can you find extra controllers for sale, and when you do look, they're priced 
 upwards of $80 at various websites online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kean1375
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  This is quite simply the most enjoyable game on the 360 so far..... weather your playing with your 
 friends or just by yourself its a blast its expensive but worth it and my favorite thing is that 
 you can download tracks from marketplace. It doesnt matter if you suck you become better the more 
 you play it. there is a practice mode which you can use to slow down and really hit the notes. the 
 only problem i see is the price and the graphics are degraded compared to some other games but 
 it is a superb game and well worth your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texansrule1227
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game the best game ever! Im probely only saying this because i am obsessed with 
 music. This game is just simply the game for me. The track list is amazing the best collection 
 of songs EVER! My personal favorite song on the tracklist is Dead! Whitch is by one of my favorite 
 bands, My Chemical Romance. It has uplifting guitars and great vocals. All around amazing game. 
 Dead And if your headstones bleeding, I? ll be here wondering, Did you get what you deserve? The 
 ending of your, And if you get to heaven I? ll be here waiting, baby, To get what you deserve, The 
 ending of your life Won? t wait, And your heart can? t take this hurt, You heard the music today, 
 Know it? ll never happen twice the same, Thinking about you anyways, Cause your Dead! Me from my 
 hospital bed, I wouldn't know, take my hand, And we're gonna stay afloat, We? re Dead, Dead! Don? t 
 tell me I know just too much, You never felt, To get what you deserve The ending of your, And if 
 you get to heaven, I? ll be here waiting, baby, To get what you deserve, The ending of your life, 
 Won? t wait, And your heart can? t take this hurt, You heard the music today, Know it? ll never happen 
 twice the same, Thinking about you anyways, You? re Dead, Before the hospital bed, Walking around 
 and you? re kissing my hand, And we? re wondering away that's what, We? re, And in my honest observation 
 To bring this operation To complication in your heart so long, Cause now you? ve gone Maybe just 
 to say Cause that tomorrow baby, Let? s go, Na na na na na, Na na na na na, Na na na na na, Na na 
 na na na, Na na na na na, Na na na na na, Did you just do, That here and now, It? s just a joke, 
 And why are we broke, It? s just a joke, And we? d you go, It? s just a joke And what have I done? 
 Dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  When playing Guitar Hero II you don't exactly notice the graphics too much because you are focusing 
 on hitting the correct notes. This being said, when you actually get a chance to catch a glimpse 
 at the visuals they look improved over the PS2 version. Besides the new HD support, the 360 version 
 offers smoother character models and improved lighting effects. I also noticed that in the 360 
 version the notes are more clear and thus easier to read. When playing a song, the camera shifts 
 between different angles of your guitarist rocking out, and it also zooms out to catch a full view 
 of the venue. Overall the game seems to have a more cartoon look to it. The characters are over-the-top, 
 as are the several venues. Venues range from the brightly lit Harmonix Arena to Stonehenge full 
 of ritualistic druids. Again, graphics don't matter too much in a game like this, but the game 
 still maintains appealing visuals.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Guitar Hero II guitar is modeled after the Gibson Explorer. If you are used to playing the 
 PS2 versions of Guitar Hero, then you will quickly notice how much smaller the Explorer feels. 
 Also, the buttons are completely squared instead of rounded at one end like the PS2 guitars. These 
 differences are important to mention simply because it can take some time to get used to the 360 
 guitar if you are coming off playing the PS2 guitar. I found the 360 guitar to be much easier to 
 do hammer-ons and pull-offs. The game basics are simple. There are five possible notes: green, 
 red, yellow, blue, and orange, in which you mus play the notes as they appear on-screen. This done 
 by simultaneously pressing the fret color and strumming the strum button. There is a meter on-screen 
 when playing a song that displays a meter showing how much a crowd likes you. You start off in 
 the yellow, but you the more notes you hit, the more the crowd likes you and the meters goes into 
 the green. However, if you butcher a solo or miss notes, the meter goes red and you eventually 
 fail the song. By hitting notes with stars on them, you earn star power . The on-screen HUD displays 
 your current amount of star power as well as multipliers, your score, and the he crowd meter. Once 
 you earn enough star power, you will receive a text prompt that tells you Star Power Ready . You 
 can either save it or deploy it by holding your guitar up. Star power only lasts for so long, but 
 during this time you earn double multiplier and the crowd meter goes green quicker. Star power 
 is a saint for tough solos, and also helps for achieving high scores. The game's single player 
 component is the Career mode in which you create a band and work your way up to fame and popularity. 
 There are four levels of difficulty: easy, medium, hard, and expert. If you are totally new to 
 the game, then you should obviously star on easy. However, you will soon be able to play medium 
 difficulty and some hard songs. Later tiers of hard songs and many expert songs can take some practice. 
 Luckily, Guitar Hero II sports a Practice mode for slowing down select parts. Career mode is structured 
 in tiers of five songs each. Depending on the difficulty, you must complete a certain amount of 
 songs to earn the chance to play an encore. If you pass the encore, then you move on the next tier. 
 There are eight tiers total, and (SPOILER) Freebird is the last encore of the game. As you progress 
 through Career mode, you earn money which can be used to buy characters, outfits, new songs, and 
 guitars. Other modes include Quick Play (where you can play the bonus songs you buy) and Multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer is a blast given that you have another guitar. There are three multiplayer options: 
 cooperative, face-off, and pro face-off. Cooperative allows one person to play guitar or lead, 
 and another to play bass or rhythm. Face-off allows you to play against you friend while switching 
 between parts of the song. Pro face-off allows both players to play the entire song, but on the 
 same difficulty. It is pretty disappointing that it wasn't possible for online multiplayer to be 
 included, so I guess we'll just have to wait until GH III.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Xbox 360 version has 10 songs not included in the PS2 version. Most are pretty good, and feature 
 known bands such as Iron Maiden, Toadies, Alice Cooper, and My Chemical Romance. My favorite songs 
 of the 10 are The Trooper and Dead! The original set of songs from Guitar Hero II are good, but 
 some people wanted more hits . These 10 new songs should satisfy this crowd, and they also work 
 to beef-up the Career mode. The sound quality in this game is great, there is no question, but 
 it just depends on the songs. There are some great songs like Sweet Child of Mine, Beast and the 
 Harlot, Monkey Wrench, Carry on My Wayward Son, and Freebird. Also, some bonus tracks like Arterial 
 Black are great too. However, some songs aren't too fun to play, and some of the people who recorded 
 the songs just sound plain bad. All in all, you and your friends will likely find a certain group 
 of songs you like to play and mostly play those.
  
  Value:
  
  At $90, Guitar Hero II may seem a little steep, but it is well worth it. If you already own the 
 PS2 version, then you will have to decide if Achievements, 10 new songs, Leaderboards, and some 
 better visuals are worth leaving behind $80-140 worth of what is basically the same game. Completely 
 beating the Career mode can take months, depending on how much you play. After that, it is fun 
 to go to Quick Play and just play songs for fun. The game keeps track of high scores and there 
 are also online Leaderboards. If you have a friend with a guitar or if you bought two, then multiplayer 
 is something to do every time someone comes over. RedOctane promised new tracks via XBL Marketplace 
 each month, but so far only three sets of songs from the original Guitar Hero have been released. 
 The songs have been updated for Guitar Hero II with added cooperative play. Because the songs come 
 in packs of three instead of being sold separately, you can't simply buy the songs you want. Here 
 are the song packs released: Track Pack 1 includes Bark at the Moon, Hey You and Ace of Spades. 
 Track Pack 2 features Killer Queen, Take it Off and Frankenstein. Track Pack 3 includes Red Hot 
 Chili Peppers' Higher Ground, Infected and Stellar. 
  
  I've played six of the songs, and they are pretty easy on Expert. None of the songs released are 
 particularly great, especially if you've played GH I before. Also, 500 MS Points is ridiculous 
 for pre-decided packs of three. Come on, RedOctane. You can do better than re-releasing GH I songs 
 for $6.25 for three songs. Heck, go to YouTube and look at all of the great hacked songs. I'd love 
 to play those. Also, are we ever going to see anymore DLC for this game?
  
  Final Thoughts: The Xbox crowd finally gets to experience Guitar Hero, and it is the same great 
 game that graced the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I'm a bit biased here. I've been a serious guitarist for going on 5 years now, and the first 
 time I played this game, I was caught up in the same wave of lust for it that everyone else seems 
 to be. Sure, it's fun at first, but glaring flaws permeate the seemingly innocently fun exterior.
 
  
  First off, as a musician, Guitar Hero II is nothing at all like actually playing a guitar. While 
 the controller is surprisingly deep as far as the feel goes, the difficulty of the songs seem horribly 
 off balance. Playing easy and medium, songs are laughably easy, throwing out merely one or two 
 notes for every three or four actually being played in the song. It isn't hard to fall asleep playing 
 anything up to and including Free Bird, the game's pinnacle track (also a horrible idea to include 
 in this game, but that's a different story) . Fast forward to hard and expert, however, and songs 
 become disproportionately difficult, forcing the player to squeeze in dozens of notes more than 
 necessary. Most of the time the songs are crammed full of notes that the song doesn't even have, 
 making it pointlessly frustrating. The difficulty has a rather jarring shift between pushover and 
 insanity between the two divisions, which coulds have easily been avoided.
  
  On a more technical standpoint, the sound is somewhat disappointing considering it's a sound-based 
 game. The music itself is great, but not every song was graced with the original recording. The 
 ones without it used some kind of stand-in for all vocals, and a more innappropriate and annoying 
 selection could not have made. The actual guitar sounds are also pretty goofy. When it isn't complete 
 silence the guitar will either fill in the song perfectly or make a redundant muted note sound, 
 which will sound the same virtually every time, whether or not the particular section is even electric.
 
  
  Graphically, the game has no reason to focus on graphics, since it's all about following the colored 
 circles. Alas, the stupid character models look... stupid, as do the guitars. Everything from the 
 crowds to the venues look like awful CGI cartoons. There really isn't much else to say about the 
 games flaws. No doubt by now you're thinking I hate this game with a passion, but beyond the ensless 
 frustrations, GHII actually is harmless fun once in a while. It's enjoyable to pick up the guitar 
 once in a while and mess around with some songs, but anytime I try to get as good at the game as 
 everyone else seems to strive for, I just feel like I'm wasting my time when I actually could be 
 playing guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game may be $90 but it's worth every penny for it is one of the funnest games on the 360 to 
 date. It's got a lot of great songs, mostly from the 80's and 90's, and most of them are fun to 
 play.
  
  The goal of the game is to hit as many notes as possible as they come toward you. You simply hold 
 down the colored note (s) that appear and then strum when the timing is just right.
  
  There's a career mode where you can create your own band by choosing a band name, your guitarist, 
 and your guitar. Then, your ready to rock as you play through every song on either easy, medium, 
 hard, or expert. Throughout your career, you can buy new outfits, characters or even new songs 
 (only in medium-expert) .
  
  Before you rock out, it's best to go through the tutorial which is surprisingly very helpful and 
 it gets you used to the game quickly. You probably want to start out on easy but you may also want 
 to move to medium quick (easy is kind of boring) . Medium to hard is surprisingly a big jump and 
 expert is crazy.
  
  With plenty of great songs like Message in a Bottle, Monkey Wrench, etc. this game is a must own 
 for 360 owners everywhere. You have been warned though, it can get pretty tough the harder the 
 level and you will be playing it for hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  For years I had wanted to play Guitar Hero but sadly , in our home we had the Xbox/Gamecube setup 
 meaning we missed out on a lot of great PS2 exclusives, but my husband and I eventually took the 
 step to then next generation and now have the Wii60 setup. After playing GH2 at a friend's house 
 over the holiday season, my husband knew he had to get this.
  
  First off, if you have the PS2 version, there's no reason go spend $90 for a second game. It's 
 essentially the same game with most of the same songs though this version adds 10 new ones, but 
 it's not enough for you to buy this new if you already owned a previous version.
  
  Like all good Xbox360 games, additional songs can be downloaded however the downloadable songs 
 are mostly all the songs from the original PS2 exclusive. This is fine, if like us, you didn't 
 get to play the original GH however doing the math you end up having to pay $100 for all these 
 songs which could've easily been made as a $50 (or less) game disc. Don't let the Xbox Live marketplace 
 rip you off people.
  
  Still money grubbing Xbox complaints, aside, the game is a blast. Unlike so many rythm based games 
 out there, this has songs we actually want to listen to. It's a nice change from the techno pop 
 beats of games like Dance Dance Revolution. Not every song on GH2 is great, there's a few in there 
 where you just want to get through them and move on. Still the majority of the tracks are classics 
 and this time, we get Free Bird. 
  
  Graphically, don't expect anything. It looks essentially the same as the PS2 version. If you have 
 HD, you see that crisper HD look, but on a regular TV, it looks the same. However, this game was 
 never about graphics, if you remember and most of the time you're too busy watching the notes on 
 the fret board to pay attention to the action above.
  
  I wanted to review the multiplayer aspect of the game but I haven't been able to get a second guitar 
 controller as of yet. Those suckers are hard to come by though I like the idea of playing bass 
 part and competing for the high score.
  
  Over all, GH2 rocks just as hard on the 360 as it did on the PS2. If you didn't play it for the 
 PS2, then pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NATEDOGG1993
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Well as i said i bought this game not expecting it to be very good i figured i would play it for 
 an hour or so then never touch it again but........... I did! Starting with the gameplay it is 
 very imersive making you really feel like a real rockstar. although theres not really any other 
 organized way the devolopers could have done it notes drop down and when they get to the end target 
 you strum them very simple but works very well to keep the game simple. Next the graphics are actually 
 very nice considering you really dont get a chance to look at them because you are so focused on 
 nailing the song. your character looks very nice and has good animation as does the crowd and the 
 rest of your band. the lighting effect are also very nicely done. Next of course the sound had 
 to be good pretty much all the sound in the game is rock music i mean what else could you play 
 electric guitar to so i guess if you dont like rock then this is not your game. All in all the 
 value of this game is good if you of course have $90 to spend. To break down what your pay for 
 you get the guitar for $30 and the game disk for $60 which is not too bad. This game is defenently 
 not what i thought it would be it is the all around best music based game to date and is in my 
 opinion one of the best games for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Good : Great game play, totally feel as though you are playing the guitar and rocking out. Love 
 the music. A must for any music fan. Bad : No multiplayer, some of the songs are boring.
  
  
  Overall : I love this game, totally feel like you are there rocking out. You can totally pretend 
 you are the greatest guitar player in the world jamming out. If you ever had a desire to play the 
 guitar, this is the game for you. Be warned it is addicting, once you start you may have a hard 
 time putting it down. Score : This game is difficult, for it takes rhythm and patience. At times 
 it is frustrating, especially when you keep failing a song. Graphics are simple there isn't much 
 you can add to this, maybe make the characters look real, and not cartoonie. Sound is good, I felt 
 as though I was actually playing the song. Plus this game is well worth the money spent. If you 
 own a 360, I think this is a must have.
  
  Rock on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  For the last couple years, one game Playstation owners could hold over a 360 owners head was Guitar 
 Hero. Well, no more! Since I own a Playstation, it was always tempting to buy it for that system, 
 but I never gave in. Well, I gave in now. And as expected, it's addictive, it's fun, and on the 
 harder difficulty levels, it's one heck of a challenge. Graphically, the game is much sharper on 
 the Xbox 360, and basically everything else is the same. That is, except for a handful of exclusive 
 songs, such as Iron Maiden's Run to the Hills. So if you've never tried this game, do yourself 
 a favor and buy it . There is nothing like it, and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BADAJING
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Lets see here GH2 fun game good songs but not enough of some of the greatest rock bands ever like 
 AC/DC and KISS. The extra songs are good but they still need to get some more songs. Far better 
 than the first and better than the ps2 version. If you want a game that the whole family can play 
 and enjoy this game is for you. Now lets say you beat expert yay u did it you can rub it in your 
 friends faces and u get that sick guitar, but other than that theres nothing. So the reward system 
 might need a fix up for GH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is the newest installment in the Guitar Hero series. The game is played using a 
 guitar shaped controller. There are five colored fret buttons, a strumming button, and a whammy 
 bar. During a song different colored notes appear on the screen and you must hit the correct button 
 and strum at the correct time to succsesfully play that note. You can use the whammy bar to get 
 more points when a note that must be held appears on screen. The game's song list is huge. It includes 
 songs like Free Bird by Lynyrd Skynyrd, Killing in the Name by Rage Against the Machine, Sweet 
 Child O' Mine by Guns N' Roses and War Pigs by Black Sabbath. There are also 10 new songs added 
 for the 360 version including Rock and Roll Hoochie Coo by Rick Derringer, Salvation by Rancid, 
 Life Wasted by Pearl Jam, The Trooper by Iron Maiden and Hush by Deep Purple. Other artists include 
 The Police, Nirvana, Kiss, Avenged Sevenfold, Kansas, Cheap Trick, Van Halen, Aerosmith and the 
 Rolling Stones. The visuals are okay but nothing special. They do look slightly better than the 
 PS2 version but don't match up to some of the 360's better looking games.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero II is one of the Xbox 360's best so far. It combines fun and addicting gameplay, 
 great song list and a lot of replay value. Every 360 owner should own this game. It is easily worth 
 the near $100 it asks for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  When my PS2 version of this game broke down (The buttons and music did not sync together.) I took 
 it back to the store. They were all out of copies and I decided to get my money back and wait for 
 when they got more. I soon found out that this game would be coming to the 360 with more songs, 
 downloadable content, and better graphics. So I decided to wait... it was the longest ordeal in 
 my life waiting for this game, but when I got it-it was worth it. Playing your favorite songs and 
 not so favorite songs on a cheap guitar is just as good on the 360 as it is on the PS2, and with 
 a much shorter loading time. There are no problems with this game unless you hate rock. The achievements 
 for this game are so-so. If you have a friend with the game you can easily get the co-op achievements. 
 As for beating Jordan on Expert, you're on you're own. It sucks that Harmonix isn't really doing 
 anything with online besides three downloadable packages. (Let's hope the 80's Encore comes as 
 a downloadable package!) Besides that this is the game for a true rock fan. Rock on and enjoy! 
 P. S. Queen rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheQuesoMan
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Amazing!
  
  PROS: Feeds Inner Guitar Hero - Great Selection of Music - Lots of Bonus Tracks - Neat Customization 
 Options
  
  CONS: Some Songs Aren't Fun to Play - Career Mode Unsatisfying - More Songs!
  
  With every fun Hanger 18 or Sweet Child O' Mine, there's a not-so-fun Salvation or Strutter.
 
  
  If only they added some of the old favorites from the original Guitar Hero, this would have been 
 a must-have for anyone interested in rockin' out! Unfortunately, that is not the case.
  
  Also, they should really try to develop on the Career Mode aspect, add depth or something and allow 
 for more songs to be purchasable through the shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbgaona
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Loved it since i played the game at some store.
  My favorite game so far for the 360, and yes... worth EVERY penny.
  Highly addictive and full 
 of challenge!
  
  Love Rock?? You start shaking your head up and down as soon as you hear some of your favorite rock 
 songs?? Ever wanted to know how it feels to play some of your favorite rock songs?? Then this game 
 is definitely for you. As soon as you step up to the next difficulty the games turns out to be 
 even more addictive and yet, you still want more, more and MORE!!!
  
  Don't ever hesitate to buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojangles13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  At first i thought this game wouldnt be anything special, because i never really heard anything 
 that would make me want to spend 90 bucks on a game. But after i played it for the first time, 
 i was hooked on it. This is probably the most addicting game i have ever played. The graphics are 
 great, the guitar controller is awesome, and the soundtrack is amazing. There is not one song i 
 feel bored with. If you have a 360 or a PS2, you should have this game. If you dont like this game, 
 you either have no taste in music, because the songs are sweet, (especially Raw Dog) , or you just 
 suck at it too bad to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blt338
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  ok so everyone knows of the guitar hero franchise. if u dont know of it well u must have been hiding 
 under a rock for the past couple of years. the ps2 in its prime conceived this amazing franchise 
 under the guidance of an amazing company aptly named HARMONIX, ironic isn't it !!!!! lol o how 
 very clever. ok ok back to the review heehee. this game is the epitome of awesome. if u r a rock 
 n roll fan of any kind at all, than u will find something to like in this game. ok now for the 
 scoring!!!!!
  
  VISUALS: as far as i can tell almost exactly like the ps2 versions, but i cant see that they took 
 a little more time with the quality of the characters in some fancier shading and edging quality. 
 so for this alone i give them a 7 out of 10. ahh now for GAMEPLAY: this is where this game is most 
 pleasing to the ears. mixing old with the new, they have added 10 more songs to the ever amazingly 
 big tracklist. above all these songs i will have to say one truly stands out, IRON MAIDENS: THE 
 TROOPER. although, dont get me wrong i like rocking out to rock n roll hoochie coo as much as the 
 next guy does, but the trooper is really the only one that actually offers any real challenge fr 
 die hard fans such as myself. so for a score of i will give a 10 out of 10.
  
  SOUND: this is where the game does a great and bad job. some of these songs have an impossible 
 number of notes compared to the real songs. i mean, REALLY, come one. the songs sound great , but 
 whenever u miss a note u have the all too familiar ugly ding. that dont sound too great after the 
 thousand of notes u play on a song. so in conclusion it gets a 8 out of 10.
  
  ok now for the final item of business the overall VALUE: now this can go bothways for some people 
 but, if u are a stickler for getting a song perfect than there is great replay value to be found 
 in this game for u. but if u just dont think replaying the games many tracks just to get it perfect 
 and be the best than u just suck, lol just kidding. it just may not be for u than. so considering 
 these things i have said id have to say that the value gets a 8 out of 10. ok well thats the end 
 of this little parade of perfect gameing reviewing. thanks for taking the time to read this. so 
 go get ur rock on.................. what............... u gonna leave or not................. what 
 r u doing stop reading and go get u rock on stupid  m g whatever 
 adios moron.................... lol just playing c ya heehee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megman9111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, as soon as you pull the guitar and the game out of the box you're instantly excited. The simple 
 but yet intuitive style of this game can be compared in the greatness of parappa the rapper and 
 many others. Therefore, i recommend anybody itching for a game in the summer game drout pick this 
 one up. Its an awesome game for all ages. Well, in the first five minutes anybody should try the 
 tutorials (it's simple and gamerpoints for patience) the practice should be used frequently and 
 then you should be able to play any song you choose. In the career mode there is tons of depth 
 for a rhythm game. Buying songs, characters, and guitars and bonus footage behind the games recording 
 of the songs and scenes stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I wasn't going to buy this game, but now that I have, I am supremely greatful.
 
  
  The fact that this game is geared towards non musica players is one of it's main drives. I want 
 to play video games not the actual instrument, otherwise instead of spending thousands of dollars 
 on my homes set up, I'd be spending it on musical instruments and sound systems.
  
  This game has many levels of play suitable for any age, and encourages you to keep playing with 
 well thought out placements for their achivements, which have you striving and practicing to beat 
 the game. Each song offers unique challenges in it's timing and button combinations that it keeps 
 you striving harder and harder. The fact that there is more content to download allows not only 
 for you to expand your options, but to also allow for future enjoyment in a party game scenario.
 
  
  I would not hesitate in saying to go out and buy this game, it is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero I boasted decent graphics, but more impressively, highly addictive game play. Most 
 people that played that game could not stop since it was so innovative and fun. Now, Guitar Hero 
 II on the Xbox 360 delivers just that, with great graphics and the same highly addictive game play 
 that made the first Guitar Hero a success.
  The second Guitar Hero plays just like the first one. No fundamental changes have been made to 
 the game play. Veterans will be able to blast through most of the game without any problem. The 
 last ten songs in the Career Mode can be pretty tedious, but with enough effort and knuckle abuse, 
 they are manageable. The big disappointment is the lack of online play with other rockers. The 
 Xbox 360 practically makes it almost a requirement for games to be multiplayer online play. A successful 
 game like Guitar Hero deserves to have online capabilities.
  Graphically, Guitar Hero II is polished very well, and has significant upgrades to the PS2 version 
 of the game. The detail of the the guitar players are amazing. The faces are full of detail, as 
 well as the costumes and guitar itself. The stages have a very vibrant atmosphere thanks to the 
 graphics. Smoke from the stage can be seen, whilst lights are being flashed all around the venue.
 
  The soundtrack for the game is lacking in variety, and most of the tracks become boring after 
 a few plays through. Thankfully there are over 55 tracks, so anyone can play to their preference. 
 The bonus tracks seem to be even better than the Career Tracks, which shows the developers need 
 to sign more contracts to big time musicians and records labels to keep the track list fresh and 
 full of variety.
  Guitar Hero II on the Xbox 360 is a must-have for anyone that owns the console. The HD graphics 
 look sharp and the immersive game play combine to make this a suitable game for all types of gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  As long as you don't mind a hard game (in a good way) then you'll love Guitar Hero. The game has 
 a variety of songs from the rock era and of current times. The Punk/Rock songs range from Carry 
 on my wayward son to Psykobilly freakout. The game is expensive if you buy it with the X-plorer 
 controller bundle (about $90) but it is worth it because if you play the game with the normal X-box 
 360 controller it isn't any fun, so buying the guitar controller is a must. Guitar Hero II is a 
 great game and possibly one of the best rythm games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Need_more_food
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome it may be $90, but it is definetly worth the $90.
  The career mode can be extremely hard. Once you have beaten both easy and medium your thinking 
 hard is going to be pretty easy as well well its not just try playing phycobilly freakout on hard 
 or expert.
  
  Now for the multiplayer it is freaking awesome too.
  the multiplayer is what makes this game one of the best games to date.
  this makes you compete 
 against a friend with your favorite classic rock songs. Who can beat free bird by lynrd skynrd 
 or basically any Van Halen songs.
  
  This game is a must buy if you play guitar or you like classic rock or music at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daedricprince1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game to play if your willing to try and get better at it. At first i was a bit 
 skeptical of the idea, but it has influenced even me to try and beat the entire game. Some people 
 say its just a rip off of the Playstation 2 version, but Sony did the same thing with Oblivion. 
 It is an interesting game and if your reading this you might agree. My opinion of the game is that 
 once you've started you really cant stop playing... even if you want to. I also found i lost track 
 of the time playing this.. something i rarely do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_In_Line
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II
  
  Before getting this game I did not have high expectations. I really didn't want to get it at all. 
 I would had rather spent my money renting a game, or buying a game I wanted. In the end I got it.
 
  
  I loved it. It is easy in the start. The more you played, the harder it seemed to get. The more 
 songs unlocked. The more notes to play. And the more difficulties. Oh, and don't forget the videos, 
 outfits, guitars, guitar covers, and achievements!
  
  After finishing the first difficulty, you can go on to the next one, and earn money to get said 
 unlockables. Where in the next difficulty, you play songs you unlocked in the first and more. With 
 more details to each song with the new note added to increase the difficulty. Also you get encores. 
 With a last bunch of songs too.
  
  Then you get to go onto the hard stuff. You have all five notes to use, then you have more notes 
 to play too. Replaying all the songs.
  
  Lastly, you get to the hardest difficulty. That has most if not all details on to the song.
  
 
  After beating all the difficulties. You can replay them to get 5 stars on each song. When you do 
 that, you can also ATTEMPT to get 100% on all songs.
  
  The hardest song in the game Jordan has it's own achivement.
  
  There are 70 songs. Most songs 
 are familear, if you listen to rock and some movies.
  
  So far, I have not 100% beat the game, but I am very close, and so far, I haven't got bored of 
 any of the songs.
  
  There is also little loading time, but you get advice and some fun from the phrases on them like, 
 Your mom doesn't count as a fan 
  
  The sound and graphics are great! It's one of the few games I have in 1080p. Also sounds good with 
 a sound system like the one I have. Also when you make a mistake, you can't hear the song as well, 
 but not really a big deal.
  
  This is a buy! So go get rockin'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dara14
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero has to be one of the worst games i have ever played. It is ok for a song or two then 
 it just gets boring and it cost 110 euro. There isn't even any good multiplayer on it because one 
 person has to use the controller and thats even worse than playing with the guitar. If they at 
 least had a story in career mode and you have to buy songs for it because there aren't any good 
 songs on the game. This game is just a waste of time even if it was the only xbox game i had i 
 wouldn't play it. It's just not a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CansOfPLEASURE
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Guitar Hero II was going to be on the Xbox 360, I was excited. Because 
 I had played the Playstation 2 version at a friends house and thought it was really fun. And when 
 the game released for Xbox 360 and I played it, I loved it and was addicted to it for weeks, and 
 I still play it quite often.
  
  Gameplay- Some people may look at this game and say, A Guitar shaped controller = awesome. 5 colored 
 buttons that are used as the strings = dumb idea. But it actually works out well. It tests your 
 coordination, speed, and skill. The whammy bar is a fun feature on the Guitar controller. Sometimes 
 you'll play the right note at the right time, but it'll say you missed, that's basically the only 
 problem with the gameplay. I suggest you play with the Guitar controller, you can also play with 
 the controller, but it won't be as fun. I suggest to only use the controller if you get stuck on 
 a song. Graphics- The graphics aren't quite up to par with the next gen graphics, and don't push 
 the Xbox 360 to it's capabilites, graphics wise. But overall, the graphics are nice. From the time 
 I've played the game, I haven't seen too many flaws at all.
  
  Sound- The sound is incredible, the original songs sound exactly as they should, and the cover 
 songs sound quite close to the original versions. In my opinion the only bad cover song is Laid 
 To Rest which is originally played by Lamb Of God. Value- The value is great. There are 4 different 
 Career difficulties, each time you move up a difficulty, the songs get harder to complete. The 
 Career mode is very satisfying. The extra songs in the Career store give you even more songs play, 
 I think it's about 20 songs, maybe a little less or more. The Multiplayer is very fun. Although 
 it's not Xbox Live compatible, playing with a friend on the same system is very fun, one person 
 plays lead Guitar and the other plays either Bass or rhythm Guitar. Even after beating the Career 
 mode, you'll still want to go back and play the songs again to beat your old highscore and unlock 
 the nice, long list of achievements, I think there are 50.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I enjoy this game very much. I play it most days of the week, even after beating 
 all but the Expert Career mode. It's a very fun, exciting game.
  
  Overall, any fan of Rock Music will love this game. And want to keep playing it, long after beating 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: les_pinner-3
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Well ive been playing the game for 2 days and I think it is a really good game. It has a great 
 bunch of songs plus the features in the game are awsome too. But most of all i would like to say 
 this is the best Guitar Hero game I have ever played!!! The graphics are really good and the encore 
 feature is really cool. The song selcetion is really big, you can play up to 50 songs (I think) . 
 But I havent completed the full game yet, im on medium at the moment lol. The lasthing i would 
 like to same about the game is that it has alot of effort into it to it is worth playing this game.
 
  
  Keep on gaming dude/dudettes!!!
  
  Les Pinner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  So, you wanna be a metal god, a rockstar, a Guitar Hero? This game is a great chance for you to 
 check out how the mechanics of guitar playing work, or, if you are a player already, it's just 
 a load of fun.
  Basically the songs are what make this game. You might be little bit disappointed with the first 
 available songs, but don't worry, it gets better with every stage. To get it out of the way, the 
 graphics and overall looks of the game are very decent. The characters are a bit cartoony, and 
 that's what makes them even cooler. The stages you will play are also great looking, especially 
 the open-air ones. You will notice various light effects and on-stage gizmos that make the shows 
 you play really wild. Although the graphics aren't really as spectacular as you'd expect from an 
 X360 game, it does not affect the sheer awesomeness of this game even for a second. One of the 
 coolest things about the animation in this game is that if you look at your hero's fingers, they 
 actually play the guitar parts as they are played on the real guitar. Even the solos! Yeah! Ok, 
 so you bought the game for the bag full of money, carried the giant box home with people looking 
 at you like they would at a tyranosaurus... you open the box and here's what you get: the game 
 on DVD, two sheets of pretty cool stickers, a strap, and a big piece of plastic with some buttons 
 that looks strangely similar to a Gibson Explorer guitar. That is the controller that makes this 
 game what it is. Its kina small for a guitar, but it would make no sense if it was any bigger, 
 so it pretty much just fits anyone. There are 5 fret buttons, a strum bar, a tremolo bar and the 
 xbox control buttons. The guitar also has an ethernet port os some sort and the xbox headset port. 
 Plug it in and let it rip! Choose a song you're going to play, and wait till it loads. After a 
 few seconds you see your character on stage and a fretboard going your way. Press the fret buttons 
 corresponding to the ones that appear on the fretboard on screen and hit the strum bar. Sounds 
 easy? Dont count on it. While the easy level is, well, easy, the gap between the difficulties is 
 simply too big. If you master all the songs on easy, that doesn't really mean anything on medium, 
 same goes for the higher levels. Playing the hard or expert level is actually harder than playing 
 a real guitar. This is why actual guitar players will find this game more difficult than players 
 who never held a real axe in their hands. It's harder, because if you are a guitarist, you know 
 the mechanics of a real guitar, and that is something you have to unlearn to play Guitar Hero good. 
 The reason for this is that the buttons you have to press very often don't match the notes that 
 are heard in the song. For exaple, a section on of a song consist of 20 notes. To play that section 
 on easy you'll have to press a combination of let's say 8 fret buttons. To play that same part 
 on expert you'll have to press a combo of 40 buttons. Doesn't really make sense, because neither 
 the easy nor the expert modes actually make you play the right numer of notes. From what I seen 
 in this game, the medium level is the closest to the real thing in riffs and the hard level is 
 the closest in solos. But afer a few days of playing you begin to remember that it's nor a real 
 guitar and some mechanics just dont apply. Overll this game is great, it is really a load of fun 
 and good music. The song list is not as impressive as it was in the previous edition of Guitar 
 Hero, but there are a couple of black pearls there that make it all good. Plus the game is packed 
 with humor so be prepared to laugh or at least smile (unless you're goth) . You'll have a great 
 time playing this game, that's a given. And if you can play a song for like 4 stars on expert... 
 pick up a real guitar if you haven't already! So guitar player or not, you'll love this game if 
 you love music and/or rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruske101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  This game in my opinion is the most addictive game ever when i strated to play i couldn't stop. 
 i got this game 1 month ago for my birth day for $90, don't be suprised by the pricetag it's totlly 
 worth it. guitar hero is all about the game play forget any thing else except the sound which is 
 phenominal well the gameplay is about pressing the correct fret buttons and strunmming the strummer 
 at the samr thime. It may sound easy but it's not it's easy to learn but really hard to master. 
 You don't even have time to look at the graphics.
  this is my all time favorite 360 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer101
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Everyone should own a Guitar Hero game. If you haven't played it yet, you really don't know what 
 you're missing. The music rocks. Playing with a guitar shaped controller rocks. Jamming with a 
 friend rocks. Did we mention that the game rocks? Everything from the presentation to the gameplay 
 in Guitar Hero II is universally appealing. If you haven't already played Guitar Hero II on PS2, 
 this is a must own game. Even if you already have done all of this before, you may yet find a reason 
 to grab the Xbox 360 re-release (is it is possible for you to find one) . With reworked graphics, 
 sound, new songs, downloadable content and more, this is easily the best Guitar Hero game yet. 
 Fancy graphics are nice, but if you're buying Guitar Hero II for the visuals then you're completely 
 missing the point. The game is all about the music. The main group of songs all come from widely 
 known and popular bands like Guns N Roses, Stone Temple Pilots, Aerosmith, Nirvana, and Primus. 
 The track list is a bit more metal and punk-centric than the first Guitar Hero game, though there 
 are a good number of classic rock hits and a few pop tunes sprinkled in for good measure. If you've 
 played Guitar Hero II already, there is still a ton of new content on the 360 version that makes 
 it worth picking up again. For starters, there are ten new tracks that were recorded exclusively 
 for the Xbox 360. . Iron Maiden's The Trooper and Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer are 
 flat out fantastic both in terms of the controller mapping and the cover music. Dead! by My Chemical 
 Romance and Possum Kingdom by The Toadies are both master tracks, so you already know those songs 
 are as good as they possibly can get. The new songs have been worked into a reordered career mode 
 quite well and the progression of difficulty feels much smoother this go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  graphics-What can I say do you really need gears graphics on a beat game I mean when do you even 
 look at the guys on stage durying the song dought it.
  
  Sound- well the sound is amazeing because all this game cosists of is awsome gameplay and music.
 
  
  gameplay-you have a fake guitar and you get to play all of those good songs and act like your actully 
 good at guitar.
  
  Value- this game has some of the most value because it can be a party game or just something to 
 do when your board it really never gets old becase theres always a new challange pluse for 360 
 you have achevements to work for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adamant_Faith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. Literally. Coming from someone who is skeptical at newer control ideas, i was 
 taken aback. The response time for some televisions had to be calibrated, but all in all there 
 wasn't much of a problem there. Sound is terrific. Nothing else to say there.
  
  What I like the most though, is the amazing replay value this game offers. So you beat all the 
 songs. great. Now try Expert. Done that? Get 5 stars. Harder and more immersing qualities shine 
 the longer you play. All in all, if you have a 360, then this is a must-have for anyone remotely 
 interested in music, or just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: There in a way, is a story. You start from a Guitar Zero, to a Guitar Hero! Yeah, it's not 
 great, but its technically the story for everyone who is a professional guitarist.
  
  Graphics: They are very similar to the PS2 version. Nothing great. It's just gotten a bit clearer.
 
  
  Sound: In a Music/Rhythm Game, sound is extremely important. Some of the songs in the game are 
 nostalgic classics (Free Bird, Crazy on You, Misirlou, etc.) , while there are some newer ones too 
 (Jordan, Dead!) . Some of the songs are well-known songs, but quite a bit are songs barely anyone 
 has ever heard of. The sound quality is always great, so there's nothing to argue about there.
 
  
  Controls: There are two different controllers for this game: The traditonal Xbox 360 Gamepad, and 
 the Gibson X-Plorer Guitar. First off, I want to say, that playing the game with the regular controller 
 really sucks. Its dull, and the controls are odd. The Guitar is a bit smaller than the PS2 version, 
 and may be uncomfortable to play with for people who have played the PS2 version alot, or people 
 with larger hands. The Guitar layout is slick; all of the buttons, the strum bar, and the whammy 
 bar (which used to be unresponsive at times with a certain version of the guitar, but was fixed 
 via patch) are all responsive. And for left-handed players, you can flip the guitar without problems, 
 and the buttons on-screen to fit your customs. Gameplay: The gameplay is very simple. When a colored 
 button appears on the screen and scrolls down to a small circle, you press the button on the guitar 
 that has that color of the button that appeared on-screen. It may sound easy, and it is on Easy, 
 but as you advance, it gets harder. Medium difficulty introduces many more 2-note chords than on 
 Easy, and introduces the use of the Blue button. Hard Introduces the use of the Orange Button, 
 and Expert introduces 3-Note Chords, and is MUCH faster than the other difficulties. At the main 
 menu, you have 4 Different gameplay modes: Career, Quick Play, Multiplayer, and Training. Career 
 is the way you unlock the regular songs. To advance, you must keep beating songs. As you play through 
 the Career Mode, youll notice that you start playing in a High School Battle of The Bands, and 
 then end playing at Stonehenge (only in Medium Difficulty and above) . On Medium and above, you 
 get money for your gigs, and you can spend this money on outfits, bonus songs, characters, guitars, 
 and guitar finishes. This is cool, but only the songs really effect the gameplay. Quick Play is 
 just picking a song, and playing it, and nothing more. Multiplayer has three modes: Face-Off, Pro 
 Face-Off, and Co-Op. Face-Off is where two players face each other on the difficulty of their choice 
 (when I mean that, I mean that each player can choose their difficulty, instead of sharing one.) . 
 One player plays Lead, the other plays Bass. Pro Face-Off is just a variant of the regular face-off. 
 Co-Op is where players play the song, and like Face-Off, one plays lead and another plays bass. 
 But they must depend on each other to win, because they share a rock meter, and a score. All of 
 the Multiplayer Modes are fun and all, but adds little to the gameplay, only supports 2 players, 
 and only supports same-system multiplayer, meaning no online. Overall, Guitar Hero is a basic, 
 yet extremely addictive music game, and is a must-have game for 360. At $90, it is a bit too much, 
 but you cant go wrong with a game like this. I highly recommend this. In my opinion, this is THE 
 MOST innovative and fun game on the 360 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawon2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  In Guitar Hero 2 you are a rock star and you can pick from easy, medium, hard, and expert. Like 
 most games, it is a challenging sequence to master the notes. One time I was playing Guns and Roses, 
 when my nose started to itch, I was like oh hel! no! I ended up failing the song. When you get 
 your star power you have to tilt the guitar to a vertical stance. You get points for doing this 
 and hitting notes. In Medium difficulty is where you start to get paid, but its hard for a mediocre 
 player. The game is very challenging. You get 150 dollars if you get a 3 star. The characters in 
 the game have their style when you use star power. Eddie spins his guitar in mid-air. Izzy flips 
 it in the air. The songs include hits like Surrender, The Trooper, Hush, and the best ever O' Sweet 
 Child O' Mine. War pigs has a HUUUUUUGE guitar solo.
  
  The option I was wanting wasn't there. Wireless guitar controller, and of course online play. Otherwise 
 this game is an awesome experience. If you have not already bought this game, you are missing out 
 and you need to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckwap3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow, It's been a while since my last review, maybe because I've been playing this game so much! 
 Well, you know the routine. Review list, review list, where art thou review list?
  
  Gameplay - Whoever thought taking a plastic guitar, some frets, a strum and whammy bar, and two 
 start and select buttons, should be granted godly powers. This game you will NEVER want to put 
 down. The premise is simple, hitting a fret along with a strum of the strum bar. How could it be 
 more simplistic? Simplistic, but very fun. Gameplay, indefinitely, gets a 10. Graphics - Guitar 
 Hero 2 puts the 360 to it's awesomeness limits with the graphics in the game. If you have time 
 to peel your eyes from the fretboard and look at the characters and guitars, you'll be astounded 
 to see that the details are great. A few things in the graphics sometimes screw up, like clipping 
 issues, but not very often. The graphics, get a 9.
  
  Sound - With one of the greatest rock soundtracks in history, and great quality of sound, from 
 the chords, to the yelling of: FREE BIRD! from the crowd. The greatest details in the sound give 
 the game a great, rock n' roll performance feel. The sound, gets an awesome 10.
  
  Value - This game is definitely worth the price tag, it is about $90, but every single one of those 
 90,000 pennies is worth it. Value gets a 10.
  
  Overall (Tilt) - Overall, if you're a fan of rock n' roll, or just guitars and 80's, 90's and now 
 music, this is the game for you. Hell, this game could be for almost anyone. Turn it up to 11 and 
 ROCK ON!
  
  With a few gripes in the graphics section this game is only .1 away from perfect! This awesome 
 game gets a superb rating of 9.9.
  
  Now rock on my friends, ROCK ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonio_hdz2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Back to a few years we were witnesess of the DDR mania taht is still present with the latest installments 
 for home consoles, this boom also triggered a series of games taht follow the same great formula, 
 in one hand we got that arce with some bongoes on it and in the other hand (in the console dept) 
 we got the Guitar Hero Franchise.
  
  And this is what bring me againd to the keyboard, honestly i didn't know what to expect for a game, 
 that personally, haven't played and making this my first GH played.
  
  The game is so addictive and challenges the most advanced real guitar players (i play the guitar 
 for several years and there's still some tunes that really gave me the kick) , the gameplay is really 
 smooth, and easy to understand, the X-plorer controller makes a really great debut, perhaps one 
 of the things that can be fixed is the tilt sensor, but overall the controller is A-OK.
  
  The 55 tunes goes from easiest to hardest probably Jordan is the real Challenge on hard and expert, 
 not to mention Free Bird.
  
  THe graphics and sound are well polished, maybe we can expect some major overhauls to the next 
 installment of GH in the graphical section, on the sound department the game is fine, maybe a better 
 band could play Stellar.
  
  In conclusion GH2 is a great game in every way, a really must have if you're one those persons 
 with the music in your veins... and also if you don't is a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-Zidane08-xX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I dont see why Guitar Hero 2 needs good graphics, but Im glad that it does. Im sure others have 
 noticed the way that the UFO moves when on Free Bird. Its great to have graphics in games that 
 are based on songs. I give the graphics a whopping 9.
  
  The songs on Guitar Hero II are simply amazing. They are worth hearing over, and over again trying 
 to perfect them. If you dont really like rock music or guitar solos, you probably wouldnt be into 
 this game. But I belive that this game is great for anyone. Thats why I give the Sound on Guitar 
 Hero II a 10 out of 10. (my favorite song on GH2 would have to be Killing In The Name - Rage Against 
 The Machine)
  
  This is my first Guitar Hero and first game that has anything to do with good music. (NFSs' dont 
 count, silly) I like most if not all of the songs on there, and TROGDOR!! is a great song that 
 is worth unlocking. (you need it for an achievement) I value you Guitar Hero 2 like my very own 
 xbox. Along with the guitar. Value earns a 10.
  
  There are dozens of people who dont like Guitar Hero just because its, so called, different. Not 
 here though. Thats one of the good things about GH. Not only does it have awsome music, it is fun. 
 And that is what truley counts as an amazing game. I give Guitar Hero 2 a 9 on Tilt.
  
  In the game, you need to earn money by doing good on songs in Medium and above. (Easy just wont 
 cut it) You need to learn the Guitar like the back of your hand if your going to succeed. It is 
 possible to play with the controller, but it is extremely difficult, so just stick with the guitar. 
 The money you earn will get you, characters, songs, outfits, gutairs, finishes (for the guitars) , 
 and more! As you complete songs, 3-star of better, you will move on to the next concert. Then complete 
 the amount needed and move on. Once you completed a difficulty simply go on to the next. ( for 
 reading this review you have earned 2 secrets. 1. Achievement - Watch the credits, 2. Achievement 
 - Complete the Tutorials.)
  
  Thats my review for Guitar Hero II - I give it a 9.3 - Superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaudyMarrko
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  By all means this is a good game but in my opinion it's just not my kind of game. The graphics 
 a good and the music is amazing but all I see when I look at this game is hitting buttons in a 
 timed order. I imagine that a lot of people will like games like this and all the Dance dance revolution 
 games but this game has no plot or tactic. I would recommend this game to anyone who is into this 
 kind of stuff but to all the hard core Gears of War, Worms, NFS Carbon, Madden 2007 and all other 
 games that don't fit the keeping beat gender fans, all I can say is stick to what your good at. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntAD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 2 has been enjoyed by PS2 owners for quite some time. The title has finally strummed 
 its way over to the Xbox 360, and it rocks! The addictive DDR style game has pulled itself away 
 from the genre and created its own little universe. In Guitar hero 2, you strap a guitar to yourself 
 and rock out to a variety of songs. The game has come to 360 and it shipped with a unique AXE guitar 
 specially added for the 360. Other than that, not much else has changed, but then again that's 
 not necessarily a bad thing. The game is still as addictive as ever. You may first think that the 
 game sounds repetitive and boring, well yes and no. The game is definitely repetitive, but in a 
 good way. Playing to your favorite rock songs, old and new, is spectacular. The difficulty settings 
 are great as newcomers can run through the tutorial and then practice on easy, while the veterans 
 can rock out on expert. The developers have added new modes where you can play as the bassist or 
 rhythm-guitarist. These new features really liven the game up and create a nice change of pace. 
 The coop mode is still a great experience if you can find another person and another guitar. Yet, 
 it would have been nice to have some online play. In the end, you will find yourself coming back 
 for a lot more fun on Guitar hero 2 as you try and master all of your favorite tunes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Hey guys,
  
  Here you have the Guitar Hero for the next-gen consoles. I personally own both PS2 and XBOX 360 
 and can tell you that there's a little big difference... The guitar... this beauty is awesome, 
 and feels much better than the PS2's. About the game, it rocks, when you think you've given everything 
 you have, you want more, and keep praacticing and keep getting better. Expert mode, on a personal 
 point of view, is highly addictive, 'cuz you really want to give you a try to push the most freths 
 you can. I'll tell you something.. my fingers hurt a lot, but not enough to quit.
  
  The new songs are Ok, specially DEAD!, I love that song, as I'm a My Chemical Romance Fan, but 
 still think that Metallica should be in the next games.
  
  The graphics don't give a new hype, but who cares, what really matters is the game play, that honeslty, 
 is much better than playing with the Wiiiiiiiiii-mote hehehe.
  
  Sound is Pretty good, I've heard some of the songs from teh original versions and you understand 
 much better what the singer is singing than teh original version, and of course, the music keeps 
 rocking everytime you play it.
  
  The prices is good, 'cuz you get a new guitar, but c'mon guys, we want the wireless version, but 
 as my brother told me, that's just a reason to buy the GH3, hehe, and he's right, maybe most of 
 us will buy the new GH not just for the songs, but the guitar.
  
  The on-line mode is poor, and hopefuly will get the coop-mode on-line in the next game, sometimes 
 you are just looking for someone to play coop and try to unlock some achievements, but need to 
 wait until some spare time.
  
  Guys, just give it a try, and feel how your fingers start moving freely, and feel the music.
 
  
  Cheers!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The rhythm games are not always very good, but this game is so fun. The manner 
 in which you play the song is very cool, especially between the various difficulty levels. They 
 did it so that you really feel like you're playing the song yourself most of the time. It brings 
 out the rocker in everyone. The background animations are a nice touch and without something it 
 would be bad, but you really don't have an opportunity to see it once you're playing. You are so 
 focused on the song, that everything else is irrelevant.
  
  The sound is great, but the song list does leave something to be desired. They could have done 
 better. Selling the Guitar Hero songs for that much though? Give me a break. Not cool! Especially 
 if they don't give you achievements. One thing that I have to mention is that after a while of 
 playing my vision is screwed up. I literally get tunnel vision. If I look at the screen, everything 
 is moving and it makes me kind of ill. I guess it's from watching the motion of the fret board 
 on the screen.
  
  Regardless of everything, this is an awesome game. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooladden
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Since the dawn of mankind people have been playing instuments . From the acient mians with their 
 bongos to the future of techno gino beats . Now we have a plastic guitar's and this is the KING 
 of all music games ! For all those people who think this game is to hard thier so wrong. The game 
 a an amazing traning syteam that will train you from smelly geek chic magnet . The gameplay is 
 top knoch and has so much replay value . You start on easy beat it , go to medium more challenge 
 , beat it , go to hard skill level rising , beat it , expert TOTAL AMAZING ESSENTIAL BLAST OF FUN! 
 This is also THEE most addictice non online game ever created since halo for xbox. The graphic's 
 are rely good but your not paying attention to that , only the serious frets coming up! This is 
 a must buy for anyone and even tho the price tag may be 100$ it will be the best 100$ you'll EVER 
 SPEND!!!!!!!!! P. S DONT PLAY yes we can WORST SONG EVER!!!! ROCK ON!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbobalue
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero series is a fun one but 2 is harder compared to the first one. Its just as fun 
 but as you get farther into the game on hard and expert the last few sets just gets to damn hard. 
 Its a fun game still just harder. Some other complaints i've had are sometimes the whammy bar is 
 unresponsive. Another complaint i have is how you cant play on-line. The game is awesome looking 
 compared to the ps2 version. Also comparing yourself to the other people on the leader boards shows 
 how much you suck at the game. Multiplayer is awesome except how come on pro face-off you cant 
 both play different difficulties, I mean if you are both playing shouldn't the novice be able to 
 play with you without having to switch off between parts. Since im sure you guys are tiered of 
 reading my complaints i'll stop now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI3HARDGAM3R
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  As I have never played Guitar before, I am extremely impressed with this game. I am only 12 years 
 old so I can only play at easy difficulty since my hands are pretty small. The guitar that comes 
 in the bundle is decent although not wireless like everyone would have liked. It still has a nice 
 design and feel to it. For graphics, I barely ever pay attention to them. I am so into the game 
 and addicted to it that I rarely ever bother to look. For the times I have noticed, the characters 
 could've used a lttle more work, but still okay. The tracks in the game are great, but none of 
 them have been released recently. They are still classics that I enjoy. I really thought there 
 was going to be online play added to the game, but no there isn't. If you have 2 guitars, you can 
 do co-op. I am an only child so I don't need an extra guitar. There are plenty of tracks in the 
 single player to keep you busy. All the tracks in the single player, to me, have made up for there 
 not being Xbox Live play. Also, there are downloadable tracks from the marketplace and new ones 
 are added on a monthly basis according to Red Octane. The 3 track packs out now come with 3 tracks 
 per pack and cost 500 MS pts. ($6.25) Slightly expensive, but I downloaded them all and they can 
 be payed in career, quickly play, and co-op. For $80, you should not miss this hit for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The same Guitar Hero formula we've come to love is present in the sequel. There are basically 
 rhythym-based notes that come down progressively as the song advances, and you hit the corresponding 
 note color with the same colored fret; seem easy? Ya, right. Anyway as you hit star-notes, the 
 same notes but with stars etched around them, you build up your meter and can eventually use starpower 
 which enhances not only your score and combo meter twice-fold, but also maximizes the crowd rock-o-meter 
 and helps you stay alive in the harder songs. The advanced techniques consists of hammer-ons and 
 pull-offs, which are basically playing the frets but not strumming unneccessarilly, and works for 
 the most part but you really feel like you want to strum and it's hard to get it out of your head. 
 As you advance along the tiers of notes, they get harder and harder, but then you get better and 
 better; it's addicting trying to go back and completely demolish what you could barely pass a few 
 days ago. Anyway, that's the basic premise, until you finish all the songs and then move on to 
 the next difficulty.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty great to look at, they didn't really build on the 360's strengths, 
 but hey, you're barely looking at the crowd or your rockstar, it's all about the pretty-lookin' 
 notes.
  
  Sound: The best part of the game, going hand-in-hand with gameplay. The songs are all well-done 
 imitations and sound great on your TV. Value: With over 70 songs, exclusive Xbox 360 songs, and 
 downloadable content with even more songs, then there's 4 difficulties, a max rating of 5 stars, 
 leaderboards, unlockable guitarists, costumes, more songs, videos, guitars, finishes, and a whole 
 lot more. Very high replay value, it really does make the $90 for the combo worth it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: A great game that I'm still playing 2 months after it's been released on the 360, 
 I mean seriously, I get tired of games fast because they are so easy to get down pat and then go 
 through it like nothing. This game constantly challenges you, and while it sometimes angers you, 
 you get so much satisfaction from 5-starring all the songs on a particular difficulty, or beating 
 a song you couldn't before.
  
  Final Word: A must buy if you have the cash. If doesn't matter if you're new to the series or an 
 existing fan, this game has plenty of love to spread around to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrnothington
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The Idea for guitar Hero is a simple one but it works really well. Guitar hero 2 is better then 
 the first one. Its harder it has more songs and this one has a better song choice. The game ranges 
 from easy to hard. Like the song Jordan. On hard difficulty its not hard but on expert it is alot 
 harder then freebird. The game has never had to good of graphics but they are ok. In a game like 
 this no one really cares that much about them because you are busy trying to play the songs so 
 you usually dont look at the background. The song selection is alot with songs like Killing in 
 the name, Beast and the Harlot, Soy bomb, Jessica, freebird and the list will keep going for great 
 songs. You should go out and buy this game now if you dont own it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  when it first came out for the ps2 i heard it got great reviews with me not having a ps2 i didn't 
 get a chance to play it. Then it came on the 360 so i bought it.
  
  if you don't have it or played on it and considering buying it go for it you will have much enjoyment 
 out of this game.
  
  the songs could of had a better selection but when your playing it you really don't mind that much 
 because your are getting involved in that song so it is way more fun but some of the songs are 
 really annoying. with the downland content of the songs i was disappointed that it was in packs 
 of three it should of been singular songs for about 80 ms points i wouldn't mind paying that but 
 500 ms points for three songs and i only like one out of the three whats the point?
  
  the x-plorer guitar controller is much better looking than the ps2 version it dose look a bit fisher 
 pricey but it is sturdy and the rj11 port for the effects pedal sounds interesting to me just hope 
 they bring it out before gh3.
  
  the level differences are ok the easy one is very easy medium is still quite easy but it starts 
 to get you fingers moving hard is well hard god dam it some of the songs seem impossible you really 
 have to play it a few good hours to get really quick and im not talking about 1 or 2 about 5 - 
 10 and then you might be able to get half way through hard expert the first 5 songs are ok but 
 then it justs goes crazy don't play expert until you are one at this game trust me
  
  overall amazing gameplay worth the buy but if your not in to some sort of rock music then don't 
 bother thats to you people who listen to dance music (which is terrible) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molinaps3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 (gh2) is such a great game and smart game as well. This game has great music from 
 the 70's, 80's and now. Whats i like about this game is that you have great multiplayer (and train 
 for a song that your stuck on [mainly for hard and expert except if your really good at it and 
 your a guitaris player) ] A must get game if you dont feel like playing the usally passing a football 
 or shooting some enemy troops or aliens. So get out there and buy Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 
 and the Playstation 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vimmz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, definitely worth every euro/dollar of it's rather high price !
  
  I didn't have Guitar Hero I though, so I can understand if some people say it's already been done.
 
  
  It was a hard laydown paying 80 euro's for this package, but I haven't regretted it since. The 
 tutorials are very good and totally in the style of the game. I like the different difficulty settings. 
 Anyhow, fun for everyone (except the girlfriends, you should get them a tv, a psx and singstar)
 
  
  Would like to see some more downloadable songs for a more reasonable price on Live, and it's too 
 bad there aren't much punk songs in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefrank86
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  This game can really make you feel like a Guitar God... but sometimes sucks when you finish and 
 realize... YOUR NOT!!!!!
  
  Really fun with a friend who is good at a real guitar, but you can really hand it to him where 
 is DOESN'T count.
  
  A great sellection of songs, let's all hope they continue to come out with good ones, while not 
 making us buy new games... marketing can be really lame like that.
  
  My only complaint is that some of the songs (maybe most) don't have the original singers... and 
 with bands you really like, it doesn't sound right and can kind of ruin it for you...
  
  -Tank- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjake2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  My god this is an amazing and fun game to play. I was blown away to see how much more came in the 
 360 edition. First of all there is alot more songs. But the best part is ITS HD BABY!!. So you 
 can hook it up to your 60 inch plasma and your 500watts sound system and rock on.
  
  The game is very well balance. Easy setting is easy hehe. Medium gets more fun and in fact is pleasant 
 to play. I would even add to pleasant since after a while medium because easy but is much more 
 fun to play then at easy. So you tend to want to stay at medium for a while like i did till you 
 get 5 stars on every song. Then you jump to Hard. Now the leep is big. There is a big difference 
 between hard and medium. Hard is infact very hard at first. But once you get the touch with hammer 
 ons and pull offs then Hard becomes medium after a while. A long while.
  
  Now the song that lets you know your able to jump to the next level is usually Freebird. Well infact 
 at medium i nailed freebird at 230k the first time i played it. I now do roughly 370k at medium 
 on freebird. But Freebird at hard is insane. If I do 200k im happy. But I suggest moving to expert 
 when u can hit 5 stars at freebird hehe. Cause expert is spicy my friend.
  
  You gonna go nuts if you jump in expert not ready. Take your time and nail it good.
  
  This 
 is the best game I ever owned for entertaining people. Nothing beats this game to turn a boring 
 friend over into a home rock concert. People just cant get tired of it since it so fun. And more 
 you rock, more it feels good.
  
  I give this baby all my thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first Guitar Hero but the Second one made me crazy. It is mainly good on this console 
 account of the downloadable content. The graphics are in the middle depending if you have HD TV. 
 But the sound and gameplay are terrific. There were so many songs I loved on this one and not like 
 the first where some songs you never even heard of. The game should take you a while and the achievements 
 are fun to earn. Also there are new costumes for your charecters not like the other where you had 
 to live with the crappy outfits you wore. Overall Guitar Hero gets a 9.7 out of 10 and definitely 
 worth buying. Music fans don't think about the price because this game will be to your liking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 on the Xbox 360 is just as great of a game as it was on the Playstation 2. To those 
 of you who have played either GH1 or 2 on PS2, you will feel right at home with this version. The 
 only real problem with the game is the guitar control which is overly sensitive when it comes to 
 star power and that its really hard to activate star power using the back button.
  Other than that this game is really great. The gameplay, like i said is identical to previous games. 
 Something very nice about the 360 version is the upgraded HD graphics. This game looks amazing 
 in HD. The song selection is also top notch. Though the songs aren't quite as good as in the first 
 game (the fourth group with the exception of sweet child of mine is pretty crappy) the extra 360 
 songs are really, really good. Another good thing about this game just like the others is that 
 once you get into it and get the hang of it, you'll find it near impossible to stop playing. Its 
 definitely worth the steep $90 price tag and will last you a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PspSquad
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  With some improvements and stuff, Guitar Hero II on the 360 is a KILLER! The use of the whammy 
 bar is just amazing! You just add your own touch to the song. Make it your own. It has some new 
 songs that the first version on the PS2. It is developed by Harmonix Music and published by RedOctane. 
 They both sound so ROCKING! I love the new X-Plore guitar they have. I guess it is designed by 
 the look of the Gibson guitar and brang to video game life in Guitar Hero. Guitar Hero just keeps 
 on doing it. They are the bomb! I gave gameplay a 10 because it is like no other. Graphics a 10 
 because it is the best looking Guitar Hero ever!! Sound a 10 because it has some rocking sounds! 
 Value a 9 because it is like the PS2 version but, just better! The reviewer's tilt 9 because... 
 idk. You could test it out in a lot of places. They have a demo version. I could tell you where 
 when you PM me. I----- Might ----- replay. Ok, so keep on rocking!
  
  &gt;__ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Good: Fun game. I like being able to go to party's and actually see this game there. its pretty 
 fun game. You play the guitar, whats not fun about that? I like almost every single song in the 
 game. Some get annoying but thats fine. I like being challenged and having to get better at a game 
 and this is that. It tests your hand eye coordination as well. I recommend this game to guitar 
 players. The leaderboard is very nice for the game. See how good you are at it. This is one of 
 the games you get on and just play it for a little bit and then go do something else. Bad: Not 
 enough songs! Some of the songs are boring but thats okay. Thats why you can skip them! My Rating
 
  9.3
  
  Gamespot's Rating
  8.9
  
  You peoples Rating
  9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTac8745
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Although the game is pretty much a port of the original PS2 version of Guitar Hero 2 with a new 
 paint job on the graphic side, the extras included is what makes this game one of the best one.
 
  
  These are what the difference is from the PS2 to X360 version.
  
  1. The new Xplorer controller - gone is the old GH2 Gibson SG controller - the Xplorer guitar includes 
 all the buttons that are found on the X360 controller (such as the D-pad, Xbox guide button, back, 
 start and even the headset port and an extra port that may see extensions peripherals in the future) 
 and improves on some of the features such as the fret placement. However one the main issue is 
 the how the shoulder strap is attached to the guitar, its no longer on the sides of the guitar 
 but behind it so it makes it at times uncomfortable to play. Another issues is the release of some 
 dodgy guitars that do not have a proper working whammy bar, however Activision has been working 
 hard to get this problem fixed.
  
  2. The extra songs - apparently its 8 cover songs and 2 songs for the bonus section. However the 
 songs are still cool to play (my particular favorite I must admit is Dead! from My Chemical Romance) 
 which are from artists such as Pearl Jam, MCR, and Iron Maiden.
  
  3. Leaderboards - not much to say, but leaderboards was a feature that should have been added in 
 the PS2 version, nevertheless the leaderboards in GH2 for the X360 are great - the ability to see 
 how you rank among your friends or even people against the world acts as an encourage to keep practicing 
 and playing.
  
  4. Downloadable content - at this time, some song packs have already been added onto the Xbox marketplace. 
 Activision and Microsoft are currently releasing parts of the song list from GH1. The main problem 
 is that the pricing is too high for only 3-4 songs and if you were to buy the complete song list 
 from GH1, it would far exceed the RRP for buying GH1 for the PS2, but getting extras is always 
 welcomed, hopefully a feature to add your own songs will be included.
  
  Overall, GH2 for the Xbox360 is a great addition to the GH universe. Although if you already own 
 the PS2 version of the game, there isn't a lot of reasons to get it for the X360 (as you will need 
 to pay for the game and a new guitar controller) . However if you have a X360, this is definitely 
 a game that should be part of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is simple. Take a nice set of rock songs, make a game, add a guitar controller, and watch 
 your time fly bye! The game is so easy to pick up and play..... on easy. I really had a blast with 
 this game and still am. On easy the game is made to be easy. When you master that you can try a 
 harder difficulty. By the time you get to expert........ well, even hard, its time to step up to 
 the plate. The game is so addictive. For some reason I want a 5 star rating on every song (and thiers 
 over 80 songs, plus down loadable content) . I dont know why, but it feels rewarding to accomplish 
 something that you felt wasnt when you first started to play. The only down side is the game is 
 kinda costly with the controller. And if you want 2 guitars (which is where the fun is!) youll 
 have to fork over even more cash! The graphics are not that great, but not bad as well. Honestly 
 I never really notice the graphics and those who do....... well lets just say thats why Im the champ 
 at my kingdom! This game is worth the cash. Stop reading this review and go get yourself guitar 
 hero 2.... your waisting precious time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tindalos69
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is awesome and very addictive. When you first put this game in your xbox you know that 
 you are playing something great. Guitar Hero has a great mix of hard rock, classic rock and metal 
 with a total of 74 tracks to play and unlock. The characters are energetic and the game play is 
 dead on. Play co-op with you friends or compete against them.. The achievements are some of the 
 most challenging I have ever seen. It is one of the best games I have ever played. If you havent 
 bought this game yet go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasagna435
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  1. Gameplay - 9
  It's innovative. It's interesting. It's amazing. It works flawlessly except for one part... To 
 activate star power you have to tilt the controller vertically, this can sometimes mess you up. 
 Of course you can also press the back button, easier right? Wrong. The buttons are placed in an 
 indented space making a hassle to press.
  
  2. Graphics - 8
  The graphics are nice although they have a strange cartoonish feel to them. The lighting and shading 
 works perfectly, it would of gotten' a 10 if it weren't for one thing... You rarely look at your 
 character when your playing.
  
  3. Sound - 10
  Pleanty of great songs will rock you til' the clock stops and ya' drop. Enough said.
  
  4. 
 Value - 8
  Expensive! This game costs near 100$ however the game is well worth the money... Really.
  
 
  5. Tilt - 10
  The camera angle is perfect. The game has the notes set more like Star Wars intro text then a vertical 
 column like on DDR. Another thing is the camera angles on your character makes the feel so great.
 
  
  Overall - 9.1
  The game is great. Great music. Great Gameplay. Semi-Great Graphics. Great Value. Great Tilt. Once 
 and for all... GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterbones
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: It's challenging, fun, and you get to listen to good music! Guitar Hero II has the longest 
 lasting fun compared to any other game I have ever played. Even though some parts of some songs 
 are just insanely impossible to play, it's fun to try to actually play them. Along the the Career 
 and Quick Play modes, there are three different multiplayer modes, which are fun if you have two 
 guitars.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Guitar Hero II are easy on the eyes, and they look really cool as a background. 
 They aren't really amazing, but they look really nice. What I think is the coolest part of the 
 background is that if you watch the guitarists playing, their hands and fingers move on the neck 
 of the guitar realistically, which is a nice touch.
  
  SOUND: Most of the songs you can play in Guitar Hero II are cool, but some of them are just plain 
 stupid. The developers did an excellent job syncing the notes you play to the music itself, though. 
 Overall, the sound is excellent.
  
  VALUE: Like I said, Guitar Hero II is the longest-lasting game out there, so it's worth the $90. 
 If you have a 360 and an extra $90, go pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicBlade_X
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibally fun. However, it can be hard to get used to the last fret. The songs 
 are pretty good, but I personally would like more metal and NO more My Chemical Romance. I hate 
 the singer with a passion. The game is fun and suprizingly doesnt get repetitive. I always seem 
 to go back and replaying the old songs. Getting used to Hard mode was very very hard for me to 
 get used to. Another good thing is the guitar will work on the future Guitar Hero games for the 
 360 and that will save you money. I recommend this game to everyone that likes rock music, an to 
 people that dont like rock music, GET SOME TASTE IN MUSIC!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is still really good even though it is the same basic thing as the guitar hero 2 game 
 for the ps2. This gives people that dont own a playstation 2 the chance to experience the greatness 
 of the game. The fact that this shows the top scores from people with Xbox Live around the globe 
 makes this game more addicting. Although i must admit that since there is only 10 new songs there 
 is really nothing new to this. But the guitar is different than the one that comes for the playstation 
 2's system. Plus the graphics are a little bit better. I would recommend this game for anyone that 
 enjoys a challenge or that likes guitar hero. Also i would recommend this for people that like 
 music. This game has a lot of great songs on it. Well that is all for this game the review for 
 the Ps2 one covers everything else that i missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I will start off by saying that Guitar Hero II is one of the funnest games I ever played. 
 The gameplay is the reason why. Notes scroll down the screen, you have to hold down the fret it 
 shows, and strum when it passes through a certain point towards the bottom of the screen. The catch 
 is, it makes you feel like your playing the song. The difficulties are good, because I never thought 
 I'd be good at hard, and I practiced and beat it, and still currently working on Expert. The better 
 you get, the more fun it gets. Special things like chords, hammer ups and pull downs, and even 
 cooperative play make this game's replay value through the roof. Gameplay = 9 / 10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty good. Nothing outstanding, but nothing bad about 
 them. The characters on stage look good, and the fret board runs real smoothly. The crowds don't 
 have much detail, but you never really pay attention to them anyway, since you never really look 
 away from the fret board. Graphics = 8 / 10.
  
  Sound: If you have good taste in music, your gonna love the soundtrack. Features many classic rock 
 songs, along with a few new tracks. The soundtrack basically makes the game. The only bad thing 
 about the soundtrack is that a lot of the songs are covers, not the original song. It's not a big 
 deal, barley noticeable, especially Danzig's monkey yelling in Mother . Sound = 9 / 10.
  
  Value: There has only been 2 Guitar Hero games, and both are great. This franchise's value can 
 only go up from here. Value: 8 / 10.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I had and am still having a lot of fun with this game, and since I got it, has 
 not left my most recently played games on my Gamercard. Reviewer's Tilt: 10 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedEon
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is an extremely addictive game. It has over 40 songs to play and jam to. It is a 
 great party game, and has downloadable songs over Xbox Live. All in all this title is one EVERY 
 Xbox 360 owner should have. You will start playing, and wake up out of a trance about five hours 
 later when playing. You can pick it up, play a song, and still feel accomplished, this isn't a 
 game where you need to play at least two hours worth to get into, you'll love it from the very 
 first song. So if you are on the border about this game, go out and buy it right now, it's a GREAT 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Guitar Hero 2 is a great rhythm game featuring tons of classic rock songs. On the Easy 
 mode one can just leisurely play all of the 35 songs, but Normal, Hard and Expert modes are really 
 where the fun is at, as you can gain cash from successful gigs to buy new songs, guitars, finishes, 
 characters and costumes. The amount of songs available for purchase kicks up the replay value by 
 a lot, but there are also even more songs available for purchase on the Xbox Live Marketplace (for 
 actual cash.) The graphics are pretty good, the models, lighting and animation are nice, but the 
 stages could definitely use some work. The sound is, of course, awesome, except for the fact that 
 a few songs aren't very good. Overall, Guitar Hero 2 is worth the money because of the awesome 
 replay value, great music and a cool peripheral that can be used with rhythm games to come (like 
 GH3 or Rock Band.)
  
  The Good: Some great songs, awesome replay value, overall good rhythm-based gameplay
  The Bad: 
 A few not so great songs, graphics could use some work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endresult
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  One of the more addictive non-rpg based games I have laid my hands on to date. This game has become 
 an addiction for my fiance who doesn't even play games. This game convinced one of my good friends 
 to purchase a 360 just so he could own this game... that speaks for itself... amazingly fun, highly 
 addictive.. it just plain rocks. Grab your X-Plorer, Turn on the 360.. and make sure the Rock is 
 at full volume! Be prepared to melt faces! The music selection in this game varies from 80's to 
 new rock/metal. Downloadable Content allows more songs to choose from, and more just keep coming. 
 The ability to purchase more songs to play with in game money you make from gigs, and 4 difficulty 
 levels ranging from Easy (only 3 buttons used) , to Medium (4 buttons used) , to Hard (5 buttons 
 used, with more notes in the songs) , and finally to Expert (all 5 buttons used, notes come at you 
 faster, and you play every note in the songs) . Great achievements available from the novice player 
 to the experienced.. you will NOT be disappointed.. this game is a MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattman012691
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero 2 is amazing. With many new songs that the PS2 version does 
 not have, this game will give you many extra playing hours. The graphics are also improved, unfortunately, 
 you are too busy rocking to be able to notice anything major. There are also quite a few new characters 
 in the game. They add a nice new feel to it. The game play is amazing. It makes you feel like you 
 are actually in a rock band. The guitar controller is an amazing touch which makes you feel like 
 you are actually good at something worthwhile. This game is a definite pick-up. If you don't have 
 it already, go to your nearest store and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfme70
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  5 buttons. 1 strum bar. 9 minutes. FREE BIRD! RedOctane brings us Guitar Hero 2, sequel to mega-hit 
 Guitar Hero. Guitar Hero 2 was released on the PS2 way back when, but now it has graciously been 
 brought to the Xbox 360, and thank God it did. The Guitar Hero franchise is a revolutionary new 
 experience in which you have a gaming guitar controller, and you basically make with the ROCK! 
 The guitar design is nifty, taking the shape of the Gibson Xplorer. The guitar has 5 colored fret 
 buttons that you treat like strings. As notes come down from the top of the screen in a DDR fashion, 
 you simply press in the matching colored fret button and strum, using the strum bar. Easy, right? 
 One thing that is important to know about Guitar Hero, it takes no prisoners. It is ruthless and 
 cunning and can make even the bravest man tremble. The new sequel boasts ten new songs, with a 
 grand total of 70 playable songs. With the addition of Xbox Live Marketplace, your stockpile of 
 playable songs can increase still. Price......90 dollars. If you like music, you should think about 
 Guitar Hero 2. If you love music, you should save up the cash. If you like rock, this is a must 
 rent. If you love rock, buy it! If you ROCK!, then you get it, you get it now!. RIGHT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoeGreen07
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game rules so much that i've contemplated handing in all my other games, because I hardly 
 play them anymore.
  
  The soundtrack is good but there are some real gems in there such as Free Bird by Lynyrd Skynyrd, 
 Killing In The Name Of by Rage Against The Machine, and, my personal favourite, Hangar 18 by Megadeth.
 
  
  Another thing I love about the game is the excellent Co-Op play in which one player does the Lead, 
 and the other does either Rhythm or Bass.
  This is very cool, but, be warned it may cause you to have arguements over who wants to play the 
 guitar solos in Free Bird, and also is one player misses a note when trying for the ' Page &amp; 
 Plant Award' (100% notes hit in Co-Operative Play)
  
  Another good addition to this game is the Practice Mode, which you wouldn't really think of using, 
 but, trust me, you will need this a lot when trying to 5* all songs on Hard and Expert, and also 
 whrn trying to beat Jordan on Expert.
  
  Overall, this game is worth all the money you'll pay for it, because you won't stop playing until 
 you've got as many achievements as you can, and until you crack Guitar Solo i on Free Bird on Expert. 
 ( You'll see what I mean when you buy the game) ......
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  guitar hero 2 for the 360 is one amazing game and one not to be missed
  
  gameplay 8
  this becouse the gmeplay is simple and easy to learn, should take you no longer than an hour maximum 
 to learn
  
  graphics 7
  they could have tweaked them a bit more but they still look way better than the ps2 version
  
 
  sound 10
  guitar hero 2 has some great songs and also allows you to download more!!!
  
  value 9
  its a lot of money and if you dont enjoy it you will be sooo annoyed, also theres 
 a problem with some whammy bars, which is soo annoying, however this is a game you can come back 
 to whenever
  
  reviewers tilt 9
  its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRedStrike
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Simply awesome. Many of my friends like this game, too. It is so addictive, since it's such a great 
 game. Even if it's not the kind of game that you walk around in and interact with things, it's 
 still cool. It is very easy to learn. 4 different difficulties make it easier to progress through 
 the game without having to play extremely hard songs early. Multiplayer is great, too! I recommended 
 this game to my friends, and some are planning on buying it! This game makes you feel like a real 
 rockstar! Guitar Hero II is a must get! It was worth every cent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benscottiv
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Rockin Like Dokken never could. Now I know sharing entertaining tales and appreciating the positive 
 aspects of your friends is probably why you hang out with them. But nothing compares to dominating 
 another garage band wanna be in front of everybody. Guitar Hero II does just that. Tracks from 
 different genres and era's keep it interesting, maybe dad can beat you with Freebird. Doubt It. 
 Cover your axe with stickers, decorate, whatever. You have to play with others too just to be able 
 to watch the graphics. I won't ruin anything but some track can be out of this world:. Add to that 
 collecting differant guitars, and finishes. Outfits for your differant characters. Plus you can 
 download tracks with XBOX live. In closing, Nothing beats playing Freebird with the reaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AddyPew
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Anyone from ages 5-95 will play this game and love it! The possibilities are endless with the multiple 
 difficulty settings and downloadable content. As crazy as it sounds, you really do feel like a 
 rock star when you have to deploy your Star Power ...... which consists of doing your best Eddie 
 Van Halen impersonation and throwing your guitar in the air for extra points. In order to advance 
 and unlock new songs, you must please the crowd enough to leave them begging for more. Knowing 
 that while playing gives you the drive to keep getting better. Leader boards are a great feature 
 as well. It's amusing how enjoyable a phone call can be when you're calling to tell a friend you 
 just shattered his Free Bird score. Why are you reading this? Go buy it and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowassasain
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Guitar Hero on the PS2, I was blown away with how simple and fun it was. Then 
 I played Guitar Hero II at JB HI-FI, better soundtrack, better visuals, better everything. I was 
 just sad because I never had a PS2, and I never really got around to owning one. Then I was on 
 gametrailers. com and I found out that GH2 is coming to the 360! The best thing was, I had a 360!!!
 
  
  Guitar Hero II is the best music game ever made, forget Singstar, forget Dance Dance Revolution, 
 forget Parrapa the Rapper (that game is still cool) because this is the game. I bought it Day of 
 release from JB and it has been a non stop rock n roll ride ever since. The 360 version has over 
 70 tracks with downloadable content coming every month. Some of my favourite tracks are FreeBird 
 - Lynyrd Skynyrd, YYZ - Rush, Life Wasted - Pearl Jam, well, actually... every single song is awesome. 
 You probably haven't heard of all 70 songs, but they are all awesome, and you will learn them, 
 and learn to love them.
  
  The only bad thing is that they dnt't have the origional Track recordings. They have covers. Some 
 of the songs are origional, like Primus (eeeeeeewww, Primus!) but this doesn't really effect the 
 game at all, because when I play, I am too busy rocking out to even think about who is singing. 
 Rede Octane, you have become one of my favourite game developers now, right next to Epic Studios 
 (Gears of War, Unreal Tornament) and Bungie (Halo... of coarse) .
  
  If you have played Guitar Hero II for the PS2, you will know what you're in for, unlock tunes, 
 play the tunes, buy things with gig money ect... but if HD quality, better graphics and downloadable 
 songs and themes are your thing, then you have found a new god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjcubfan7
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Its Cool how interiative it is and I wish it had a little better music but i still liked it. The 
 unlock ables that u can unlock like guiters finshes songs charters and more i love this game but 
 i thinl\ it sould be a liittle cheaper
  and have better music like AC DC and more Thats why the game is amazing
  
  SDObj; jorebld vfbjnknfk; bnbk; f 
 fl; bnd; bnkl b; fdnfl fln ln fd, bdf. fdlmnfd ,fb. f dbk nfd b fbkkf f fk bnbf nfdkl nfbdf njklf 
 b fnkb nafdk bfkn afkl bfak nk affdk fdb fbdk fbk; fbdd fb kb fk bk fbnak fb kfbk fb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Let me start off with saying this game rocks. I have both the guitar heros for the ps2. But once 
 I saw Guitar Hero 2 for the 360 I had to get it. First off this game has so many fun songs to play 
 and a lot of the new songs are awesome. This game has improved so much over the ps2 version. Even 
 though I dont really pay attention to the graphics on this game. They have reallly improved. The 
 Character models are very nice. And I love the fact that you can see your high scores on a leaderboard. 
 Head to Head action on Xbox Live would have been nice to add something more to a flawless game. 
 I like that they have downloadable content even though I havent downloaded anything. Because The 
 Price for three songs is kinda high and they're just songs that you can play on Guitar Hero 1. 
 The New X-plorer guitar is so cool it has a really nice design to it. But overall this song has 
 a good but not great tracklist, good graphics ,and the best gameplay in a party game ever. IF YOU 
 OWN A 360 YOU MUST BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murrayftw
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  For those of you looking for that game that will keep you hooked throughout the night, I think 
 we finally have something worthy of gaining a Heavy Metal Crazy Rock Award. The prior PS2-exclusive 
 Guitar Hero franchise has packed up its bags and gone on tour over to the XBox 360 and this is 
 quite some treat. If you have close to $90 to spend and a passion for rock music, then this game 
 is the perfect compilation for your XBox 360 collection. Adding on to the franchise in many ways, 
 this iteration of the game is one that people will stand up and play for some time.
  
  [== AUDIO ==]
  
  Being a fan of classic rock, there were a number of tracks that truly sunk 
 in and seemed perfect for the game. With over 70 total songs and more coming through downloadable 
 content, there will always be something fresh to play in this game. There are so many different 
 bands from unknown (The Butthole Surfers?) to rock-icon status (Guns N Roses, Lynyrd Skynyrd) there 
 was a large variety of music to play. All you need is a little Freebird to get you goin. Even 
 the weaker music stood out ( as you just couldnt wait to finish the song so that the pain would 
 stop, and you get one step closer to gaining an achievement.
  
  For those of you who have never touched a guitar in your life, have no fear. Becoming a true rocker 
 is as easy as entering the tutorial, where one of your fellow bandmates helps get you back into 
 the groove. Sure enough, the quick little tutorial teaches you everything you need to know to start 
 rockin. Basically after that, its up to you to put everything youve learned into performing 
 your best on stage.
  
  [== GRAPHICS ==]
  
  As a direct port of the Playstation 2 version, the game hasnt undergone much change other than 
 the fact that it is displayed in 720p if selected to accommodate the HDTV functions of the XBox 
 360. The game still looks sharp with limited jaggies on the straight fretboard constantly scrolling 
 on-screen. Along with the pyrotechnics in the background, the cartoony look of the characters complement 
 the over -the-top style of play by the rockers and constant special effects shown on screen. Combine 
 this with the style of the menus, which feature scribbled notes on a piece of paper for the song 
 list, and you have some original and nostalgic atmosphere created.
  
  Not only do you select the appearance of your character in-game, but also your choice of guitar 
 to play. The guitars range from the double neck Gibson EDS-1275 to the classic and ultra sexy Gibson 
 Les Paul Sunburst. If you are a guitar lover, this is the perfect place as there are over 25 different 
 guitar and bass to choose from, along with multiple finishes for most of them. Different venues 
 during the career mode add more vibe to the songs you play, as the Vans Warped Tour provides some 
 pop-rock to play and motocross daredevils jumping over you as you play. At the earlier school auditorium, 
 the scoreboard is hanging low and the entire place looks rather drab and boring. Hey, youve gotta 
 start somewhere.
  
  [== GAMEPLAY ==]
  
  Well you wont be using your XBox 360 controller for this game, you will always be using the Gibson 
 X-Plorer Guitar Hero controller bundled with the game. Featuring a strummer (like the strings) , 
 five colored buttons on the neck (the frets) , a whammy bar (for those Hendrix moments) , and the 
 standard d-pad and XBox guide button, you have everything you need to rock out. Upon the time of 
 release, Red Octane has understood statements that the whammy bar for many models were defective, 
 and have offered returns for newer models on the guitar should you have a problem. Luckily, I had 
 a functioning whammy bar that kept me rockin.
  
  The frets are as responsive as the person playing with the colors ranging from Green, Red, Yellow, 
 Blue, Orange. This was basically done to distinguish between the notes you need to play. The game 
 looks really simple on screen but it takes practice with the guitar to really get going on some 
 harder songs. By the time you get to Hard mode, you will be pulling hammer ons, pull offs, arpeggios 
 (up and down the fret board rapidly, sounds nice) , and many other techniques that you can think 
 of (sorry rockers, no tapping) . Star power is a feature that few people have seen before, and it 
 involved tilting your guitar straight up at a certain point to jack up your multiplier. With more 
 notes hit consecutively, your multiplier increases to give you more points. Executing it perfectly 
 will give you the ideal number of points, as after a short amount of time your power fades.
  
  [== FUN FACTOR ==]
  
  So I had just started playing the game for the first time the day 
 of release, and for three days straight that was the only thing on my mind. I would eat, sleep, 
 breathe Guitar Hero 2. The game gets very addicting after a bit of time learning how to play, but 
 in a good way. It was in a way that I wanted to play not only to get better, but because I enjoyed 
 playing the songs and completing everything. For a party game, it is even better as there are cooperative 
 and competitive modes of play. When you play a song together, the two people will select to play 
 Bass, Rhythm Guitar, or Lead Guitar depending on the song chosen. When it starts up, it is up to 
 both people to get the song going because they share the multiplier, points, and star power. The 
 fun is trying to hit star power together, as in the middle of play both players need to tilt their 
 guitars straight up at the same time. Tricky? Yes, but fun.
  
  The competitive modes are Face-Off and Pro Face-Off. Face-Off basically being a 1v1 guitar showdown, 
 each person has different licks to perform and they must stay on top of their game to take the 
 other person out. Sharing solos, this game mode becomes fierce as both try to outplay each other 
 to the end, seeing who places on top. Pro Face-Off involves both players playing the song at the 
 same time, with each of them being a different backtrack. Not as interesting as the Face-Off mode 
 I believe, because in Face-Off when it is your turn you can truly shove that guitar in your opponents 
 face and rock out.
  
  [== OVERALL ==]
  
  If you are a fan of party games, or just want something different and undone, pick this game up 
 NOW! Combining the best of all worlds, from audio to controls to ingenuity, you cant go wrong. 
 If you want, come on down to The Next Level and challenge me to a duel or check out the game for 
 yourself. Come on, dont be scared. I promise I wont rock you TOO hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CK_1993
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  If you like hard games or you like guitar you have to get this game i waited so long but it was 
 worth the wait. even if you are not really into guitars this game is soo much fun. on easy and 
 medium its a bit bad but on hard and expert this is sick. the new songs that they added to the 
 360 version are great and its cool that you can download new songs on the Internet. if your not 
 planning to get the guitar with it don't even buy it. its not as fun without the guitar. so gamers 
 you have to get this game its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Come on, what is there to say about this game? The originality of it screams at least a try. I've 
 seen so many people pass up the demo in public because they are afraid to be embarrassed by the 
 game. Some people may not be able to play this game, at least on certain levels, but the game itself 
 almost demands at least some kind of effort to see if you like it. It's supposed to be a fun game, 
 one that you and others can enjoy, whether they are waiting for their turn to play at your house, 
 or watching you play the demo in public. I can guarantee you people aren't judging your performance 
 because only someone who has mastered the game on all levels needs to even think about doing that, 
 and if you've mastered this game at for some reason are still watching beginners play and critquing 
 them as poor, you need to get a life. Overall this is meant to be a fun game, for multiple people. 
 Fun to play, fun to watch. Don't be embarrassed, not many people pick the game up for the first 
 time and are really good at it. (People who play real guitars not included, go play a real song 
 on a real guitar...) So at least try it, you might actually find yourself accidentally smiling 
 while you play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LambOfGod666
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 17, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  one of the best games out there in my opinion! guitar hero 2 is amazing. the songs in the game 
 are way better than the original guitar hero game. the characters are also better! guitar hero 
 2 is also an awesome party game to have around. i mean whats better than destroying all of your 
 friends in a head to head guitar battle? ill tell you what, nothing! theres no other game where 
 i have done more thrash talking than on guitar hero. plus in you get really good at the game you 
 can rub it in even more when you play the guitar behind your back or something. overall i love 
 this game, this game is so amazing. a must buy no matter what!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Razer
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I got this game by pre order from Red Octane. It arrived with a nice gig bag :) Since the day I 
 have started playing this excellent game I can't seem to get enough. Graphics and sound is up to 
 the 360's specs that make this an even better game than it was on the Ps2 version. New songs that 
 are exclusive to the 360 and downloadable songs via the marketplace will keep you rocking from 
 the day you buy the game until your arms fall off. The guitar structure is very sturdy and comfortable 
 to play. I however am sad that the wireless controller was not released but you do have more than 
 enough wire to get around while playing. With more songs to be released via market place and the 
 possibility to play this game all day long just enjoying the entertaining package in every way 
 possible you wont regret buying this game. I am ordering a second controller to play with my wife 
 as she also enjoys rocking out too. Go out and get it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayze78
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The first time I experienced Guitar Hero was on the PS2, and that was the first one. I have been 
 playing real guitar off and on as a hobby for 13 years. At first, I was mad because I couldnt play 
 it on Easy. This is because real guitar players actually play every note, so its kind of weird 
 to play without actually hitting all the notes. I was actually doing better on the harder levels. 
 
  
  But anyway, this game is good whether you play guitar or not. For the hardcore players, the expert 
 level will keep you busy for hours on end while trying to master, or even complete a song. Casual 
 gamers should have no problem on the easy level. Its a good game for a bunch of friends to get 
 together and play. Plus, if you have an additional guitar, you can do 2 player games; one person 
 on guitar, the other on bass. I havent actually tried that yet but its a good feature. You can 
 also play the bass lines in the songs under the training. 
  
  The songs are pretty cool. A lot of classic rock, new rock and metal and some alternative too. 
 Plus you can download extra songs from XBL which gives the game a lot of replay value. Plus, these 
 songs may open your mind and get a taste for a different genre (the best genre) of music. On the 
 downside, I dont really care much for the guitar. I wish they would have at least made the spaces 
 between the frets like that of a real guitar. I would hit so many more notes if they did it that 
 way. Its basically like a childrens guitar. The truth is, is that playing this game and a real 
 guitar are completely different. I thought I would blast through the songs on the hardest levels. 
 Its actually harder to play the game, especially with the odd spaced frets. I think real guitar 
 players might be at a disadvantage. So in a nutshell, if you are good at the guitar in real life, 
 it doesnt mean a thing in this game. Also, if you can nail every song on expert level, it wont 
 mean anything if you pick up a real guitar. But I think the game does help with finger coordination 
 and keeping in time if you really do want to play someday. 
  
  This is a very cool game, especially if you play an instrument and like this kind of music. Its 
 got some easy achievements as well. This game will keep you entertained and dare I say, make you 
 feel like you got your money's worth. 
  
  It is so aggravating doing reviews on here. I have spent 10 minutes just trying to get my paragraphs 
 to actually break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Rytham games are not normally my thing but when it came to this, I was hooked. The controller 
 is in th shape of a guitar and the frets are represented by orange, blue, yellow, red and green 
 buttons. As the colur appears on the bottom of the on-screen fretboard you must strum and hold 
 the corospounding button down. As the game diffuctly rises the more buttons you use e. g the hardest 
 uses all five. This makes for some fun and exciting gameplay. There is also multiplayer where you 
 can either go head to head or co-op, both are fun.
  Graphics: The graphics may not be ground breaking but they are sharp and colurful and fit well with 
 the game itself.
  Sound: The sound is brilliant! The song collection is excellent ranging from Nirvana to Lamb of 
 God. One bad point to the sound is why they didn't pick Eruption insted of You Really Got Me? Oh 
 and one more word..... Free Bird!
  Value: You may finish the game in a week. But there are five star ratings to earn and pleanty of 
 songs, clothes, characters, videos and guitars to buy from the store.
  Tilt: I do not not normally like rytham games but I like this one because the genre of music is 
 to my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheartssj1
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I never owned a Guitar Hero game before this, but I had played it. When I first caught wind that 
 it was being released on the 360 I knew I had to get it. The additional tracks, downloadable content, 
 and achievements really propel this game above all other installments in the series. It is wildly 
 addictive, even for newbs who pick it up for the first time. However, there are some aberrations 
 that add but a small blemish on this great game. First off, the controller would have been nice 
 if it had a wireless option, and some of the achievements are most likely never going to be touched 
 by 98% of the playing population. Also, the recently released downloadable tracks on XBL are a 
 tad pricey. All in all, the game is a must buy and makes a great party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hearnsey
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  how sucked into the game i got. first 2 songs i played i did so badly, but after the song i sat 
 back and was amazied at how much fun it was. the selection of songs is pretty good, some of the 
 songs are lesser known but whatever. Graphically its not going to blow you away but its nnot bad, 
 you'll be too into the game to even notice the people in the background flying all over the stage 
 doing their thing. being around 100 dollars, it does sound like a lot, but really when you think 
 about it, you paying for a controller and a game. games are usually like 50-60 dollars, controllers 
 (this being a very different controller) are around 30 or so, but whatever so its buying two things 
 in one. anyone and everyone should try this game, if not buy it then atleast at a friends, dont 
 miss out. my 14 year old grade 8 sister is addicted to it she sucks but whatever. amazing, jsut 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 owners everywhere are no longer the bane of their snooty Playstation-owning brothers; 
 Guitar Hero II is now available on 360, and its arguably the best its ever been. Adding in achievement 
 points and online leaderboards, its also the most functional. However, despite the extra bells 
 and whistles, its still the extensive (and expanded for this version) track list that does such 
 a great job of making the superb core gameplay stand out. On the 360, the aging graphics engine 
 is a bit flat, and the lack of online play is a little disappointing. Dont let that stop you from 
 experiencing what Guitar Hero II has to offer, though; an electrically charged and fantastically 
 presented rhythm game that does an admirable job of making you feel like youre on stage playing 
 all sorts of classic rock and metal tunes.
  
  Like the other entries in the series, Guitar Hero II on 360 comes bundled with a guitar controller. 
 With its plastic body containing a flipper where the strings should be and five color-coded buttons 
 on the neck, it looks more like a Hasbro toy than a shredders instrument of choice. However, its 
 a sleek little construction overall. You use this controller to follow fret markers on your screen. 
 Like Dance Dance Revolution, youll need to press corresponding buttons as they float toward you. 
 In Guitar Hero, buttons matching the colors on your controller scroll up an ever-lasting fret board 
 on-screen. As they enter a hotspot, you press that note down and strum on the flipper to play the 
 note. It sounds overly complicated on paper, but its a process thats entirely natural. Once you 
 get the hang of holding the controller, youll find yourself instinctively tapping your foot to 
 the beat and nailing songs in no time.
  
  Youll still be using a Gibson brand model like the older games, but instead of the somewhat predictable 
 and blas&eacute; SG controller, the 360 version comes packed with an alpine white, pointed X-Plorer 
 model. In addition to looking the part for an over-the-top game about rock and roll, the X-Plorer 
 controller is built quite a bit sturdier than the SG. Its neck is also angled a little differently 
 so that your wrist rests easier during play. The only real flaw with the new controller is the 
 position of the start and select buttons. Tiny and resting above the flipper, they lead to some 
 fumbling when trying to pause the game during a song and could also cause problems if you activate 
 star power this way. But its faults are easily forgivable.
  
  You and your new guitar will be shredding through a show-stopping list of classic rock and metal 
 tunes, with some sub-genres like blues and grunge thrown in for good measure. The roster includes 
 Motley Crue, Rush, Matthew Sweet, Butthole Surfers, Megadeth, Rage Against The Machine, The Police, 
 and many more. And from Dick Dales surf-rock odyssey Misirlou to the bittersweet finale, Freebird, 
 the set list covers a lot of ground in the world of rock and roll. After earning cash in the games 
 career mode playing the famous tracks, you can purchase dozens of independent tracks as well, with 
 relatively unknown acts like Darkness Falls and some weird tie-ins, like the theme song from the 
 Adult Swim cartoon Metalocolypse. The best part of Guitar Hero II is that it really gives you sensation 
 of performing these songs. As you listen to scales shoot up and down and feel your hand scaling 
 the fret board to match, its an incredibly satisfying moment.
  
  Guitar Hero II can potentially be a pretty difficult game, as the addition of three-note chords 
 and emphasis on using pull-offs and hammer-ons to quickly and precisely strike the buttons can 
 be grueling at first. Working your way through the difficulties organically in the career mode 
 is the best solution to this. Still, making the jump from the Hard to Expert difficulty is an awkward 
 transition that should have been handled a bit more smoothly. Theres a practice mode to aid with 
 this, and it works pretty well. You can choose any song, highlight specific sections to practice, 
 and slow it way down to nail the rhythms. It wont necessarily make you any faster, but having 
 the luxury of memorizing fingering patterns and the like makes it a worthy extra to the game.
 
  
  In terms of extra content, the 360 version adds ten new tracks to the mix, and most of the additions 
 are truly inspired. The weird and wonderful Texas grunge band Toadies make an appearance with their 
 90s hit Possum Kingdom, Alice Coopers Billion Dollar Babies is an unexpectedly enjoyable number, 
 and Rick Derringers Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo is one of the best songs in any Guitar Hero game. 
 A few odd and uninspired choices aside  My Chemical Romances Dead! and Life Wasted by Pearl 
 Jam stick out as rather dubious  the extra tracks are the single greatest addition to Guitar Hero 
 II.
  
  On top of the extra content, youll be able to see how you stack up against all the other 360 players 
 with online leaderboards. You can choose a single song or compare career scores, essentially 
 all of your song scores mashed together in a beastly sum. The leaderboards are great, competitive 
 fun, and its addictive to try and improve your standing against people across your country and 
 beyond. Downloadable content is also available, letting you download selected songs from the original 
 Guitar Hero game. But at a ridiculous 600 points for three songs, their value to this package is 
 suspect. Theres also 50 achievements to be unlocked, and theyre a great mix of clever and difficult. 
 Youll get points for clearing career mode on every difficulty, finishing a song without any mistakes, 
 and so on. But achievements like earning 500000 points in a single song or hitting 1000 notes 
 in a row without any screw-ups are going to take a bit longer. Theres also a whole bunch of points 
 that tie into the games multiplayer component, which allows you to have a guitar-off against a 
 friend or work together with one person playing lead guitar and the other playing rhythm or bass. 
 The multiplayer does a good job of letting you feel like you and a buddy are working together to 
 finish a song. But the lack of online play on the 360  a system thats practically built from 
 the ground up to support such things  is inarguably disappointing. Perhaps next time.
  
  Of course, none of this would be worth much if Guitar Hero II didnt sound fantastic. Luckily, 
 it does, shining through with a superbly tweaked mix that sounds great at any volume. Its worth 
 stating again that the quality of the covers is consistently excellent, safe for a couple questionable 
 singers. The instrumentation comes through nice and crisp, and the guitar tones are dead-on for 
 each song. Basslines are equally represented. The only real flaw is with the drumlines  some songs 
 use cheap MIDI facsimiles instead of the real thing.
  
  Guitar Hero II takes the visuals from the PS2 version of the game and touches them up a bit, with 
 smoother character models, dynamic and moodier lighting, and more sharpness. Despite its efforts 
 to gussy up the images, though, the game ends up looking a little flat. The animations that were 
 very impressive back on the PS2 look a touch stilted here. Some old textures also stand out as 
 blurry and washed-out. Theres also a video lag issue on some HDTVs that may cause problems for 
 some. Its worth noting that the game certainly doesnt look bad; the newfound clarity is great, 
 and the cartoony art style still charms here.
  
  Guitar Hero II on the 360 takes a great game and adds in some system-specific touches to add meaningfully 
 to the package. The new tracks are also great; youll definitely find yourself coming back to them 
 just as much as the original songs. The new guitar also makes the superb core game more lively, 
 which is certainly no mean feat. In the end, the fact that Guitar Hero II feels even more at home 
 on the 360 is reason enough to rush out, grab a copy, and start rocking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayers228
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 finally comes to the xbox 360... for 90 bucks : (
  
  Guitar Hero 2 lets you play your favorite songs as a guitarist (with a plastic guitar) . The trick 
 is to hold down the colored fret buttons with your left hand while you strum them with the little 
 pick lever on your right hand. You know when to strum by watching those little colored notes 
 come at you on the screen. Thats pretty much all it is besides a couple little tricks you can do 
 but the nice tutorial they have will explain such things as star power, power chords, and hammer 
 ons and pull offs.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 has plenty of various songs to choose from they even threw in some songs that you 
 can only play on the 360 version of Guitar Hero 2, plus the overpriced downloadable songs you can 
 get on the 360 marketplace adds into the fun, the only problem is 90 dollars plus downloadable 
 songs for $6.50 for 3 of them makes it a lil expensive to own.
  
  The Graphics in Guitar Hero 2 for the 360 are just a lil bit better looking than on the PS2 but 
 besides that there isnt really anything graphic wise different from the PS2 version and the 360 
 version.
  
  Now for the Gibson Xplorer design guitar. It deffinitly is a lot different than the PS2 guitar, 
 better though maybe not. The spikey design is cool looking but it doesnt fit comfortably into your 
 lap. Theres a reason why Gibson stopped making the Explorer after a single year of production. 
 Plus the shortness of the guitar makes it kinda more akward and difficult for tall gamers to use. 
 But on the brightside the strumming is a lot more quiet and the fret buttons seem to be a lot more 
 sensitive than the PS2 guitar.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 for the 360 is a great port. Really expensive but if you enjoyed the PS2 version 
 than the 90 bucks will be worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeasia
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 12, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is one of those games where you feel fully engaged in the rock and roll experience. 
 One thing that this game does so well, is it's selection of songs. It has a wide variety of rock 
 songs. Also you feel a sense of achievement when you finally nail every note of a song. A lot of 
 games don't simulate that kind of feeling once you complete it 100%. In Guitar hero, you only want 
 to keep going. I remember playing this game for literally 8 hours straight. Practicing, and jamming 
 with friends. Overall, it's the best party, and solo game I've ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjovang
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm speechless, I loved the game from the first time I tried it and I'veen hooked ever since. Now 
 when I listen to the radio and hear a new cool song the first thing I think is: whoah! get this 
 one in GH3 or on Live! . There's quite nothing like it when you hook up your 360 to a projector 
 and a large stereo, buy alot of beer and get some mates over to rock out in your own livingroom. 
 (problem is though, you really can't play Free Bird after a few beers.
  
  The only bad things I can think of is that the tracklist from the original Guitar Hero was better 
 than the sequels (but hopefully they'll be available on Live in the future) and that cooperative 
 play is straight out boring.
  
  PS: Beware of getting friends over to play, they might not want to leave again ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoagieOfDeath
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game was addictive from the moment I put it in the tray. It is a game that one thinks about 
 throughout the day and plays upon returning home. Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is a game that 
 should be in the collection of any serious gamers' 360 library.
  
  Many gamers will begin with the game's tutorial which is surprisingly effective in its teaching. 
 The first few lessons are of course painfully dull and cover incredibly simple concepts. Despite 
 the initial boredom, the tutorial eventually covers advanced techniques such as hammering on and 
 pulling off which makes it truly beneficial for any new participant in the series.
  
  The game itself offers a colorful variety of songs, and a good number of difficulty settings. Players 
 will feel compelled to take their playing to the next difficulty level. The game succeeds chiefly 
 in the satisfaction that comes from mastering each song on the expert difficulty.
  
  All things considered, this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 on the 360 is better then the PS2 version just because of those little tweaks here 
 and there. This is the best rhytm game i played since Elite Beat Agents but this... this gives 
 me a whole other feeling because you have the guitar in your hands. I play real guitar now and 
 some songs that are easy in Guitar Hero 2 are impossible (almost) at the real guitar but thats cool 
 cus then you can play like a professional guitarist ^^.
  In the beginning its kinda' easy and you need some hours to really get the flow to get some skill. 
 In the end of Guitar Hero 2 (not really an end but just the end that you played all songs at hard) 
 it asks much skill to play it around the 75%. After you beated all the songs almost perfect you 
 can create your own song. Co-Op is much fun and the cartoony graphics are kinda kewl with the gameplay-style. 
 Also are there some songs that are really hard to play and its all kinda music. From Country to 
 Death Metal.
  (I play them most metal :P)
  If you play real guitar its sometimes a lil' bit weird if you're used to a song that you can play 
 for real. The Guitar Hero 2 version of the song is completely different.
  
  This game is really good and one of the best games till now for the Xbox 360. Sometimes a letdown 
 if you play real guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OLDSKOOL77
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Develper Harmonix Music has done it again!!! Made in the same mold as Frequency (game Harmonix produced) 
 and Guitar Hero I (i havent played this one) comes another musical rock masterpiece. The game delivers 
 on all aspects and phases thats makes a good music game/button timing sequence game. Using the 
 Guitar reals makes you want to party like a rock star, party like a rock star. THe 5 buttons on 
 the top of the guitar red, yello, blue orange and green serves as your main button to hit the correct 
 buttons at the correct time or at the correct time to feel the beat . In the middle of the of the 
 guitar is a black button that must be used on time with the top five buttons when the particualr 
 color flases on screen along with the beat. Th etiming must be on time with the music in order 
 for you to gain points, building up your combos to double , and tripple your score. As for the 
 song selection its huge!! Two of my favorite songs on the list include warg Pigs and Soy Bomb.
 
  Even though most to all the songs are Rock on the game, it would of been really nice to have a 
 Guitar where you could also play R &amp; B songs along with some Hip Hop... (Maybe in the sequel 
 Guitar Hero III perhaps!!!) But as it stands its still a great game. Levels consist of easy, medium, 
 hard, and expert. Easy Levels the notes and timing are alittle slow, complete opposite on Expert 
 as the notes and timing are a much faster pace and you will have be very good before trying this 
 level. Scores conisst of 0% to 100%. Combos add up to your score and builds up your guitar meter 
 up to the point where you hold your guitar straight up in the air and then lightning flashes on 
 the screen and your back ground group really starts whooping it up and puts on a show for you. The 
 combo's that you hit during this time tripels times the amt your score is vs not being in lighting 
 mode.
  Just just with 2 hours of gaming on it for the first time without even noticing time slipping by 
 so fast, time fly's by when your having fun and Guitar Hero II should not be missed by any gamer 
 at all!!.
  
  Oldskool77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Rock-solid gameplay; 74 songs, and still a strong song selection; Distinct and cool art-style; 
 Great controller design; Great difficutly range balance, ranging from easy enough for a child to 
 downright brutal; Downloadable content and leaderboards on 360 version; Great sense of humor on 
 the menus
  
  Cons: A bit of a difficulty jump from Medium to Hard; Controller isnt as good as other versions, 
 and isnt as lefty friendly; No music when you miss notes; $90 isnt exactly easy to crank out 
 for everyone
  
  Where would the rhythm genre be without Harmonix?
  
  Its midnight, and Ive played GH2 for 5 hours straight when this question pops into my head Clearly, 
 it wouldnt rock nearly as hard.
  
  Everyone should know the rhythm genre story by now. Play to multiple licensed tunes, where scrolling 
 bars help you stay in time with the rhythm. Guitar Hero 2 is 100% the same in that respect. However, 
 it does a number of things so right that this is the biggest must-have in the genre since DDR came 
 out.
  
  Take the controller for instance. Several rhythm games (scratch that, most rhythm games) pack in 
 a fancy piece of plastic to make the game more fun, interesting, and immersive. Since this is GUITAR 
 Hero, this one, no surprise needs a guitar controller. Of course, it cant be too realistic and 
 be large and complex, but it must have some resemblance. Enter the controller (in the PS2 games 
 a model of the Gibson SG. In the 360 version, a model of the Gibson X-Plorer) . It has only 5 buttons, 
 and a strum bar, as well as the other essential buttons for pausing and menu navigating.
  
  When playing, you see a note scroll down one of 5 rows in your direction. To select a note, you 
 hold down the corresponding button (usually they are color coded except for one exception which 
 I will explain) to light up an icon at the bottom. Then you time the strum bar in rhythm with the 
 note. Ramp up the difficulty and things get more complex with rapid note groups that dont always 
 require strumming (if you time the buttons on the neck of the guitar) , and chords, which require 
 2 or even 3 buttons held down at once. And if you hit star shaped notes, you build up a meter, 
 which if you tilt the guitar upright (or press the back button, which is unusually hard on the 
 360 versions controller) turns all the notes blue, doubles your multiplier, and makes each note 
 help your rock meter (aka life meter) more. It comes down to a immersive, fast, and most importantly, 
 fun style of gameplay that just might trick you into thinking you can play a guitar.
  
  Of course, the game would no doubtedly sink into the unknown without a good song selection. Most 
 games try to appeal to everyone with 1 or 2 songs per genre, and actually lose everyone but the 
 most open-minded people. Instead, GH2 keeps its focus, and picks some great guitar songs, often 
 complete with mind-numbing solos, and succeeds even better because of it. And with 74 songs thats 
 no easy feat. Not all of them are good (even some of the new 360 exclusive songs are poor) , but 
 Harmonix knows its audience, and pretty much everyone who picks up this game should come out mostly 
 happy.
  
  And this game will last you a while. 74 songs across 4 difficulties, achievements, unlockable guitars, 
 finishes, characters, videos, online leaderboards, and downloadable songs ensure that you will 
 be able to play this for months.
  
  Although many rhythm games play well (not as well as this, and everyone whos played knows what 
 I mean) , most neglect the graphical area. This is another area where GH2 triumphs over the competition. 
 Although the graphics in the game arent mind-blowing (or even 360 worthy scratch for the HD) , 
 they are full of style. The menus are really illustrated with skulls, fire, sasquatches and much 
 more. Then when you perform you have an onstage persona playing guitar with you (at least to the 
 same rhythm.) with a band, and a lot of really flashy stage lights. Although most people (especially 
 the player) will be looking at the notes, its worth noting that the whole experience is great.
 
  
  When it really comes down to it, GH2 doesnt succeed because it does something radically new. Instead 
 it succeeds because it does everything well. Although $90 isnt an easy price to shake, Guitar 
 Hero 2 stands up to its price point, and is worth every buck. If you have a PS2 or Xbox 360 and 
 dont have this game, then you need to stop reading this review and buy the best rhythm game ever. 
 You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapstickick12
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II Review (Xbox 360)
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Guitar 
 Hero series deffidently evolved from its debut on the Playstation 2 in November 2005. One year 
 later Guitar Hero II shipped for the Playstaion 2 and it was even a bigger success than the orignal 
 one. Five months later the Guitar Hero series debuts on the Xbox 360 with a port of Guitar Hero 
 II. RedOctane and Harmonix spent so much additional time on the game and it came out nothing less 
 than spectacular.
  
  Since this is the first Guitar Hero game that is on any Xbox system, lets take a look at the game 
 in general. Guitar Hero is a rythum based game. It comes with this guitar controller that has five 
 colored buttons on it. Once you get in the game, you will see a fretboard coming at your screen 
 and then colored buttons on the fret board. The object of the game is to match the colored buttons 
 that you see on the screen and play them on the guitar controller. There is also a whammy bar on 
 the guitar controller so when those long notes come, let the whammy begin!
  
  The Single Player expierence is where most players will find themselves playing. There is five 
 difficulty settings going from easy, medium, hard, and expert. The game has over 70 songs and takes 
 about 5 hours to complete on one difficulty. To get every achievement you will need to play through 
 all five difficulty settings. Now for some Guitar Hero vets they wouldnt want to play through the 
 game on easy or medium so toggle on the left handed guitar and play through the whole game lefty. 
 Trust me, its like trying to learn to play the game all over again.
  
  The gameplay to the Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero II is slight better than the PS2 version. The 
 hammer-ons and pull-offs are easy to do and the new guitar controller feels alot more comfortable. 
 The only thing that was kinda a issue was the whammy bar. The whammy bar doesnt respond somtimes 
 and it does get frustrating. When there is that long star power note and you want that extra bit 
 of star power, it just gets frustrating that the whammy bar doesnt respond. Now star power doubles 
 your score. To activate star power, you just need to tilt the guitar controller up and boom, star 
 power is activated.
  
  The difficulty to the game is really well placed. For new comers to the Guitar Hero franchise, 
 they will need to play the game on easy because if they went to medium and hard, they would fail 
 miserably. There is also a training mode so you can get familiar with the game before you start 
 your carrer. On the easy difficulty setting, only the first three buttons on the guitar are enabled. 
 On medium, the first four are enabled and on hard and expert, all of the buttons will be on the 
 screen with some crazy combinations that will make your hands hurt after awhile.
  
  The Multiplayer adds replay and it kinda hurts the game at the same time. You can play through 
 the whole carrer in Cooperative and you can go head to head and see who is the better rocker. While 
 there is a very good Offline Multiplayer expierence, there is no Online Multiplayer what so ever. 
 Theres been rumors that RedOctane will release an update and add Online to the game but its only 
 rumors right now. But what they do have in the game is Online Leaderboards. You can see where you 
 are and try to climb the Leaderboard to be the greatest rocker of all time. The Xbox Live expierence 
 doesnt end with just Online Leaderboards, RedOctane confirmed that they will be releasing downloadable 
 content to the game. You can go to the Xbox Live Marketplace and download new songs to rock to.
 
  
  Now the achievments in the game deffidently adds alot of replay value. You could be trying to get 
 one achievment for hours on end. While some of the achievements are almost impossible to get, some 
 are quite easy. If you play through the carrer, you will get like five or six by the time you are 
 done.
  
  Now the graphics to Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is deffidently a step up from the Playstation 
 2 version of the game but its not even in the same ballpark as Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 The character models deffidently look better and the animations are improved but theres still alot 
 to be desired for a Xbox 360 game. Well since most of the time you are looking at the fret board 
 and focusing on getting that one million point achievment, the graphics to the game doesnt effect 
 really anything.
  
  The sound to the game is really unbelievable. You will rock out to the Rolling Stones, Lynard Skyner, 
 My Chemical Romance, Guns and Roses, Pearl Jam, and the list goes on and on. Like I said before, 
 you have over 70 songs in the game covering decades of rock history.
  
  With downloadable content, improved gameplay and has over 20 new tracks than the Playstation 2 
 version of the game, the Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero II was deffidently worth the wait.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay- 
 9.5.... Very addicting game. Very nice difficulty settings. Training mode is good for new comers. 
 Whammy bar needs to get fixed.
  
  Sound- 9.5.... RedOctane deffidently raised that bar for the music any type of rythum game.
  
 
  Graphics- 7.5.... Better textures and higher polygon count than the PS2 version but it just doesnt 
 add up to Xbox 360 standards.
  
  Replay- 9.2.... You will be playing this game for at least 20 hours just in the single player and 
 once you realize theres more achievments in the multiplayer, there goes 20 more. No online.
  
  Overall (Not Average) - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 9, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Some ppl complain that this game (using the guitar) is hard to play. I thought it has the easiest 
 controlls ever! It does take time to get use to but u will get the hang if it!
  
  Sounds:
  
  Every song on this game is really good (but plz no Cherry Pie next time plz?)
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The characters looks better than the PS2! But u do not have time to look when ur a playing the 
 game
  
  Value:
  
  80$ for a game that has songs that u heard before? i think it is worth it!
  
  Conculsion:
 
  
  This game is really worth it if u like songs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Rock n' roll goes way back, and so does some of these classic songs you'll hear in Guitar Hero 
 II. Guitar Hero series was first introduced on the Playstation 2, and so was the sequel, Guitar 
 Hero II. However, after about six months after the release of Guitar Hero II on the Playstation 
 2, Guitar Hero II was finally released on the Xbox 360, with noticeable differences from the Playstation 
 2 version of the game - The most noticeable difference being the guitar itself: The new X-Plorer 
 Guitar specially designed for the Xbox 360 version of the game.
  
  Starting out with the guitar - The design is excellent. It looks more like a Metal guitar, compared 
 to the one from the Playstation 2 version. When playing, you've got a great grip on the guitar, 
 whether you are sitting down, standing up, or even lying down. (Last one being the most difficult, 
 of course.)
  When you first get the game, the guitar is completely plain and white, with a black grip. This 
 can quickly change, as you do get two sheets of cool stickers to decorate your guitar with. The 
 quality of the guitar is great. Most of the guitar is made of plastic, however, it's a lot more 
 durable then you first expect it to be. A part not made of plastic is the whammy bar, as it's made 
 of steel/aluminum or whatever.
  
  The game pretty much focuses on the career mode of the game. This part of the game allows you to 
 create your own band, and set out in the world to become rock legends. You get to play various 
 songs at different places as you evolve much more into the career. The bad part is, that there 
 is no actual story involved. It's more like playing the songs and that's about it, and this does 
 leave a feeling that some more could've been done, to make the career mode stand out from the rest 
 of the game, and make it a lot more enjoyable.
  
  The part where the career mode stands out, is when you start playing at Medium difficulty or higher. 
 After medium, you'll pretty much start earning money. The more stars you earn (Stars are based 
 on how well you play the song) , the more cash. So you need to play well to get a lot of money.
 
  Money is not required to finish the game, so you can complete the career without actually spending 
 any of your hard earned cash, however, you'll probably be tempted to access the Store, in order 
 to check out some of the cool things, get some achievements and so on.
  
  You can purchase multiple things in the store: Guitars, characters, songs, outfits, guitar finishes 
 and movies. Now you're probably surprised since I mentioned all of that, but those are all possible 
 to get, and the price depends on what item you want.
  Characters, as I mentioned before, is changeable. You can choose between seven widely different 
 characters at first, and purchase an additional three, if you've got enough cash - The characters 
 cost 7.000 each!
  
  Guitars, finishes and outfits are a lot cheaper. There's a bunch of different guitars for you to 
 purchase, and even some more to unlock (Once they're unlocked you'll have to purchase them too... 
 Greedy store..) , and with the finishes, you can add an entirely new design, color or look to your 
 guitars!
  If you're not satisfied with a new look for your guitar, then you can get one of the new outfits 
 for your character. There's one to unlock for each of them, but this'll easily get expensive as 
 well, as they're 2.000 each.
  
  As for the graphics, then you won't notice a whole lot, but when you do, then you'll be quite satisfied. 
 The characters, stages, crowds and so on all look great, and the game plays at a steady framerate 
 and without any graphical glitches as well! The sound though, well.. Not much can be said other 
 than that it's amazing. Tons of great songs, over 70 in fact, fun noises when you choose the different 
 options in the menus are great.
  
  When you first start out, you may think that you can simply jump right into the game at medium 
 difficulty and start playing.. Some might be able to do it, but most won't. Medium is extremely 
 difficult for the first period of time, however, if you keep playing on Easy and finish up all 
 of the songs on easy, then you might be ready for medium. (I finished all of the songs on Easy 
 with five stars before moving on to Medium.)
  
  The first songs you get to play are, of course, easier than the last ones you unlock. Some of the 
 Metal songs are extremely challenging though, as you have to hit notes insanely quickly, and they 
 keep coming right after each other. But, with do practice, then you should be able to get five 
 stars in no time!
  If you're having trouble beating a song, then you can simply take it into the practice mode. Here 
 you can practice a song at either normal, slow, slower or slowest speed. This can be very useful 
 if you're having issues with a part of the song. Of course, you don't need to play the entire song. 
 You can choose the parts you want to practice instead, and you can see what parts you did worst, 
 and best at, in the stats right after you finish a song.
  
  Sadly, the only online support this game has, is the Leaderboards. Here you can compare how good 
 you are at the different songs, against tons of other people. If you can live without the online 
 multiplayer, then that's a good thing, as it probably won't be introduced before Guitar Hero III. 
 The game does contain traditional multiplayer though, and you can battle it out head-to-head, or 
 please the crowd by playing Co-op and gaining massive points! Both seem equal fun-wise, in their 
 very own way. The thing that sucks about multiplayer though, is that you need to pay a lot of money 
 for an extra guitar. If you're not willing to do that, or haven't got to it yet, then you can play 
 with the Xbox 360 controller as well, but it's a bit more difficult, when you're used to using 
 the guitar instead.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero II is a great game that shouldn't be missed, if you can do without the few 
 things that the game doesn't offer. Sadly, the game and controllers are quite expensive, but if 
 you're willing to lash out that much for this game, then you're up for one heck of a solid game 
 experience, and a game that will keep you entertained for a very long time, and will most likely 
 be the thing that boosts up the mood, when you're having friends over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The dictionary defines Rock 'n' Roll as Style of music characterized by a basic drum-beat, generally 
 4/4 riffs, based on (usually electric) guitar, drums, and vocals (generally with bass guitar) . 
 Generally used to refer to the 1950s rock, and rock of its style, quite close to swing. . I define 
 it with Guitar Hero II. This is a game of high-speed action, quick reflexes and a whole lotta rock! 
 You've always had a dream of being a rock star; the fame, the fortune, the complete awesomeness. 
 Don't lie. This game gives you that chance, and shoves it in your face. The game is very easy to 
 pick up, but gets very hard later on. Practice makes perfect, and I mean PRACTICE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I love rock music, especially guitar based rock music. That doesn't mean guitar heavy rock music, 
 although I do enjoy that as well, but rather rock music where the guitar is just as much the star 
 as the lead singer. Bluesy undertones and shredding solos are what I love. So the idea of the Guitar 
 Hero franchise is one that appeals to me on a fundamental level. I like guitar, Guitar Hero simulates 
 playing a guitar, equals I like Guitar Hero. But for some reason I never went and purchased the 
 Playstation 2 original or its sequel. Well it has debuted on XBOX 360 and I finally broke down 
 and shelled out the money for the game and guitar and I certainly can't say I was disappointed.
 
  
  Guitar Hero II is a bit pricey ($90) but it does come with a copy of the game and the Xplorer controller. 
 Personally I liked the model of the Guitar Hero II PS2 guitar more but what can you do. So you 
 plug in your controller, this is a minor gripe that can be blamed on Microsoft as they won't give 
 up their wireless secrets. I can honestly say my enjoyment of the game would have been greater 
 if I were to have had a wireless controller. My personal 360 set up has my console on the top of 
 my 52 inch Magnavox HDTV. Playing single player I was able to rig the guitar wire so that it didn't 
 cut across my screen but when playing multiplayer the console had to be moved to a lower location, 
 so the wires could run in front of the TV. The guitar itself is a nice size, a slight bit smaller 
 than a real guitar, and fits well. Holding the guitar feels natural although extended play sessions 
 for taller folk may prove slightly uncomfortable.
  
  The game itself has a few modes, career, quick play, multiplayer and practice. Career mode is the 
 meat of the game. You set out as a new guitarist for a rinky dink, garage band and progress till 
 you are playing the biggest arenas in the country. Career mode is also the only way to unlock all 
 the songs that are featured in the game. The game features four different modes of difficulty, 
 Easy, Medium, Hard and Expert. Easy is a great place for new Guitar Heroes to start off at and 
 gets you ready to make the jump to Medium and so on. The quick play mode speaks for itself, you 
 get a list of songs (based on what you have unlocked) and you choose one (and a difficulty) and 
 poof you are strumming along. Multiplayer is a little more in depth, you still can only pick songs 
 that you have unlocked in single player but you also get to choose the character you want as well 
 as outift them how you want to, based on unlockables from the single player game. Finally the practice 
 mode is pretty much what you would expect. The cool thing about GHII practice mode is the ability 
 to slow down the song or just play tricky portions of a particular song until you get it right.
 
  
  Modes are all well and good but you aren't playing Guitar Hero for different game modes, your playing 
 it for the songs. A guitar game without fun songs to play would be like playing baseball without 
 a ball. Guitar Hero II does a good job of blending different styles of rock, (70s rock, 80s hair 
 metal, alternative and modern) all in one seem less package. I've heard other reviewers say that 
 the song selection on GHII is weaker than on the original but for my money I would have to disagree. 
 Are there some songs from the original song list I would like in place of some of GHII's songs? 
 yes. But overall I wouldn't trade list for list. And for those that really want to play the original 
 game's songs, downloadable content is being made on a monthly basis and will feature many of the 
 original Guitar Hero songs.
  
  Graphically, Guitar Hero II isn't beautiful. It's a little choppy in bits and the animations are 
 somewhat lame, although the set designs are fantastic, especially when you hit an encore round 
 on the later sets. The fret board itself looks colorful and the effects for hitting a note are 
 well done. Truthfully though, you aren't playing Guitar Hero II for the graphics. Your playing 
 it for the music and the music sounds great. The 360 version packs in over 70 songs, including 
 Danzig's Mother , Warrant's Cherry Pie , Guns N' Roses' Sweet Child O' Mine and Lynyrd Skynyrd's 
 Freebird . Almost all of the songs are covers but all sound remarkably well. The 360's version 
 of Guitar Hero II is increased by the addition of Achievement points. The challenges are well laid 
 out and can be gotten by just playing the games through the different modes and difficulties.
 
  
  There's not much in the genre that can compete with the overall package presented in Guitar Hero 
 II and at this point in 2007, there isn't much to compete with it at all. That of course will change, 
 especially with Guitar Hero III and Rock Band slated to come out this holiday season but for the 
 time being Guitar Hero II is king of the roost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_sk8er_201
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  i have all guitar heros and out of all of them this has got to be the funnest one i love playing 
 it with ma friends and the songs on this game are pretty good but hopefully they come out with 
 new songs to download or even good songs from the older guitar hero all in all this game is fun 
 and is totally worth the money i play this game almost everyday right after i come from and school 
 i think Free Bird is my favorite song because the guitar solo in it is crazy and thats how most 
 of the songs are... they have aa pretty fresh and crazy solo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracamus
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is an awesome game with alot of replay vaule for money. This games features so many 
 types of metal, from heavy metal to rock n' roll. What is the different you ask between GH2 XBOX 
 360 and the PS2 versions i hear you ask, that simple enough there 10 new tracks from bands like 
 the Master of Heavy Metal Iron Maiden and My Chemical Romance. Even the Graphics have been improved 
 and the sound also. If you have a spare &pound;79.99 (UK) and your a Goth/Metalhead//Mosher/Punk 
 or maybe even Emo's (if they can stop crying over stuff and stop cutting themselve for a second) 
 this is game is for you. And if your a Chav this game aint for you stick to Fifa and Pro Evo or 
 you DDR dance crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Mr Bnuts back up in your grill with another review!
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is CRAZY MAN! As a devoted hip hop head you would be hard pressed to find me pumpin 
 rock music - even though I am from Jerz and the Boss is a god in those parts.
  
  HOWEVER - Guitar Hero has made me a changed man. I got to tell you there is nothing like opening 
 the windows of your NYC love shaq and giving the neighbors a little payback. When Mr Bnuts's Dolby 
 5.0 gets to gettin' - my neighborhood transforms into Seaside Heights 1996. With the amped up sounds 
 of Wolfmother Women swirling you can really get your groove on to this game! I woke up Saturday 
 morning to see my #1 girl, my bottom bi$ch, (who never wakes up before and hates my habit) strokin 
 the gui-tar.... is he talking about the game or something else?
  
  Anyway my point is this game is so good people who do not really like video games will be playing 
 it. And it is challenging. I did not think it was possible to play expert until I witnessed a 5 
 YR OLD ROCKING OUT ON YOUTUBE!!! ARE YOU FOR REAL LITTLE MAN???? I still do not know how he does 
 it.
  
  The other day we hooked up two guitars and really wilded out! One person can play bass and the 
 other lead.
  
  All in all - this game is a must have. It provides loads of fun. The only drawback is that the 
 soundtrack could be packed with real classics. Lastly, shout outs to the Guitar hero hero - Joel 
 Zuyma! This kid went on the MLB disabled list from this game! THAT IS HOW CRAZY IT IS.
  
  Let me tell you - when you unlock Sweet Child of Mine your life will change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero series is finally released on a non Sony console and with this new system comes 
 some minor changes and tweaks to the already great game. Most notably it has added ten new songs 
 to the already stunning roster and these new songs are the originals, not covers. Also it ships 
 with a new controller, the Gibson X-Plorer. This game will be easy to learn for anyone who has 
 played a rhythm game before and even if you havent the game isnt complex to figure out. There 
 are five different colored buttons on the Guitar. There are fewer notes however for the easier 
 difficulties, so easy only uses three different notes, normal uses four, and the last two difficulties 
 use all five notes. While playing games these five different colored notes come down the screen 
 and you hold that button and strum to hit the note. There are holds where you hold the button for 
 a long period and then use the whammy bar to distort the note, although this doesnt add points 
 so its just for user satisfaction and to show off to your friends.
  
  As you play and hit notes consecutively your multiplier gauge will increase giving you more points. 
 Mess up though and it erases and youll have to start all over again. This is fairly standard in 
 rhythm games but what isnt, is the Star Power gauge. Every now and then notes come up that are 
 shining (they are in a certain little stretch of a song) and if you hit all of them your Star Power 
 gauge will go up. Once your gauge is at least half full you can tilt your guitar vertical and it 
 will activate Star Power which will double whatever multiplier you have. This is how you get those 
 super high scores and to show off to everyone just how much better you are then them. This also 
 adds some strategy to the game, since Star Power is more effective when there are a lot of notes, 
 so youll want to save it and not use it if there are just a bunch of holds coming up.
  
  The career mode is the main single player part of the game. Here you get to name your own band 
 and play gigs to get money and move up in status. This is where you unlock songs by playing them. 
 At each concert you have a set list of the songs you play, once you complete a certain number of 
 those songs you will beat that concert and have the ability to play an encore. Once youre done 
 you unlock the next concert and this continues for eight concerts.
  
  The money you get from beating the main songs can be used at The Store. Here you can buy characters, 
 costumes, guitars, paint jobs for the guitars, new songs, and developer videos. The songs that 
 you buy arent for the most part bands that youll know; however this doesnt mean theyre bad. 
 There are some famous bands in there however such as Lamb of God, also worth noting are two of 
 the best songs in the game available here, they are Trogdor by Strong Bad and Thunderhorsre by 
 Dethklok.
  
  The graphics have been improved for the 360, but you arent going to pay attention to them for 
 most of the time. The only time you really to get to enjoy them are on long holds, when youre 
 watching someone else play or if you have memorized the song. The character designs are great. 
 You can easily tell each characters personality and type of music they like. There is a punk-rocker 
 who has a Mohawk, a glam rocker, an Elvis wannabe and the list goes on for a total of eleven characters. 
 The notes are easy to tell from each other, they did use vastly different colors.
  
  Now onto the most important part of the game, the music selection. I have no problems with the 
 song choices; I think there is a little something in there for everybody. It is disappointing to 
 not get some of the big name bands again such as Led Zeppelin, AC/DC, Metallica, or Weezer but 
 hey you cant always get what you want, just what you need. &amp;#61514; You have some classic 
 metal from Black Sabbath and Iron Maiden; newer metal from Avenged Sevenfold and Lamb of God; some 
 softer rock from The Police and Cheap Trick; some classic rock like The Rolling Stones or Kansas; 
 some of that early nineties sound from Nirvana and The Toadies; and some stuff that is just out 
 there like surf rock guy Dick Dale, The Reverend Horton Heat.
  
  There is something for everyone except punk, I dont really know if Suicidal Tendencies could be 
 considered punk but they say theres no punk because its just not fun to play. There are a total 
 of seventy-four songs to play and there is also downloadable song packs. I feel these song packs 
 are overpriced but hey thats just me and this is a review of the game and not the song packs.
 
  
  Youll be playing this game for a long time to come. There are a ton of things to unlock and to 
 get this youll play through the story a lot. The multiplayer is also fun. There are three modes 
 here co-op, versus, and pro-versus (which you unlock upon beating the game) . You are able to play 
 the game with a normal controller but its just not as fun. The games multiplayer is a little 
 lackluster though and why is there not online multiplayer? The achievements will keep you going 
 for a long time as well. I feel the games achievements are balanced. I have about half and Im 
 not that good on the harder difficulties so those are for the best of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bvillan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Offering a wider variety of songs this time around, along with downloadable songs, Guitar Hero 
 II delivers a rock and roll fantasy unlike any seen before. Having never picked up a guitar in 
 my life, one of the funnest parts of this game is the learning curve. At fist I'd struggle with 
 Easy mode which only utilizes three of the five buttons on the Xplorer guitar controller. I felt 
 a real sense of accomplishment when I started strumming in synch and getting 90% or better on these 
 great songs. Once I amped the level up to Medium it was nearly back to square one though, and new 
 challenges to meet. With two more difficulties to master after that, this game delivers on replay 
 value. When your done mastering all difficulties you'll still want to go back and better your best 
 scores on your favorite songs just so you can be on top of your friends on the rankings list. Even 
 without online play, I'm more competitive with getting a higher score on Freebird than I am in 
 any shooter. Even if you don't aspire to be a rockstar, give this game a try. Guitar Hero II might 
 just change your tune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunshotx
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  GHII brings home the previous only PS2 fun to the 360!
  
  This game is good for all types of gamers, newbies, casual gamers and hardcore gamers together! 
 Instead of picking up pictionary or scrabble, why not pick up the xplorer and ajm out to a rock 
 n roll classic.
  
  Here's the deal, pick a song, play the notes correctly and move on to the next! Sounds simple doesn't 
 it? Not so easy.... this game requires you to have fast fingers and good eyes! Actually makes you 
 feel like your playing the song on a real guitar.
  
  Like jamming to a tune with your air guitar? Give this a whirl!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox360 is by far the fullest Guitar Hero game yet. If you don&acute; t own 
 a PS2, then you owe it to yourself to check this rocking game out.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 has basically the same story as it was in the first one. You play songs to unlock 
 more songs and when everything has been unlocked you can move to a higher difficulty. It&acute; s 
 simple and above all FUN. I&acute; ve played a (real) guitar for nearly ten years, but still there 
 was not much of advantage over my non-musical friends.
  
  Graphics are a little bit better than in PS2, but only for a little bit. Backgrounds are colorful 
 and entertaining, but usually you&acute; re way too busy looking the fretboard on the screen than 
 the action behind it. Sound is of course the star of the show. Songs are almost always covers and 
 mostly they do their job well. The best sound effect in my opinion is the sound of a false note: 
 it&acute; s terrible making you to do everything you can to avoid it in the future. Audience makes 
 some noises here and there, but they are not all that important.
  
  Gameplay has stayed pretty much the same after the first Guitar Hero. You use a special guitar 
 controller, which is now designed after Gibson&acute; s Explorer, and use your left (or right) hand 
 to push five different buttons in order to make cords. The actual cord is played by tapping a pad 
 with your right (or left) hand. In this respect musicians have the advantage, because you should 
 right from the start learn three things: 1) one finger equals one button, 2) use all of your four 
 fingers and 3) use the pad to play both up AND down. This makes playing a lot easier on harder 
 difficulty settings.
  
  Training mode is a new feature, which allows you to slow down the songs you&acute; ve unlocked and 
 to play it over and over again until you can get it right. This is a big help for those tough solos 
 you&acute; ll face in later part of the game. There are four difficulty settings to choose from: 
 Easy, Medium, Hard and Expert.
  
  In multiplayer you can play with your friend (but not via System Link or Xbox Live) and your friend 
 can either choose Guitar or Bass. This is fun, but requires another guitar controller to get the 
 most out of it.
  
  Song list unfortunately is not as good as in the first Guitar Hero. Luckily there is a lot of songs 
 to unlock as your game progresses and you can download more songs via Xbox Live. This is what I 
 strongly recommend you to do, since it expands the lifetime of your gaming experience.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is best suited for parties, when you gather lots of friends under one roof and start 
 rocking. It can take 5-10 hours on one sitting. This is a game that you really need to experience, 
 because it also works when played alone. In real life playing a gig with a band is the highlight 
 of things, but still most of the practice is done alone.
  
  My favourite song? The Trooper made famous by Iron Maiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Granted, the Xbox 360 has done a decent job of being a one-stop-shop for all of our gaming needs. 
 From mindless blood and gore, to classic arcade games, and culminating with the king of all card 
 games (yeah, Im talking about Uno) , its covered all of its bases pretty well; though it seems 
 to lack one important aspect: rock. Well for those 360 owners waiting for their fateful day to 
 rock out, your time has come. Now before you think that the 360 version of Guitar Hero II is merely 
 the PS2s sloppy seconds, Im happy to say that its more than just a mere port of the original 
 game blown into full HD. Sure, the visuals remain largely the same, but the addition of new tracks 
 and online scoreboards make this an attractive package for 360 owners that havent gotten into 
 the game yet (and whoever you are, you should be ashamed) . Unfortunately, the downloadable content, 
 while a great idea, is - in so many words - lacking. Still, theres enough promise here to almost 
 warrant buying this game again  read on. The biggest attention grabber in the package would be 
 the newly redesigned controller. Modeled after the much cooler Gibson X-Plorer, the whammy bar, 
 neck, and controller overall feels more solid than the PS2 model. The strummer is much quieter, 
 which is a definite plus compared to the incessant clickity-clack of the previous incarnation. 
 There are a couple of drawbacks to the cooler design however. If you play the game sitting down, 
 its harder to balance the guitar on your lap and you end up playing in this weird &frac34; sideways 
 turn. Ive also noticed that its harder to invoke star power and it usually takes two to three 
 tries of getting my best rockin metal pose to get it going and usually by that time, any multiplier 
 thats been stored up is gone. Aside from those two small issues (and Im about 50% certain this 
 is my problem) , this guitar is better in almost every other way. Now if only we can find out what 
 that mysterious phone jack input on the bottom is for
  
  One of the main draws of Guitar Hero II is the career mode where you choose an over exaggerated 
 character, such as an overweight black metal guy with a painted face, or the atypical 80s shredder 
 with shoulders as wide as a semi. Theres also a hippy and a guy dressed like Jimi Hendrix in addition 
 to two metal chicks, so all of the bases are pretty much covered as far as character selection 
 preferences go. Youll take your walking rock clich&eacute; into career mode where youll have 
 to play through a number of sets that will guide your stereotypical, yet charming bands rise to 
 popularity. While the career mode remains largely unchanged as a whole, the set lists have been 
 slightly rearranged to allow room for the six new tracks exclusive to this version. In total, the 
 math comes to 74 tracks total in which to rock out. The original crop of songs is still here, such 
 as Danzigs Mother, Guns N Roses Sweet Child O Mine, Lynard Skynards Freebird, and Megadeths 
 Hangar 18. The new tracks, like Rancids Salvation, Pearl Jams Life Wasted, and Iron Maidens 
 The Trooper fit into the mix well and help to flesh out what was originally a somewhat disappointing 
 selection of songs (Rush? Heart? Seriously) . It should be said to the uninitiated that these songs 
 are all covers, and while most are done well, others are wellnot. With that said, youll barely 
 even notice since youll be too busy working your fingers and madly strumming towards those hand 
 cramps that are telling you that youre having too much fun to care. In addition to Primus John 
 the Fisherman and Janes Addictions Stop!, there are two new tracks performed by the original 
 artists done by My Chemical Romance and the Toadies which can help ease the pain of some of the 
 more amateurish material the game provides. The new track selections help to fill in the gaps in 
 difficulty that the PS2 version saw where one song would seem ten times easier than the song before 
 it. Despite all of the fun youll have in the career mode, though, its only the tip of the iceberg, 
 as playing sets will earn you money towards purchasing the remaining 48 songs that are all from 
 smaller bands, but offer up their share of gems like the tracks from Freezepop, Strong Bad, and 
 Deathklok. Youll also be able to buy new guitars, characters, and outfits too, but thats only 
 for cosmetic effect. Still, there's nothing like playing with a guitar shaped lyke a scythe!
  
  The core gameplay remains the same as youll be pressing color-coded buttons on the neck of 
 the guitar and strumming along to colored jewels scrolling at you onscreen while attempting to 
 keep your rock meter in the green. Hitting certain star-shaped jewels will fill your star power, 
 which, with a rise of the guitar neck in true metal fashion, not only doubles your multiplier, 
 but will totally get the crowd moving while your character breathes fire or balances their guitar 
 on their foot yet still manages to play without skipping a note. All of the standard multiplayer 
 and practice modes have come over in translation. Practice mode lets you play through songs in 
 an effort to get a grasp of some of the tougher portions. You can even play through certain solos 
 and bridges, its that in-depth. Multiplayer comes in two flavors: a co-op mode where players can 
 take on rhythm, bass, or lead guitar jobs and battle mode which pits two player against each other 
 while the rock meter will determine which side rocks harder. While the 360 incarnation of the game 
 sports online scoreboards, online multiplayer is a thing of the future. Speaking of online features, 
 different song packs are available on Xbox Live. Currently you can buy a set of three songs from 
 the original Guitar Hero for 500 points. Taking into mind that you can purchase a good classic 
 arcade game complete with online multiplayer for 100 points less, this seems a bit outrageous, 
 but such is the music industry. With the promise of more unique tracks to come, right now downloadable 
 content is more of a double-edged sword. Lets hope that future downloads are a little more affordable. 
 As mentioned before, online scoreboards let you know how much you suck sompared to everyone else 
 out there. There are rankings based on your overall career score, as well as scores for individual 
 songs. While this may not be any consolation to the lack of online play, it's still pretty interesting 
 to see how you measure up on that one song you think you're the best at... only to have your hopes 
 dashed in the end. The visuals of Guitar Hero II are on par with the PS2 version, only theyre 
 full HD, which means everything has a smoother, crisper edge to it. The frame rate on the scrolling 
 jewel thing-a-ma-bob also seems much smoother too. The newly redesigned Vans Warped Tour venue 
 fits in well and looks great. Unfortunately, youre not going to get any kind of added graphical 
 effects, but the visuals do the job well and look great nonetheless. You could even go as far to 
 say that any visual improvements would take away from the rock-exaggerated style of the game. Things 
 are fine the way they are. With everything said, Guitar Hero II for the 360 is much more than just 
 a simple port job forced on Red Octane by the folks at Activision. The new in-game additions are 
 nice and the controller is almost worth the price of admission alone, of course you could always 
 bicker about the fact that the controller isnt wireless. Still, if youre a 360 owner and you 
 havent basked in GH IIs glory, its easy to consider this game a must have. To the PS2 owner 
 who is thinking about holding on to their $90 US, it may be best to weigh your options, though 
 youre in for a pretty tough decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I gotta day, this game is extremely fun to play. It is a must buy for someone who like to have 
 fun with friends or loves to play Rock and Roll. Its worth the $100 (Canada Price) with the controller 
 to get.
  
  I'm currently doing the Hard Career, I'm doing alright so far and yes it is difficult. I mostly 
 spend my time playing my favorite songs in Quick Play. My current favorite is Jessica and Free 
 Bird. There are a total of 70 or more songs in the game, that'll keep you busy for a while and 
 they are all very good songs.
  
  The only downfall of the game is the downloadable contents of extra songs. It kinda pricey right 
 now at 500 micropoints for 3 songs. I wouldn't bother getting the online content because 70 songs 
 is plenty enough for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 Review
  
  The Good: The game makes you feel like a rock star, plain and simple. In particular, if you have 
 surround sound and a VGA cable, which I do, this game is just plain fun. With a wide selection 
 of excellent song offerings, and truly good sound quality, this game makes you feel like youre 
 actually playing the songs. The crowds react realistically when you either hit a sequence of difficult 
 notes or grown in disappointment when you miss. The game scales the difficulty appropriately and 
 there are tons of unlockables.
  
  The Bad: When you think about it, this is really nothing more than many classic rock songs turned 
 into one long mini-game. The guitar controller itself feels like it was made for pygmies. The graphics 
 are below par for a 360 game. The songs can start to feel a bit repetitive.
  
  Dropping nearly $100 on a single game is a big investment for most people, and therefore the value 
 for your money needs to be significant in order to justify the cost. Guitar Hero 2 is a game that 
 delivers that value. Right off the bat, the gamer is treated to a pure rock style intro with an 
 over the top, comically funny sequence that shows a male guitarist and a female guitarist fighting 
 it out over a miniature city like they were two monsters in one of those cheesy Japanese Godzilla 
 movies. This sets the tone for how the entire game is going to play out from there forward.
  
  The characters that the game throws at you are appropriately differentiated from one another 
 to give everyone a feeling that they can select one that appeals to their own individual musical 
 or stylistic tastes. It says a lot about the diverseness and growth of rock in general that the 
 game has everyone from the black, wavy haired guy that could be straight out of the sixties to 
 a goth chick to a Kiss/Aerosmith wannabe jammer represented. Once youve grabbed your rocker and 
 selected from your initially quite limited guitar options youre ready to jump right in on Easy 
 mode. And, for most people, Easy mode is going to be a good place to start. This is a game that 
 doesnt hesitate to punish folks who feel that they are already bad to the bone and ready to hop 
 right into Hard or Expert mode. In this game, difficulty levels mean a lot more than they do in 
 most games.
  
  Speaking of difficulty, the songs do a good job of slowly ramping up the challenge on the rocker 
 initiate. While those who arent as familiar with many of the song offerings (like me) will probably 
 have a greater challenge than those who know what the songs are supposed to sound like, Easy mode 
 will still be pretty simple for most. The good thing about it is that it lets those who may never 
 have heard some of the songs get exposed to them, which helps out significantly once they choose 
 a more challenging level.
  
  On Medium level and above, the game pays you for your performances. Pay is always pretty small 
 because your rocker is supposedly such a rebel that he feels the need to do everything from spit 
 on the floor and intimidate the bouncers to imbibing truly staggering dollar values of top shelf 
 booze. Still, it is a nice system. You get your cash and can use it to unlock more songs, guitars, 
 characters, costumes, etc.
  
  For those who are interested in such things, the achievements for the game run the gambit. Some, 
 such as refusing to do an encore or failing a song on easy, are shockingly easy to earn. Others, 
 like getting a 1000 note streak going, will probably elude all but the most dedicated of rockers 
 forever.
  
  Moving on, the graphics arent particularly impressive. They get the job done mostly because anyone 
 looking at the game will be spending most of their time frantically watching the notes coming at 
 them and because their focus will be on the sound quality anyway. Other than that, the bodies are 
 painfully obvious as ports from the PS2 version of the game. They move in an unnatural fashion 
 and have unnatural dimensions. Another thing that will distract most gamers from paying attention 
 to the graphics is their struggles with the guitar itself. The damn thing is light, and tiny. I 
 dont know what age group Red Octane was targeting when they designed it, but it cant have been 
 adults. The next needs to be longer, the frets need to be spaced a bit further apart so you arent 
 constantly worrying about pushing the wrong one during fast sections and the entire thing needs 
 a heavier, more solid feel to it.
  
  Many will complain that it should have been wireless, but the fact that it is wired doesnt really 
 bother me or my live-in girlfriend. Neither of us feel the need to hop around or do gymnastics 
 while were playing the game and the cord is long enough that it isnt really a problem. Would 
 we be happier with a wireless controller? Probably. Are we going to lose a lot of sleep over the 
 fact that it isnt? Nope.
  
  Last but definitely not least we finally get to sound quality. This is where the game shines. The 
 mapping of your performance to the sound output of the game is spot on. When you hit or miss a 
 note, you can tell immediately. There is no ambiguity to it. Perhaps even more importantly, the 
 game just sounds incredible. The notes are clear and concise, with each one distinct. The song 
 selection is, for the most part, solid when you consider what the game is trying to do: make you 
 feel like a rocker. Many of the guitar solos are insane, and, when played on the previously mentioned 
 weak guitar controller, can lead to cramping on extended songs. Difficult songs with a lot of notes 
 make a great deal of sense for the game, but it would have been nice if there was a bit more variety 
 in the song offerings. Nearly all the music is pretty heavy stuff, which makes some of the lighter 
 songs like Carry on My Wayward Son by Kansas a welcome relief.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero 2, despite the barrier to entry represented by the high cost, is a solid offering 
 that is well worth the price of admission. It is a game that will appeal to fans of many game genres 
 and will almost certainly be a surefire hit whenever you entertain guests for drinking and card 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I initially looked upon this game, and laughed at it. Thinking it was lame, and since DDR came 
 out, this was a lame attempt at a money grab.
  
  However, after playing this game, i was put in my place. Had you looked upon me in Futureshop, 
 playing the demo, you would have seen an attitude changed. I picked up the guitar, looking at it 
 as in shock, stating, that i cant believe they made this.... then after 10 minutes of play, you'd 
 see me bobbing my head to the music, and playing away.....1hr later, i was still there.
  
  The only problem i see with this game, is that as a single player game, i dont see me enjoying 
 as much, standing in my living room alone, as opposed to haveing a group of friends over and jamming 
 away. If you got some friends that even play games just on occasion, then definately pick this 
 title up, if your a lone gamer, might think twice before making the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallowman87
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has been massively successful in harnessing the potential that the rhythm action genre 
 has to offer. With a quality soundtrack and simple gameplay that has something to offer casual 
 gamers and hardcore gamers alike, Guitar Hero proved itself to be a big success, with Guitar Hero 
 2 adding in a larger soundtrack as well as a handful of extra features for good measure.
  
  As the game has already been released on PS2, for the 360 release, Harmonix have added in 8 more 
 songs in career mode, as well as a few extra bonus songs, which altogether brings the soundtrack 
 to 74 songs (which is more than plenty) . When first glancing at the soundtrack, I was slightly 
 dissapointed, but when you play the songs and see how good fun some of them can be to play you 
 dont care who the song is by etc.
  
  Along with the extra songs added onto the disc, on 360, of course, you can download extra songs 
 into the game. So far, 9 songs from the original Guitar Hero game have been added, with Harmonix 
 having a view to adding new songpacks in the future.
  
  Having all those lovely new tracks would be worth nothing if the gameplay was not addictive, and 
 hell, it is. The first time you see the game you are at least a little bit curious, the first time 
 you have the oppurtunity to play, if you are smart enough, you are right in there, and as soon 
 as you get home you are straight onto Amazon/Ebay/Your email (To email a rich, long lost relative 
 to give you money to pay the &pound;70 RRP, which is a minor grumble) to buy it. Simulating the 
 actions of guitar playing, without actually being immensely difficult, results in a massive difficulty 
 span, with simple note charts for beginners, reaching to note to note solos for expert players.
 
  
  In addition to everything single player related, multiplayer remains an integral part of the Guitar 
 Hero experience. 2 guitars, any console capable of playing this game, and 2 guitars compatible 
 with said console makes for good parties (and lots of cheering) . Players can battle it out note 
 for note, alternately, or can even play seperate guitar roles (Lead/Rhythm/Bass) working together.
 
  
  As mentioned before, if I had a single gripe with this game it would be the initial price tag. 
 With an RRP of &pound;50 when released on PS2, I wonder if the extra &pound;20 you pay for the 
 360 version is worth it. Admittedly, its a new game, on a slightly more powerful console, with 
 a slightly gimmickyer (SP?) controller. If you arent so bothered about high def graphics or a few 
 extra songs, the PS2 version might be worth a go (unless you dont have a PS2) . Either way, do everything 
 in your power to own this game, it is taking over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  a blast to play, and a big song track. Not the greatest songs but they are all fun to play. The 
 cooperative mode is awsome, but it is a little disapointing that you cant play over xbox live, 
 but it doesnt take long to get over it when rockin free bird and other great songs. Definately 
 a must buy. The graphics did not change at all from the first to the second game, but the graphics 
 are not what makes the game at all. The new guitar is alot more sturdy but the strap does tend 
 to get tangled and that is annoying but nothing that should keep anyone from buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  The folks down at Red Octane have cracked out another masterpiece. This game comes loaded with 
 new features, including over 70 songs (more available to download on this version only.) , alternate 
 costumes for each character, two new characters, a new co-op feature, and a new X-Plorer guitar. 
 The songs may not be quite as good as the first game's to many, there are several great new ones. 
 Shout at the Devil, Sweet Child o' Mine, and War Pigs are only a few of the plethora of classics 
 on here. If you enjoyed the first game, then this game only makes it better than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnbrice
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect when I bought this game. I'd heard that the original was a one-of-a-kind 
 game and that this one was supposed to blow it out of the water. Well I have no frame of reference 
 comparing this to the first GH, but I can tell you that this one is insanely awesome. If you've 
 ever wanted to be a rocker, this is the game you need to make it happen. With over 30 songs to 
 play you can never grow board. The sound quality is a beautiful thing in this game as all of the 
 songs sound very similar to the original artists' conception of them. Even if you don't play the 
 guitar, the Xplorer friendly controller will have you up and rockin' in no time. It is a very easy 
 to use controller that uses 5 buttons to depict notes and chords. Not up to par so far? No problem. 
 Practice any song you want as slow as needed to nail that face-melting solo. And trust me, there 
 are plenty of them. This game has to have one of the highest replay values of any game I've ever 
 played, right up there with Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. If you don't already have this game in 
 your arsenal, trust me, get it! The $90 is well worth it as it comes with the game and Xplorer 
 controller. Hopefully this review will help to sway you in the right direction. Thanks for the 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about a month ago and i'm still playing it every day. I've always wanted to 
 play guitar and it's probably more fun than playing guitar hero 2 but at least i kind of get to 
 play one. This game is packed with lots of great songs such as Killing in the Name by Rage Against 
 the Machine and The Trooper by Iron Maiden. I've only beaten the game on medium and easy but its 
 still enough to tell you that this game is pretty hard at times. There definitely is no repetive 
 gameplay. It might seem that way since you play songs all the time but they are just so different 
 that it keeps everything new and exciting. I recommend this game to anybody. It's fun especially 
 when friends are over. Have competitions to see who can get the most points on a song. Or style 
 contests (way fun) I definitely think that whoever is reading this review should go buy this game 
 ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wergfwefwef
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is a puzzle music game, with a special controller and gameplay setup. On the screen 
 there are notes coming toward you and once the certain notes reach a particular point you must 
 strum that note on the Guitar controller. The notes are created through many famous classic rock 
 and metal songs, which intricut guitar playing. This experience is actually very fun and addictive. 
 If your looking for a fun game that has a good replay value ( guitar hero will give you plenty 
 to do, and leave you wanting to practice and get better constantly) , and something that you dont 
 have to be online to play, this game is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParasiteArtist
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is a must have for any rock fan. But like any game, you have the 
 good and the bad:
  
  The Good: Rock songs! Lots of songs to choose from while playing. You have multiple skill levels 
 for everyone. Like any great game, you get to choose your character, your guitar, guitar finish, 
 and accessories. This games has hours of play time and the songs get progressively harder as you 
 get deeper into the game. Multiplayer is awesome! One person on the bass, and one person on the 
 lead, or, one person lead and one person solo, you really feel like you are jamming out with your 
 friends when playing together. Online leaderboards make it quick and easy to see your friends' 
 score compared to yours, so you can rub it in how good you are.
  
  The Bad: Rock songs... the ones that you really don't like. Although there is a lot of good songs 
 in the game, quite a few of them are not what I would consider to be great rock songs. The guitar 
 seems cumbersome; with the top-most of the guitar coming up toward your arm pit, this game is easier 
 to play standing up, but if you want to sit down, you might find the guitar is in the way and uncomfortable. 
 Songs get old after beating the game on 2 or 3 difficulties, and you must beat it on all of them 
 to get the achievements. Unfortunately, if you beat it on hard to start with, you only unlock HARD 
 achievement and not the lower level ones, so you must play easy easy easy songs for the achievements. 
 So I would definitely recommend this game if you have not already bought it for PS2. But make sure 
 you have a good 20 min or so to spend watching the credits if you want the achievement for it... 
 I gave it an 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix, Red Octane, and MTV are back with one of the most anticipated sequels of this, or any, 
 year. Guitar Hero II has come to rock your socks off, and it succeeds in nearly all respects. While 
 I have a few nit-picky issues with the game, this is far and away one of the greatest games I have 
 played in quite a while. Plug it in, turn it up, and prepare for rock and roll immortality.
  
  Graphics: Since you spend most of the game staring at the fretboard trying to keep up with 
 the notes, graphics aren't a major concern for this game. That being said, Harmonix and Red Octane 
 did give the visuals a good boost from the last time around. The characters are rendered very nicely, 
 and you'll notice them actually playing what one would assume to be the proper notes and chords 
 on a given song. There's also more animation of each character, with distinct actions during solos, 
 breaks in playing, and general stage strutting. The stages themselves are also pretty cool, as 
 some of the big venues feature strobe lights, pyrotechnics, and smoke and fog blasts and synched 
 with big moments in the songs. Overall, this adds to the feel of really putting on a rock show 
 vs. just standing around and playing a few bars while people watch. Sadly the crowd hasn't gotten 
 much of an update, beyond throwing up lighters for a few songs they're basically the same faceless, 
 moving-in-unison crowd as before. But, for a game in which the focus is not really on the graphics, 
 I'm very happy with what they've done.
  
  Control: The Gibson guitar is back, and this time you get a sweet cherry red SG to play with. If 
 you already have 2 controllers from the first Guitar Hero game fear not, they will still work on 
 the new iteration. Thanks guys, for not making us buy multiple new guitars with every version and 
 draining bank accounts repeatedly for the same equipment. The controls on the game have tightened 
 this year, which is welcome because hammer-ons and pull-offs were notoriously hard to hit consistently 
 in the first game. While I could never seem to figure them out the first time around I've found 
 myself embracing HO/POs recently and using them fairly fluently. While you'll still miss from time 
 to time, I think that's largely due to bad timing or a missed strum rather than control issues. 
 It's still insane trying to hit those 16th, 32nd, and 64th notes, but at least now you feel like 
 you may have a fighting chance.
  
  Sound: The game's bread and butter, the reason you bought it in the first place is because you've 
 always wanted to be a rock star. Well this time around you've got legends like Spinal Tap, Motley 
 Crue, Black Sabbath, and yes, Lynard Skyner for your pickin' pleasure. Whereas the last game was 
 very cross-genre, this time around it's much more heavily focused on hard rock and metal. While 
 it's probably more true to the designer's rock star intent, I do sort of miss some of the blues 
 tracks and modern hits of the original. Not that I'm in a hurry to play Sum 41 again, but only 
 1 recent hit (Avenged Sevenfold's The Beast and the Harlot ) makes the track list feel just a bit 
 dated. However, this issue is nicely offset by the sheer number of licensed tracks, and the abundant 
 bonus song selection which allows you to play just about every possible genre. While I would have 
 liked a bit more diversity I won't be knocking off points because the track list is outstanding 
 and bountiful, and only additions like AC/DC and Led Zeppelin could make it perfect.
  
  Gameplay: A pretty car's no good without an engine right, and neither is a pretty game any good 
 without solid gameplay. Luckily, those happy with last year's installment will find that the game 
 plays pretty much the same with tweaked controls and more difficulty. In the higher difficulty 
 levels players will face three button chords and lots more first finger to fifth finger stretching, 
 necessitating very limber digits. The developers have also made the game generally more difficult 
 by ramping up the medium difficulty to feel like last year's hard, hard to resemble expert, and 
 expert to be mortally impossible. If you can finish the last song set on expert (consisting of 
 Beast and the Harlot, Misirlou, and Freebird, among others) then you should be in a professional 
 band. If you can get a five star rating on all the expert songs, then your name is likely Jimmy 
 Hendrix, and I'd like to meet you because I was led to believe that you died. While this ratcheted 
 up difficulty will spell disaster for those like me who could never quite muster through Cowboys 
 From Hell in the original GH, seasoned ax vets will likely be very satisfied with the difficulty 
 upgrade. Of course, you're not hopeless this time around either. If you can't get through a song 
 you can go into practice mode where you can play any chunk of the song you want (or the whole thing) 
 and slow it down so you can learn the finger patterns before trying it out in real-time. There's 
 no rock meter in this mode, so you can basically screw up as much as you want and the game won't 
 force you to repeatedly start over. This mode is sure to be essential for those seeking to rule 
 every song, and it is a truly welcome addition to a series whose biggest fault the first time around 
 was to give practicing users no option other than to fail repeatedly before getting a song right. 
 There's also a couple new multiplayer modes including co-op and pro face off. In co-op, you and 
 your bandmate pick a song and one of you plays lead while the other plays rhythm guitar or bass. 
 You share a rock meter, star power, and score, so you're working together to achieve the best song 
 possible. This teaches you to rely on your bandmates and work together to get those five-star ratings. 
 And seasoned players shouldn't worry about playing with novices either, as you each select your 
 own, independent difficulty level. So while you rock out on expert your buddy can get a feel for 
 how the game works on easy. It's a ton of fun and adds a unique dimension. The other new mode is 
 pro face-off, in which the two of you duel to decide once and for all who is the true rock god. 
 You both play the song on the same difficulty at the same time all the way through, so no more 
 whining about how you got the easy parts, now there's nowhere to hide. These modes really just 
 further add to an already deep and rewarding game experience.
  
  Overall: I, like most GH vets, am very happy with the new and improved GH II, and only look forward 
 to what's coming in the future. Ever since I first played the Harmonix game Amplitude I've known 
 that these guys are serious about making rhythm games more than just a niche genre. The GH series 
 has gained wide appeal and this installment will only further its fan base. If you've ever even 
 once wondered what it would be like to a rock star then pick up GH II, tie a bandanna around your 
 head and some sweatbands on your wrists and get ready to rock some socks off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanksfanman319
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I am so happy I bought this game. It is alot of fun and highly addictive. Once I beat the game 
 on easy difficulty, I switched to Medium and beat that. Once I beat that, I switched to hard. And 
 when they say hard.. they mean it! I cannot get passed it, but it is still alot of fun and with 
 practice youll eventually be able to do it. It would also help in the long run to know some of 
 the songs. Alot of the songs I didnt know, but once I heard them and how the guitar played in the 
 song, it made it easier for me to know what was coming so I knew what to play .I would deffinetly 
 pick this game up if I were you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulisan
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, one of the most addictive games to hit the Xbox 360 so far. Whether you are a 
 seasoned musician, or an inspiring star in the comforts of your own fantasy, this game allows even 
 the least musically talented person (like myself) to feel like rockstar.
  
  The game perfectly incorporates the various hits into a game that rewards accuracy, practice, and 
 time investment. The difficulty is well adjustable, and is set up great to allow gamers who are 
 new to it to pick up the guitar and get use to the mechanics of the game, while also providing 
 a skill level that will challenge most gamers. Its use of the Xbox Live to provide quality updates 
 is a perfect examples of how gaming companies can provide longevity to its product, while also 
 adding quality additions to its gameplay.
  
  From the second that I played Nirvana's Heart-Shaped Box, I was sold on the game and have not let 
 go of my guitar ever since. What's next - Trumpet All-Star? Saxaphone Glory? The possibilities 
 are endless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Probably the most fun game to play mainly because of the unique guitar controller. There 
 are many different difficulty levels for any player new or old to the game. So yeah very easy and 
 very fun. Multiplayer is fun because you can duel or work cooperatively. Graphics- Pretty much 
 the same as the PS2 version just a little bit sharper and clearer. So yea they are good but nothing 
 like Gears or Oblivion. Character models seem to be better too.
  
  Sound- Great of course I mean come on the game is about music so obviously its gonna be good. The 
 whammy bar adds good sound because it actually does something. Also its cool how the fans cheer 
 when you activate star power.
  
  Value- This is a game you will never get sick of because it will never get boring. Also great to 
 play with friends and family at parties and stuff. But the lack of online mp hurts the value a 
 bit.
  
  Tilt- Buy this game you will not be disappointed provides hours of fun to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I gotta day, this game is extremely fun to play. It is a must buy for someone who like to have 
 fun with friends or loves to play Rock and Roll. Its worth the $100 (Canada Price) with the controller 
 to get.
  
  I'm currently doing the Hard Career, I'm doing alright so far and yes it is difficult. I mostly 
 spend my time playing my favorite songs in Quick Play. My current favorite is Jessica and Free 
 Bird. There are a total of 70 or more songs in the game, that'll keep you busy for a while and 
 they are all very good songs.
  
  The only downfall of the game is the downloadable contents of extra songs. It kinda pricey right 
 now at 500 micropoints for 3 songs. I wouldn't bother getting the online content because 70 songs 
 is plenty enough for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMcCoy14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is simply one of the top titles to come to any platform. The transformation from 
 PS2 is flawless, and the achievements add a whole dimension. A must have if you own a 360, even 
 if you only have a couple minutes and want to get a song or two in. Has Easy, Medium, Hard, and 
 Expert to suit all your skill levels. Expert is very hard and needs a lot of dedication, but medium 
 and easy are easier to follow and will still be fun/addicting to those who just started or whatnot. 
 The only drawback I have is the xplorer controller. My seems to act up, and the star power doesn't 
 always work. Even so, Guitar Hero 2 is a solid title and is one of the top 360 titles of '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gHoStLyEyEs
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on the gameplay not on the graphics or the storyline, bu the full out fun of 
 jammin on the X-plorer controller for the all new GH2 for x360, this game is so much better then 
 the PS2 version. Lets get the obvious out of the way! 10 new tracks to jam on WoOt!! plus its got 
 the awsome graphical update from the PS2 version. There is very little wrong with this game The 
 guys dont sound right on with the origanal song all the time, but its probably not supposed to, 
 Your not playin with the real band are you? and that there still aint no Metallica or Led Zeppilin. 
 But the game still has plenty of potential, Now im just waiting for it to branch out into Drum 
 hero and Singer hero... not like itll ever happen. The multiplayer is not what we all thought it 
 would be its not fully online play just Leaderboards, and plenty is coming with the new downloadable 
 content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh3555
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  GOOD: This versoin of guitar hero 2 features 10 new songs by artist like Iron maiden, Deep purple 
 and Alice cooper. Graphics are up yo next gen standerds. Music qualitiy is has also been upgraded 
 and a new design controller.
  
  BAD: $100 price tag, Not wireless so you cant rock out as hard as you want. also the guitar contoller 
 is smaller than the SG versoin. which could be a problem for people used to the other controller 
 for the PS2
  
  Overall: guitar hero 2 for the 360 is great for people who dont own the PS2 versoin but if you 
 do you might want to wait for the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil725
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Gutar Hero 2 for the xbox, is basically the same as the versions for the PS2, It just has some 
 uped graphics and some downloadable content. However if you have not played GH in the past, and 
 you don't play the actual guitar, then it is a definate MUST BUY!!!! It's a great game with good 
 selections of difficulty and challenge. This is a game you and your friends will be playing for 
 many days to come, trying to beat eachothers high scores =) . It also has some online leader boards, 
 adding something new showing how good you compare to the rest of the Xbox Live World. The downloadable 
 content, alothough small now, will expand and make you arsenal of songs larger, for a reasonable 
 price. Great game =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  compared to the Ps2 version this one is better.... ALOT better becuase you can download songs for 
 the game through the xbox market place it was alot of fun the only thing bad about it was no online 
 multiplayer but this has 74 great songs about 50 of those are from famous bands you'll find songs 
 like war pigs from black sabbath its really really enjoyable and in 1 player-mode you can unlock 
 new gutairs, songs and characters just like in the Ps2 verison and if u have 2 gutairs and some 
 friends it will make it more fun
  and the graphics and the gameplay are what made this game charming overall i would recemend this 
 game if u like rock music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  The premise for Guitar Hero II is simple. Rock out and have an awesome time doing it. The game 
 comes with the new style Gibson Xplorer guitar controller (the PlayStation 2 version uses a Gibson 
 SG controller) . Although I haven't played the game on PS2 using the SG controller, I understand 
 from many reliable sources (my brother and Alex Navarro included) that the Xplorer is a much more 
 solid peripheral.
  
  Okay, now the important stuff, the game. Guitar Hero II follows the same format as the original. 
 Notes, denoted by colour, appear on screen and you use the guitar controller to play those notes 
 using buttons of the same colour on the neck of the controller and also strumming at the right 
 time. On easy mode you use three of the five buttons, but as the difficulty ramps up the other 
 buttons are used, meaning you play more of the songs' actual notes. On easy the game is enjoyable 
 enough but it doesn't necessarily feel like you are actually playing the song. The other difficulties 
 are much more satisfying and the jump between levels is balanced enough for you to be challenged 
 each time without feeling a sense of impossibilty, with the exception of extreme mode.
  
  The visuals look very nice on the 360 even though they don't really have to be, considering you're 
 concentrating on the notes and not the backgrounds.
  
  The song list in Guitar Hero II probably isn't as great as that of the original game but there 
 are a few true classics on the list. These include Sweet Child of Mine by Guns 'N' Roses and also 
 Free Bird by Lynard Skynard. There are also some more modern songs, like Woman by Wolfmother, which 
 are also great fun to play. On top of this there is a massive selction of songs from up and coming 
 rock bands which you can unlock. Then of course, there is the controversial Xbox Live downloadable 
 content, which contains songs from the original title. At 500 MS Points for three songs they are 
 just far too expensive and I would reccommend that you wait for a premium pack containing all the 
 songs from the first game in order to get better value for money.
  
  Guitar Hero II has some great multiplayer modes which involve both battling for the most points 
 with someone and also co-op play. Both these styles of gameplay work very well and are superb additions 
 to the single-player game.
  
  Finally, there's the achievements and leaderboards. In Guitar Hero II these systems have been used 
 brilliantly. The achievements really encourage you to keep progressing in the game and pushing 
 onwards and the leaderboards are a great way to keep you striving for high scores to beat both 
 your friends and others.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero II is a truely superb game and it is without a doubt the best rhythm-action 
 game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I played before the previous versions of Guitar Hero on ps2, and know what? Same addiction!
 
  
  Well, graphics are really good in 1080, not the bests ones but it's passable. Sound .... sound.... 
 Guitar Hero is all about sound , it's the same soundtrack of the ps2.... but with more tracks! 
 And the good thing is that you can purchase more songs on the marketplace ( until now you can buy 
 3 different sets of 3 songs from Guitar Hero 1) .
  
  Ok... now for learning-time.... well it depends on what king the person you are, well with 4 kind 
 of difficulty everyone can play, but if you wan't to enjoy the game as it maximum you have to play 
 the 2 highest levels. It takes me about 30 minutes to learn the game, but for most person I know 
 it's about 1 hour of playing.
  
  In general it's a must hands-on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero is to start, an extremely fun game and is easy to pick up and play but that dosn't 
 mean your ready to play expert the first 30 minutes unless you've played it before. next if you 
 like rock, metal music or just like guitars chances are you'll like this game. the symptoms for 
 guitar hero addiction is as follows: playing it many hours at a time, thinking about guitar hero 
 when your not playing it, and getting every achievement on the first week. the graphics are good 
 but i dont really have time to look at the backround when im mashing buttons, the gameplay is practically 
 the best and thanks to the downloadable songs this game could last a long time.
  the sound well. i havent played other GH games so i have nothing to compare it to but from what 
 i know its awesome. the value i think is good $90 and you get 80 songs a guitar and well thats 
 it but it is awesome. but if you were hoping to get songs of xbox live well each song pack that 
 comes with 3 songs cost's $5.25. and thats my only complaint. so thats your review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  For users who have not experienced the original Guitar Hero like me, this game was awesome with 
 a even cooler new way to play, using an actual guitar controller. Guitar Hero 2 is a DDR style 
 rythm game where you have five chords on the guitar, each in different colors, and a strum bar, 
 plus an extra whammy bar for extra points on those longer notes. As each color note passes over 
 the color, you hold down the note and strum. Sometimes you must play two notes at a time, and sometimes 
 you must hold it down, which is your time to use the whammy bar and earn some points. You can also 
 double your points by playing ten notes in a row perfectly, which earns you a x2 bonus on all of 
 your points. As you continue your note streak continues, you can get x3, x4, and even x8. Theres 
 also a rock meter. Every note you get makes it go up a bit, and unlike DDR, Guitar Hero 2 is a 
 little more forgiving and only lowers it a little bit every note you miss, until you fail the song. 
 Every note you make emits the regular note from the song, while the ones you miss have a loud off-key 
 noise that makes it easy to tell where you've made a mistake. Plus, there is also the exciting 
 addition of Star Power! All of the star notes you hit correctly fuels up your Star Meter. When 
 you fill it up, you give your guitar a shake, and Star Power comes on! The crowd goes wild and 
 all of your points automatically double. With over seventy songs to rock on, Guitar Hero 2 is a 
 great game that will last a long time. Not all of them are great though, and if your not that big 
 of a fan of rock music, then you probably won't recognize most of the songs, but you will learn 
 to love them like me.
  
  Aside from just playing, theres also career mode, which you can start your own band, select a hero 
 to play as, which includes several rock superstars, and three of them you can unlock by buying 
 them in the store with the money you earn playing career mode only on medium, hard, and expert 
 (one of them is a punked out grim reaper) . You start out in your school's gym to a sold out stadium. 
 You can also customize the guitars you can choose from with bought paint jobs you buy with earned 
 money. You can also buy extra songs, guitars, outfits for your characters, and videos from the 
 developers, such as the making of Guitar Hero. You can just play random songs from your list using 
 quick play, or you can practice those songs slower or the same speed as the regular song, then 
 pick which part you want to play in the practice room. The multiplayer is pretty good, although 
 to really have fun you must buy an extra $60 guitar controller, which I personally really don't 
 think is worth it. Theres head on mode, which pits you and your friend against each other to see 
 who's better. I suggest having two people play the same song and see who gets the most points if 
 you don't have an extra computer. You can also play co-op career mode with a friend. Guitar Hero 
 for Xbox 360 offers about 10 songs plus downloadable songs over the ps2 version. Guitar Hero 2 
 lacks online play, which is one of the main weaknesses, but RedOctane promises this feature in 
 Guitar Hero 3.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 will not dazzle you with it's graphics, though that will not matter much. Overall, 
 Guitar Hero 2 is a fantastic game with an awesome new way to play that will appeal to everyone, 
 whether or not you like rock music or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was fun. Had a great song list. Good controls. It was fun. Guitar Hero 2, relies heavy 
 on rock on PCP. Get into the latter portions of the games, and you find yourself with some pretty 
 wicked facemelters. Difficulty settings are fairly decent. Easy is a bit of a joke and boring. 
 Medium makes for a good warm up. Hard is probably where the most fun is. Expert, its brutal, hard, 
 yet very rewarding in the end. Graphics are a bit dated, but, it is a PS2 port, and given the circumstances, 
 they did a decent job cleaning up the graphics and such for the 360. Great, extensice song list. 
 Controller is far better than its predecessors in my opinion. Just feels more responsive and doesn't 
 click as much with the pressing of buttons and stuff. Now the covers for the songs, are really 
 good too. Some aren't exact sound-alikes, but there are some cases where the GH2 version is better 
 than its original counterpart (Tattooed Love Boys comes to mind) . well, not much else to say. Guitar 
 Hero 2 does just what it sets out to do. I rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker67
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  It should just be called Crack Hero II. You immediately pick up the controller, an refuse to put 
 it down. It only takes a couple of attempts to start get it, but it takes hours upon hours to actually 
 get good at it. The more you play, the less you want to put down the guitar. The only thing that 
 i can really complain about is the graphics, but they are not needed due to the fact that you never 
 actually look at anything other than the notes. Also the cord on the guitar gets a little annoying 
 after awhile. I am going to invest in a wireless controller as soon as it becomes available to 
 me. Must Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryoung4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 is basically the same game you know and love on the PS2, its just 
 this time its packed with all new extras! Probably the most obvious difference between this version 
 and the PS2 version is your new axe. Its modeled after the Gibson Explorer, and is now equipped 
 with a D-pad, Start and Back buttons, and the Guide button, so you can still navigate through your 
 360 with ease, but the controller is not wireless. However i did find the start and back buttons 
 to feel a little awkward and the Whammy bar is at times almost in a state where it refuses to do 
 its job. The graphics are updated, but that was never really the point of Guitar Hero anyway. There 
 are ten new songs including: The Trooper by Iron Maiden, Dead! by My Chemical Romance, and more. 
 There is also four difficulty levels, so there will still be plenty of challenge. The most distinct 
 feature in this version is the online support. You can now download songs from Xbox Live. There 
 is also online Leaderboards to see how good you are compared to every other Guitar Hero Player. 
 The biggest let-down of Guitar Hero 2 is the fact that there is no online multiplayer. But overall, 
 this is definitely the best version of the series to date, and is a must by for all 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtn702
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a very amusing game. Can be fun for hours! But sometimes it can get HARD. Something i did 
 expect though... I loved the commercial for it :) kinda on the cheap side (considering that when 
 you buy the guitar pack it comes with the game) anyways. The songs were very good. God i was not 
 blessed with fast fingers =/ so it even took me a while to get used to expert mode. If you want 
 a good fun game to play this is the game for you. Considering you have the money and an xbox 360. 
 If you dont have an xbox 360 i would also suggest you get one!! and pronto! Not just for this game 
 but all the other games the xbox 360 offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBNsebas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Me as a drummer thinks this is the best game ever. To bad that it costs more than other games but 
 it's totally worth it. it got 70 songs and they all (almost all) rocks!!! The guitar is awesome 
 and how to play the game is wicked. But they should have put metallica cause that's one of the 
 best. And they should haven't asked money for the new songs cause you allready paid enough for 
 the whole game. And it's a SHAME that they haven't put this on Xbox LIVE. SHAME ON YOU!!! you can 
 play this game pretty much cause you get better and better and gets more fun if you get a 5 star 
 ranking on a song and trying to get achievements. At the start of the game it can be pretty tough 
 to understand but after 30 min you completely understand it and you ROCK the **** out of it!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Very addictive, great songs, but needs more, you can run out of things to play after a couple weeks, 
 but is still a great game!!! I think it has improved alot since coming over to the Xbox 360 from 
 the Playstation 2. Alot of improvements, and the guitar is cooler. The price for new songs is dissapointing 
 though... But hey, it doesn't take away from the game much at all. Alot of the achievements were 
 easy to get, they should be a little more innovative, but I'm sure they will better over time, 
 so great game, pricey at ninety bucks, but hey, it's loads of fun, it rocks out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose7293
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for Xbox 360 is by far the best in the GH series so far. It adds much more to the 
 game that the Playstation 2 version didn't have, like the ability to download new songs from the 
 Xbox Live Marketplace. Even the guitar controller itself is an improvement, as it is much sleeker 
 and fit for a rock star! For someone who has never played a Guitar Hero game, it lets you jump 
 into it pretty quickly and easily, with 2 quick tutorials, and the Easy setting. Easy is, for the 
 most part, well, easy! It is the perfect way to start your musical career. As you get further into 
 Career mode, the songs get harder, and start to challenge what you've learned so far. When you 
 move up to the Medium difficulty on Career Mode, everything changes. A new key is added, making 
 you think more and the notes begin to come quicker. Every level of difficulty makes it real tough 
 to move on, yet keeps it possible and fun. The achievements are another strong point in GH2 for 
 360. As always, they give you a big reason to go back and finish Career Mode on all difficulties, 
 and challenge you to get 5-star ratings on all songs in each difficulty. You are also awarded with 
 sleek new guitars available for purchase in the game store, along with new songs, characters, outfits, 
 finishes, and bonus video content, all of which you get an achievement for by buying them all. 
 One of the coolest items in the game is rewarded for beating Expert (VERY, VERY HARD) . It is a 
 righteous piece of equipment shaped like a battle axe. Song selection is variably good, from rock 
 'n roll hits like Free Bird , Sweet Child 'O Mine , and Shout at the Devil , as well as the classics 
 Message in a Bottle , Carry on Wayword Son , and Rock this Town . Although some songs seem wimpy 
 and 'un-rock-ish' they still make for good solos and beats. Favorites definitely emerge, like Killing 
 in the Name . Many songs you'll have never heard of, but love playing them. Also, you can keep 
 track your and your friend's scores on Career Mode, and even on certain songs on a particular difficulty. 
 Guitar Hero II is definitely one of my most favorite games out there at the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  graphics-good graphics characters models look impresives but effects look dated
  
  sound-almoust perfect impressives sountrack its amazing
  
  gameplay-fun fun fun fun great placements 
 in the xbox controls and easy to use. the levels are very high and they need a lot of skills even 
 on normal dificulty.
  
  entertaining-like hell but with more rock than ever
  
  value-fun fun fun fun fun there are a lot of added sountrack and the cooperatives levels make value 
 too.
  
  pros- alot of songs gourgeus gameplay great characters models great the valance in each dificulty 
 level impresives sountrack fun like hell the game can be a drog
  
  con-dated graphics some songs are frustating sometimes too dificult damege the value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecrab
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Before buying the xbox360 version of this game, i had previously played the ps2 versions of this 
 game and enjoyed both the first and second games. However, they failed to bring complete longevity 
 game because of the limited number of songs you had to pick from. This is where te xbox360 exceeds 
 with about 10 new songs that come with it, along with 9 other downloadable songs from the first 
 guitar hero. While this may not seem like much right now, this opens the door to a realm of possibilities 
 for other songs that fans have been wanting from the beginning (ACDC anyone?) Along with this, 
 GH2 also comes with a completely new controller that not performs better but also looks alot cooler. 
 The only main problem with it is that its not wireless, but this not detract from the overall experience, 
 it just kind of drag that you can go out of control and jump around at the end of a huge solo. 
 On the graphics side, it doesn't look a whole lot better other than the lighting effects appear 
 to be brighter and more realistic. But seperates this version from the ps2 version the most is 
 the acheivements. They start out with some fairly easy ones such as refusing an encore, beating 
 easy mode etc. However, along with these come some fairly difficult ones, such as beating Jordan 
 on Expert and getting and 1000 note streak! This type of balance allows players from all over the 
 spectrum to nab some points. So, Overall, GH2 for the xbox360 is deffinitely a must own for anyone 
 who has been dying to rock out to their favorite songs in ways that were never possible until now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmoney360
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  this game is so fun buy it no need to rent unless you want a late fee this is the best guitar hero 
 i have ever played it has good music, good game play and graphics I have only had this game for 
 a couple of days and I am addicted to it and every one that have played tha ps2 version have to 
 agree wit me one this one tha xbox 360's guitar is way more realistic feels better its way closer 
 to a real guitar than tha ps2 toy guitar lol if you like rock you will love this game and the funny 
 thing is I didnt even like rock before I started playing this game I really do hope to see a 3rd 
 guitar hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herrn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  If you&acute; ve played the Guitar Hero 2 on the PS2, you won&acute; t regret trying out the Xbox 
 360 version of the Game.
  
  It&acute; s basically the same thing, except that you&acute; ve got the new Xplorer guitar, better 
 light dynamics in-game (for those graphical monsters out there) , some new songs, downloadable content 
 (big+!!) and yes.. the last and least.. it ROCKS!!!11
  
  If you liked the PS2 version, you will love the 360 version.
  It doesnt get a full 10/10 score 
 since it still doesnt support online multiplayer mode, and the unlock all cheat doesnt work for 
 those nights you just wanna rock on! (stupid enough, eh?)
  
  This is the next game you are going to buy, if you&acute; ve already bought Gears of War and Dead 
 Rising..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SneakyKorean
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing no doubt about that, especially if you've played guitar before, it's cool 
 to compare. What I thought was really bad about it though, was the fact that it's so hard to activate 
 the star power. Also, it's pretty darn expensive for one game. Once you beat in on an easier difficulty, 
 and start getting into the harder more fun stuff, it gets a little bit better, because there are 
 a lot of crappy songs on this game. If you own a PS2, and aren't an achievement whore, then I would 
 suggest getting this for the PS2 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog2575
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  this game was great. Graphics are good. Game play rocks and everything. The guitar is really cool 
 to. The only thing that stinks is you pay 90$ for it and have to pay Microsoft points for the new 
 songs on XBOX live marketplace. and also some guitars have a weird whammy bar problem were it doesn't 
 work all the time. I do not care for the My Chemical Romance songs cause i hate that band but there 
 are a lot of fun and some challenging songs. It is one of the most addicting games I've ever played. 
 You will keep beating the game to earn new songs, Characters, guitars, even guitar skins. All the 
 characters are awesome you even get the Grim Reaper (who they call Grim Ripper) . You get about 
 50-60 guitars plus their skins which make them look better. There are about 20 songs you can buy 
 with money that you make from concerts plus the songs you played through your tour around America 
 which is about 30-40. This game rules you will spend hours playing it is one of the greatest games 
 i ever played. P. S. If you get bored playing and have a friend who has it he can come over and 
 play in these multiplayer modes:
  
  CO-OP: One plays Lead, Bass, or Rhythm trying to get the best score working together.
  Face Off: 
 Both switch between notes in a face off of the two.
  Pro Face Off: Two play same notes on same difficulty to see who's better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sligzz76543
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a really fun/addicting game. For a couple weeks, i could only think about guitar 
 hero (sad i know lol) . I finally got to play it for the 360 at my friends house and it really impressed 
 me. The graphics are really good but the game is the exact same as the PS2, which isn't a bad thing. 
 I haven't got to play the full thing yet since i don't own a 360 but from what i have played, it 
 impressed me. From what i have seen from playing it, this is a def buy if you own a 360 and hopefully 
 they will come out for one soon on the PS3 =] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II taps into one of the most universal adolescent fantasies; rocking the hell out on 
 stage with a line of huge amplifiers set to eleven behind you. Swapping the well worn tennis racket 
 and mirror combination of old with a plastic guitar controller and a HDTV, Red Octane's first foray 
 onto a next generation platform delivers exactly what you'd expect; brain liquefying-ly loud music, 
 overblown riffs, string breaking solos and not a small touch of frustration. Oh and a few new songs, 
 online leader boards and a brand new guitar to blast out the tunes with.
  
  The actual mechanics of Guitar Hero II remain unchanged from the PS2 games. The guitar controller 
 has five colour coded buttons, a strum bar, and a whammy bar. As the song plays, notes colour coded 
 to match the buttons travel down the screen; the idea being that the matching button be held down 
 and the strum bar hit just as the note reaches the end of the on screen fret board. Hitting the 
 correct notes in sequence builds a multiplier; consecutive fluffed notes begin to eat into the 
 rock-meter that measures your performance. Drop too many notes and the meter will drop into the 
 red, first eliciting boos, then the song ending in complete failure. Occasionally, a sequence of 
 star shaped notes will appear. Hitting ever note in the sequence will build the star meter, which, 
 in a suitably guitar heroic move, is activated by tilting the guitar, doubling the multiplier until 
 the meter runs dry. Finally, there's the whammy bar, which can be used subtly for the occasional 
 waggle or for full on Steve Vai style dive bomb whammy abuse extremes. Both approaches giving a 
 few more points than simply letting the longer notes sustain but the wilder the whammy-ing the 
 faster the points rack up.
  
  Explaining the mechanics of Guitar Hero in writing is the like learning to unicycle from a book 
 on tape; getting your hands on the respective props make things a lot more obvious. The prop in 
 Guitar Hero's case is the new X-Plorer shaped guitar controller. For a plastic guitar, the controller 
 feels fairly sturdy. The buttons are responsive and feel like they'll be able to hold up under 
 the inevitable abuse they'll receive. The controller is light enough so that extended sessions 
 won't have you bent double but still solid enough to feel like you have something slung around 
 your neck, even if those who are used to real guitars will feel like a giant with a pituitary problem 
 the first time they plug in. Speaking of which; the X-Plorer controller is wired, due to Microsoft 
 guarding their wireless technology as stringently as a man in a funny hat guards the Queen. The 
 controllers lead is of a decent length, so it really doesn't impact on mobility all that much, 
 but the more outrageous living room stage antics will have to be curtailed; don't swing the guitar 
 around your head unless your ready to duck the cable as it flies towards your face.
  
  Of course, the new controller would be useless if there were no songs to clack the buttons along 
 to. The Xbox 360 version of the game expands the song count by ten, stretching the set list to 
 74 tunes. The song list is nothing if not diverse, stretching from Cheap Trick to Suicidal Tendencies, 
 stopping in on the likes of Thin Lizzy, Primus, Iron Maiden and, magnificently, Spinal Tap along 
 the way. Unfortunately, not every tune is a gem. Discounting the fact that music is ridiculously 
 subjective, there are a few songs that just don't stand up after repeated plays and a few that 
 just aren't fun to play at all. Guitar Hero II makes what seems to be a conscious move away from 
 classic riffs and hooks towards heavier, solo intense songs and, in doing so, has created a set 
 list that isn't as strong as the first game. While it clearly comes down to personal taste, it's 
 a safe bet that at least one of the songs will start to grate. Perhaps expecting to love every 
 song on such a diverse list is being a touch churlish, and there are enough genuinely fun songs 
 to cancel out the occasional duffer, there are still a few questionable inclusions. Equally questionable 
 are the song choices from the bigger bands. Whether it's down to licensing issues or whether there's 
 a grand scheme at work behind closed doors at Red Octane, the inclusion of lesser known songs at 
 the expense of the well known crowd pleasers, particularly given the wealth of material and the 
 number of bona fide classics in the back catalogues of Aerosmith, Deep Purple, Thin Lizzy and The 
 Rolling Stones, is particularly puzzling.
  
  The trend towards a more note intense set list has had a serious impact on the game's difficulty. 
 Guitar Hero's career mode is hard. Not demonically, beating Speedy Gonzales in a 100 metre dash 
 difficult, but difficult enough to inspire Pete Townsend style plastic guitar destruction. Those 
 who could tackle the original game's expert mode without too much hassle will be in for a rude 
 awakening here and those who've never picked up the guitar controller in their lives are in for 
 a lot of frustration. The game's difficulty makes some huge, near vertical leaps, with the tail 
 end of the Medium career mode starting the punishment, and Hard mode heaping on the abuse. There 
 is no real transition between difficulty settings; the jump from Medium to Hard verges on the ridiculous 
 and can be slightly disheartening, not to mention frustrating. But it's worth sticking with; finishing 
 songs in career mode nets you a wade of cash, which can be spent unlocking extra guitars, characters 
 and songs.
  
  Perhaps to balance out the upped difficulty level, Guitar Hero II features a brand spanking new 
 practice mode. Given how challenging the later songs can be, the ability to slow down tracks and 
 replay specific sections is nigh on essential. The game even offers the option of jumping straight 
 into the practice mode if you fail a song. Unfortunately, neither the star nor rock meter are used 
 in the practice runs. This means it's impossible to tell how close to failing the song you'd actually 
 be and, given that the star meter can be the difference between 3 and 5 starring a song or just 
 passing the song at all, it's difficult to work out a strategy. The practice mode is invaluable 
 for getting the faster passages under your fingers.
  
  And practice you will, if only to try and squeeze a few more points out of particular songs and 
 earn a bragging rights. The 360 version features online leaderboards, both for individual songs 
 and an overall career total. Guitar Hero was always a game to inspire rivalries and, given how 
 stiff the online competition is, the leaderboards are likely to extend the life of the game as 
 people jockey for position or just try and stay ahead of their friends. Downloadable content is 
 likely to play a large part in extending the life of the game; the content released so far suggests 
 that songs from the original game will be reworked to add bass and rhythm guitar parts for multiplayer.
 
  
  The multiplayer features both competitive and cooperative modes. The competitive multiplayer involves 
 trading off the lead guitar track. Each player can select their own difficulties but the scores 
 are weighted; hitting more notes on Easy won't automatically score a victory over your friend playing 
 on Expert. In cooperative mode, the second player will tackle the bass or rhythm guitar parts, 
 depending on the song. Both players share a rock meter and have to tilt the guitars in unison to 
 activate the star power. And that's as much fun as it sounds. Each player can set their own difficulty 
 level, which removes the potentially huge problem of finding a friend with a similar skill level. 
 While the logistics of needing two guitars and a tv big enough to show both fret boards properly 
 can be a bit of a bind, the resulting fun, particularly with a group of people, is well worth it.
 
  
  Graphically, Guitar Hero II isn't going to set the 360 alight. This isn't to say it's a bad looking 
 game but the overall presentation and charm are far more important than breath taking visuals. 
 Realistically, you'll be staring intently at the fret board 99% of the time but it's easy to be 
 distracted as your character duck walks across the stage. Just try and suppress the smile when 
 Clive Winston whips out the violin bow or Xavier Stone starts picking with his teeth. Obviously 
 a game like this lives or dies on its audio, so it's lucky that the audio is almost universally 
 fantastic. Aside from a handful of songs, most of the tracks are cover versions, all of which are 
 remarkable accurate. A great deal of work has gone into picking up the nuances of the original 
 tracks, with all the guitar and bass parts being incredible accurate. A few of the vocal performances 
 aren't quite as accurate but as they tend to sit lower in the mix, they're not overly noticeable. 
 And it's a plus to actually be able to make out the lyrics in 'Life Wasted'...
  
  The game's leap from PS2 to 360 has been a complete success. By adding new content and working 
 in some online features, Red Octane has managed to make a great game even better. While the set 
 list may not be as strong as it should be, the sheer number of songs means that they're will be 
 at least one song that you'll love playing. &pound;70 is a hefty sum to splash out on both the 
 guitar and game, but with the inevitable sequels already on the horizon, the guitar controller 
 will be getting regular outings. Guitar Hero manages to accomplish something truly magnificent; 
 it makes playing a small plastic guitar socially acceptable, if not genuinely cool. And that's 
 no small feat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game the songs are great and fun to play the graphics are not the best in the 
 world but everything else was absolutely amazing! I could sit down play and the look over and hours 
 had gone buy so it is obviously highly addictive! I completely recomend this game to anyone who 
 wants to have fun! The story mode is very fun you go to different cities and get new sponsors. 
 The co-op on this game is pretty good i think it could be better but i can still have alot of fun 
 when playing co-op! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorrock26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is now on the 360! This version of GH2 has 10 new song that are not in the PS2 version. 
 Plus downloadable content that you can get through Xbox Live.
  
  The Graphics in the game while better then GH2 on the PS2 still aren't very impressive. Not much 
 detail is put in the models but alot of the animations look cool . Unforchanatly your going to 
 be looking at the bottom of the screen the entire time.
  
  The sound in the game like in many rythem game are great. Lots of the songs are great but some 
 not so much with both bad lyrics and really bad singing. But other then that it's very good.
  
  The gameplay is great the game is highly adictive with tons of songs 90 to be exact. Yet, once 
 you beat easy and mediem it gets really hard and almost impossible without lots of practice. But 
 once you get the hang of it and have good reflexes you can breeze through it in about 2 days and 
 you can go back a play it when ever it never gets old.
  
  Overall this game is exelent and is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  So I'm pretty sure you already know whats GREAT about this game from all the other reviews... I'm 
 going to do away with all the revering and just point out some of the game's flaws (but don't get 
 me wrong, this game is still great) .
  
  Flaw No. 1
  The strap on the guitar is a bit meddlesome... For instance, it tangles up easily and it isn't 
 all that comfortable if used without a shirt on. But otherwise it's fine.
  
  Flaw No. 2
  The online download costs are ridiculous. If they continue to put a pricetag of $2 a song for ALL 
 the guitar hero one songs, it would cost up to $90 for the entire gh1 track. The downloads also 
 come in packs of 3, so if one song is unwanted in the bundle, it's money down the drain.
  
  Flaw No. 3
  No online play. I was hoping to receive xbox live combatibility (other than leaderboards) 
 so i could do co-op or head-to-head with friends (or even random people over live) . But good news 
 is... Guitar Hero 3 is supposed to implement this idea. Flaw No. 4
  The character models are extremely odd and some of the animations are over-redundant. However, 
 this doesn't really matter at all considering the rhythms in the game are most important.
  
  Flaw No. 5
  Wait... I don't think there is another flaw.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pherstothelee
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  I don't really know why Harmonix and Red Octane decided to port Guitar Hero II to the XBOX 360, 
 but they did, and this review's going to be very short, because I've already reviewed Guitar Hero 
 II, and if you want to know what's good and bad about the original game, then you can read my Guitar 
 Hero PS2 review, but this review's only going to highlight the good and the bad changes and additions 
 with the new port.
  
  First off, there is a new controller, the Explorer, and it's nowhere near as good as the SG from 
 the PS2 version. The controller in itself feels cold and hard, and it doesn't have that comfortable 
 feel that the SG did. Also, the whammy bar's a little wanky and the buttons stick sometimes.
  
  There are ten new songs added and I hate to say it, but I didn't recognize most of them. The 
 only one that really struck me was Dead! by My Chemical Romance. That song is a joy to play and 
 also makes for very good co op multiplayer. The others, however, didn't really capture my attention.
 
  
  The visuals of course were improved and they look nice. It doesn't really matter to anyone who's 
 actually playing but the visuals are great and I didn't know there was a way to make one appreciate 
 the graphics on the fretboard, but I guess there was, so the visuals are much improved.
  
  The value should be improved by the inclusion of downloadable content, but Red Octane really messed 
 up here by charging for the original Guitar Hero songs when all they did was make some co op for 
 the songs. They didn't even have to license the songs, so that's really annoying.
  
  In conclusion, when a game is ported to a next gen console, it should get better, but it actually 
 gets worse. Most if not all of the changes helped to make this a worse game instead of a better 
 one, and I hope this isn't what's to come with Guitar Hero III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhuntin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is great!!!! the graphics, gameplay, the sound game after I saw the television, I said 
 I have to get a xbox 360 and get guitar hero II. I play at my nearest ebgames and I played it, it 
 was amazing, it was hard at the first start. but I have the game by my hands, I WAS AMAZING, I didn't 
 know I play like that, first I was like I never learn to this, once you know I was played great. The 
 people who made this game should be proud at themself. this game is a overall 10.0 perfect. To the 
 gamers that have this guitar hero II, ROCK ON !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  GOOD
  
  As a guitar player this game is just the bees knees. Its like a rhythm practice as your fingers 
 correspond in the way you would play the songs in RL, its awsome. When i saw GH i thought, gimmiky 
 **** but after getting it i was like WOW, and thats not world of warcraft i mean Wowzer, but not 
 in the lame inspector gadget kinda way . . i mean . . .WOAH DUDE.
  
  8.9 from GS is a farse, more like 9.8 really as its just great, Its hard to call it the best game 
 ever as its more like a toy than a game. All i can say is get this game. BAD
  
  You now have an extra piece of junk to clutter the front of ur xbox or floor or yard or barn or 
 wherever the hell you live . . . sigh . .god i gotta clear this **** up . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  As im typing this my hands are sore from playing it. I cant put it down. I cant think of anything 
 bad about this game, other than greedya$$ microsofts prices on the downloadable songs. Please dont 
 buy these, send a message to microsoft, that these prices are ridiculous. $50 for 70 songs then 
 $6+ for every somg after that. Hell no. Well enough ranting, this game is great. Even my wife who 
 hates video games has been fighting me to play this game. If you like music, playing guitar or 
 just video games Id say go get this without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckynish
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the PS2 version of Guitar Hero II when it hit shelves late last year. Upon buying 
 it and scowering the internet for tips on how to get even better I noticed they were releasing 
 the game on the 360 with more songs and Hi-Def graphics. Having already purchased the PS2 version... I 
 went out and preordered the 360 version anyways.
  
  The graphics are amazing compared to the PS2 version (which was clear after playing one and then 
 another over the span of a day.)
  
  The new songs are great, Alice Cooper, Iron Maiden, Toadies, Pearl Jam, and the others are all 
 wonderful additions the already superb line up. The guitar is a little smaller then the PS2 version 
 which at first I thought would hinder my thrashing, but in fact it makes the thrashage a lot simpler. 
 Overall the upgrades they have done since the PS2 version hit in November were worth the extra 
 money. Now all I have left to do is master this and wait for guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gs98cobra
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Once you start playing it you will not be able to put it down well at least not till your fingers 
 get sore and they need a rest. this game is worth every penny already picked up another guitar 
 so I can play co op if you are not sure this is the game for you find a friend that has it go play 
 it and I promise you will be hooked good luck and rock on on on on on on on on on on on on on on 
 on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on on o non on on on on on 
 on on on on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishooke
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is great and very addicting for a while. I love the co-op mode and the career mode they 
 are both very fun. The amount of songs is good but some of the people performing them are not. 
 For example if you download the pack of songs that has Incubus' song Steller don't get to excited 
 because it sounds nothing like them. My only real complaint (besides the price for the down-loadable 
 songs) is the controller. Why isn't it wireless? It's really stupid to have a system that has wireless 
 capabilities but a wired controller, duh. However it is a minor flaw and I would suggest to anyone 
 who remotely likes music and does not own this game yet to step away from your computer and go 
 and get it now!!! NOW I SAID!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Before I bought guitar hero I was not too sure if I should actually get it or not, mainly because 
 of the reason that I acctually play guitar and have done for a long time and also becasue of the 
 price tag. I'll start with the price, its worth every penny seriously the game is pure fun! fun! 
 fun! and seriuously its price shouldn't be doubted, although there is no doubt that it could have 
 been the same price as the ps2 version. The fact that I already play guitar is the nly reason I 
 would say this game is 'bad' I thinkif you already play guitar the essence of the game is kind 
 of lost and the fact that some of the tracks on guitar hero seem easier to me on a real guitar 
 seams a bit stupid to me, however its still worth a purchase if you do already play guitar just 
 be warned you may not be having as much fun as you should. Having said all of this though guitar 
 hero 2's guitar doesnt feel like it does when playing a real guitar its much simiplar and for a 
 guitarist is tricky to get to grips with at first but it becomes second nature and no problem at 
 all. Right now to start the real review the gameplay on GH2 is basiclay were the game lies and 
 to be completely honest its great theres not much thats similar and it does give the complete sense 
 and feeling that you really are playing the songs and that missing a note is a real problem. The 
 graphics have been drasticlly changed for the xbox 360 with nicer looking backgrounds and high 
 deffinition text and no jaggies to speak of but they are lacking when compare to any other 360 
 game. The sound on GH2 rocks, literaly, theres not much more to say with a mamoth amount of tracks 
 and even more to come on the marketplace you will be spoilt for choice, despite thios though it 
 would have been nice to have seen more licesnced tracks. Value wise though the game falls sort 
 of short yes you geta guiar and and a game but wheres the xbox live? We payed &pound;20 more than 
 the ps2 version and we really didn't get enough to warrent this extra cash. Overall though guitar 
 hero 2 is a must buy for anyone who just simply wants to rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swollen2thebone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  god, this is sooo much fun. i love it. Fun, Fun, Fun. Can't wait until i am done with Easy mode. 
 I needed to do it on easy because i never did any of these rhythm based games and it showed. i 
 actually received an achievement for sucking so bad, On Easy, yes i know. i have it connected to 
 my Stereo so i was pumping rock. I actually felt like i was performing in concert. They need to 
 add Xbox Live online game play. Sweet, Sweet Sweet. Songs are great and challenging. If you haven't 
 tried this game, get to your local BestBuy and grab the Guitar. Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I've never played the PS2 version of this game, but I couldn't wait for it to come out on 360.
 
  
  I got it today and since about 4.30pm I've been playing it pretty much non-stop. It's nearly midnight.
 
  
  My hands hurt.
  
  This game rocks.
  
  And apparently so do I!!!
  
  Don't know what's in store for GH3, but hopefully they use the actual songs instead of sounds a 
 lot like... covers. Not that the songs sound bad on GH2, but surely the licence wouldn't have been 
 that much to use the real artist versions?
  
  Pretty much my only criticism at this point. I've had mates over today and hopefully they are gonna 
 buy this so we can have a jam online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Have you played Guitar Hero 2 before on the ps2?? Well then you will find almost no reason to fork 
 over 90 dollars to enjoy the same game you bought a while back. There are a couple new songs to 
 enjoy and downloadable content, so i could kind of see why you would want to go back to this great 
 rythm game. For those of you who havent played this game ever your going to love this game. WIth 
 a good track of songs and addictive rythm play your going to want more and more. As for me, ill 
 just wait for Guitar hero 3. Not worth it the second time around for the same game.
  
  Don't Have it: Buy it
  
  Have it: Consider your wasting $90 on a game you already played, BUT 
 if there is still rock in you and you really like the ( i think its like 5 or 6 new songs, dont 
 quote me) new songs then your going to be right where you belong. As for me, im going to wait it 
 out.
  
  Summery: Pro's, Great addicting gameplay, a face lift for the 360, New Songs to play and download, 
 Achievment points a plenty, and online leader boards.
  Cons, Its the same game from before, $90 out of your wallet.
  
  I give it a high rating because 
 theres nothing wrong with the game, just the fact that its the same as before for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is available for PS2 and has just recently transfered to XBOX 360. It's an innovative 
 game that uses a guitar shaped controller. It's somewhat similar to DDR, the notes will come down 
 the screen, and when they come to a certain point you will have to hold down the fret buttons on 
 the neck of the guitar and hit the strum bar.
  
  GOOD: Guitar controller is very fun, some great soundtracks to rock out to. Great variety in difficulty, 
 you can play this game if you're slow and unco-ordinated or if you're a professional guitar player.
 
  
  BAD: Some songs you just don't want to play. Could have used an online multiplayer mode, but that's 
 coming in #3.
  
  GAMEPLAY: At first the guitar controller may feel awkward, but you will soon become familiar with 
 it. It takes a bit to get a feel for the fret buttons, and as you progress you'll have to learn 
 to play chords, hammer-ons and pull-offs. As you play a song, you'll gain Star-Power. When you 
 have acquired enough, you can tilt the guitar vertical, triggering your character to drive the 
 crowd nuts, playing behind your head or with your teeth. Once you get used to it, you'll have a 
 blast playing new songs and new difficulties.
  
  GRAPHICS: In a game like Guitar Hero, graphics aren't the focus. You'll spend most of your time 
 watching the notes as they come towards you, but you can take a look at the performance onstage 
 if you wish. The graphics don't look too bad, the stars will usually be rockin' out, and when Star-Power 
 is activated they will pull some outrageous moves. You can't really compare the graphics in a game 
 like this to those of Gears of War etc.
  
  SOUND: Being a Rhythm/Music game, you expect the music to be top notch. The music is clear, but 
 I found the cover voices a little amusing at times. The music will help you keep to the beat, and 
 you can clearly tell when you've missed a note. The crowd will also cheer to indicate whether you're 
 doing good or bad, so you don't have to take your eyes off the notes to check your meters.
  
  VALUE: This is a game you can play over, on harder difficulties. You will find yourself quite 
 good by the time you beat the game the first time, and if you play on the harder levels you'll 
 be challenged all over again. There are also tonnes of songs, guitars, stars, outfits etc. to purchase 
 with your in-game money. Downloadable content likes songs and such will hopefully be available 
 soon. It may get a little repetitive though, there are no new modes of play, just more songs and 
 harder songs.
  
  TILT: Guitar Hero II is a hard game to put down. You will be eager to try a new song or challenge 
 yourself with a harder difficulty. You may find yourself playing for hours on end without realizing. 
 You'll be in the mood for the game, even long after you bought it.
  
  I recommend Guitar Hero II if you're looking for a fun, classic game that will keep you entertained 
 for a while. I'd also suggest checking out Guitar Hero III, featuring a wireless controller and 
 online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reckeweg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for my 360 because I wanted something different to play. Guitar Hero II delivered 
 on all counts. My little nephew had this game for his PS2 and when I tried to play it I was terrible. 
 Although I stunk I could see why the game had generated such a huge buzz. I had already made the 
 switch from Sony to Microsoft by that point, so I thought I might never know Guitar Hero joy. I've 
 never been so happy to be wrong! I am not the greatest at rhythm games so I admit this game is 
 challenging for me. It doesn't bother me though because it is so much fun to play. There is a real 
 nice mix of music to pick from. I can't get enough of playing 'Carry on My Wayward Son' by Kansas. 
 It is my go to song when I fall out of the groove. Theres already downloadable content, with I'm 
 sure much much more on the way. There are tons of unlockables from new guitarists, to new guitars, 
 to new songs. Reply value for this game is high, so while it might seem a bit steep to drop $90 
 on a game it is worth every penny. If you love music and video games then this game is definitely 
 for you. Hope to see you on the leaderboards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellos5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Pretty fun game. I would enjoy it more if there were more songs available for download that didn't 
 cost money. The songs you can buy in the game are totally lame and no one has ever heard of them. 
 Overall, it is a fun game that is hard on the eyes. It is a bit expensive because of the guitar 
 and the game combo. I feel this game is a great addition to the 360 and every 360 owner should 
 buy it! Unless of course you have a problem with your eyes in playing games too long. This game 
 is really hard on the eyes; however, it will help your hand eye coordination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulledabooth
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to feel like a rock star? Crank it on the ultimate surround sound system. 
 Great songs!
  I have gotta say this game is freaking awesome!!! The creators picked out great rock songs for 
 this game. When I play it on my surround sound system it makes me feel like a rock star. The gameplay 
 is pretty self explanatory, push the right button as it passes on the screen. The graphics are 
 pretty cool but they look alot like the previous versions of the game. So I don't think the creators 
 put a whole lot of effort into making a next gen looking game but that doesn't bother me really. 
 The guitar controller seems a lil small but it works. The adjustable strap is very uncomfortable 
 on the neck. I am trying to look into some mods for the strap to make it more comfortable. So I 
 will end this review on this note. Good job on the game it will bring many fun months of strumming 
 my fake guitar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tohru_Readman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Guitar Hero on the ps2 and the second one, what made me buy the 360 version was 
 the new download content and of course the re-design guitar. It's a bit annoying that it isn't 
 wireless, but for myself it's not a big deal, my room is fairly small anyway, so I wouldn't have 
 made much use of it anyway. The game is pretty much just the same as the ps2 version, apart from 
 the characters look more realist graphics wise. A new song has been add to each section as you 
 go through the single player in career mode and most of them are good. Guitar Hero can sometimes 
 get a bit boring when you are playing it on your own, this is where having a friend with the 360 
 version comes in handed as well. Just like the ps2 version you can play co-op with both of you 
 doing different parts of the song like one on the base and the other player doing lead. There is 
 also face-off and pro face-off the only difference in these two modes is in pro face-off you both 
 have to do it at the same difficulty level. In short if you have a 360 buy Guitar Hero 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let me start out by saying that I am a HUGE music fan so when I heard this game was coming 
 to 360 I was intrigued. I had only played the PS2 version twice (maybe three songs total!!!) so 
 I didn't really know what to expect... Well, I grabbed the 360 version and I am impressed to say 
 the least!!!
  
  Graphics: So so but much better than the PS2 so it's fine by me. Plus, the venues are way cool 
 and it's not about the graphics, it's about the music!!!
  
  Gameplay: Say good-bye to the days of the air-guitar!!! This game is a blast and a half even if 
 you never played a guitar in your life!!! Co-op is just crazy fun as well!
  
  Audio: With a surround sound system this game brings down the house!
  
  Overall this game hits 
 the right notes in every possible spot! With new songs coming out to download this game will be 
 rocking for some time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconfighter08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I played this game since it came out for the Xbox 360. It is plain out amazing!?! The graphics 
 are not great but meant to be that way because they are not seen if you are really focused on the 
 song, the sound is amazing because of the idea of the game, having to play guitar so it better 
 sound like a guitar and all of the different songs being played. I cannot explain the rest of the 
 game in great detail for the idea that it would definitely ruin the experience of first picking 
 up the X-plorer and Rock-in out on it for the first time.
  
  Have fun with it and don't get frustrated in the beginning, keep practicing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the better and much more playable games that I have bought for the Xbox 360. 
 I can easily say I got my money's worth out of it despite its higher price than other xbox 360 
 games. Playing a game with the included guitar controller just makes it freakin' awesome man! Sorry 
 about that. Anyways, the song selection that accompanies the game is down right great. Theres songs 
 from just about any rock genre along with the game avatars you play with. Anyone who appreciates 
 rock can find at least one song that interests them. Playing the game takes some getting used to 
 if your a first timer. Coordination is definitely needed for this game since you will be moving 
 your fingers across the fret buttons, the colored buttons at the top of the guitar, in order to 
 prepare them to be strummed by the strum bar which is located at the bottom. The game can be quite 
 hectic on certain songs such as, the heavy metal ones like Trogdor and Thunderhorse, and not quite 
 as difficult with the slower paced ones. Difficulty should also to be considered; the game will 
 be about twice as hard and fast the higher you go. Once you get to hard, the fifth orange fret 
 button is used in the songs and you'll have to probably have to practice in order to be accustomed 
 to it. The graphics are sharper and more detailed then the PS2 version, but do not expect to be 
 blown away by them. In terms of value, GH2 packs a ton of content. There are around 40 main songs 
 and about 30 more un-lockable ones. There are also additional ones you can download on xbox live 
 for about $5 a pack which include three songs from the original GH since the original was not on 
 xbox 360. You can decide on that yourself, but it would have been a smarter move if the songs were 
 all sold separately. To make matters simple after you have read all the above, go buy this game 
 NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZetaBlanco
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Siempre has querido tocar la guitarra como los mejores? pero no aciertas a encadenar mas de dos 
 notas? Con Guitar Hero II podras hacer tu sue&ntilde; o realidad, tocar las mejores canciones del 
 rock con tus propias manos!!
  
  Bueno, hay que admitir que no todas son canciones que podr&iacute; a considerar entre las mejores, 
 pero hay algunas muy buenas como Hear-shaped box, Shout at the devil, Free bird, Strutter, Tonight 
 I'm Gonna Rock You Tonight, War pigs, Sweet chidl o'mine, YYZ, Hush y Hangar 18.
  
  En el nivel FACIL es ideal para aprender a jugar este videojuego, es muy f&aacute; cil una vez que 
 aprendiste a mover tus dedos de manera adecuada y a&uacute; n en los solos mas dificiles no se necesita 
 mucha pr&aacute; ctica para lograr buenas calificaciones.
  
  El nivel MEDIO es el punto perfecto para disfrutar este juego sin romper los ligamentos de tu mano, 
 en las canciones mas dificiles de este nivel puedes encontrar un reto muy bueno y que al pasarlo 
 te deja una buena sensaci&oacute; n de recompensa por tu esfuerzo.
  
  Los niveles DIFICIL y EXPERTO solo estan dise&ntilde; ados para aficionados hard-core a este juego, 
 el usar 5 botones de traste puede meterte en muchas complicaciones.
  
  Las gr&aacute; ficas estan en el nivel de regulares a buenas, el sonido es excelente, las canciones 
 aunque son covers casi no tienen diferencia con las originales, un aficionado promedio tendr&aacute; 
 problemas para diferenciar el cover del original.
  
  Un juego que debe estar en la colecci&oacute; n de todo aficionado a la m&uacute; sica, y que tiene 
 posibilidades sin limites con las descargas de XBOX Live, aunque un poco caro!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrendonSilver
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is what we like to call a master piece in the works it has music rock and gave credit 
 to snoop dogg in the credits Go Buy it its totally worth it :)
  
  Only gets annoying during the boring songs and your just like wow i dont want to be here right 
 now im about to fall asleep but there are so many good songs plus once u have the guitar u can 
 use it for GH 3 and more so your all lock and loaded and ready to go
  
  Xbox 360 (exclusive tracks are listed in italics)
  
  1. Opening Licks * Surrender - Cheap Trick 
 * Possum Kingdom - Toadies [16] * Heart-Shaped Box - Nirvana * Salvation - Rancid * Strutter - Kiss 
  * Shout at the Devil - M&ouml; tley Cr&uuml; e (Encore)
  
  2. Amp-Warmers * Mother - Danzig  * Life Wasted - Pearl Jam * Cherry Pie - Warrant * Woman - Wolfmother 
 * You Really Got Me - Van Halen [15] * Tonight I'm Gonna Rock You Tonight - Sp&amp;#305; nal Tap 
  (Encore)
  
  3. String-Snappers * Carry On Wayward Son - Kansas * Search and Destroy - Iggy Pop and The Stooges 
 * Message in a Bottle - The Police * Billion Dollar Babies - Alice Cooper * Them Bones - Alice 
 in Chains * War Pigs - Black Sabbath (Encore)
  
  4. Thrash and Burn * Monkey Wrench - Foo Fighters * Hush - Deep Purple * Girlfriend - Matthew Sweet 
  * Who Was in My Room Last Night? - Butthole Surfers  * Can't You Hear Me Knocking - The Rolling 
 Stones  * Sweet Child O'Mine - Guns N' Roses (Encore)
  
  5. Return of the Shred * Rock and Roll, Hoochie Koo - Rick Derringer * Tattooed Love Boys - The 
 Pretenders * John the Fisherman - Primus * Jessica - The Allman Brothers Band  * Bad Reputation 
 - Thin Lizzy * Last Child - Aerosmith  (Encore)
  
  6. Relentless Riffs * Crazy on You - Heart * Trippin' On a Hole in a Paper Heart - Stone Temple 
 Pilots * Dead! - My Chemical Romance [16] * Killing in the Name - Rage Against the Machine * Freya 
 - The Sword * Stop! - Jane's Addiction (Encore)
  
  7. Furious Fretwork * Madhouse - Anthrax * The Trooper - Iron Maiden * Rock This Town - Stray Cats 
 * Laid to Rest - Lamb of God  * Psychobilly Freakout - The Reverend Horton Heat * YYZ - Rush (Encore)
 
  
  8. Face-Melters * Beast and the Harlot - Avenged Sevenfold * Carry Me Home - The Living End * Institutionalized 
 - Suicidal Tendencies  * Misirlou - Dick Dale * Hangar 18 - Megadeth * Free Bird - Lynyrd Skynyrd 
  (Encore)
  
  Bonus tracks
  
  Xbox 360 exclusive tracks are listed in italics. * Raw Dog - The Last Vegas (Winner of the Be a 
 Guitar Hero Contest) * Arterial Black - Drist  * Collide - Anarchy Club * Drink Up - Ounce of 
 Self * Elephant Bones - That Handsome Devil * Fall of Pangea - Valient Thorr * FTK - Vagiant * 
 Gemini - Brian Kahanek  * Push Push (Lady Lightning) - Bang Camaro * Laughtrack - The Acro-brats 
  * Less Talk More Rokk - Freezepop  * Jordan - Buckethead * Kicked to the Curb - Noble Rot * 
 Mr. Fix-it - The Amazing Royal Crowns * The New Black - Every Time I Die * One for the Road - The 
 Breaking Wheel * Parasite - The Neighborhoods * Radium Eyes - Count Zero * Red Lottery - Megasus 
 * Six - All That Remains * Soy Bomb - Honest Bob and the Factory-to-Dealer Incentives  * The Light 
 That Blinds - Shadows Fall * Thunderhorse - Dethklok * Trogdor - Strong Bad  * X-Stream - Voivod 
 * Yes We Can - Made in Mexico
  
  [edit] Xbox 360 downloadable tracks
  Xbox 360 exclusive Gibson Explorer controller
  Xbox 360 exclusive Gibson Explorer controller
 
  
  Guitar Hero Track Pack 1 (30.87 MB, 500 MSP) - Released April 11, 2007 * Bark at the Moon - Ozzy 
 Osbourne * Hey You - The Exies * Ace Of Spades - Mot&ouml; rhead
  
  Guitar Hero Track Pack 2 (30.64 MB, 500 MSP) - Released April 11, 2007 * Killer Queen - Queen * 
 Take It Off - The Donnas * Frankenstein - The Edgar Winter Group
  
  Guitar Hero Track Pack 3 (32.71 MB, 500 MSP) - Released April 11, 2007 * Higher Ground - Red Hot 
 Chili Peppers * Infected - Bad Religion * Stellar - Incubus
  
  all of these songs will keep you going and PLUS MORE TO COME :)
  
  I THINK THIS GAME CANT GET 
 ANY BETTER UNLESS YOU COULD SUBMIT YOUR BEST ROCK OFF TO TONY HAWK FOR THE NEW TONY HAWK GAME hehe 
 inside joke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixd522
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is simply one of the most fun games you will ever play in your lifetime. I am sure 
 you know that the game is about playing the guitar too tons of songs and working your way up the 
 ladder of greatest. The game really varies in difficulty from easy to insane, the longer you play 
 and the more you get use to the guitar and you start getting the timing down you will be on insane 
 in no time at all. The songs that Harmonix Music picked for this game are perfect. All the songs 
 are from great bands and the songs are even better. The graphics are not that great but honestly 
 it does not matter at all, the game play is where this game rocks at. It is simply brilliant, no 
 flaws at all. Couple things to be aware of before playing this game, get ready to waste hours upon 
 hours playing this game even though you will be playing for 2 hours at a time it will s not matter 
 who you are, you need to buy this game. Rock On. feel like 30mins, two it is expensive at 90 bucks 
 a pop but it is worth it after you get home and turn it on, and last but not least it would have 
 been nice to see it come with a wireless guitar, I am sure that will be soon. It does not matter 
 who you are, you need to buy this game, it won't disappoint. Rock on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is a rythme game involving a guitar. To start off, the game is wicked expensive 
 at $90 a whack. It comes with the game, the new X-Plorer guitar, stickers, and a neck strap. The 
 guitar has 5 buttons and a little thingy where you would strum the strings on a real guitar. When 
 you see the color of the button you have to press go into the space, you have to press the button 
 and hit the little plastic thingy at the same time. It takes some practice but you get use to it 
 quick.
  
  The graphics are great. The colors look awesome. The sound is fantastic. The songs sound just like 
 the originals and are crystal clear. If you miss a note, it makes the song sound off which i think 
 is pretty cool. Once you beat guitar hero's carrer mode on easy, you're going to want to do it 
 on the other difficulties. All in all, Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is a great looking, fantastic 
 sounding, and fun game. If you like Rock you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tystock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Unfortunately, I'm here to inform those who simply are not good with hand-eye 
 coordination that this is your problem, not the games. It's not our fault if you can't handle medium 
 level without throwing your guitar through the window. Or that you feel you must use your pinky 
 when in fact you don't, if you don't choose to. I have GH II for PS2 and have already played through 
 it on expert, but the 360 version adds improved visuals, sounds, song list (with both the added 
 songs and the order) and for me the guitar feels much more natural compared the the toy I play 
 with on PS2. In the end, while some of the solos do get near impossible, that's what makes this 
 game fun, playing the song multiple times to get it right. If you could just beat it all on the 
 first try that would be a waste of $90. So, if you want the challenge go for it, it's fun. If not, 
 don't complain afterwards that the game was engineered wrong because you're not good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueDemon3
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero makes you want to listen to music all day long... Thats exactly what it does too... 
 This is a great party game that when i brought to a poker tournament... Nobody wanted to play poker... 
 just play this game!!! This game is has a good balance of great songs and fun gameplay... It does 
 take time to get good at it but once you can do it... everyone is watching you play... My favorite 
 part of this game was definetly Freebird... That and finally passing my first Expert Song... I 
 am only a quarter through Expert but i'll probably be playing for another month at the very least... 
 Awesome game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlcm2atl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game will give you the most fun you have had in a video game in a long time. Basically 
 Guitar Hero 2 is a lot like Dance Dance Revolution you need to hit colored circles as they pass 
 a certain point on the screen. However due the slightly more complex nature of a guitar the game 
 has to its Gameplay such as a whammy bar and also by tilting the controller up you can execute 
 a Star Power which can really save you bacon if a song is beginning to get the better of you. 
 Speaking of the controller it is shaped like a guitar (surprising isnt it?) it is smaller than 
 a real guitar but really feels quite natural and easy to use.
  
  Graphics:
  Although Guitar Hero 2 is really a port from the PS2 they have added more than just a little brush-up 
 for the graphics. The graphics look much better on the XBOX360 although there are still some trouble 
 spots you might notice on a HDTV and even though the characters hair doesnt flop the way you would 
 expect it to when they are rocking out, the graphics are still more that sufficient.
  
  Sound:
  This is really what makes this game. The music is great although once in awhile you wonder 
 about some of the track choices like why they chose Heart Shaped Box instead of Smells Like 
 Teen Spirit as the Nirvana song. But overall the tracks are great ranging from hard rock and metal 
 like Lamb of God to classics like KISS.
  
  Plot:
  Really there is no plot although in career mode you start a band and travel over the country playing 
 song and getting more sponsors there is really nothing in the way of story there is barely even 
 any customization in this mode.
  
  Conclusion:
  Overall this game is fun and a great party game. Really the only complaint is the overpriced downloadable 
 track, which will cost you 500 Microsoft points for 3 songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The PS2 version of Guitar Hero 2 has made its way to the XBOX 360 with a new guitar controller, 
 updated graphics, and a few new tracks. For those of you new to the Guitar Hero franchise, the 
 game works by using timed button presses to music. That's it. The concept is very simple, yet very 
 satisfying, and ultimately very fun.
  
  Visually, the game is not up to par with other games on the system. The PS2 graphics are enhanced 
 to HD and look significantly better, but the player models and animations still look very last-gen. 
 The crowd animations and lighting effects are passable at best, and the sheer lack of different 
 crowd characters and variety of on-stage animations is noticable. The good news is that if there 
 was ever a game where graphics didn't matter, this is the one. As a player, your eyes will be focused 
 on the notes ahead, and only the notes ahead.
  
  The new guitar controller is modeled after the white Gibson X-plorer and comes packaged with the 
 game. It connects with a wire to your system's USB slot. The controls feel natural, but occasionally 
 unforgiving on easier difficulties. Guitar Hero 2 allows users to do complicated techniques with 
 their replica axe, like hammer-ons and pull-offs, all explained thoroughly in a helpful training 
 mode. The whammy bar adds a level of customization to songs, letting players bend long notes as 
 they choose. As you play sections correctly, you build up Star Power , which, when activated, gives 
 you a score multiplier. This is done by tilting the controller vertically and rocking out. This 
 tilt feature really adds a sense of charm to the control scheme, but can sometimes be frustratingly 
 unresponsive.
  
  The heart of any rhythm game is its music. Guitar Hero 2 offers a variety of very capable rock 
 covers from the Rolling Stones to Iron Maiden, and everything in between. Beginning with the punk 
 inspired Salvation and ending with the legendary Free Bird , there's something for everyone. While 
 every song isn't a legendary track, most offer something a little different, be it quirky off-beats, 
 eccentric time signatures, insanely fast riffs, or ridiculously complicated solos. Unfortunately, 
 most of the unlockable songs are unknown and forgettable, when compared to those from the main 
 mode. There are over 70 tracks to unlock as you progress, and four levels of difficulty for each: 
 easy, medium, hard, and expert. The difficulty level of the game will vary greatly from person 
 to person. Some, without a grasp on rhythm and timing, will struggle to complete the first song, 
 while others will be able to breeze through the medium difficulty without breaking a sweat. The 
 game does do a very good job of ramping up the difficulty evenly, throughout all four levels of 
 play. Eventually, no matter how good you are when starting the game, the difficulty will catch 
 up to you. The higher levels of play are not for the faint of heart, and will challenge even the 
 most hardcore, real-life guitarists.
  
  The XBOX 360 version of the game introduces achievement points and leaderboards, and they are welcome 
 additions. The achievements are evenly distributed and range from failing a song, to getting five 
 star performances on all of the songs on the highest difficulty. Also adding to the replayability 
 is that the game allows for two players to jam together, co-operatively playing guitar and bass 
 or lead and rhythm, depending on the song, as well as going head to head, in a rock guitar duel. 
 The thing that will keep you coming back to Guitar Hero 2 isn't a feature built into the game, 
 but the fact that you will want to show others. It is the perfect party game that all ages can 
 and will enjoy. It's equally fun to watch, as it is to play, and people will flock to it.
  
  As good as the game is, a few features are noticeably absent. Despite having an interesting 
 multiplayer mode, there is no online play to speak of. This is a rarity for XBOX 360 games, especially 
 those so clearly cut out for Internet play. There are downloadable songs through the XBOX Live 
 Marketplace, but currently are priced at levels considerably higher than their value. Also lacking 
 is customization. You can choose between a few guitars and player outfits that you unlock as you 
 go, but that's about it. You cannot create or customize your own characters, instruments, animations, 
 or venues. Since this is a standard in most games dating back to the 64 bit era, it's strange to 
 have nothing in these regards as options, especially considering the lack of choices provided.
 
  
  Guitar Hero 2 provides a gaming experience that will welcome everyone from grandparents to guitar 
 gurus. While it doesn't take advantage of many of the XBOX 360's capabilities, what it does offer 
 is enough to warrant a purchase to those who will have the opportunity to show it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Being a die hard rock fan, I always felt a lack of fun from the DDRs, especially the one on the 
 360 (I think the songs suck) . But now this game is all about rock, and well yea there are several 
 songs that suck (psychobilly freakout wtf???) , there are still many others I enjoy.
  I feel a lack of known rock like pink floyd, metallica and more iron maiden.
  
  This is an 
 extremely fun game with a really good value if you are an achievement lover like me. Yes the price 
 tag is high, hopefully guitar hero 3 will work with this guitar and sell for less! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usedsquirrel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 2 for xbox 360 is a good game over all. it dosen't get boring unless you dont have 
 a life. Also it has many songs to choose from. If you make enough money in carreer you can buy 
 more songs and play them when you are done. the graphics kinda suck but still you can deal with 
 them. you can buy many guitars, Guitar finishes, songs, new costumes, New Charecters, And more. 
 Pretty much this game rocks No MATTER WHAT 987 (87 (87 (87 (8798 98 987 987 987 97 987098ih jh jhj 
 h jhb jhb jhb jhb jguf t , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , 
 , , , 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfletch3000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Buy this game, it's sooooooooo much fun!!! Gameplay is superb, perfectly crafted to suit the guitars 
 five buttons. The difficulty range is spot on too, so if you want it to be really easy you can, 
 or if you want it to be super hard you can turn it right up to 'expert'. You can practice all the 
 songs in career mode and there's loads of extra's and characters to unlock! There's loads of songs 
 available to rock to, some of them I've never heard of but it doesn't matter because they all rock....
 
  
  Not much else to say really other than if you wanna have a load of fun on your own or with your 
 mates, you'll love it! Go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The original Guitar Hero on PlayStation 2 was a major success thanks to its stellar set list and 
 excellent guitar controller. A sequel was released with equal success, and that sequel has now 
 been released on the Xbox 360 with more than a few new extras. Gamers prepared to invest will be 
 treated to a brand new guitar controller, ten new songs, downloadable content, and online leaderboards.
 
  
  The guitar controller that is packaged with each game is based on the Gibson X-Plorer model. Five 
 colour-coded fret buttons sit on the guitar neck and a strummer is placed in the middle of the 
 body. As notes scroll towards you on-screen (which are colour-coded to match the frets) , you hold 
 down on the matching fret and press the strummer to play the note. The controller also features 
 a whammy bar to distort notes and extract star power (more on this later) . The controller is responsive 
 and accurate and is a key part of making you feel like a rock star. It also features a guide button, 
 d-pad, and start and select buttons to make menu navigation more user-friendly. The fact that the 
 X-Plorer is wired via USB is disappointing, but the cable is long and can be lengthened with a 
 USB extension. It has a break-away wire (similar to the original Xbox controllers) which will reduce 
 the risk of your console getting knocked over if you rock too hard.
  
  The HUD consists of your score, multiplier, rock meter and star power gauge. Playing notes will 
 add to your score and consecutively hitting notes will increase your score multiplier. Every time 
 you miss a note or play the wrong note, your multiplier breaks. In the bottom right corner of the 
 screen is the rock meter, which tells you how well youre playing. Its green when youre playing 
 great, yellow when youre okay, and red when youre playing badly and close to failing the song. 
 The HUDs final component is your star power gauge; certain note strings are star shaped and hitting 
 all the notes in a string will gain you some star power. When the meter is full, you can tilt the 
 guitar vertically to activate star power, doubling your current multiplier. It only lasts for a 
 while so you need to save it for sections with lots of notes.
  
  Career mode is the place where youll be doing most of your rocking. Youll start off by playing 
 in a dingy school gym, working your way up to bigger and better venues such as Stonehenge. The 
 whole career is split up into eight levels. Each level contains six songs and you need to clear 
 each song to advance to the next stage. The quality and variety of music is excellent, and includes 
 heavy metal (The Trooper by Iron Maiden) , progressive rock (YYZ by Rush) , and thrash metal 
 (Hangar 18 by Megadeth) . Although they are covers (the exceptions being Stop , Dead! , Possum 
 Kingdom and John the Fisherman ) , the quality of vocals and music is very good with a few exceptions 
 (the vocals from Laid to Rest by Lamb of God for example) .
  
  As you progress through career mode youll be awarded with cash for your performances, which can 
 be spent in the Guitar Hero store. You can buy characters, outfits, guitars, and most notably, 
 bonus songs. These tracks are all original recordings and provide a nice alternative to the regular 
 set list. Although its very superficial, kitting your rocker out with new threads and a killer 
 guitar is very enjoyable. You can also access Xbox Live Marketplace from the store, where you can 
 download themes, gamer pictures and new songs for varying amounts of Microsoft Points.
  
  If you just want to kick back and play your favourite songs, there is a quick play mode to get 
 straight into the action. From here you can play any of the songs youve unlocked in career mode 
 (including bonus songs) on any of the four difficulty levels. Each difficulty has four leaderboards 
 for each song (one for each difficulty) , but its the online leaderboards that are one of Guitar 
 Hero IIs most impressive new features. Not only can you track your career score against friends 
 or the world, but also your score for each individual song. Only your highest score on any given 
 song will be displayed, regardless of difficulty, so those who succeed in the higher difficulties 
 will be the ones who occupy the top spots.
  
  If you want to make it to the lofty heights of the leaderboards, youll probably need to practise 
 a lot. Thankfully, there is an extensive practise mode in which to do so. You can play any song 
 on any difficulty, slowing down the speed to tackle tricky solos. Each song is divided up into 
 sub-sections, so if a certain part of a song is giving you grief, you can practise just that part. 
 It does miss some key features, such as the rock meter (to see if you would have failed or not) 
 and star power strings (because they can be the difference between success and failure) , but the 
 practise mode is more than enough to help you become a top shredder.
  
  For a game that requires you to concentrate on hitting notes, Guitar Hero II is visually quite 
 impressive. The venues you play at are full of fans, and your on-avatar is extremely animated. 
 Your character will actually strum accurately to the music, which is a very detailed touch. When 
 you activate star power, expect to see some crazy shredding skills from your rocker. Its a shame 
 that these graphical touches go largely unnoticed due to the focus needed to hit the notes, but 
 its nice that the developers went the extra mile anyway. The music selection has already been 
 covered, but the sound quality is just as good. The guitar track will get even louder when star 
 power is active, and gamers with good sound set-ups will really get the most out of it.
  
  In addition to the excellent single player support, Guitar Hero II is a blast to play with a friend 
 (sadly there is no Xbox Live multiplayer support) . Each song is split into the guitar track and 
 the bass or rhythm track, depending on the song. You can play co-operatively with one player playing 
 lead and the other supporting with the bass or rhythm. There is a real dependency on your partner 
 because you share the same multiplier and are contributing to the same score. There is a feeling 
 that you are playing the song together. The supporting player tends to have a more repetitive note 
 chart, but ultimately, it depends on which song you play. For the more competitive players out 
 there, you can play one-on-one in either face-off or pro face-off. The former sees you playing 
 alternating sections of the song, while the latter has both players playing every note. The lack 
 of online multiplayer may be disappointing, but the local multiplayers excellent selection of 
 game modes goes a long way to remedy this.
  
  Guitar Hero IIs achievements have a mixture of fun and challenging goals. There are achievements 
 for failing a song on easy, finishing a song in lefty flip mode (dubbed the Hendrix Award) , and 
 even for sitting through the credits! Each career difficulty has achievements associated with it 
 for completing the career and attaining five stars on every song within that difficulty. Its great, 
 yet frustrating, to see that there are some truly challenging achievements tucked into the game. 
 The most challenging include scoring a million points in co-op and clearing Jordan by Buckethead 
 on expert (by far the hardest song on the game) . These will be true badges of honour if you manage 
 to achieve them.
  
  If youre looking for a game that will provide you with hours of fun, Guitar Hero II is the one. 
 Regardless of how into music you are, there is plenty for everyone to enjoy contained within the 
 set list. Youll feel like a true rock star with the X-Plorer in your arms, tipping and tilting 
 to activate star power and singing along to the tunes. These feelings are only amplified if youre 
 playing it with a friend. Ultimately, Guitar Hero II is a game that anyone can play and have fun 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LikWidP2P
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Maybe the ratings are high due to most don't own a ps2. Downloadable content isn't worth a perfect, 
 and I don't see why you people would ever give it that. Having played the ps2 version and the xbox360 
 version, a new white controller and downloadable content isn't worth a great score, the guitar 
 quickly breaks for the price you pay with the whammy bar being the first to go. The graphics and 
 everything else in the game are pretty much the same some increases and improvements would have 
 been nice and maybe gotten a better score. Beyond that, I would never buy this game and if it were 
 available for rental that is all I would ever do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smj0907
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this game was one of 07's greatest games to come out on the 360 and it kicks A$$. The songs are 
 great, graphics are too. Career is fun and i think it is awesome that you can download new songs 
 from guitar hero. BEST GAME I HAVE BOUGHT. Well worth the money i spent to buy this game. The game 
 is not too easy but yet it is kind of hard. GO AND GET THIS GAME!!! i have not played much before 
 this came out but now i am hooked, i cant put it down and i play pretty much every day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoVirus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I got GH2 on the weekend and I have been pretty much been playing it since.
  While not getting to devote hours and hours to it I have cleared out 99% of the easy mode and unlocked 
 9 achievements without trying. This game is easily addictive and coming from a frustrated guitarist 
 like myself its a real pleasure to play. Knowing your songs is key because if the know the rhythm 
 and beat of songs you can breeze though it. Having played a couple of hours of it over the last 
 couple of days I have to say 1 thing, my fingers are sore!
  If your like me when you get into a song you seem to press harder on the keys but I have found 
 that loosing up really does help you out alot more.
  
  If I didn't have to go to work I would have been home playing it all day today as well, it really 
 is that good.
  
  Go buy it, go buy it now, I'll wait here for you!!............
  
  fine! don't listen to me, your loss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 is the sequel to the hit rhythm game Guitar Hero. The first game made a defining 
 stand in the genre with its rocking soundtrack and easy intuitive controls. The most recent addition 
 of the series certainly doesnt disappoint one bit. Obviously this game came out for the Ps2 at 
 the end of 2006, so you may challenged with the question Is it worth buying? Somewhere between 
 the 10 new great tracks, the X shaped guitar, and of course, leader boards. The answer to that 
 question is an easy yes.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the GH series, its a pretty basic setup. You get a guitar shaped controller 
 with five buttons, and flipper, and a whammy bar. On the screen youll see a big fret board with 
 the corresponding buttons on your guitar. Notes will come down from the top and enter a zone where 
 you have to hold the button, and strum the flipper when it reaches that point. If you do this successfully, 
 you make with the Rock. There are a lot of variations in the basic system throughout different 
 songs and difficulties. Some things include hammer on and pulls offs, long notes, and cords. Cords 
 are just two notes at the same time, while long notes are just holding a note after strumming. 
 Hammer ons and pull offs are the most complicated of the bunch. Instead of strumming again for 
 an oncoming note, you just press the next button at the right time, without strumming. With all 
 these skills youll be able to rock out to the awesome soundtrack.
  
  The soundtrack is actually quiet varied, theres something for everyone here. From 80s thrash metal 
 like Hanger 18 by Megadeth to Rockabilly represented by Rock This Town by The Stray Cats. 
 There are some big names here, Pearl Jam, Black Sabbath, Rage Against the Machine, Guns and Roses, 
 Nirvana, Allman Brothers Band, Rush, KISS, and many more. The songs start off rather slow however, 
 youll start off with songs like Heart Shaped Box and Strutter youll move up to songs like 
 War Pigs and You Really Got Me and eventually youll make it to the top with songs like Madhouse, 
 and the inevitable Freebird. Youll feel a very natural progression of difficulty as you make 
 your way through the song list. The progression has been changed for the Xbox360 version though. 
 The Ps2 version bares a very different listing of songs from the Xbox360 version. This is mainly 
 because of the new songs added. The new songs are: Possum Kingdom by the Toadies, Life Wasted 
 by Pearl Jam, Billion Dollar Babies by Alice Cooper Band, Hush by Deep Purple, Rock and Roll 
 Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer, Dead! by My Chemical Romance, and The Trooper by Iron Maiden. 
 Not all these songs are thrilling (Hush being the biggest violator here) but its enough to make 
 you jealous if you only have the Ps2 version.
  
  Another big change from the Ps2 version is the controller. The new controller is white and black 
 instead of brown and black to fit the Xbox360s color scheme. But more importantly the buttons 
 are firmer so they wont wear out as quickly. The flipper is also quieter, and the whammy bar is 
 position better. The only problem with this controller is the confusing D-Pad and the location 
 of the start and select button. For some reason Red Octane decided to make the left and right on 
 the D-pad work fine. But going up, goes down, and going down, makes you go up, for no reason at 
 all. The start and select buttons are poorly position, but only if you need them. Some complained 
 about how they would press the start button by accident with the other guitar. The problem this 
 time around is that theyre not accessible. If you ever want to pause the game you have to spend 
 a good two seconds looking what to push, in the guitar hero time, thats very valuable. This is 
 also a problem for people who liked pushing the select button instead of holding the guitar vertically 
 for Star Power.
  
  Another big change between Guitar Hero 1 and 2 is the new addition of practice mode. Practice mode 
 allows you to slow any song down to three degrees. Slow, slower, and slowest, this allows you to 
 remember whats coming up during a fast section or how many times you have to strum to nail a tough 
 section. Practice mode is only really helpful in a few sections. But if you only like playing one 
 part of a song practice mode is a good way to skip all the boring parts and get to the part you 
 like. The most important part of practice mode is that you cant fail the song, so you wont get 
 frustrated from failing over and over again.
  
  Besides the Practice mode the other big addition would be the tweaks to multiplayer. This year 
 instead of switching off the same guitar riff one player plays bass or rhythm guitar while the 
 other plays lead. There are two problems with this though, the first being that this is the only 
 way you can play bass. Obviously this is Guitar Hero so its about Guitars, but in songs like 
 YYZ or John the Fisherman with sick bass lines, itd be nice if you could play them in Quick 
 Play or another option. The second problem is the obvious expenses. Its $90 dollars for the whole 
 package, which is already too expensive for some people. Then its another $40 dollars for an extra 
 guitar. Its more practical that your friends buy Guitar Hero and you just use that guitar instead. 
 When you get over those two leaps, multiplayer is a blast. You really feel like youre playing 
 with you friend, its a great new addition.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is certainly a gem of a game. The only downside of the game is that some of the songs 
 are boring, or just so hard that you cant even play them and have fun. Other than that, its a 
 perfect game. If you like the soundtrack youll have a blast rocking out to some memorable riffs. 
 For people whove already bought the Ps2 version, the only problem youll really have is finding 
 $90 to spend on this game. Its well worth it, with the capabilities of Xbox Live theres future 
 potential with new songs, or just reviving old songs like Guitar Hero that you can have fun with 
 again. If youre a fan of the genre, or just the type of music, its a crime if you dont already 
 own this game.
  
  Achievement Note: These achievements, are HARD. Unless you and your friend are beast at this game. 
 Stay away. You can nail off around 200 points if you just want a few and then continue. But if 
 you're looking to get the Full 1000, good, luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamsilverwood
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Brilliant game Worth the money the white guitar is awesome and the sticker pack was a fun idea 
 to customise your guitar. Worth the &pound;70 a bit expensive i know but its worth it. The graphics 
 are good even though you don't really pay attentsion to whats happening in the background. Cool 
 features in the shop like more new costumes, characters, guitars, songs with 70. with 65 to unlock 
 you won't get bored so quickly Easy is easy but the other modes are quite chanlenging so i'll put 
 a hard rating on it it gets easier. Jump start on easy and work you way up don't dive in on the 
 deep end!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macca366
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero is an original take on gaming in an already explored genre, the thirdy-party input 
 system ala Dance dance revolution, boom boom rocket or eye-toy.
  
  Picking it up is simple, playing the game is easy but mastering it is hard. To answer your question 
 yes it is very fun, so fun you'll keep thinking about it while your at work or eating lunch or 
 school or wherever. I LITERALLY had nightmares about guitar hero II and it kept me from going to 
 sleep. Everytime i closed my eyes i could just see that screen with the notes flying down and i 
 had to play it in my mind, i couldn't help it. I stayed up for two days straight because it would 
 not go out of my head, so i have had to take a break for a while.
  
  I also know another question I'm sure alot of people are asking. What's it like if you play real 
 guitar in real life? I have played guitar for 4-5 years and i can say that it does not really make 
 a difference. Anyone will find this challenging and rewarding, depending on what level of difficulty 
 you play of course.. I would say that the only advantage to people who already play guitar is that 
 they might be more used to using their pinky than the average person, who may find it weak and 
 clumsy of first. Of course you don't need to use your pinky, but it certainly helps.
  
  A fun addicting game that is challenging and rewarding and flexible to your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off this review by saying... addicting addicting addicting... and I'm not even a fan 
 of these old rock songs. Well I mean, who doesn't like Sweet Child O' Mine and Carry On My Wayward 
 Son but a lot of the other songs I new of but don't willingly add them to my mp3 player. Still, 
 each song pulls you in for your chance to shine in front of your virtual fans. I will say that 
 I wish the hard mode wasn't so friggen hard... isnt that what extreme mode is for? Maybe I'm just 
 a noob still. Ive nailed all the songs in medium mode including Jordan but I just havent been 
 able to make a smooth progression to hard mode. They do have a practice mode where you can hone 
 your solo skills and slow down the song to a snail's pace. It doesn't help much for songs that 
 require crazy hammer on's and pull off's much. One of the cool things about the Xbox 360 version 
 is the leader boards on Xbox live where you can compare yourself to the rest of the gaming community 
 or just compare yourself between your list of friends. It helps add some competition to the game 
 without having someone standing right next to you with another guitar. Playing at the different 
 venues is a lot of fun though I will say that when you make it to the later venues you might not 
 willingly tour back to the small bars and high schools to play a set. The screaming fans of the 
 Oakland venue or Stonehenge really do add a lot of excitement to the songs. Not much else can be 
 said except for that if you are hesitant to drop the 90 bucks for the game w/ guitar it's worth 
 every penny. Add my gamercard to your friends list so we can compete on song scores! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Whether you like or dislike guitar Guitar Hero 2 for 360 F'in' Rocks!
  
  It's incredibly fun-you can play for hours straight and not get bored . It has several difficulties 
 too-which are great for both newcomers and pros who have already experienced GH2 on playstation2. 
 Theres tons of value, there are always more songs, guitars, and characters to unlock.
  
  And the song variety is excellent: you can chooose some super hardcore metal (a la shout at the 
 Devil or ThunderHorse ) or a simple smooth jazzy/ love song ( like rock this town and Crazy in Love 
 )
  
  I can't put guitar Hero 2 down at the moment-as a matter of fact, im gonna play it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zippo_Jr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Finally a port from a current gen console that doesn't suck. Ever since Guitar Hero 2 was revealed 
 for the Xbox 360, it has generated a considerable amount of hype. I'm pleased to say that it delievers 
 on most aspects. From the upgraded graphics. To the new songs and downloadable ones. To the awesome 
 new guitar. Guitar Hero 2 was worth the wait. The graphics for the game are amazing. It's nice 
 to see for a change that developers are enhancing the graphics to fit the machine, instead of leaving 
 them the way they were. Everthough you can't really see the amazing show effects when you're playing, 
 you do have chances to have a glimsp at them for a short while while playing. The songs are another 
 way the game has improved. With some additions to the game roster, you can download songs as well. 
 I'm pleased that Red Octane has finally given us a new guitar to play with. The design is great, 
 but the side buttons take a while to get used to. With so many things great with G. H. 2, there 
 are also some drawbacks. With the popularity of Xbox live, you'd think that it would be great to 
 have an online multiplayer match with someone. But no, we don't get that. Also I would of liked 
 to see some more songs added to the game before it was shipped. Which leads me to another problem. 
 At this point in time, the downloadable songs cost way to much. Maybe later on in the future their 
 be free, but chances are their not. Despite these setbacks, Guitar Hero 2 is one of the best games 
 on the Xbox 360 so far. In case your wondering why I didn't mention the price as a setback here's 
 the reason. I purchased G. H. 2 for $56 bucks brand new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  It is very addictive and is fun but the game isn't that long and can get VERY frustrating and the 
 price seems a bit too high. Its probably only worth maybe 60 70 dollars. But if your a fan a rock 
 and roll, this game is for you.
  The store I don't like to much since it only takes a couple songs to play to have enuff money to 
 buy somthing really expensive. And they also could have added some xbox live into it but they didn't 
 which was dissapointing. The guitar is reasonable and I here that the strum thingy isn't as clacky 
 as the PS2 version which is good I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I was able to like this game cause i am able to take fustration really well, but, there are some 
 people out there that are not going to like this game because they don't like the controller.
 
  
  Gameplay - It is actually quite intrigueing, the new controller is innovative, and really immerses 
 you into this game, like no other game will do you before.
  
  Graphics - The graphics, while good, they aren't really essential to the gameplay, they are just 
 there because Harmonix needed something to put on the screen... Sound - The sound has to be good, 
 because the whole game is about music, and some of my favourite bads are scattered in there. and 
 the inclusion of more music to come is something I have never seen before.
  
  Value - There is alot of value to be found here, achievements, Leaderboards, coop, which isn't 
 all that it could be, and the music that you can play, that just makes it all that you could want 
 it to be
  
  Tilt - I dun know what this is used for... balancing??
  
  There are some issues you should get over before getting this game, but if you are a rock fan, 
 definetely try this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: many_goats
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero franchise has been a hugely successfully one since the release of the original 
 Guitar Hero on the PS2, which was released in April 2006 in the UK, and rightly so. The series 
 is one of the most and popular and original available in videogaming today, and so it is no surprise 
 that it has finally made its way to the Xbox 360 in the form of the newer, shinier version of 
 Guitar Hero 2.
  For those unsure, the principle behind Guitar Hero 2 is very simple. First and foremost, rather 
 than a conventional pad, you use a guitar shaped one. It features a strum bar and five fret buttons, 
 as well as a whammy bar. To play a note you do exactly as you would with a real guitar; hold down 
 one of the fret buttons, and hit the strum bar to produce the relevant note. As the song youre 
 playing along to kicks in, a fretboard appears on screen, and scrolls towards you, with finger 
 placements on it on the relevant notes. All you have to do to successfully play that note is strum 
 the strum bar whilst holding down the given fret button, just as if you were playing guitar. Simple 
 eh?
  With this unique control system, Red Octane have found a winner. The controller is responsive, 
 sturdier than its PS2 counterpart (not to mention downright sexier) and comfortable to use.
  The tracks you can play along to are well chosen as well. There are some obvious classics available 
 to rock to including Van Halens You Really Got Me, Guns n Roses Sweet Child of Mine and 
 the infamous Free Bird by Lynyrd Skynyrd. However there are also some very modern songs, some 
 lesser known. A personal favourite of mine is Every Time I Dies The New Black, as well as Six 
 by metalcore band All That Remains, whilst My Chemical Romance also make an appearance with Dead! 
 Other better known tracks include Foo Fighters Monkey Wrench, Nirvanas Heart Shaped Box and 
 Wolfmothers Woman. Whilst some of the songs are original recordings, cover bands perform most, 
 quite wonderfully I would argue. There are a few exceptions; the removal of the line F**k you 
 I wont do what you tell me from Rage Against The Machines Killing In The Name, as well as 
 a debatably irate vocalist mean the song loses a lot of its power, and the vocalist on Heart 
 Shaped Box does an admirable job of trying to replicate Kurt Cobains unique vocal style, but 
 falls slightly short of the mark.
  Already, theres plenty to enjoy. Using the Quick Play mode, you can hop straight into one of the 
 songs from the main set list and any that youve unlocked, choosing the difficulty setting as you 
 do so, and rock until your shirts ripped and your hair is matted with sweat, or something.
  However, there is a substantial Career Mode to enjoy as well. In this mode, you choose a guitar 
 hero from the list of available characters, and play your part in a rock band. The career is split 
 up into eight sections, (seven on the easiest difficulty setting) , with the tracks getting gradually 
 more complex and difficult to play. Each time you unlock a new section, often by successfully completing 
 an encore, youre band moves to a bigger and more impressive venue, eventually culminating in a 
 gig at Stonehenge. After each song is completed, youll get a breakdown of how well you performed 
 each individual section, and therefore you know exactly what you need to work on to better your 
 score and make the crowds go even wilder in the future. The career can be completed on all difficulties, 
 and you neednt complete the entire tour on one difficulty to unlock another; the freedom available 
 makes for a full on rock experience. Also in the Career Mode you can buy new guitars, finishes, 
 songs and characters, as well as access the now available song packs from Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 Having just mentioned the increasing technicality of the tracks youll perform, the learning curve 
 of the game requires a mention. Its well judged, to be fair, and the different difficulty settings 
 are well titled. The Easy mode is perfect for just getting you used to the idea of a guitar controller, 
 and getting the timing with the notes on screen correct. I had never played a Guitar Hero game 
 before, but had few problems getting 5 stars on all the tracks on Easy; its perfect for getting 
 you into the swing of things. Medium starts to throw more notes at you, and more chords, as well 
 as using more of the fret buttons. The jump up to hard is large, no doubt, but with practice (more 
 on this shortly) many songs can be conquered. Finally, Expert offers the ultimate challenge to 
 gamers; youll need mighty quick fingers to defeat some of the horrendously complex hammer-on and 
 pull-off sequences, as well as a fast strumming arm, in both directions. Some of the songs on this 
 hardest difficulty setting (which I am in fact struggling with at the moment) require some serious 
 patience, a certain amount of luck (how did I pull that off?) but, most importantly they require 
 skill. This game rewards skill, no doubt about that.
  After mentioning the need to practice, what better place to head now than the brilliant, life-saving 
 training mode? There are practice modes on most games, but few let you practice in such a detailed 
 and interactive way as Guitar Hero 2. When a song that, and I quote from one of the humorous loading 
 screens, is kicking your butt, load it up in practice mode, choose the difficulty setting youd 
 like to practice on and bash away without fear of being booed off, as happens in the career mode 
 when a song is failed. However, theres far more to this mode. Maybe you dont want to practice 
 an entire song, as its only the solo thats giving you a problem? No problem, choose the section 
 of the song to start from, the section where youd like to end the practice, and go at it. Maybe 
 its the speed of play required thats giving you issues? No problem here either, each song can 
 be slowed down to a snails pace (there are three settings besides normal speed) so you can master 
 the sequences and gradually improve. Come the end of each session youll be told the percentage 
 of notes you hit, so you can work your way to perfection before blasting it off in the Career mode. 
 It is, by far, the best practice mode Ive ever come across, and unlike many, it actually really, 
 really helps.
  The online features of the game are, all things considered, the only area that could be improved. 
 There is no online multiplayer mode whatsoever (you and a friend can rock out when plugged into 
 the same console, however) , but Red Octane have said that it is a probable feature in the future. 
 There are online leaderboards though, and trying to beat your mates on a particular track or in 
 the career mode is an enjoyable and focusing task. Unfortunately, my best mate is far too good 
 at this game, and therefore has wiped the floor with me on most tracks. Hopefully you have nicer 
 friends.
  All things considered, this is an excellent, must own game. Its brilliantly presented, with a 
 proper rock n roll stereotype teacher on the practice mode, ludicrous artwork and characters 
 throughout, as well as the comical advice given on each loading screen. In fact, the feature 
 of this game that best describes what Red Octane were looking to produce, is that by tilting your 
 guitar controller vertically, likely as youre thrashing around your room, you can activate Star 
 Power to drive the crowds wild and double your score for each note hit. And who said rock was dead? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashkon91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 make great use of it posibilities. The guitar is easy to hold and sit with. The option 
 to tighten ure guitar manuly by opening it and not voiding the warenty is nice or sending it in. 
 90 dollars is a nice price but for the max of the game u need to get a 2nd gutair. The song tracks 
 are great and it was well worth the 150 i spent on it. This is a great music and now every time 
 i hear music i can imagin the notes in my mind asif they were in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_mcguire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  SCORE! That's all I could say after I first started jamming in Guitar Hero 2. From the very begginging 
 of the game, I knew that it was great. The gameplay is exactly like GH1, which is a great thing. 
 OF course, there are some new features, like a very solid multiplayer component, and new downloadable 
 content songs. GH2 shines in all aspects except for one: its difficulty. This game will have you 
 throwing a hisy fit. Once you ramp the difficulty up to Hard, it's un freakin believable. In the 
 end GH2 is easy to pick up, hard to put down, and freakin challenging to master. Oh yeah, the music 
 rocks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Nice but not enough. Although i dont own this game i have played it quite a lot throught shops, friends 
 houses etc.. Already The Game Looks Good But The Standards Dont Meet The Match. Its A Bit Too Confusing 
 To Understand And The Game Can Get A Little Fustrating At Times. I Feel as if you keep playing 
 and if you mess the song up you must restart. Also i have noticed there is no real purpose to this 
 game , its Just the Same Thing Over and Over Again. Still I Feel This is a very good game and a 
 good design so i would give it a thumbs up . :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSoldierX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has been one the most enjoyable games to play especially with a friend. If you have 
 an Xbox 360 then you need to buy this game! I know many peopel saving up to get the game because 
 of its $90 price tag, but it's worth it. The sound is great! You can hear the songs perfectly. The 
 soundtrack is a mix of some classics and oldies we all enjoy today. One of the great things about 
 its soundtrack is that you can play it again and again and you wont get tired of hearing it. One 
 of my personal favorite, You Really Got Me, was intresting to play. Because on each difficulty 
 it was faster, harder, and louder (at points) . So if you notcie that the song is playing a little 
 faster on Hard than on Easy. Or you find it hard to use the orange key, it's normal. The downloadable 
 songs are out and priced at a high of 150 Microsoft Points for 3 songs. If they were sold seprately 
 for 50 MS each it'd be easier. Becasue then I wouldn't be stuck with Ozzy Ozborne, The value of 
 the Xbox 360 version is at its highest. The 360 version offers more than the standard PS2 version. 
 Enhanced graphics, more songs, and the notes are seen less fuzzy on the 360 version. AT points when 
 playing the PS2 verison the notes become fuzzy so you can't really see them. The graphics are great! 
 They're looking better than past and other versions of the game. Guitar Hero has some intresting 
 designs of guitars like The Fish for example. I'm not sure if it's original or not ,but it's a 
 unique design and looks funny if you look at your character while he/she is playing it. Guitar 
 Hero 2 on the Xbox 360 is the best verison out with great graphics, great songs, and great fun. If 
 you're torn between getting the PS2 or Xbox 360 version there are 2 things on your mind. Price 
 and Gameplay. The price for this version if $90 ,but is worth it. The PS2 version is $60 (in my 
 area) ,but gameplay isn't as good. Just save up money and soon you'll have enough to rock out with 
 the guitar controller. No more air guitar now you step it up... controller guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonjovie122
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever liked playing such games as DDR and even singstar, this may well be the next rythmn 
 game in your collection.
  
  Red Octane have now introduced the Bass Guitar option to play as instead of just the normal lead 
 guitar. This is nice, but no real step forward.
  
  70 songs flood the game which is nice, and they truely all feel different at the different difficulties, 
 while you may get 100% on the Gun's N Roses' Sweet child O' Mine, you may find it so insanely difficult 
 on insane and even hard, that you do literally feel like smashing your guitar on the floor like 
 a real rockstar.
  
  The graphics are nice, with there being no jaggies to speak of (thank god) .
  And the framerate 
 stays a perfect throughout the song, though I have had a slight slowdown in the crowd cheering 
 Encore sceens, but this doesnt effect the gameplay at all.
  
  To sum it all up! Guitar Hero 2 is an amazing game. If you havent touched guitar hero thus far, 
 you might aswell do it now, This game will literally blow your mind on insane! HAVE FUN! AND ROCK 
 ON!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable4me
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for Xbox 360, is by far ahead of Guitar Hero I and It's counterpart version for 
 Playstation 2. But there are many key features stopping, this game from being a 10. One is the 
 replay value is terrible. Medium, hard, and expert. You end up playing the same songs 3 times. Another 
 reason is the graphics could be better, but are still way above Playstation 2's version of the 
 game.
  On the other hand, It has a great song selection, and good variety. Also, Keeps you wanting to 
 play with all the songs you can buy, in and out of Xbox Live marketplace, and wide variety of guitars/ 
 characters, and items to customize them with. Overall, it's a great game, fully worth the $90 i 
 spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukemorgan21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It actually took me about a week after release to get my hands on this game. I had never played 
 a Guitar Hero game before i purchased Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360. After rocking out for a 
 couple hours i finally got the hang of it. In my opinion the secret is memorizing the buttons, 
 from there you can master the game and really begin to challenge yourself. The only set back in 
 this game are the graphics, but this is obviously, not the most important aspect when it comes 
 to a game like this. Everything else is amazing, the gameplay and sound are superb, with the 70 
 tracks or so plus the download-able content you can purchase on Xbox Live market place you could 
 rock out forever.
  
  I gave this game a 9.5 because it truly is a superb game and deserves more credit from Gamespot 
 (IGN's review was definitely more accurate) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyzar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This game is soo good. The game like ROCKS. Im starting to learn playing at ( I have had it for 
 a week now) . Now Im at Hard and soon in expert... I just don't understand people who beat the game 
 whit expert. How the hell does a human have so fast finger clicking. It looks impossible when I 
 look at some videos in Youtube... And there is the one video where a 8 year old kid plays the song 
 Psycho Billy Freak Out and the dude isn't even looking at the screen, he is just playing the song 
 like a real rock star. I really need to train my playing before I can bee as good has him :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  i love rock n roll- i mean who doesnt
  
  i love playing guitar and guitar hero
  
  must get
  
  gameplay- 10 great guitar action
  graphics- 9 nearly perfect games
  sound-10 
 almost perfect recording
  value- 9 not worth that 59.99
  tilt-9 who doesnt like this game
  
  i love this game and cant wait for Rock band to come out 
 or guitar hero 3 some reasons to get this game- if you have no music talent at all with the guitar 
 but want to. spends countless hours on this because your never gonna be good at guitar. if you 
 dont like guitar hero but everyone that goes over to your house does get just for the likings of 
 your friends...
  if you like music this game if for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargersROCK42x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games ever. I liked the first one, but I PREFER this one, 
 not saying I like better, I PREFER... anyway. This game's track list is the best Ive seen ever since 
 Dead Rising or Infected. I also think that this is lots of fun for anyone! I walk by the demo at 
 bestbuy and I see like old people and tourists watching kids play and It seems to have made a big 
 effect on the public, which is cool! The graphics ands sound are good enough but its too hard to 
 notice them while your concentrating on the fret board. Character selection is also good. This 
 game has done everything right! The new Co-op mode and practice mode are great additions and both 
 are fun and helpful. No one would EVER get tired of this game cause Its so god damned awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  If there's one common psychological trait amongst all gamers, its our ability to take flights of 
 fantasy at will and usually completely out of choice. For a lot of people, gaming is all about 
 undertaking cathartic experiences to rid themselves of the frustrations of real life, leaving preconceptions 
 at the door and to coin a Microsoft phrase, 'jumping in' to somebody else's universe. It's no small 
 wonder that some of the most successful games of recent times are the titles that either envelop 
 players completely in another realm (WoW) , or simply emphasise aspects of their own lives that 
 lend themselves naturally to wish fulfilment (SingStar) . For many, the Guitar Hero series sits 
 at the absolute pinnacle of that secondary pile, and with very good reason.
  
  The key to the series' success is one of convincing physicality. Whilst using a traditional joypad, 
 mouse or keyboard can certainly immerse you in any particular experience; it's never to the point 
 of full believability. The physical barrier is always there, and no matter how hard your brain 
 wanders into the gameworld, the part of you that's real and actually playing the game never experiences 
 the same trickery. Similarly, using a microphone to warble your way through Singstar tunes or using 
 a dancemat to lurch around in rhythm to remixed 90's europop is undoubtedly fun, but unless you've 
 got the voice of a gospel singer or the moves of Michael Jackson (possibly both) , it'll never convince 
 you to choose an alternative career path.
  
  Guitar Hero removes all of those barriers to believability by breaking down the physical constraints 
 of traditional controllers and providing an experience that's at the very least akin to playing 
 a proper guitar, with a difficulty curve that's as rewarding and technically pleasing as the real 
 thing. Basic accomplishments are obtained fairly easily, but it takes dedication and practice to 
 master the more complex tunes and a genuine talent for the same sort of fretwork produced by the 
 artists themselves. It's easy to lose yourself in the delusion that you can actually play the songs 
 presented before you, and the number of people that have taken up the real instrument as a result 
 is a testament to its success. Funny how we never hear that sort of argument put forward as an 
 advocate for videogaming in general isn't it?
  
  So, down to business, Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 is essentially the same experience as previous 
 versions, but with a few twists that elevate it above and beyond the PS2 title. There is little 
 to criticise in the core mechanics of the game, and outside of a batch of faulty controllers, the 
 360 version responds in exactly the same manner as you may be used to. The design of the new X-Plorer 
 guitar peripheral may leave a bit to be desired at first, with a tendency for the upper fin of 
 the plastic instrument to stick in your forearm whilst you're playing, but with practice it becomes 
 second nature and feels fine. The 360 version also retains all of the improvements made over the 
 original, right down to the practice mode that lets you slow down and practice individual sections 
 of each song, which proves invaluable for beating the harder solos.
  
  Visually, the high definition capabilities of the 360 have leant themselves well to a reworking 
 of the character and venue assets, emphasising the over-the-top, heavily stylised nature of the 
 design work. Lighting has also been given an overhaul with some pleasing new effects, although 
 as always it's difficult to notice any of this when playing normally, and unfortunately the majority 
 of the synched animation and stage pyrotechnics will be lost on most solo protagonists. Watching 
 the game being played at a party shows an entirely different side to the engine than simply staring 
 at the note bar in the centre of the screen, and really brings the experience alive for those not 
 wielding the plastic axe.
  
  Of course if you do end up playing GHII at a party you certainly won't be stuck for choice of music. 
 The 360 version increases the track count with eight new licensed songs, up to a whopping total 
 of 74 overall. Iron Maiden classic 'The Trooper' is the standout addition here, perfectly fitting 
 within the upper echelons of difficulty whilst being immensely fun to play. Downloadable content 
 will be made available for the game shortly, but with a rumoured price of 500 MS points per 3-pack 
 of songs it's a shame that this wont be more competitive, but then that would lessen the value 
 of the inevitable GHIII, and I'm sure Activision will want to milk as much out of the franchise 
 as possible. With Neversoft on-board to produce the third iteration, lets hope the spirit of the 
 game remains intact, and we don't get some sort of 'youth culture' or skateboarding-inspired segue.
 
  
  Not that they'll need to change it. Judging by the number of people already populating the online 
 leaderboards there should be quite a bit of life left in the format just yet, with well over 30,000 
 high scores registered in the first day of release alone. For a &pound;70 game that's a considerable 
 achievement, and bodes well for future editions on the next-gen consoles.
  
  For a game with such perfect dynamics, the biggest criticism that can realistically be levelled 
 at GHII is the controversial aspect of song selection. Whilst this is a purely subjective matter, 
 general consensus seems to rest with the fact that there are simply not enough standout tunes on 
 the roster. Whether or not that's simply a casualty of an increased track count or just a bad selection 
 is a different matter, but whatever the reason, there are definitely less memorable moments here 
 than the first game. There is no real GHII equivalent of a 'More than a feeling', a song that no 
 matter what you thought of it in real life, was fun to play no matter how many repetitions were 
 necessary with multiplayer-loving friends. However, as always with matters such as these, your 
 mileage may vary according to taste.
  
  At the end of the day, without any of the core aspects of the game being altered, Guitar Hero is 
 all about rocking out and showing off; and this version does nothing to change that fact. With 
 the improved visuals, increased song count and the crucial addition of friend-bating online leaderboards, 
 the 360 version is the best yet. Just don't beat my score on Hangar 18, I'll not be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjxbox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This is just an amazing game. I havent played the guitar before, all I have done is try and learn 
 the drums so i'm no music man freak or anything.
  
  I picked the guitar up and it felt good, I played the practice - ok I'm ready. When I started playing 
 the game its amazing - its tricky for the first few song but its a pretty good learning curve, 
 I got the hang of it after a few songs. You really feel like you're part of the song, and you know 
 when you've gone wrong (when it goes silent or makes the wrong noise lol)
  
  The graphics are pretty good, you're not going to look at the character much during you're performance 
 but they look good and don't bring the game down like some music games.
  
  I reccomend this to anyone, I'm a rock / heavy metal fan myself - but anyone that likes rock songs 
 or guitar will love this game. Its just so fun, and really hard to put down - theres 4 difficulty 
 levels to ease you in. 3 buttons then 4 then 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disposablepal
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Back in 2005 a little known developer named Harmonix published a rhythm based game called Guitar 
 Hero which followed the same basic formula of games like Dance Dance Revolution in which you would 
 follow the directions on screen while pressing the corresponding button on the controller or specially 
 designed pad. Harmonix decided to add something new to the equation of using fast paced club and 
 dance songs like other games in the genre and instead used guitar heavy rock and metal songs as 
 well as trading in the dance pads of other games and opting for a custom designed guitar replica 
 controller. The game has since become an international hit taking advantage of a totally untapped 
 market of players who love to rock and players who wouldn't be caught dead playing DDR. Two years 
 later Harmonix musical monster returns proving once again that not all music games make you feel 
 stupid playing them in public, now you're probably saying to yourself i've already bought and played 
 this game six months ago well you'd be right. Originally published for the Playstation 2 back in 
 November Guitar Hero comes to the Xbox 360 in full glory with new tracks, new unlockables, and 
 a whole new guitar.
  
  Upon loading up Guitar Hero 2 for the first time you will immediatley notice that the graphics 
 have undergone a major overhaul, when compared to the PS2 version that was released six months 
 ago the Xbox 360 version looks like an entirely new game. The textures are all very high resolution, 
 the characters themselves have recieved tweaks here and there for example Johnny Napalm's second 
 outfit has Liberty Spikes as the hair style but when he moves his hair moves with him instead of 
 staying perfectly still as it did on the PS2 version as well as Axel Steel now sports a Handlebar 
 mustache instead of the previous clean shaven look in the PS2 version. Everything appears to have 
 a soft focus look to it very much like the game Fable, which is an excellent touch as it makes 
 the stage lights appear brighter. Even if not playing on a HDTV you will easily notice and appreciate 
 the changes.
  
  Obviously the real star of the show in this game is the sound or the tracks to be more specific. 
 The game features a total of 74 songs, 48 of these being from licensed artist including Guns and 
 Roses, Raga Against the Machine, Primus, and Megadeth. Several songs are exclusive to the 360 version 
 including tracks by My Chemical Romance, Alice Cooper, and Pearl Jam to name a few. As of writing 
 this review Harmonix has made available 9 more songs via Xbox Live all from Guitar Hero One including 
 such Guitar Hero classics as Ozzy Osborne's Bark at the Moon , The Donna's Take It Off , and Motorhead's 
 Ace of Spades . The downloads come in the form of 3 song packs consisting of 3 songs each and cost 
 500 Microsoft points ($6.25) for each pack, a price that has many fans already in an uproar as downloading 
 all three packs would come to roughly $18.25 USD.
  
  Along with the slew of new material in the 360 version it also comes with the new Gibson X-Plorer 
 guitar replacing the original Gibson SG that accompanied the original PS2 versions. The addition 
 of the new guitar adds to the games price considerably, currently brand new the game retails for 
 $89.00. Some of the changes include smaller buttons, the addition of a D-Pad and Xbox dashboard 
 button, as well as a lighter weight and modified body style. The only problem that arises form 
 the new design is the configuration of the strap as it leads to many tangles and bunching up of 
 the strap itself. Recently the guitar has come under fire as several new guitars have been release 
 with a defective Whammy bar. Currently a fix is supposedly in the works that should prevent hundreds 
 of angry guitar fans from returning they're copies of the game.
  
  All things considered Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 is an amazing game and the only game of it's 
 kind on the 360 currently at least until EA's Rock Band comes out in November. With that said the 
 price tag is alittle steep on alot of people especially those who already own Guitar Hero 1 and 
 2 on the PS2 and are not ready to drop another $90 on a game they've already played because it 
 has a few new songs, not to mention that to play those available guitar hero 1 songs its going 
 to cost you almost another $20. At this point if Activision released all the songs from Guitar 
 Hero 1 via Xbox Live it would cost almost $90 more dollars to get them all, it seems like they 
 are milking the consumers pockets a bit. But if you've got about a hundred bucks burning a hole 
 in your pocket and some rock in your heart its completely worth it, if not, stick to playing it 
 on the PS2 and wait a month or two for all the guitar kinks to be worked out and more songs to 
 be available for download. Rock on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtspeed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I haven't moved my finger this much since prom night and playing it is almost as much fun as that 
 blessed night. This is a GREAT game!!! The song selection is good although there are a few songs 
 that I would add if I had my wish. I think that in the next game they including a few Metallica 
 songs. I would even be in favor of them making a Guitar Hero game with just Metallica songs. I 
 even have the name of it picked out, Guitar Hero Metallica edition or Black edition. It will make 
 all of your wildest dreams come true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggmann9021000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow when i first played this game i was just amazed, it is so much fun and if you like the first 
 one you will definetly like this one. It is great i had describe in words how much fun this game 
 truley is and you can play this game for so long you have to ice your fingers. I recomend if you 
 don't have this game you go out and get it right now and trust me if you like having fun you won't 
 be disapointed and if your not a fan of the series rent and try it out im sure you will end up 
 liking it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJosher
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I played my friend's PS2 one and then I played my 360 one and I definately believe it easier to 
 play on the 360 with the controller. It takes about an hour or two if you have never played this 
 game or something like to learn it. If you have played this game before, on the PS2 or whatever, 
 you can pick it up and just ruin it on medium. This is worth your money. It comes with a X-Plorer 
 guitar (with a 10 foot long wire) , guitar strap, stickers (to put on your guitar) , and the game 
 with the game book. Good luck and have fun with this great game. If you do not recommend my review 
 will you please send me a message telling me what is wrong with and I will try to improve my later 
 reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDove
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is a rythym based game that is all about control and it does it very well, so well 
 that it will have new auidences picking this game up and not puting it down for a very long time.
 
  
  Guitar Hero II gives you basically the same experience that the PS2 version gives. However, instead 
 of being a direct port fromt the PS2 version, redoctane has given the game a visual spruce up, 
 included some new songs and created a whole new guitar which plays a lot tighter than then PS2 
 version. The game includes all the modes present in the PS2 version with the addition of the online 
 leader board so you can compare you scores across you songs and you career with everyone else around 
 the globe. There is no online multiplayer mode to found here, which may dissapoint some, However 
 the co-op modes are more than enough to encourage you to get a party started so that you can satisfy 
 you multiplayer needs from this game.
  
  The X-Plorer guitar that comes with game feels more solid than the PS2, there is more weight in 
 the neck and the fret buttons feel more responsive. However the frets themselves stick out a little 
 more making sliding you fingers between buttons a little bit of a rough journey. The string plucker 
 is probably less fiddlier than the PS2 however the feeling of it just isn't right, you find it 
 hard at first the strum it like a guitar and you will probably resort to just using your thumb 
 to click down on it for the first couple of plays. The wammy bar is probably less responsive then 
 the PS2, whether or not you prefer it being as or less reponsive is completely upto you. The Guitar 
 also features the standard Guide, Start, Back and D-pad functions and also has some mystery slots 
 which is rumored to be a port for effects pedals. The communication between the guitar and the 
 game is incredibly fluent, all of the buttons are extremly responsive so will never feel like you 
 hit it but the game missed it.
  
  The Achievements in the game are well thought out and some will take a redicously long time to 
 get, However, they don't add to the games replay value as the game itself is so addictive that 
 achievements will easily take a back seat most of the time when playing.
  
  Overall redocatane could have easily done a a direct port and still have had a solid game. The 
 fact that they took what they had and improved the visuals, added new songs and created a whole 
 new and more solid controller, definitely makes this version of Guitar Hero II the most definitive. 
 Guitar Hero II is a game that can't go being unplayed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan2183
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  great game well worth the money. one of the best games to date a must buy cant wait for the downloadable 
 content on xbox marketplace what are the achivments like? every one else reviewed at 9 to 10 out 
 of 10 takes a while to get used to the controller but when you do its great
  
  great game well worth the money. one of the best games to date a must buy cant wait for the downloadable 
 content on xbox marketplace what are the achivments like? every one else reviewed at 9 to 10 out 
 of 10 takes a while to get used to the controller but when you do its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlevicky93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 for the 360 is amazing as its PS2 fellow. Even better. You know, on top of all the 
 great stuff in the PS2 version, they've added 10 extra songs exclusively. Because of all the surrounding 
 hype you might've noted this. Some of them are great while others are just pure bottom. The graphics 
 has improved severely and the sound is at its best. The Achievements are great. Some being so stupid 
 like failing a song on easy or rejecting an encore, whilst others like Kick the Bucket (means beating 
 Jordan on expert) and the Yngwie Malmsteen Award (means you get a 1.000 note streak) are serious 
 and very difficult to achieve.
  
  Bottom line: Great game. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I was never terribly excited about Guitar Hero or Guitar Hero II on the PS2. I'm more a fan of 
 artists like Neil Young and Pearl Jam and I don't listen to Iron Maiden, Van Halen or Guns N Roses. 
 So it took the expanded set list to get me to buy the Xbox 360 version of this game. And the promise 
 of downloadable content!
  
  The great thing about this game is it is totally immerses me. Once I strap on the guitar I play 
 the part. I'm the lead guitarist, writhing in spastic convulsions as I solo and jam. The crowd 
 is at my mercy as I grind out thunderous rock'n'roll. They clap, they yell and scream, and if I'm 
 lucky, they ask for an encore.
  
  And even the eclectic mix of rock, hard rock, heavy metal, etc. doesn't bother me. Some songs are 
 harder to stomach than others, but it's great to explore and learn about music I've never experienced 
 before. Little did I know that Possum Kingdom would be one of my favorite songs!
  
  Once aspect of the game that could discourage some is that it is quite challenging. Easy mode doesn't 
 take a lot to beat, although getting used to the guitar controller and the finer aspects of game 
 play will take several hours. Even the tutorial doesn't make it all obvious. But you don't get 
 access to the store, which lets you unlock new music, characters, etc., unless you play at higher 
 difficulties.
  
  And those higher difficulties are MUCH harder, at least for me they are. I can get through most 
 of the medium songs with 70% but I have to carefully skip notes I can't hit. It stinks that I have 
 to do this but having fun and having to practice a song over and over again don't go hand in hand 
 for me. I want to enjoy the game, not live it.
  
  But the game offers a ton of modes, including the ability practice part or all of a song, and even 
 slow it down. And quick play lets you access all of the songs you unlock in encores and play them 
 in easy difficulty if you prefer. That's a great consolation, especially when younger gamers want 
 to access content but aren't capable of playing the harder difficulty levels.
  
  Do I recommend Guitar Hero II? If you don't like rock, probably not. I can't imagine someone who 
 loathes rock'n'roll enjoying it, but if you've at least been exposed to rock you will probably 
 find it fun. My 10 year old daughter prefers Kelly Clarkson over Nirvana but she still enjoys the 
 game.
  
  Now they just need to make some downloadable songs available... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigDrat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun once you get the hang of it. It will take you awhile to get up to the hard/expert 
 levels but once you do you will have the time of your life. The online leaderboards add to the 
 longevity of the game and the new songs make it a must buy for any hardcore GH fan.
  
  The graphics don't really matter since you will be focusing on the notes as the shoot down the 
 screen. The soundtrack rocks (pardon the pun) .
  
  Like I said you really have to experience this game. I have spent nearly 100 hours playing this 
 game (PS2 verison) and I still have fun. The Xbox 360 version improves on everything. This game 
 is a must buy for any serious rock fan or anyone who is into rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero is one of the most loved games of all time in my home town. You talk to anyone and 
 they can tell you right off what the hardest song they ever cleared was. The Xbox 360 version has 
 tons of new songs with many available in the future which looks really exciting! I don't know about 
 any of you but i have been dreaming about play Dead! by My Chemical Romance and rocking out that 
 AMAZING guitar solo at the end as my friends drop their jaws to the floor like I am the reincarnate 
 Bob Marley. This game really doesn't focus on graphics or presentation because that is not what 
 it is really about. That is why i didn't weigh the those scores as heavy as the other categories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batteredpuppet
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Better than the ps2 version. The price is a little high, but it's really not that bad when you 
 look at the detail and what not in the game. Also, it's worth it when you look in the long run, 
 downloadable content, and there's a effect pedal input jack on the guitar, should be interesting 
 to see what they do with that in the future. I just traded in my ps2 version in for this version, 
 wasn't too bad on the wallet. The only thing that really threw me off was the size of the x-plorer 
 guitar. It's oftly tiny compared to the one that comes with the ps2, or even the wireless frontman 
 guitar from Nyko. Besides that, 100 % fun. The Trooper kills !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero started two years ago on ps2 and now they are using the smae technology to convert 
 it to xbox 360 but now with a totally changed sound track . Guitar Hero is a fun game which challenges 
 you on some difficulties, some songs are harder than others like the trooper is one of the hardest 
 and heart shaped box being one of the easiest .
  I cant really say much for the graphics as when your playing it your only really looking at which 
 button comes next but you see your character rocking on stage doing signature moves if you activate 
 your powers.
  The sound is great for this game as im not sure but it sounds like the original voices for the 
 songs. This game is not very difficult either. I did not get Guitar Hero but this is one of my 
 favourite games .
  The guitar itself is great as if you REALLY wanted to you could use it as a controller for other 
 things but it is kinda tricky to get used to with 5 fret buttons , a strum bar and all the normal 
 buttons on the controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_new_to_game
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the 360 is much like the PS2 version of the game. However, with the inclusion 
 of 10 new songs, downloadable content, and improved graphics and sound over the PS2 version, there 
 are many reasons to buy this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, while not entirely next-gen, are reasonably good and are not the reason 
 to buy this game anyway. On to the more important parts of the game. 7 / 10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Guitar Hero II is similar to playing a real guitar. There is a lot of 
 enjoyment gained from pretending to be an amazing rock star while jamming on the X-plorer controller. 
 The game also has unlimited replay potential due to the downloadable content and the varying game 
 modes and leaderboards. 10 / 10
  
  Sound: The 360 makes the rock sounds just like if you were actually on stage playing the songs. 
 However, the clinking sound when missing a note can get annoying real fast. 9 / 10
  
  All in all, the game and controller together make for an awesome gaming experience. You can play 
 with the standard 360 controller, however, that seems less fun to me. Overall: 8.7 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game i caught on to the easy mode pritty quickly and beat the easy in a little 
 less than 2 days. I havn't done medium too much because I'm tring to get 5 stars on every easy 
 song, but i only have one song to go on the easy. The medium is harder because the blue button 
 comes in so it will take some practise getting used to it. But hard and expert look way too hard 
 cuz all 5 buttons are used and the notes go super fast. I never played the 1st guitar hero for 
 the PS2 but i did want it really bad i just never got around to buying it. Then when guitar hero 
 2 came out for the PS2 i wanted it really bad. So one day i was about to get it but then i heard 
 it was comming out for the 360 so i descided to wait. I did play GH2 for the PS2 a lil at my local 
 walmart and i only played it for 10mins so i sucked at it and couldnt even beat a song. But 3 things 
 I know are better on the 360s version better than the PS2 version is The guitar is better, there 
 will be downloadable content, and graphics. So if you want a fun but challengeing game get Guitar 
 hero 2 because it allmost makes you feel like a rockstar ( take acid and then play guitar hero 2 
 then you'll feel like a rockstar) So: GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOCKETHETHIEF
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone already knows the good and the bad about GH2 for 360, but I thought I would throw 
 my review out there.
  
  First of all, I have to say I really enjoy the game. I first played the original GH on ps2, and 
 have to say I truly loved that game. When I heard it was coming out for 360 I was excited. The 
 game offers new songs and downloadable content, which makes it a must buy for any true GH2 fan.
 
  
  The one thing that I really don't like about the game isn't the game at all, but the controller. 
 Although the X-plorer guitar controller looks incredible, it can get irritating. It can be difficult 
 to find a comfortable place for you to position it in your arms, and the only way to successfully 
 activate star power, especially on expert, is to tilt the guitar upwards, instead of pressing select 
 which was very accessible on the ps2 controller. Even though the guitar doesn't match up IMO, the 
 game still kicks ass, and the leader board feature is something that always keeps you striving 
 for perfection.
  
  -LTT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletomax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I simply love rock music, and everything that goes along with it. It is a fantastically well designed 
 game, with a super easy concept of gameplay, but dont let the simplistic idea fool you. The variable 
 difficulty makes this a game for every skill of rocker, and the whole idea of being in a rock bad 
 makes you want to come back for more and more. With the number of songs for play, it will be a 
 while before this game becomes numbingly boring. The quality of the singing, and the closeness 
 to original of the tracks is excellent. If the thought of rocking out, by yourself or with/against 
 another person doesnt keep you playing, then rocking on to unlock more songs charachters guitars 
 and outfits should keep you playing. The song selection is wonderful, with a little bit for everyone. 
 I would love to have some more rockin songs, but the ones that are on the game are sure to please 
 the whole families ears. If you are a console owner, then you must have this game. If you dont 
 enjoy it yourself, then bust it out at a party, and just watch the video game snobs turn into video 
 game nerds!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fantastic gameplay; brilliant Guitar peripheral; well chosen songs (that even non-rock dudes 
 like me enjoy) ; fair achievements; large song list with downloads to come
  
  Cons: No XBL multiplayer, only Leaderboards
  
  Achievements: Fair-to-Hard
  
  Although GH2 
 has been out for the PS2 for a while, I hung-on to make the Xbox 360 version the first I owned 
 and played. I have been looking forward to getting that Axe in my hands for a long time, and 
 I have to say it was well worth the wait.
  
  GH2 is a rhythm action game that combines puzzle, rhythm and simulation elements to create a simple, 
 but incredibly rewarding experience. The basic premise of the game is to play the notes that scroll 
 vertically down the screen to complete the lead guitar (or bass guitar on multiplayer) components 
 of a rock song. The Guitar peripheral is a slightly downscaled facsimile of a Gibson Xploder Guitar 
 (a 50s design classic) that has been a favourite of rock bands for 30 years even Spinal Tap have 
 one (I watched Tap again to check!) . The strings are replaced by a Strum Bar and there are 5 coloured 
 Fret keys on the neck that correspond to the notes to be played; a Whammy Bar is provided to add 
 that little extra bit of rocktastic magic to the long notes. Playing songs is fairly straight forward. 
 After you have selected a song, the coloured notes required appear on a scrolling Fret board, and 
 you simply hold the Fret buttons (s) and strum as the notes reach the line at the bottom of the 
 screen. On the easiest difficulty you only have to worry about the first three Fret buttons, whist 
 the super tough Hard and Expert require some finger Olympics (and advanced techniques) to hit all 
 five buttons in time to the music. Playing the Guitar is very satisfying and close to the feeling 
 of playing the real thing, whilst strutting around your lounge only adds to the experience.
  
  The object of each song is to obtain the best possible score. Each correct note earns 50 points, 
 whilst stringing together sets of consecutive notes earns multipliers all the way up to x4. Periodically, 
 Star Notes appear which will earn you Star Power. Star Power can be used to double the multiplier 
 (up to x8) , but is limited by the number of Star Notes a song contains. The Star Notes are often 
 attached to the more difficult riffs so building up your score relies on getting these sections 
 correct. Star Power is activated by lifting the Guitar vertically, which is quite tricky to do, 
 and maintaining your rhythm. Star Power also removes the colours from the notes to ensure that 
 there is extra challenge in earning your doubled multiplier. The Star Power feature offers a clever 
 risk and reward mechanism and also introduces some strategy as to when in the song you enable it.
 
  
  The Career mode allows you to select one of the eight characteristic rock stars, a guitar and a 
 difficulty, to progress through a prescribed set-list and work your way up from high school wannabe 
 to full stadium rock god. Each song is graded, out-of 5, based on your score, where the higher 
 the grade the more cash you have to spend on extras in the Career mode store (except on easy where 
 you cant earn money) . Higher difficulties earn more game dollars. The Store contains 40 additional 
 tracks, characters, outfits, guitars, and videos to unlock. Many of the games 50 achievements are 
 linked to completing store purchases. All scores contribute to an overall Career Score which is 
 used to show your progress on the XBL leaderboard.
  
  The Multiplayer component of the game features co-op (lead and bass guitar) and vs. Both use the 
 same mechanism as the single player game, and work best when both players have a guitar each (you 
 can play with the controller but it is not the same) . There is no XBL play due to lag issues, but 
 there is a rumour of an XBL variant of the co-op in the future.
  
  GH2 graphics are very good. Obviously, coloured notes scrolling down the screen is not the height 
 of graphical elegance, but GH2 features some excellent and humorous stage performances in the background 
 with neat character animation and an appropriate cartoon like style. The scrolling notes sit on 
 a textured guitar fret board that features a design that varies based on character or guitars used. 
 The overall presentation of the game is a quite brilliant combination of Spinal Tap (there are 
 numerous references) and School of Rock.
  
  Now I am not a rock expert, so I had to seek the advice of my 60 year old father who is (among 
 others) a Megadeth, Iron Maiden, SOTD, and Avenged Sevenfold fan. Thus, I can say there is a mixed 
 bag of tracks, with some classics (The Trooper &amp; Free Bird) and some middling efforts from 
 the likes of Pearl Jam. My personal favourite is Tattooed Love Boys, by the Pretenders, but I have 
 to say that ALL the songs (whether critically successful) work brilliantly in the context of the 
 game.
  
  Many of the songs are covers, but you have to be impressed by the production quality as they features 
 some fantastic vocal and guitar work. A handful of the songs are genuine band recorded tracks, 
 but unless you knew youd be hard pressed to spot them.
  
  At &pound;70 for both the Guitar and the game, the asking price may seems a little steep, but Guitar 
 Hero 2 does represent fantastic value for money as the quality and size of the game (70+ tracks) , 
 and the excellent guitar puts many other &pound;50 titles to shame. The prospect of a further 36 
 songs being released over the next few weeks means that you will never be stuck for a song to play. 
 Combine the games quality and scope with the perfect gameplay and endless challenge and you have 
 got a real winner.
  
  You might not believe me, but Guitar Hero 2 is the best game to come out on the 360 since Oblivion. 
 You dont have to like rock music to really enjoy this game but rock fans will get a massive kick 
 out of it. The 360 has been criticised for having too many inaccessible shooting games, well GH2 
 is the ultimate antidote to that. Who needs a motion sensitive controller when you can wield an 
 axe! Own a 360? Then you MUST buy this game (or get someone to buy it for you!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight7896
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  cool!!! there r even more songs than the ps2 version, there were like 60 songs on the original. 
 this is one of the best game ever, probably 3, next to ocarina and twilight. i didnt think it was 
 that good at first, but after a few songs, i was hooked, this game is highly addicting. it is freakin' 
 awsome that you can be the grim reapa baby!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! He looks cooler in HD. the grafix r 
 slightly better than the ps2 version also. if you dont think this i cool, you r stupid. :WARNING: 
 if you have not got to freebird yet let me tell you something, you will die after playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  After the hype of the GH 2 coming to the 360 I've got to admit that I was really keen to get my 
 hands on this game, as I'm a bit of shredhead myself! After playing my way thru 25 of the 35 songs 
 on easy, so to familiarise myself with how the the controls work, I've got to say that I'm sorely 
 disappointed. The song listings and choices are not the greatest! The Ps2 release had some true 
 guitar thrashing classics like Ozzy, GnR, Megadeth and Motorhead. These types of air guitar classics 
 are nowhere to be seen and what do we get, approx 6/7 metal songs with some of them being pretty 
 embaressing in the vocal dept. Ok the Kiss and danzig songs were fun, once and one or two others 
 were 'enjoyable'. However none of the songs included really grabbed me for long, with some of the 
 songs so out of date and simply rubbish that you wont want to play them. The bonus unloackable 
 songs are up to much either.
  
  This release should have included the Ps2 songs and had far more 'rock - metal' songs, who the 
 game is clearly geared towards. The game is quite repeative and doesn't hold your attention for 
 long. So all in all a gimicky game that doesn't make you want to band your head but tap your foot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  All right everyone..... here's my take on Guitar Hero 2 from a left-handed player. I'm not going 
 to repeat how cool the game is but rather my point of view regarding the dynamics of playing it 
 left-handed.
  
  Here's The Short Version:
  
  I've had very little problems with either the game and playing/holding the guitar left handed.
 
  
  More Detailed Version:
  
  This was a game I was looking forward to but was hesitant because I'm left-handed. A buddy of mine 
 picked it up and brought it over to my place so I could try it out.
  
  First thing I did was go into the VIDEO OPTIONS and made the change to left-handed. I then jumped 
 into the tutorial and gave it a spin..... and I was instantly hooked on the game.
  
  Not only did it reverse the buttons coming down the fret board it even reversed the pictures of 
 the guitar during the tutorial. Nice Touch.
  
  Next I jumped over to the main part of the game 'Career Mode' . My friend and I switched playing 
 to unlock more songs. I was impressed with the fact that you can choose to play either right for 
 left handed during a song by bringing up the video options while paused. Nice Touch Again.
  
  My only complaint is fairly minor. If you go into practice mode, you can't access VIDEO OPTIONS 
 and have to jump out back to the main menu. It's not a show stopper but rather a little annoying.
 
  
  As far as the XBOX 360 guitar I found it easy to use. The wammy bar is still easy to access. The 
 'PICK' bar works both up and down so no problems there. Something I also liked was how the all 
 the control buttons end up being on the bottom half of the guitar. This makes it less likely to 
 accidentally hit them while playing. the only annoyance was the up/down controls for selecting 
 songs stays reversed even after choosing the left handed option. Again not a big deal until you 
 drink too many beers and forget!
  
  Overall my experience has been a positive one. I ordered the game the next day and I'm looking 
 forward to some frantic multiplayer action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B00ND0CK-S4INT
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever made plain and simple. If you didn't get it on PS2 than buy it 
 right now! There is not a single thing i can find wrong about this game, except a few of the song 
 choices, but few songs aside, everybody should own this game. Pure AWESOME!
  
  If you pick this game up you simply can't put it down, it's just that awesome. I can't stress how 
 good this game is. You actually shouldn't be reading this right now, you should either be buying 
 the game, or playing it, so get out there and be a rock star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue-fish
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I was sceptical. Never before having played a game requiring a tacky plastic guitar and costing 
 an arm and a leg, I wounld't have even considered it. Then. PEARL JAM made the cut onto the 360 
 version and thoughts of me rocking out, drunk and heye floated across my face. So (on meeting someone 
 at the bus station thursday) I turn up in the middle of a downtown bus terminal with a box containing 
 a 36 inch plastic guitar and wait for 45 minutes. I got made fun of. Girlfriend, parents, friends, 
 pets, everyone, all mocked and pointed at my guitar. Now 'dem bastarrrds are playing along with 
 me, it's a fuking party! Never have I seen such an addictive game for rockers and rockers enthusiasts. 
 For anyone that has ever air guitared a blazin solo this will you please. And heck, I'd never ever 
 enjoyed a rhythm game much, this is just so much more.
  
  blue-fish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  For starters, this is the best game ever. Just amazing. The gameplay of the series is so fun and 
 addicting.... this is better than the original for shure. I'm glad I didn't try the PS2 version. 
 Each game already has some of your fav bands, but then it shows you new, great songs. The game 
 is great, simple, and it really feels like you a rockstar. Just picking up a plastic guitar, pressing 
 buttons, and strumming might seem weird at first apperance, but you soon will love it. Simply put, 
 the game is incredible. The only complaints I can make is that the controller is wired and there 
 is no online. Still, I can live with it. If you do not own this already, pick it up now. NOW. Oh, 
 and my fav song is Dead! by My Chemical Romance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 finally hit the shelves and what else can I say about it besides 
 it rocks! Ooooh the irony... anyway this game features over 70 songs and has ones that you have 
 heard of and some you probly havn't. Some of the songs are:
  
  Motley Crue - Shout at the Devil
  Cheap Trick - Surrender
  Wolfmother - Woman
  Kiss - Strutter
 
  Nirvana - Heart-Shaped Box
  Police - Message in a Bottle
  Van Halen - You Really Got Me
  Kansas - Carry on Wayward Son
  Foo Fighters - Monkey Wrench
  Alice in Chains - Them Bones
 
  Iggy Pop and the Stooges - Search and Destroy
  Black Sabbath - War Pigs
  Warrant - Cherry Pie
  Rolling Stones - Can't You Hear Me Knockin'
  Guns N' Roses - Sweet Child 
 O' Mine
  Rage Against the Machine - Killing in the Name Of
  Aerosmith - Last Child
  Heart - Crazy on You
  Allman Brothers - Jessica
  Anthrax - Madhouse
  Rush - YYZ
  Avenged 
 Sevenfold - Beast and the Harlot
  Megadeth - Hangar 18
  Lynyrd Skynyrd - Free Bird
  
  So your wondering what is the game about? Well it is a game where you play the notes to a song 
 to make the song play, the more notes you hit the better the rating you get (which is out of 5 
 stars) . If you play 70% of the notes you'll end up getting a three star rating. If you play 96% 
 of the song you'll most likely get a five star rating. The game is hard yet simple. It looks easy 
 but it deffiantly isn't. You can play in carrer where you can pick from four difficulties. You 
 first pick your difficulty than your character and guitar (you get three to start off with) . You 
 don't get all the characters but you get a good amount, the game has a total of 11 characters. 
 The easy difficult is exactly what it says... easy. It uses the first three buttons on the controller 
 (5 buttons total) and has 35 songs to choose from. Once you feel you can beat songs on easy without 
 a problem it is time to step it up and move on to medium buttercup. Medium is fairly hard after 
 going from that to easy but you get the hang of it after awhile, this time it uses the first four 
 buttons. Now you can get money (which you cannot do in easy) and get new guitars, bonus songs, 
 guitar finishes, characters, outfits and videos. Here are the bonus tracks: The Las Vegas - Raw 
 Dog
  Drist - Arterial Black
  Anarchy Club - Collide
  That Handsome Devil - Elephant Bones
  Valient Thorr - Fall of Pangea
  VAGIANT - FTK
  Brian 
 Kahanek - Gemini
  Bang Camaro - Push Push (Lady Lightning)
  The Acrobrats - Laughtrack
  Freezepop - Less Talk More Rokk
  Buckethead - Jordan
  The Amazing Royal Crowns - Mr. Fix-It
 
  Every Time I Die - The New Black
  Artillery - One For the Road
  The Neighborhoods - Parasite
  Count Zero - Radium Eyes
  MEGASUS - Red Lottery
  All That Remains 
 - Six
  Honest Bob and the Factory-to-Dealer Incentives - Soy Bomb
  Shadows Fall - The Light That Blinds
  DETHKLOK - Thunder Horse
  Strong Bad - Trogdor
  Voivod 
 - X-Stream
  Made in Mexico - Yes We Can
  
  In medium you get 45 songs total and you finally get to unlock some! Tracks that I won't let you 
 know . Now after playing all of medium and beating it you get to go on hard difficulty where it 
 is well... hard. You have to use all five buttons and their are more notes and it moves a lot faster. 
 It takes time to adjust but after awhile you can get the hang of it. The game features carrer (which 
 I just talked about) , quick play, multiplayer, training (tutorial and practice) and they all kick 
 ass! Multiplayer has two modes when you first get it (co-op and face off) but you can unlock more. 
 The game is just addictive and exciting to play. The controller (modeled after the Gibson X-Plorer) 
 is very unique and it works great and i have had no problems with it. Overall Guitar Hero II is 
 a must have for any music fan even if you do not play the guitar this game is for everyone. I give 
 this game a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has had a pretty solid run thus far, managing two mega hits on the PS2. The first Guitar 
 Hero was what one could call the quintessential rock n roll experience in a videogame. Guitar 
 Hero II released late last year delivered more of its predecessors excellent gameplay while taking 
 the challenge to a new level. Now, Guitar Hero has made its way onto the next generation bandwagon 
 with Guitar Hero II on the Xbox 360. This is essentially a port of the PS2 version with expected 
 additions, which in this games case is a good thing.
  
  Those already experienced with Guitar Hero will be able to dive right into the Xbox 360 version 
 with ease. Newcomers on the other hand have a bit of catching up to do. Fortunately, like its PS2 
 brethren, Guitar Hero II on the Xbox 360 is still newcomer-friendly; offering tutorials and a Practice 
 mode. And anyone whos played Guitar Hero II on the PS2 will know that the games Practice mode 
 will become essential to beating certain songs. The only real difference between the gameplay on 
 the PS2 and the Xbox 360 can be found in their controllers.
  
  Unlike the PS2 version, which used a Gibson SG model for its controller, the Xbox 360 version uses 
 a controller modeled after the Gibson X-Plorer. Other than looking a lot different from the SG 
 controller, there are a few alterations that have been made to the 360s controller. For one, the 
 Start buttons-in addition to the Xbox Guide button and D-pad in this case-have been moved further 
 away from the strummer. The placement for one of the strap hooks has been moved to the back of 
 the neck, which can cause the strap to twist a bit too much. But one problem that bugged me during 
 my time with the game was how the whammy bar feels too loose. Fortunately, the X-Plorer guitar 
 feels very similar to the SG controller as a whole and hitting notes on it remains every bit as 
 easy as the PS2 controller; or just as challenging depending on the difficulty you choose.
  
  So, beyond the different controller what else has changed in the Xbox 360 version? Well, for 
 one the games presentation is obviously improved upon its PS2 brethren, as are the visuals. Everything 
 in the game has been touched up with a bit more visual flair, from the character models, to the 
 stages and the lighting effects. At a distance everything looks pretty nice, but when the camera 
 zooms in you definitely get a nice look at everything in the game. Despite the nice visuals, they 
 wont really matter most of the time since youre going to spend most of the time looking at the 
 board and hitting notes. The game may not look anywhere near as impressive as certain 360 powerhouses 
 like Oblivion, Gears of War and GRAW2, but Guitar Hero II still manages to get the job done well.
 
  
  But this is a game about music, so obviously if the developers wanted to nail the rockstar feel 
 down, theyd need a good soundtrack. And fortunately for us, Guitar Hero II does have a good soundtrack. 
 All the songs from the PS2 version are all included; so you can keep playing Trogdor all you want 
 again. But in addition to those songs the 360 version adds ten new songs to the mix. The songs 
 are nice additions, but the only three that will likely stand out are Dead! by My Chemical Romance, 
 Rock n Roll Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer and of course, The Trooper by Iron Maiden. And with 
 the new songs the setlist has been shifted around to balance with the difficulty a bit more. For 
 instance, Warrants Cherry Pie has been brought from set four to set two and The Living Ends 
 sadistically insane Carry Me Home is now on the last set.
  
  Beyond the graphics and extra songs the 360 version also has online leaderboards, which make the 
 game even more addicting since youll be hard-pressed to get the highest score possible. And trust 
 me when I say this: there are a lot of skilled players with the game already, so dont underestimate 
 them. The leaderboards are broken down by your total Career score and separate score for each song. 
 Oh, and dont worry about the difficulty youre playing the song on, as your highest score-regardless 
 of the difficulty-is the one that is put up. One complaint I have with the leaderboards is that 
 you need to play the game online if you want your actual Career score to be updated. If you play 
 any of the songs offline and then plug into Xbox Live the game wont update your song and Career 
 scores. Also, you may randomly get disconnected from Xbox Live while playing the game. Hopefully 
 a patch will be released soon to fix these problems since they dont exactly make the scores so 
 up-to-date.
  
  And finally theres the promise of downloadable content, which would of course indicate to the 
 ability to download extra songs. Currently there are no songs available for download but it could 
 potentially be the one reason youll want the buy the 360 version; even if youve already bought 
 the PS2 version. And with rumors speculating that the first batch of new songs will be from the 
 first Guitar Hero, it makes the idea seem even more promising. Not to mention with the improved 
 hammer-ons and pull-offs it could make some of the songs even more fun to play.
  
  Essentially Guitar Hero II on the Xbox 360 is the best iteration of Guitar Hero thus far. The newly 
 added features as they stand dont make the 360 version a whole new game, but they are very nice 
 additions none the less. And with a new controller thats every bit as solid and even more stylish 
 than the PS2 controller, its hard to resist its charm. So with all the new features included, 
 Guitar Hero II on the Xbox 360 is a game that any 360 owner with any bit of rockstar in them simply 
 must check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abattoir_blues
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has become one of video game's most popular series and there was alot of hype when 
 it came out last year on the ps2. When it came out it was hit with critical acclaim and it once 
 again blew us away. When it was announced for the xbox 360, every 360 owner was patiently awaiting 
 to get there hands on the game. This is the best Guitar Hero yet, the 360 version adds achievements, downloadable 
 content, new songs, leader boards, and a new and improved guitar, all of this is great if you can 
 afford the 90 dollar price tag. To me it is well worth it and one of the best games to come out 
 on the 360 and you should not hesitate to but it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero 2 released on the PS2 last November, It was the masterpeice everyone was hoping 
 for. Now the XBOX 360 version has finally hit store shelves and what we get is a improved version 
 of an already near perfect music video game experience.
  
  The 360 version brings 10 new songs, achievements, leader boards, and some much needed re-ordering 
 of the set list and really makes it a much bigger package than the already massive PS2 version.
 
  
  Guitar Hero 2 is an experience that has to be played to be fully apreciated and Anyone who picks 
 up the controller will be instantly drawn into the awesome gameplay and music to be found in one 
 of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  There's one thing I might as well outline now. If you own an Xbox 360, it is in your best interests 
 to get this game. Regardless of your past experiences with the series, or whether you own both 
 games on the PS2, or whether you're a complete newbie to the franchise. Guitar Hero II on the 360 
 has something for players from opposite ends of the spectrum, and it is quite comfortably the most 
 wholesome, complete iteration of Guitar Hero yet.
  
  So why is this so? What does this game do better than the other two games? Well, part of it is 
 down to the new guitar controller, the X-Plorer. At first glance, yes, it looks a lot cooler than 
 the PS2's Gibson SG replica - replacing a slightly bulky look with a sleek, spiky design that is 
 impossible to dislike. But then there's the overall design of the controller - it differs in many 
 ways from the PS2's guitar. This redefined version feels like a natural evolution and it fixes 
 a lot of flaws from the previous guitar. Firstly, the frets have been spaced slightly closer together 
 and they seem to have been raised a little bit more from the neck of the guitar, which makes it 
 slightly easier on the hands, especially during crazy spiralling solos that require use of all 
 five frets.
  
  Also, the strum bar seems to have been given an overhaul - it makes less noise than the other guitar 
 and it's a lot more secure, sort of like comparing a drunken Paris Hilton to your average librarian. 
 The only real step down with this controller is the placement of the strap holders. One of these 
 has been moved to the back of the neck, which gives the strap a slightly more inconvenient position, 
 but that's just something that you will get used to after the hours of inevitable playtime.
  
  So, answering the question to the newbies, what is the controller for? Well, uh, it plays the 
 game. Guitar Hero II is of course a rhythm game, as such you have to strum the notes at exactly 
 the right time to earn points. Sounds easy, but you also have to hold down the fret that corresponds 
 to the colour of the note, e. g. a blue note requires to hold down the blue fret and strum the note 
 when it passes through the coloured grids at the bottom of the screen.
  
  It sounds fairly difficult in premise but it really isn't too hard to get used to. People who actually 
 play the guitar have an easier time adapting to this, as playing real guitar requires the same 
 sort of hand co-ordination as Guitar Hero, but as you play more and more you'll find yourself improving 
 more and more, advancing through the difficulties and playing more demanding songs. What are the 
 songs like, you ask? Well, Guitar Hero II seems to aim for an eclectic, obscure, diverse soundtrack 
 in comparison to the true-blue classic rock roots of the first game. Of course, the old favourites 
 such as Lynyrd Skynyrd's Free Bird are here, and Kiss' Strutter, but there is some great variety 
 in here too. Guitar Hero II goes from pop to rock to metal to synthpop to ska to punk to surf to 
 alternative to grunge and then back again, featuring such wonderfully random selections as Nirvana's 
 Heart Shaped Box, Freezepop's Less Talk More Rokk, Megadeth's Hangar 18, The Pretenders' Tattooed 
 Love Boys, Black Sabbath's War Pigs, Dick Dale's Misirlou, and most awesome of all, Trogdor, the 
 now infamous burninator who gained fame on the renowned cartoon Homestar Runner.
  
  This 360 iteration adds some new tracks to the mix as well, and as expected, they are suitably 
 diverse. Alice Cooper's Billion Dollar Babies, Toadies' Possum Kingdom, Rancid's Salvation, Deep 
 Purple's Hush, My Chemical Romance's Dead! and, possibly best of all, Rick Derringer's Rock And 
 Roll Hoochie Koo, are all new additions and the majority of them are just as fantastically fun 
 to play as the original game's selection.
  
  Guitar Hero II on the 360 also retains the brilliant practice mode from the original game, which 
 packs in three decent tutorials and a sort of rehearsals room where you can play any part of any 
 song at any speed you like, so you can get used to more advanced soloing and chord progressions. 
 This feature can be a life saver, as generally the game is a lot more difficult than Guitar Hero 
 1 and on higher difficulties some songs can prove damn near impossible.
  
  What new features are here on the 360 version, I hear you ask? Why should I pay close to 100 dollars 
 for the exact same game as the PS2 version offers, except with a slightly fancier guitar? Well 
 for one thing, Xbox Live opens up the possibility for online leaderboards, which in my opinion 
 holds up a lot of lasting appeal. It's incredibly addictive trying to get the highest placing possible, 
 I tell you now - and there are a huge amount of talented players out there, so it is one hell of 
 a challenge.
  
  Also, the new specifications of the guitar controller improve the gameplay in more ways than one. 
 I personally find the hammer ons and pull offs slightly easier than the PS2 version because of 
 the fret tweakings, and, in an unexplainable feat, it feels more filling and wholesome than Guitar 
 Hero II ever did. You're getting the best Guitar Hero experience yet and you're getting it with 
 the most songs yet, some really great multiplayer in the form of co-operative mode, and best of 
 all, the online leaderboards. It's rhythm-music heaven.
  
  And, as such, the hardware capabilities of the 360 make the graphics look slightly nicer. It is 
 a big improvement over the PS2 version, but the level of sheen can only go so far. The animations 
 still aren't next gen standard, and some of the environments can look a little off at times. Still, 
 the fretboard and menu art are sheer genius, and it still has a zany, off-the-scale rock look to 
 it, which I can dig and you can too.
  
  All in all, this does feel like the best iteration of Guitar Hero yet - weirdly, the game feels 
 like it belongs on the 360. With the new songs, the new controller, and the new leaderboards, there 
 is plenty to do for experienced Guitar Hero veterans and newbies can pretty much dive in the deep 
 end here and revel in the glory of raw, unadulterated, attitude-drippin' rock. There is something 
 for absolutely everyone here, and this is unquestionably one of the finest rhythm games ever made. 
 In the end, as Freezepop so truthfully state: less talk, more rock. In other words, I quit writing, 
 you start rockin' the house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Guitar Hero II for the PS2 was a satisfying sequel from the original in 2005. Five 
 months later, this same game is now on the Xbox 360 and it is not just another PS2 to 360 port. 
 The additional features for this version, which ranges from ten new songs, downloadable content, 
 and leaderboards, is what the PS2 version should of have been making the 360 version a more complete 
 package. The audiences for this game on the 360 is a mixture of fans who played it on the PS2 and 
 newcomers who never played something like this before. This game is highly recommended for hardcore 
 Guitar Hero fans whether they played the PS2 version or not and newcomers who just want to rock 
 seeing why this game is awesome.
  
  When Guitar Hero II came out for PS2, it added some significant improvements that the original 
 needed as well as making it more of a multiplayer experience with the inclusion of co-op. The difficulty 
 is also ramped up from the original to challenge those who conquered the original with five stars 
 on all songs. The addition of three finger chords on the hard and expert difficulties was a small 
 addition to what is already considered a perfect formula of balance and fun. All of these improvements 
 have made it to the 360 version and the additional content gives it more lasting value than the 
 PS2 version.
  
  The 360 version adds ten more songs to the giant soundtrack that the PS2 version had. You will 
 still get your hits like Guns N' Roses's Sweet Child of Mine, the 9 minute extravaganza that is 
 Freebird, Nirvana's Heart Shaped Box, and You Really Got Me by Van Halen. Then you get eight more 
 licensed songs like Possum Kingdom by Toadies, the modern rock band My Chemical Romance's Dead!, 
 The Trooper by the awesomeness that is Iron Maiden, and more. These additions are great into a 
 huge soundtrack, but you will find your songs of preference and not play others that much. Downloadable 
 songs are confirmed for this version, which are likely songs from the original game and that's 
 good considering the original Guitar Hero had a better set of songs than this one. Only a handful 
 of songs are the actual original tracks rather than some cover of it. While most of the covers 
 are solid versions of the songs, some are not as great especially Killing in the Name Of and Heart 
 Shaped Box.
  
  Since this game is on the 360, a new guitar is needed for all the shredding, which is a version 
 of the Gibson X-Piorer guitar. This guitar has its advantages and weaknesses compared to the Gibson 
 SG for the PS2 with the position of the fret buttons and the shape of the guitar itself. The setbacks 
 are that the strum and the whammy bar are too close to each other, the strap is awkwardly placed 
 when it is being worn, and the start and select buttons are too small and too close even though 
 there is a XBOX Guide button since it is a 360 controller. The most important thing about the whole 
 guitar is it is not wireless and only USB. While it is connected by USB, wireless would of have 
 been better, but it is probably saved for the next game.
  
  The career mode is where you will spend the most time playing the game alone especially trying 
 to unlock all the songs and beating the game in the four difficulties. Easy and normal is more 
 of a beginner's course towards the real deal of hard and expert difficulties with the speed of 
 how the notes come in and the number of them. The major change to this whole mode is the change 
 of order with the songs because of the eight additional licensed songs. This change works because 
 it makes the difficulty makes more progressive than crazy with a random set of songs just placed 
 on the list. For all the difficulties except easy, there are opportunities of doing an encore which 
 is usually a yes answer and a loading screen towards the next song unless it is declined, but it 
 is not that much of a penalty other than getting ten achievement points.
  
  Speaking of achievements, this game has 50 of them for 1000 points which requires some time and 
 skill especially for the harder ones. There are the obvious achievements of beating the career 
 mode on all difficulties and scoring high in songs. Then there are the crazy ones of failing a 
 song on easy, refuse to play an encore, and watch the credits specifically all of it, which is 
 about 20 minutes. The ones that require lots of skill is getting five stars on all songs on all 
 difficulties, getting a 1000 note streak in one song, and getting high scores on co-op. The achievements 
 are a nice balance of ones to get right away and requiring some skill. However, getting all 1000 
 points will not some easy task compared to other 360 games.
  
  One of the biggest additions in Guitar Hero II was the practice mode. That mode is also in the 
 360 version and helps out when you are stuck on a certain solo on some song like Freebird on Expert. 
 You can adjust the speed of the song to tackle the notes other than full speed. This mode can benefit 
 especially trying to five star every song on hard and expert. The other major addition was the 
 co-op where one player is lead guitar while the other is bass or rhythm guitar depending on the 
 song. If one person screws up during the song, then both will pay the price and fail the song. 
 The co-op mode requires more teamwork than your average co-op game especially tilting for star 
 power requires both guitars to be tilted. The other multiplayer mode is the face-off mode, which 
 can be played either the way it was in the original or each player doing the whole song, which 
 can be unlocked after beating career mode in at least normal difficulty.
  
  The graphics were slightly improved from the PS2 version with high definition quality making it 
 a better game graphically. The characters you select as your rocker have more detail than they 
 ever have and the environments look sharp. At least the graphics do not distract you from letting 
 your fingers scream in pain fretting away in the faster songs. These graphics are not really at 
 a level of something like Gears of War or any Tom Clancy game, but the graphical improvements from 
 the PS2 version are solid for a 360 game.
  
  Guitar Hero II for the 360 is highly recommended for both fans of the series and newcomers especially 
 in a genre that is not that crowded of similar games. The online features without multiplayer are 
 implemented perfectly to the 360 version making the game more competitive than the PS2 version. 
 The additional songs are also solid while not all of them are memorable, but the promise of downloadable 
 content will keep the game going for a longer time till the next game comes out possibly later 
 this year. Now that game is in another console, more people can appreciate that rocking hard has 
 never been this awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets1240
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Period. I bought it yesterday and I cant seem to put my Guitar down. After 
 I beat the game on easy no sweat, I went into medium and the songs and the gameplay was amazing. 
 I also like the store and how you can buy new songs, outfits, guitars, characters etc... When i 
 beat the game for the second time at Stonehedge, i felt like i was in rock heaven when i heard 
 for my encore the crowd shouting FREE BIRD. The thrill of playing some of my favorite songs keeps 
 me coming back for more and more. All in all, Guitar Hero is a MUST buy and is worth the money. 
 It is a fun, challenging game and I cant wait until we get some more songs on here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow I never would know Guitar Hero would be so famous and now it on Xbox 360. Xbox360 u should already 
 it got a great enhance graphic more song and a way pimper guitar. One good new feature that is u 
 can buy new song track and added song to so this game will made Harmonix be more richer and famous 
 like it did in 2006 Guitar Hero 2 for ps2.
  i would recomended buy each if u got a friend birthday coming (if he have a Xbox360) . Or buy the 
 ps2 one without new song same old Ps2 graphic but cheaper by now and a not pimp guitar trust dont 
 even come close to the Xbox360, but Ps2 is last Gen so I respect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewCode12
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II has a simple, yet great, premise. Spend US$90 for a Gibson X-plorer controller and 
 a game, then use said controller to hit buttons in timing with icons on the screen. It may be this 
 simple gameplay that drove the developers to Guitar Hero II's early demise. To go a bit more in-depth, 
 the controller consists of five buttons, of which only four can be used at once (try using five 
 fingers while holding a guitar) . This departs a bit from true guitarism, as a true guitarist would 
 rarely use his or her pinky finger, but we'll come back to that. The actual game involves watching 
 icons (notes) of different colors and locations scroll downwards until they are generally near 
 to your, lacking another term, anti-icon circles, at which time you then press the corresponding 
 button on the guitar controller and strum with the strum bar. Occasionally (or very, very often 
 at later difficulties) , you'll be handed a chord, in which you press down two notes at once. Sometimes 
 you must hold a note, giving you further yet rather useless options; using the whammy bar, you 
 can distort the sound of that note. If you nail a combo of starred notes, you gain star power, 
 another useless option gone wrong (which we'll also come back to) . While you play, a guitarist 
 generally in tune with what you're riffing rocks out on a stage in stylized, cartoony goodness. 
 Unfortunately, there are many flaws to what should have been a simple concept. Some of the characters 
 are overly stylized; big hands and torsos on small legs look awkward. There are literally no facial 
 animations; beady, black eyes stare ever onward, taking all life out of your character. There are 
 no guitar straps, yet your weapon hangs from your character's neck when he or she is not rocking. 
 Somehow, they can still play while spinning, throwing, and doing all manner of strange tricks during 
 star power. At least your band members are interesting; the singer's sunglasses give some life 
 to him, and he tends to act realistically and is not hampered by lack of guitar strap. The bassist 
 has shaggy hair in true bassist style, eyes also concealed.
  
  To continue with the game's flaws, I'll point out the totally uselessness of star power. Sure, 
 it doubles your multiplier, but that one positive does not make up for the negatives. You must 
 lift your guitar controller upwards to activate it, often causing you to miss a note while you 
 do so. Once activated, the colors on the notes on-screen disappear, replaced with a light blue, 
 so you lose that advantage and often miss a note due to it. If star power had activated slow-motion, 
 it might have actually been useful in the harder songs, but the developers had not the insight 
 to include that necessary feature. Also, there are problems with having to use your pinky finger; 
 most people aren't skilled pinky users, though I suppose having to use the pinky finger was unavoidable.
 
  
  There are four difficulties; easy, medium, hard, and expert. In the latter three, you can gain 
 money from your gigs to buy new stuff at the store, including songs, guitars, characters, and more. 
 The easy difficulty is perfect; it is difficult enough to allow for serious rocking but is very 
 enjoyable to play; it gives the feeling you're a real rockstar without too much stress. After that, 
 things change drastically. Medium is playable, but becomes very, very hard towards the end. Hard 
 is the equivalent of insane, or legendary. Notes come so fast you have to hit multiple notes while 
 strumming multiple times, thus crashing the universe like a copy of Vista. It. Is. Near. Impossible. 
 Now, expert . . . Do a youtube search for Carry Me Home and watch Carry Me Home on Expert. Humans 
 can't do that. This extremely retards what could have been a great game; casual players are limited 
 to the first difficulty. I consider myself a hardcore gamer, but I'm not a self-masochist; thus, 
 I cannot contend on the higher two difficulties. And, due to the game's mechanics, to unlock all 
 the stuff in the store, you must beat the top two - obviously frustrating.
  
  Now, finally on to the good of Guitar Hero II. There is an impressive line-up
  of great songs; 
 both young and old will enjoy them, and young may learn to respect the old stuff. Sadly, there 
 is no Led Zeppelin, but a heretical splash screen declaring Remember, NO STAIRWAY! , an idiotic 
 insult to new guitarists wishing to play the epic of Page. There is YYZ, but the publisher spelled 
 Geddy Lee as Getty Lee in the manual; another foul heresy against the rock gods. Other than those 
 two travesties, the song list is great. Voice work is generally good, except on Woman; I can hardly 
 stand that skill-less squeal.
  
  What, you say? No more to add to the good? This game is a frustrating foul-up by the first time 
 you lay a chord on the hard difficulty. But, for the first few days, it is incredible fun. Veterans 
 of the series will love it. Casual players will hate it. The list of songs if fantastic, and the 
 promise of downloadable content will attract PS2 GHII owners. As a bottom line: Don't waste your 
 money if you're not into unbearable frustration and/or hours of practice to get on to the next 
 level of unbearable frustratation. Broken guitars not excluded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chode095
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  At first it seems just ok. But then you play a little bit and you just get hooked instantly. You 
 go back to play more and more to get more money for costumes and guitars and bonus songs, its just 
 highly addictive and leaves you wanting more. The graphics are noticeably better than the PS2's 
 version and the wide variety of songs, characters, guitars, and costumes is very enjoyable. And 
 with the new downloadable songs on DLC soon, the X360 version will be bigger and much better than 
 the PS2. The only thing that could lead to the downfall of this game's potential is if Microsoft 
 makes the song downloads too expensive. Otherwise, this game is great and just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is ridiculously difficult. Most people will never be able to master hard 
 or expert difficulty. It's just a fact. That's why there's medium and easy!
  
  The game is simply FUN. The guitar is simple, and makes you feel cool (even though you look like 
 a dork) . And the feeling you get playing a song well is satisfying. It's a simply concept. There 
 are colored dots that move toward you on the screen. You must play the correct note (or notes) 
 when the dots pass over the rhythm line. You play the notes by pressing corresponding buttons on 
 the neck of the guitar, and by strumming the... strumming bar on the guitar. Simple.
  
  There are other added things as well. There's a meter that fills as you play, and when it gets 
 to a certain level, you can tilt the guitar up to double your current multiplier (for 8x max) . 
 There is also the whammy bar, which on long notes, you can press in and out repeatedly to get even 
 more points. Sounds easy, right? WRONG! It's very, very difficult. The game was made for people 
 with 6 fingers on each hand!
  
  You get better as you play though. There's coop, but no online multiplayer. There are leaderboard 
 however, if you do care. The music is decent, but it's not my kind of music. I just don't like 
 metal, but there are a few lighter songs which is nice.
  
  Well, that's about it. Get it, if you can afford it. It's worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungholio55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Same as PS2 except the additional songs and the ability to use guitar on Rock Band makes this a 
 buy. Also includes KISS! (Song Strutter) . I heard that you might be able to download more songs 
 via Xbox Marketplace. Even though it is nothing like playing a real guitar this game is fun. I 
 love this game because it takes practice to be good. Just like in real life! Once you are able 
 to play on expert it really feels like you are playing all the notes. It is more fun playing multiplayer 
 then playing single player. Too bad we can't play against others on Xbox Live. You should buy this 
 game because it has KISS on it. You should also buy this game because it is fun while it is challenging. 
 I heard you can use this as the guitar/bass on the upcoming game called 'Rock Band' so it makes 
 it buy. Even though Guitar Hero 2 will look terrible after 'Rock Band' comes out it still is a 
 great game. The sound is good, the graphics ok, and the gameplay amazing. And did I mention Guitar 
 Hero 2 includes KISS? You can Rock and Roll All Nite and party every day with Guitar Hero 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Gutair Hero II is just what the name implies, you play a gutair, and try to become a rock star 
 hero. You start off playing easy songs, and work your way up in each game mode, starting with easy, 
 ending with expert. In medium mode or higher, you get money depending on how well you play your 
 songs, and also you get moey from people that sponser you. But what i find and probably everyone 
 else will find, it is very hard when you go above medium. It gets nearly impossible to play, which 
 can only be helped with a very lot of training, which may take you a long while, unless you are 
 a fast learner or a fast gutair player. But other than that, great pick of music, ranging from 
 old rock by KISS and Rolling Stones, to new hits like My Chemical Romance. Graphics fit the game, 
 but could be a ittle better detailed, and gameplay is ok, takes getting used to. I give this game 
 a 9 for being the best gutair game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is like no other if you have never played a game like this before. If you have played 
 another in the series, it is the same. Guitar Hero 2 is fun and you can pick it up and play easy 
 with some difficulties but after a little while, it gets enjoyable and rejuvenating. The graphics 
 are great (if you have time to look at them) and the frame rate never stutters. The sound is unbelievable 
 with over 50 songs and the crowd roaring over your 5 star performance. It is full opf songs and 
 things to buy at the store, like characters, skins, guitars, songs, guitar skins, and videos on 
 behind the scenes and the making of the game. Overall, this game is a one and a billion game that 
 should be picked up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  I got the game with the guitar controller the day it came out. I popped the game in at about 1 
 o&acute; clock and started playing, honestly I didn&acute; t realize the time untill I got a little 
 hungry and saw that it was getting dark. I went about 5 hours playing and didn&acute; t even realize 
 it!!!
  That&acute; s how good the game is, everything in this game will blow you away but the dificulty 
 settings may provoke you to destroy the guitar once you start hard and expert mode. The only downfall 
 I can see in the game is that there is no Xbox Live gaming. Really that is the only thing missing 
 that made me give it a 9 and not a straight 10. But anyway we&acute; ll be able to download new 
 songs and maybe some new characters or something, so that&acute; s refreshing, I just hope they 
 upload the songs soon, cause I am starting to know the ones on the game by heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duke7999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has great music, I got it all and put it on my MP3 and I listen to it daily now. This 
 is the best game for Xbox 360 if you like it like many others. I hope many more people get this 
 game and in the next game they could make it a little easier, just an idea. This game also made 
 me want to get a real guitar in RL, I hope soon I can make music like the characters in GHII lol. 
 Well, this is a very very very very very good game and I love it, and I hope their next game is 
 better this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I bought my Xbox 360 a couple months ago I have been just renting games waiting for 
 a great game to come out and this was it. A little pricey at $90 plus tax but you get a cool guitar 
 controller and hands down one of the best party games out there. I played this originally on my 
 friend's PS2 and while at first I felt a little bit dumb with the controller and standing there 
 but at the end of my first song I was hooked and getting into it. The achievements are pretty good 
 and I racked up a few pretty quickly. I do have to say getting a achievement for watching the credits 
 of the game is rather funny and I suggest if you go for that one to leave to walk the dog or balance 
 your checkbook for 10-15 minutes while the thing goes on and on and on.... Anyway I think this 
 game will really shine with Xbox live and all the possible downloadable songs, characters and guitars 
 that might be coming int he future. Can't wait, already craving more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 2 first came out for the PS2, and all of us next-generation owners have been dying 
 to get our hands on it. Well, RedOctane has answered our cries by porting it to the Xbox 360. This 
 new version has a handful of upgrades, and is vastly superior to the PS2 version.
  
  The basic gameplay is that you use a guitar controller to play the guitar notes in many awesome 
 songs as they go across the screen. If you have heard of DDR then you know exactly how the timing 
 works.
  
  The Xbox 360 version has many improvements: 10 new songs, a new guitar (modeled off the Gibson 
 X-Plorer) , upgraded graphics, leaderboards, achievements, and upgraded sound. These bring a whole 
 new feel to the game, while still being the same fun game as the PS2 version.
  
  The Graphics are vastly improved. Everything looks so clean and new in HD glory. Unfortunately 
 some things stand out, like how Axel Steel looks more like a baby than an adult. There are no wrinkles 
 or shadows in his face at all. The sound is great, and playing it through surround sound is even 
 better.
  
  The 10 new songs are really fun. The Trooper , by Iron Maiden is probably the most famous of them, 
 but Life Wasted by Pearl Jam, and Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer are very fun to play. 
 The addition of Downloadable Content over the XBL Marketplace is intriguing as well (Ace of Spades 
 and Bark at the Moon for example) . The only downside to this game is that it is $90, very expensive.
 
  
  Overall, this game is just flat out fun. You will have a blast playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I was not able to do chat thru the guitar unless I had the game running. Why would you like to 
 chat on a game that has such a horrible static every two to 5 mins and you can't understand anything 
 at all during that time.
  
  A guitar cable that is about 5 feet long. I will love to sit down on the sofa, or just stand back 
 for a bit but... The cable is too short. I have a solution though. Get a USB cable extension. It's 
 just a few more bucks after paying 90 dollars for the game itself... When it comes to sound and 
 with that I meant music not communications, I cannot complain that is pretty good and the songs 
 choices are ok . The graphics are good but nothing that I will compare to next gen. I actually 
 disagree when gamers say this is next gen. It has been done before and it could have been improved 
 so that's your next gen for you. Achievements are not bad but pretty much I must say this is the 
 only thing this game has going against the one for PS2. And believe me I will choose my 360 games 
 any day over PS2 but not for that much money. So yeah... You need XBOX live, and you have a headset 
 port right on the guitar, but you can't play Co-op unless you are on the same console. NICE ONE! 
 Am just gonna have my friend over EVERY DAY so we can play. C'mon Red Octane! You know you did 
 it just so you can release another one with online Co-op. Me and my friend spent soo much money 
 just so we can play online and we didn't even get to. He even tried to find where he can download 
 additional songs from and it was not available. I must say for such a cheap looking guitar, no 
 online gaming, when even UNO has online gaming and some much distortion during chat when Halo 2 
 is an original XBOX game and the chat is better, it's pretty lame from Guitar Hero II to have this 
 issues, when waaay cheaper games have done above and beyond this. I tell you what, tomorrow am 
 going back to the store I want my money back. Guitar Hero II definitely not worth $90.00! Be aware 
 fellow gamers, it is not worth that much money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I'm never gonna be a rock star .... wait ... I'm lucky if my own family would want to hear me play 
 in the living room.
  
  That being said, My starry eyes will not be quinched playing on MTV no matter how much talent i 
 have..... ( read the psst off real guitar players reviews on this board as they seem pissed that 
 their many years of practice has not given them the acclaim they lust) As a closet rock star this 
 game allows me to release my Inner Hendrix just enough to for me to put the guitar down and go 
 on with my life without leaving trauma to my ego.
  
  Great Start Harmonix !! Looking foward to Rock Star 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chromium_km
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Being a Guitar Hero fan from the PS2 instances I just couldn't let pass their first installment 
 for a next-gen system. The controller looks cool, the game looks good. The songs list it's ok. 
 I mean, it's great and it even has more than the PS2 version, but I would have chosen other songs 
 from some of the featured bands (IE. Van Halen) . All in all, it's a great game with lots of replay 
 value. It would have been better with online multiplayer capability though.
  Now about the controller. It looks really cool, but is not as comfortable as the PS2 version. The 
 strap tends to twist a lot, which makes it a little annoying. The Start and Back buttons are terribly 
 placed and sized. The worst part about it is the lack of wireless connectivity. I mean, the Xbox 
 360 it's all about wireless. If Microsoft was reluctant about letting third party companies to 
 use their wireless technology then they should have made the guitar themselves. All said. I do 
 love the game and, strangely, the controller too. If you are a rock fan and own a 360, this game 
 is for you. If you don't have a 360, well either buy one or get the PS2 version, even with less 
 songs, it will be a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfaxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  I would recommend this game too anyone. And definatly too guitar player's.
  Yes I'm disagreeing with the user that said it just mixes you up because it doesnt. I've played 
 for 4 years now and this was just great fun. Good songs got a real rock'n'roll feeling to it. I 
 did complete the game in Medium and Hard in 1 day though.. It's definatly lasting. My friend's 
 love it and it's a fantastic party game. A must have for party games people.
  Great addition too a great game. A fantastic game too sit back and relax alone, or rock'n'roll 
 with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sufcmax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  As soon as I saw this game for the 360 I knew I had to have it. I never played the PS2 versions 
 so I didn't really know what to expect, but seeing that I'm learning the real guitar I was interested 
 to see if it would help me with that. Anyway, the game. The guitar feels well made. It is much 
 smaller than a real guitar, but you would be suprised at how comfortable it feels. Also, the fret 
 buttons and the strum bar feels loose and easy to press. In the actual game there is a large variety 
 of songs from metal to blues and this makes the game acessable to virtually anyone. The game has 
 quite a tough difficulty when you are playing on hard and expert. Whatever ability you are, there 
 will always be a challenge. FInally, this game is very, very addictive and with new songs coming 
 out to download from Xbox Live, you are unlikely to get bored of the game anytime soon.
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Guitar Hero II partly for my 11 year old, but mostly because all of my friends tell 
 me how great this game is, so I decided to give it a try. I'm having a great time playing with 
 it, as is my boy, but after about two days of it, I'm pretty much sick of it. I'm never going to 
 master it, the controller is cool, but waaaaay too small for adults (as it should be... it's a toy) 
 and trying to keep up with the colored dots is almost enough to give you seizures, especially if 
 you've had a few. I guess i'm just not young enough to get swept up by the hype on this one. the 
 game is really fun, but it really tends to hurt your hands and fingers after too much playing. 
 I found the soundtrack to be a disappointment due to the cover bands playing the songs. Good songs, 
 horrible renditions, I suppose. Overall, I'm pretty sad that I dropped $90 for this one. I can 
 see it being really fun co-op, but not having the option to buy a second guitar without also having 
 to buy another copy of the game has made that an impossibility as of yet, and I'm not sure I'm 
 willing to shell out anymore money towards this one. I'm thinking that this game wasn't for me, 
 but maybe it will be for you. Don't take my word for it, try it and see for yourself. It is fun, 
 just not a fun that lasts long for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, 10 years ago did you expect to be playing a video game with a guitar controller? 
 Probably not is my guess. However, the genius minds at Harmonix have managed to defy a generation 
 with a risky but ultimately successful game idea.
  
  I purchased Guitar Hero based on reviews and not really seeing it in action. From the first green 
 and yellow button hits from I Love Rock and Roll , I was instantly hooked. It gave you an experience 
 of not just sitting down and hitting buttons, but strumming away and nailing chords and notes to 
 your favorite (or maybe not so favorite) tunes you've heard through out your life. It also made 
 for a great party game, with other people strapping up and rocking out to try to face each other 
 in a rock battle to the death.. or highest score, whichever game first.
  
  Guitar Hero 2 improved upon the first game with easier hammer-ons and pull-offs, a bundle of new 
 songs and unlockables, and new co-op modes where you could play together doing a guitar/bass combo 
 or lead/rhythm and the new pro face-off where each player plays every single note (rather than 
 trading off as in the first) . Guitar Hero 2 is a game I never got sick of, which is pretty crazy 
 for me since I'm pretty much ADD about video games nowadays. Nothing really keeps me interested, 
 but there's always fun and picking up a guitar controller and jamming out to Strutter, War Pigs, 
 Hangar 18, Six, Thunderhorse.. need I go on?
  
  The 360 version of Guitar Hero 2 expands on the already great hit that was on the PS2. The Xplorer 
 controller feels quite comfy, the neck is a bit smaller making it a little bit easier to maneuver 
 the fret buttons. The directional buttons and guide button do not get in the way but the Select/Start 
 buttons are quite tiny and hard to find (for those people used to hitting Select for star power.. 
 good luck) . Overall, it feels a lot more like rocking out and I can't wait for the wireless version.
 
  
  The graphics have been much upgraded, it feels a lot better than looking at the broken up pixels 
 of the PS2 version. The 360 version also supports 720p/1080i/1080p for you moguls with large widescreen 
 HDTVs, rocking out never looked so good. Besides that, everything is pretty much the same.
  
  The tracklist has been updated as well with 10 new songs. These add even more replayability 
 to the game, as my favorites being Trooper by Iron Maiden, Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo by Rick Derringer, 
 and Possum Kingdom by Toadies. Also the ability to download Guitar Hero 1 songs is a killer selling 
 point, as well as some new ones down the line (bring on Cowboys from Hell!) . Leaderboards are fun 
 as well, lets you keep an eye on your friends or see how good you are overall.
  
  However, this game isn't without its faults. Some songs are just boring and overall lacking, but 
 it's partially due to your music interests. I listen to a wide variety of music but probably out 
 of the 50 or so songs on the original GH2, i constantly played maybe 30 of them. Some are just 
 plain boring to play, even on expert. And especially in co-op mode, some rhythm/base parts are 
 just yawntastic. However, it's not really the fault of the developers, its just how the songs are 
 (except whoever had the idea to put in Red Lottery in, they need to be fired) .
  
  Another thing is that this game is ridiculously hard. Granted I really only play on expert and 
 its been that way since Guitar Hero 1, from just picking it up and playing on easy to getting to 
 expert will take practice, and lots of it. And on expert, some songs are ridiculously hard to pass 
 or five star such as Psychobilly Freakout (a huge roadblock in the expert career) , YYZ, and others. 
 And good luck five starring any of those songs plus the Face-Melters, if you can do it, I salute 
 you for the hours probably spent at throwing tries left and right and slight mess ups that just 
 lead to wasted attempts and burning fingers. Oh yah, and no online play is a big let-down. However, 
 Harmonix's upcoming projects will without a doubt support that feature (Rock Band anyone?) . Guitar 
 Hero 2 is a solid game. To anyone of any age and any kind of music experience, I think you should 
 at least give Guitar Hero 2 a try. It's one of the most unique games to come out in a long while, 
 and its replay value is second to none. The game is hard but getting to expert is worth the wait, 
 and provides even more mileage out of the game. If you own a 360 but already have a PS2 and GH2 
 then do yourself a favor and pick this one up. But if all you have is a PS2, buying an Xbox 360 
 just for this game is hardly warranted. Guitar Hero 2 has some great tracks, and with the new achievements, 
 leaderboards, downloadable content, and graphics updates, Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 definately 
 gets a power stance, some head banging, and two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, Guitar Hero another game that shows you its okay to sit down on your buttom playing video 
 games all day, but hell who cares right. Guitar Hero shows you why thats okay, because when you 
 play Guitar Hero, you really get a sense that your gaining something and that being a solid game.
 
  
  Guitar Hero is everything a one day dreaming kid would want in a game, it has unlockable goodies (ranging 
 from nice guitars, to songs, videos, etc) . I mean who doesn't like to get unlockable goodies. Guitar 
 Hero no doubt will keep you playing and right now it is probably the most addicting offline game 
 on the 360. Alright, i'll clean the board of all the quickly great stuff and drop a big bomb of 
 badness on you. Guitar Hero II will run you about 89.99 USD. So that is about 30USD more than you 
 usually pay for a game, i know alot, but lets see what you getting out of it.
  
  X-Plorer Guitar
  Guitar Hero II
  
  Okay, so not alot.. But Guitar Hero II gives you the best 
 franchise game to date.
  
  Graphically said, this game is pretty over average, Guitar Hero II isn't suppose to be visually 
 outstanding in any way, its suppose to be addicting. However, there is some nice character models 
 and guitars that are worth paying a pretty penny for in this game. Gameplay is excellent, notably 
 this game has the most solid gameplay out on the 360 with a very addiciting career mode and practice 
 modes as well... Career mode lets you explore the world of a Guitar Hero as you can take a tour 
 through Easy, Medium, Hard, Expert as you travel around the U. S. visiting places earning cash to 
 unlock certain goodies. You will get paid for song on how you do and perform, if you do bad the 
 crowd will go crazy and trash the place, forcing you to pay for it. However Easy doesn't let you 
 earn money, it allows you to gain skills and build up. The songs on Guitar Hero are literally outstanding 
 with some of the best music ever made in my opionion such as Heart-Shaped Box, Cherry Pie, Message 
 in a Bottle and bands from Kiss, Nirvana, the Police, Foo Fighters.
  
  Becoming massively addicted in this game means a loss of eye sights so i hope you have a pair of 
 glasses because you cannot blink in this game because if you do you miss a note and your screwed. 
 After about 15-20 songs you will be done and have a huge headacke don't blame you i had one to.
 
  
  Achievements on Guitar Hero II are ranging from how lazy you are to how skilled you are at Guitar 
 Hero II. There is easy ones like fail a song on easy and then theres ones such as Eddie Van Halen 
 Award (Scoring 500 straight Notes) . No achievement is more that 30 points and there is no achievement 
 less that 10. Overall, This game is considered a major must play game and can give you a simply 
 great gameplay ranging from 20-60 hours no joke. But its up to you on what you like doing cause 
 this title is a not Cheap 89.99 short of a 100 big ones, however at the end of the day, this game 
 is freakin sweet a must buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacker63
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 owners were waiting in line to get their hands on a copy of Guitar Hero II, one of the 
 hottest franchises around right now, and possibly one of the most innovative. Some feel that the 
 Guitar Hero franchise was a musical knock-off of another popular franchise, Dance Dance Revolution 
 , or DDR. but in actuality, the dance pad has been around in some form of another since the original 
 Nintendo Entertainment System. It wasn't used for dancing, but rather a crude olympics-style game 
 in which the user would pound his feet up and down to make the athlete run or swim. Yet to my knowledge, 
 there has never been a game like this made. To be honest, the only similarities that I can see 
 are that you need to be able to keep time in your head and the notes come at you from the top of 
 the screen to the bottom. Other than that, it's not really that same of an experience once you 
 get the guitar in your hand.
  
  The game plays great, and you really get into it once you get the basic mechanics down. The game 
 does a really good job of making you feel like you're nailing some sweet licks, even if you're 
 playing on easy. In fact, it's probably a good idea to mention, since I tried doing this, just 
 because you can play Sweet Child of Mine on the medium difficulty setting doesn't mean that you 
 can pick up a real guitar and start picking like you're Slash.
  
  On that note, (i promise, i realized the pun when I was proof-reading) the difficulty settings 
 are very well done. When going from the easy to the medium difficulty, there is a noticeable increase 
 in ability that is required, since it adds an extra fret into the mix that is most easily used 
 by the pinky finger. While it is a little more difficult than you'd think at first, you get the 
 hang of it after a while, and the increase in notes ins't overbearing. The jump to hard adds the 
 final fret on the guitar and a little bit more involved picking of the strum bar, and expert is 
 like taking hard two steps further, and then adding 4 more notes too it. Meaning, it's where expert 
 should be, plus just a tiny bit extra. If you can muster up the skills to play at the expert level, 
 it is something to be proud of.
  
  The track list on Guitar Hero II is truly something to behold. There are a total of 70 tracks from 
 different artists and more on the way via xbox live. Basically all of the songs are unlocked through 
 career mode by completing gigs or buy using money you earn to unlock them. Some of the artists 
 are Guns N' Roses, Aerosmith, Nirvana, My Chemical Romance, The Toadies, Iggy Pop and the Stooges, 
 Avenged Sevenfold, The Rolling Stones, Primus, Rage Against the Machine, just to name a few. Also, 
 there is a wide selection of characters and guitars to choose from. You can act out your rock star 
 fantasy with 11 different characters, from Punk Rock Princess Judy Nails , all the way to the Scythe-wielding 
 Grim Ripper . There is also a pretty extensive list of guitars to choose from with multiple different 
 looks to pick out. the makers of Guitar Hero did a great job recreating the major Rock personalities 
 to make sure you can really get into the game.
  
  While the game is pretty solid overall, there are a few minor drawbacks that probably couldn't 
 have been dealt with any better than they have, but still leave the game lacking something. The 
 career mode is severely lacking, but like I said, it was dealt with the best that it could be. 
 This play option is basically meant to give you practice, and make you earn new songs instead of 
 them just being thrown at you. I believe that this game is more of a party game, meant to be played 
 with a group of people, rather than by yourself. Don't get me wrong, you'll find yourself two hours 
 deep in guitar hero before you know it, but there's just something missing if you're not with a 
 group of friends cracking jokes and trying to prove who can melt the most faces.
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero set an impressive precedent for the future of gaming, and Guitar Hero II 
 took it to another level. Even if you think this game is not for you, find a friend who has it 
 and check it out. Once you get the hang of it and nail your first song, you'll feel like a real 
 guitar player and become obsessed with becoming the ultimate Guitar Hero! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iafjo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero for the Xbox 360 is the greatest game in existence! Next to of course Gears of War... 
 Halo 2... and... well you get the picture, it's up with the greats! The time you'll spend will 
 literally fly by. There is so much to do and play it's amazing, and with the new downloadable songs 
 and I'm sure guitars to use in the game, the fun will keep on coming. The guitar is not as comfortable 
 as the SG counterpart, however the rest of the game greatly makes up for the lack of sit-down relaxability. 
 Over all this is one of the best additions to the Xbox 360 game library of this year! If you haven't 
 already go buy Guitar hero 2 for the Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXor512
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 7, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The original Guitar Hero was released exclusively on the PlayStation 2 in November 2005. The game 
 abandoned the traditional controller and instead used a controller which looks and feels like an 
 electric guitar. The basic premise of the game was that a color would appear on the screen and 
 when that color appeared you would hit the matching fret buttons of the same color and hit the 
 strum bar at the same time so it would feel like you are playing the guitar parts of the songs 
 in the game. The original Guitar Hero won numerous awards for its terrific and diverse soundtrack 
 featuring the likes of Black Sabbath, White Zombie, The Exies and Audioslave. Just a short year 
 later Guitar Hero II was released on the PS2 and it was only a matter of time before this best 
 selling series was brought to life on the next generation of consoles. On April 3, 2007 Guitar 
 Hero II was released for the Xbox 360.
  
  Guitar Hero II comes to the Xbox 360 packed in with 10 addition songs that arent on its PlayStation 
 2 counterpart. On the 360 youll get new songs from bands like Pearl Jam, Alice Cooper, Iron Maiden 
 and My Chemical Romance. The gameplay for Guitar Hero II is rock solid, easy to learn yet hard 
 to master and offers great replay value because of cash you can earn to unlock new songs, guitars 
 and more. In addition to just playing the guitar you can use the whammy bar to alter the tone of 
 the note and add your own little spin to the song and give it that Tom Morello-like sound.
  
  Seeing as how the Xbox 360 is the best system for online play, its hard to believe that this 
 version of the game doesnt feature any online multiplayer. You can play multiplayer with someone 
 thats with you, which has one person playing the regular guitar and one person playing bass guitar, 
 but the game has no online play at all. In addition, on the 360 youd figure because the controller 
 was wireless, youd be getting a nice wireless guitar. But that is not the case in this game as 
 it still has a wire attached to it just like the guitar on the PlayStation 2.
  
  There are more songs on the 360 version of Guitar Hero II than the PS2 version, there is the promise 
 of downloadable songs being available in the future, a virtual store to buy new guitars and songs, 
 online leaderboards and so much more. If you own an Xbox 360 and listen to rock music then there 
 is no reason why you shouldnt go out and buy the fantastic Guitar Hero II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaflyvenom13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is simply one of the best games I've ever played. It is deep, well-made, and incredibly 
 fun. With over 60 songs to play on 4 different difficulties, plus the promise of many more through 
 downloadable content, it will be a long time before you get tired of this one. Who would've thought 
 that jamming on a fake plastic guitar to some of the best rock songs ever could be so entertaining. 
 I whole-heartedly recommend this game to anyone that enjoys rock music or fun video games. The 
 only problem is the price. Those plastic guitars aren't cheap, and the retail price of the game 
 shows this with a $90 price tag. Add to that the fact that it's twice as fun with a friend and 
 you're looking at an extra $60 for another guitar, not to mention downloadable content that you'll 
 absolutely want, which of course will not be cheap. What it all adds up to is over $150 for one 
 of the best gaming experiences available. It's up to you if and how much you are willing to pay 
 for that experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, This is my third review of this game. Any time you review this game and give it a score 
 under a 7. It seems to disappear? Kinda odd? But I don't know. I play real guitar for about 20 
 years now. But that has nothing to do with this ranking. Gaming does. This game was fun to watch 
 and play around some IN 2005! But now,, not so much. Theirs no reason to buy a 360 or PS3 for this 
 kinda of gaming. And if thats all these 2 can offer. Is games that could be made on a NES LOL. 
 I don't want it. This is not why you buy Next Gen. This is why you buy a PS2 maybe? But not a 300 
 to 600 dollar machine. We have been doing this old trick for 2 years now. Granted it looks cool 
 on the 360. And theirs a few additives. Butt for Next Gen music games. Look at what EA doing for 
 the 360 and PS3 latter. Thats innovation to me. Its a waste of time if you have done it once. Or 
 already have it on a much cheaper machine. In basic, if you like the appeal of this game. Play 
 it on your cell phone in a year from now. I'm sure they'll have a port for it than :P. But its 
 nothing new. It for sure is not Next Gen. And in that sense, its a huge disappointment. Not enough 
 has been changed to make it a need to have compared to Guitar Hero 2. Its a fun gimmick. And gimmicks 
 can be played on anything. Oh and if your a guitar player for real, You wont be good at this lol. 
 I can rip decent for real. But Im not to good on this thing lol. So I hear some smack on that for 
 sure. Thats why I put Difficulty as hard, for me it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Like what I said, I got it, and I played Buckethead's Jordan , and in no way was it accurate to 
 the guitar. It was boring, and it was way off beat, and don't get me started on thier guitar solo. 
 Even the sound quality was not all that it was amped up to be. (pun intended)
  
  I do not recommend this game to real musicians, (mostly guitarist) because everything on there 
 is....... well awfully unrealistic. Therefore I do not condone this game, and you should probably 
 stick with impressing your friends and having fun with your friends by playing A REAL GUITAR.
 
  
  Now I can see how those out there are just looking for fun, and they do not play guitar, or even 
 own one to look into this game. I can see how it would be fun for average joe's (not in a bad way) 
 who want to be good at something, then by all means, go ahead and buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflyinfur
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first Guitar Hero, and had high expectations for the sequel. Most of the 
 were meet and some surpassed. But the 360 port of Guitar Hero II just doesn't deliver that same 
 satisfaction. Sure it looks great and the addition of a leaderboard and downloadable can extend 
 the game's life a bit, but in the end, it's just another way to squeeze a few bucks out of this 
 game before moving on to new projects.
  
  There's no online multi-player and the few songs that were added just don't grab your attention 
 like the original ones did.
  
  The new X-plorer guitar feels good, though a little color wouldn't hurt, and the decision to relocate 
 the points that the strap attaches to makes it much easier to accommodate left handed players.
 
  
  While there is nothing wrong with the game, it doesn't improve on anything either. If you don't 
 have Guitar Hero II yet, then by all means pick up the 360 version. If you already have it for 
 PS2, you may want to think twice before shelling out almost $100 to pick up this one.
  
  I wish I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was one of the most original music based games to come out since the original Dance 
 Dance Revolution. Now, it's a smash hit sweeping the nation with rock and roll fevor. Now, wanna 
 be rockstars who own an Xbox 360 can rock out with Guitar Hero 2. First off, the game is a music 
 based game, so you have to hit buttons on your awesome X-Plorer Controller and strum the strum 
 bar each time to nail a note. The more notes you hit, the more points you get. During extra long 
 held chords, you can use the whammy bar to add some extra sizzle to your music, and get more points 
 for doing it. You also earn star power for hitting a number of notes in a row, which doubles all 
 multipliers you already have. The game features over 70 rock hits including music from The Police, 
 My Chemical Romance, Iron Maden and Van Halen. The music is great and the gameplay is tough to 
 learn, yet fun at the same time. You start with some songs, but unlock more by completing career 
 mode in Medium difficulty or higher. There are three main modes in Guitar Hero 2: career, quick 
 play and co-op. In career mode, you name your band, pick your guitarist and rock out as you rise 
 to the top of popularity. If you play in Medium difficulty or higher, you can earn cash to buy 
 stuff at the store. Each venue where you play has harder songs the farther you go on into the game, 
 so you had better be prepaired... for this piece of fun. Yopu will live this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeE21286
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  With it's easily approachable yet hard to master gameplay style Guitar Hero II is by far the best 
 and most addicting game I've played in a long long time. Not being an owner of the PS2 version (s) , 
 I was pleasantly surprised as to how good this game is. Graphics:
  First off, this game is not about graphics bottom line. The game does look good though and it still 
 does feel like a 360 game even though the emhasis is not on graphics.
  
  Sound: Sound is awesome blasting through my home theatre system. I look back at Guitar Hero I, 
 and the songs in that version seem better than the songs in Guitar Hero II. Still a really solid 
 playlist with lots of memorable tunes.
  
  Gameplay: HIGHLY ADDICTIVE. I mean I will play this game until my hands hurt (and if you play a 
 long time they will, that's my only gripe) . Co-Op is awesome fun with friends, and the depth of 
 this game blows me away. 4 different skill levels each with their own way to play each of the songs 
 in the game makes for an incredibly long game. Also there is the the ability to practice your skills 
 on songs. You can select one of the four difficulty levels and slow down the song to get those 
 hard notes. While practicing you also have the ability to play the entire song, or to single out 
 sections you are having trouble with in a particular song. Which I think is pretty great
  
  Value: There is TONS of value in this game. It can be played forever basically. You'll want to 
 go back and get 5 stars on all the songs on all difficulty levels, or even jump online and try 
 best your friends on the online leaderboards. Just tons of incentives to keep playing over and 
 over
  
  My only gripe about this game is that it did not include all the original Guitar Hero I tracks 
 (which I have read is a distinct possibility further on down the line in the way of Xbox Live Downloadable 
 Content) and that the controller wasn't wireless which had been speculated about earlier. Other 
 than that I have to recommend this game for anyone without reservation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: letacoleta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  All i can say is that my hand hurts
  but is a good video game, im waiting to see what songs i would be able to download from Xbox Live. 
 And waiting if microsoft will come out with a wireless guitar, because i keep on unplug in it. 
 Rockin to hard.
  Absolutely recommend this video game. if you want to have fun with friends get the additional guitar 
 to have more fun, i did some parties, and none can stop playing the game, lot of fun. if you like 
 to sing, dance, and play the guitar, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeNukem77
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is sooooo much fun and I enjoyed it!! This was the first Guitar Hero I bought but I knew 
 it was going to take time to learn it. Well the gameplay is well hard to explain because at some 
 moments its sooo easy and fun but at times can be a bit of a challenge which I like!!! But then 
 the game gets nearly impossible to play!!! The sound is amazing and the music is great!!! The graphics 
 are a bit low but overall who really cares with a game like this?? The value well its almost worth 
 it I payed $90 for this game and I wish I would have waited a bit longer!! Overall this game is 
 sooooo much fun and fun to play with others but where is the online gaming???? That really disippointed 
 me too but I guess after this experience...... BRING ON ROCK BAND!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxConfidence3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that makes the ladies go wild. I invited a couple of gamerchix over and after a 
 little practice before they arrived I had them screaming for more while they were ripping my clothes 
 off, needless to say after a little Rage Against the Machine and some Free bird I was no longer 
 able to continue playing but there was plenty of rock and roll hoochie coo all night long! Yeah 
 thanks Red Octane please stock us up with fresh down load's to keep the lasses happy! If I had 
 2 more thumbs I'd give it 4 thumbs up! Don't be that guy who calls my story a fake try it for yourself 
 if you don't believe me and if it doesn't work then you don't ROCK baby yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great tunes to rock to, award winning gameplay from the PS2 version is better than ever 
 on the 360, guitar controller is awesome, downloadable content is coming...
  
  The Bad: It has a pretty steep learning curve, it's pricy, no online co-op... yet...
  
 
  
  Guitar Hero was one of the most original music based games to come out since the original Dance 
 Dance Revolution. Now, it's a smash hit sweeping the nation with rock and roll fevor. Now, wanna 
 be rockstars who own an Xbox 360 can rock out with Guitar Hero 2. First off, the game is a music 
 based game, so you have to hit buttons on your awesome X-Plorer Controller and strum the strum 
 bar each time to nail a note. The more notes you hit, the more points you get. During extra long 
 held chords, you can use the whammy bar to add some extra sizzle to your music, and get more points 
 for doing it. You also earn star power for hitting a number of notes in a row, which doubles all 
 multipliers you already have. The game features over 70 rock hits including music from The Police, 
 My Chemical Romance, Iron Maden and Van Halen. The music is great and the gameplay is tough to 
 learn, yet fun at the same time. You start with some songs, but unlock more by completing career 
 mode in Medium difficulty or higher. There are three main modes in Guitar Hero 2: career, quick 
 play and co-op. In career mode, you name your band, pick your guitarist and rock out as you rise 
 to the top of popularity. If you play in Medium difficulty or higher, you can earn cash to buy 
 stuff at the store. Each venue where you play has harder songs the farther you go on into the game, 
 so you had better be prepaired...
  
  The quick play mode allows you to just play a song and rock out for fun, trying to beat the highest 
 score on the leaderboards.
  
  The co-op mode, available only to those rich enough to own two guitar controllers, allows gamers 
 to team up for each song, with one playing the guitar and the other playing the bass. I haven't 
 gotten to try this mode yet, but I bet it will be fun.
  
  The gameplay itself is tough to master, but outstanding on it's own. The graphics are cartoony 
 and the load screens are hilarious. The fact is, it's an expensive game, but it's worth every penny 
 for those who want to rock. With the promice of loads of downloadable content, Guitar Hero 2 has 
 a lot of staying power and fans of rock have to buy it. Rock On!!!
  
  Gameplay: It's classic music-based button mashing, but it's challenging and lots of fun.
  
 
  Graphics: It's cartoony, but still looks darn good on the 360.
  
  Sound: The killer soundtrack makes this catagory an easy 10.
  
  Value: It's a bit expensive 
 at $90 for the guitar and game, but it's worth it.
  
  Final Thoughts: Your mom does not count as a fan... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsm164
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  When I first opened this game up and got it all set up and started playing it I hated it. It seemed 
 impossible to hit the notes and play. Then I procceeded to practice and rise above the frustration. 
 By the end of the day, my wife and I had put in 6 hours of none stop play time and have progressed 
 greatly. I can't remember the last time a Xbox/Xbox 360 game has taken me into the wee hours of 
 the morning. It is very addictive, the compition is great, and it's just a blast to play. I highly 
 recommend this to anyone who is a music fan or just looking for a good challenge. It was also nice 
 to have the kids come in and hear the music that we grew up on. They now have a better appreciation 
 for the classics, and what them for their iPod. A great game all around and if your kids are old 
 enough a great family game. It sounds great when hooked up through a stereo thats why my score 
 for sound is so high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox-360-Gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  awesome x-plorer guitar is comfortable to play. takes a bit to get the full handle on this game. 
 but once you do, you'll really like it. the 10 new songs are pretty good. songs like life wasted, 
 dead! is a cool song to play, kind of a challenge to get 100% on it. but yea if you were thinking 
 about getting this game, do it. its worth the $90. you'll love it! so get it, go home and rock 
 out in front of your tv!! overall an awesome playlist that you will enjoy. got some cool guitars 
 in the store in career mode. also if your having a struggle on a song, head to practice mode and 
 get that song downpath. so you can nail it next time you play it! that is a very good strategy, 
 I tend to use practice a lot. it helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babaloos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and one I couldn't wait to play. It's addictive and certainly challenges you. 
 Even easy difficulty can be challening when you're just learning the game.
  
  What I don't understand is why they included a corded guitar when most people with a 360 have the 
 Pro system with wireless controllers. Stupid decision in my opinion. It kinda kills it because 
 you're limited to standing right in front of the TV rather than relaxing back on the couch.
  
  This is a game that I can play for hours and hours and not get bored. Everyone loves music 
 and most people dream about being a rock star so this is a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelman5674
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Guitar Hero itself was fun for the PS2. I must say, I played 35 hours on it at my friend's 
 house. Now that I have it for the 360, everyone is jealous. New downloads of songs, themes, better 
 graphics, sweeter guitar. Just plain owns the PS2. Now, the new songs on it are pretty sweet as 
 well. I've been playing this game for about 7 hours and I almost have all the songs done. So, I 
 so can't wait for Guitar Hero 3 to come out. Now, I also hear rumors of it coming out on the wii. 
 If this is so, I just might have to get a wii as well. But, in conclusion. EVERYONE SHOULD GET 
 THIS GAME!!! There is none better, not even Halo or GTA! Trust me, I know. When you have a party, 
 Guitar Hero is prefered above all others. TRUE STORY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManningsDAManE
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Almost all the time when I play a game for the first time, one word comes to my mind: WOW! It could 
 be wow this game is amazing, or wow this game stinks! But unlike many other games, I didnt say 
 that when I first played the Xbox 360 version of Guitar Hero II. This is not intended to be a good 
 thing or a bad thing at all. I have only played the PS2 version once, and I didnt really read 
 many previews of the 360 port. Even with that lack of knowledge, the game still didnt seem to 
 surprise me at all. The game play is good overall, but it really is no different than the PS2 version. 
 You play the notes the same way. The career mode is mediocre at best for a few reasons. 1. Encores 
 are the only real twist. 2. You are unable to make up your own character, but you must use a pre-made 
 character. There is also no online play. Choosing between bass and lead guitar really isnt that 
 fun. The only aspect of game play that really impressed me was the practice mode. I love how you 
 can make a hard part slowed down to Slow, Slower, or Slowest. Its also very good that you can 
 pick and choose the sections you wish to play if you only need to improve on one section and you 
 dont want to play the whole song (songs can take anywhere from 5-10 minutes to play) . Another aspect 
 of the game that I think Red Octane did an excellent job on was the sounds. The songs sounded excellent 
 and integrated very well with the guitar that you are playing. I think this was the only part that 
 wowed me. The graphics were good overall, but for an XBOX 360 game I expected more. I think that 
 if you truly like the Guitar Hero games, you will be able to enjoy it for a very long time. So 
 the biggest question is, should you get it? If you have the PS2 version, I think not. But if you 
 dont have a PS2, for $90, its a tough choice. Im not going to tell you to get it or not, I just 
 know that I enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tmills_basic
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I really thought that even though I couldn't stand the first guitar hero, I would take everyone 
 elses word and try out the second guitar hero. Here is my main issue: A friend of mine who had 
 NO INTEREST in Hip Hop, but Loved Rock music, picked up my copy of Def Jam Icon, and had a fun 
 time with the game and the music. He had fun with the game regardless of his music tastes. Now, 
 I pick up Guitar Hero 2 (and guitar hero 1) , and I have NO INTEREST in Rock music, but love Hip 
 Hop music. So I pick up the game, and Im not able to enjoy the game at all. Not because of the 
 music, but because the gameplay is bad!!
  
  Now what is my point? My point is that everyone acts like guitar hero is such a great game just 
 because its about Rock music, but they don't realize that the gamplay sucks! The game is not fun. 
 It's basicallly a way to listen to bad music not being played as well. Now the fact that my friend 
 can have fun with a music based game like Def Jam Icon and not have any interest in the music shows 
 that just because the Majority population enjoys a particular type of music, doesn't mean a game 
 based on that music will be good, THE GAMEPLAY HAS TO ACTUALLY BE GOOD!
  
  So just because I don't want to RoCk OuT lOuD! doesn't mean I dont want to play a good game, it 
 just means that people need to realize that not everyone likes rock music, so something else needs 
 to be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is flat out one of the most fun and addictive games I've ever played. If you love 
 rock or especially metal, this game is a must own. It's a ton of fun to play on your own, but it's 
 also one of the best party games out there. The reason for the addictive quality is twofold. One, 
 the gameplay at it's core is incredibly simple. It's Simon Says with a guitar. On the easy level, 
 even your girlfriend can rock out pretty successfully. That makes the game really accessible to 
 everyone. No button combos or using two sticks and trigger buttons at once. The second reason is 
 that, while it's easy to learn, its very difficult to master. Don't even attempt the elite level 
 until you have a solid 30+ hours with this game! Since success is measured by score and accuracy, 
 and the game has a built-in online leaderboard, you always are trying to shoot for a better score.
 
  On the higher difficulty levels, you are shuffling fingers, bending notes, and moving up and down 
 the fretboard like a real guitarist. Awesome.
  
  Lastly, it's just FUN. Few things bring me more joy than feeling like I'm really kicking out Sweet 
 Child O Mine . No more air guitar... now you can really play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Obviously people are going to differ in their opinion of the song selection. That being said, I 
 agree with the gamespot review. Some of the songs in the game are freaking awesome, and that's 
 what makes them fun to play. It's no fun trying to get through the crappiest Van Halen song on 
 expert and hearing it play a million times.
  
  I found that I could get through songs faster when they were ones that I liked. The guitar itself 
 is a good fit, minus the strap getting messed up everytime you put it down. Overall even though 
 there is more content, the track list doesn't make it as much fun as the first guitar hero. Although 
 it does have free bird...
  
  The last downside is the pain that I'm feeling in my wrists and fingers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pthod
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is truly one the most enjoyable game experiences that I have had 
 in a long time. In some way it taps in that inner rock star that resides in most people. This is 
 the type of game that you continue to play in your sleep. It gives you a fever, and the only cure 
 for that fever is playing more GH II. A few negatives... It is not the most stunning looking game 
 in the library of 360 titles, but the gameplay, sound, and overall production value make up for 
 what's lacking in the visual department. Another minor negative I have is the wired guitar. I was 
 hoping to be past corded controllers with this new generation of consoles, but once again, it is 
 so much fun I really don't care that much about the wire in the end. Some are complaining about 
 the cost, but the $90 price tag will provide hours and hours of entertainment for my family and 
 me. Otherwise, we would spend the same amount or more at the movie theater or video store in the 
 next few months. Do you know how much a large soda runs these days at your local movieplex?
  
  Game Spot, I appreciate what you do, but giving this an 8.9? In my opinion you were a bit off 
 on this review. According to the overall rating on gamerankings. com GH II is on its way to being 
 the highest rated Xbox 360 game. For me it is currently the best game for the 360, and I am glad 
 to see the bar raised just a little higher for this next generation of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  There are a few songs that could have used the delete button. Other than that, this game will actually 
 rock you out. The visuals are very bright and look great on a High Definition TV. The song list 
 is very large and downloadable content that I have not got around to getting should bring this 
 game to a whole new level to make the game's replay value last for a good few years to come. I 
 have waited for this game and the wait was well worth it. The price tag of $90 I thought was steap, 
 but the guitar included isn't to shabby and cheap looking. I spent a few hours and the reason I 
 had to stop was from cramping in my left had!! I look very forward to playing this game on time 
 I get to when I am home. The positive-great sounds, leader boards, downloadable content, and superb 
 gameplay that deftly simulates the act of rocking which I quote off Gamespot. The Bad: Not every 
 song is a thriller; some of the cooperative parts are highly dull, even on expert; no online multiplayer. 
 &lt; more quotes &gt;
  
  This game is a must buy for anyone that likes rock music. This is a VERY, VERY SOLID PURCHASE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  When the first Guitar Hero came out it took the world by storm. With its easy to learn gameplay 
 and great soundtrack it became a great party game. When Guitar Hero II came out it was still a 
 fantastic game but disappointed some people with a lackluster soundtrack. Now Guitar Hero II had 
 made it to the Xbox 360 and is better then ever. With the addition of online leaderboards, achievememts, 
 and about ten new songs.
  
  If you somehow happened to miss out on any of the past Guitar Hero's I'll give you a brief explanation 
 of how the game works. When you open up the box the first thing you'll see probably is the guitar 
 it comes with this is your instrument and its used to play all the notes. It has 5 Fret Buttons, 
 a Strum Bar, and a Whammy Bar just for kicks. To actually play the game you have to hold down fret 
 buttons as the notes go by on the screen and then hit them with the strum bar. As the notes go 
 by on the screen you'll see five different colors Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, and Orange. Each color 
 reprasents a different fret button. So to play a note you hold down the matching fret button and 
 strum however many time required on the strum bar. There are also four different diffacultys there 
 is easy which only uses the first three fret buttons, medium which uses all four fret buttons, 
 Hard which has starting to use the orange button, and Expert which has you using all five fret 
 buttons has way more notes then any of the other diffacultys and is more like actually playing 
 the song. During a song how well you're doing is measured by the rock meter. When the rock meter 
 is in the green you're doing great. When its in the yellow you're doing okay. But when it gets 
 down into the red it means you're pretty close to failing the song. There are also other technicques 
 you can use such as star power. You fill up the star power meter by hitting special notes or by 
 using the whammy bar on special notes. Once your star power meter is full enough you tilt your 
 guitar up to activate it. Star Power is a great way to earn points and when your rock meter is 
 in the red it can quickly bring it back up. Another technique that you can use which is very handy 
 are Hammer-Ons/Pull-Offs. Each note has a black circle on the inside. Every now and then you'll 
 see notes that don't have a black circle on the inside. You can do Hammer-Ons/Pull-Offs on these 
 notes. To do either a Hammer-On or a Pull-Off you pretty much switch finger to the other note without 
 strumming. So if there is a green note followed by a red Hammer-On note you strum for the green 
 note and then switch to the red note. On the lower levels you won't really need these but once 
 you get up to hard they become very usefull. At first when you're playing Guitar Hero II you'll 
 probably spend most of your time playing the career mode. In this mode you'll play through the 
 games main 48 songs. The set list is split up into groups of six songs. On easy you'll only have 
 to do either four or five songs depending on where you are on the list. But on the three other 
 diffacultys you'll have to do six songs before you unlock more songs. But there is something different 
 in these other diffacultys. Once you beat the fifth song on the list instead of going to a result 
 screen the crowd will start cheering for an encore. You can play the song right then or you can 
 refuse to play the encore and save that song for a different time. There is also the quick play 
 mode. Where you can pretty much choose any song you've unlocked so far and play it. This is a great 
 mode if you just want to pick it up and play a couple of songs.
  
  Although the gameplay is a very important part of the game in Guitar Hero II the focus is mainly 
 on the music. Guitar Hero II features a large soundtrack with over 70 songs. But sadly a large 
 ammount of these songs aren't very good. They are fun to play but the songs themselves are pretty 
 lame. This is only made worse by the large ammount of bad covers in the game. The majority of the 
 songs are covers with the exception of a few which are mastr tracks. For the most part these covers 
 are great. Some of the really good ones are Carry On My Wayward Son, You Really Got Me, Woman, 
 and a few other songs. But there are also some bad covers and when they mess up the song boy do 
 they mess up the song. The main offenders here are Heart -Shaped Box, Sweet Child O' Mine, and 
 Free Bird but there are other bad covers.
  
  There are also some new features that were not in the PS2 version of Guitar Hero II. The most important 
 one being the 10 added songs my favorite out of these being The Trooper by Iron Maiden. But sadly 
 some of these new songs are really stupid and will make you wonder why they chose these songs instead 
 of some good songs. There is also the addition of online leaderboards. Now you can look at your 
 scores and see how they compare to the other people who play Guitar Hero II. Also since this is 
 an Xbox 360 game there are achievements 50 varied achievements which will take a long time to get 
 giving you more stuff to play for. And lastly there is downloadable content. Its allready been 
 said that the first songs will be songs from the original Guitar Hero but there is also the hope 
 that they could release new songs.
  
  The graphics in Guitar Hero II are pretty good. They are much better then they were on the PS2 
 but in a game like this graphics don't really matter but they do help. One cool thing is that there 
 are plenty of character animations. If you are ever watching someone else play don't look at the 
 notes going by instead look at the characters and the backgrounds because they are awesome. Each 
 of the eight places you'll play at during your career have something different most of the time 
 being some cool thing in the bacground that does something super crazy before an encore. The character 
 animations are all awesome too each of the characters has a different move they do when they activate 
 star power and they also just feel more alive during a song.
  
  Value wise Guitar Hero II is fantastic. There are four different diffacultys to choose from and 
 if this is your first time playing it'll be a long time before you beat it. Also once you beat 
 it you can still go back and play songs again to try and get a higher rating. And with downloadable 
 content on the way and the slight possibility that online multiplayer could be released later there 
 are plenty of reasons to keep playing this game.
  
  All in all even if you allready played Guitar Hero II on the PS2 there are tons of new features 
 that give you a reason to play the game again and Guitar Hero takes a pretty long time to get old 
 so if you have the money definetly pick this game up.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsolo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II is highly addictive and a lot of fun to play. The interaction is fun and the amount 
 of content they added is quite impressive. The only thing I am disappointed in is the fact that 
 there is no online multiplayer I was hoping to be able to play with friends on xbox live. Other 
 than that, the songs of choice are really good (lots of hardcore and 80s type music, very few 
 acoustic songs) and the xplorer guitar is comfortable to use. This is as realistic as you can get 
 to the real thing. Anyone can enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafetKhan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  OK, I was a bit nervous about getting this game. I had heard great things about it online for the 
 PS2 and was looking forward for it coming out for the Xbox 360. However, I still had my doubts 
 being older I was worried it was going to be to young for me. Boy I was wrong, this game is tons 
 of fun, addicting, I knew about 75% of the songs and I can't wait to get home and play some more. 
 I would comment on the graphics but I am not good enough yet to look at the graphics and play the 
 music. Medium setting seems about right for me. With easy being too easy and Medium feeling pretty 
 hard taking some practice in order to get it right. I have not even tried hard or elite settings 
 yet. If you are thinking about getting a game, this is worth the money even the extra 30 bucks 
 for the guitar. I agree with the age appropriateness being teen because of some of the songs and 
 the stories told during the tutorials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Once in a while, you come across a videogame so creative, so imaginative and so completely different 
 (in a good way) , that you can't help but be amazed by it.
  
  Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360 is one of those games. Real guitar players may ask, Why would I 
 want some goofy guitar videogame when I can play real guitar, the answer: because it's fun, and 
 chances are, you can't rock like this!
  
  So what do you get for your $89? Out of the box, you get a fancy, Gibson-inspired guitar controller, 
 complete with customizable decals, five fret keys and a whammy bar. It also supports the Microsoft 
 headset and other plugins. I'd be lying if I said the controller doesn't make the game, because 
 it absolutely does. The controller basically transforms you, turning you into a rock god in the 
 likes of Slash, Eddie Van Halen or Jimmy Page, but it may take some practice. If you have never 
 played guitar before, Guitar Hero may take a little getting used to. Basically, like a real guitar, 
 you have to learn hand-eye coordination, and you have to be able to get a feel for how your fingers 
 should grip the frets. For many people, you'll spend your first few rock sessions glancing frantically 
 between your fret buttons and the screen. You'll think, uh oh, that notes coming, now where's that 
 button? 
  
  But this gradually goes away. Soon, you'll have the keys memorized and the guitar will become an 
 extension of your arm - or maybe your inner rocker soul. So the next challenge becomes tempo. You 
 will learn to feel each song, and you'll learn a sense of beat and timing. Once you master these 
 things, the challenge still doesn't end. Because now you'll have to learn how to be creative. You'll 
 learn how to point-your-controller up in the air when your star power meter is full to truly jam 
 out, and you'll learn to work the whammy bar to add flavor -- and star power.
  
  During this learning process, you'll be greeted to a number of easily recognizable and truly rocking 
 songs by artists such as Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Guns 'N Roses, Wolfmother, Toadies, etc. Chances are, 
 with a kicking sound system, you'll really dig the music. And if you are good, you'll hear it, 
 and not only that, you'll feel it, and the crowd will go nuts.
  
  When you mess up, you'll feel that too, and it sucks. You'll be in the middle of a face-melting 
 guitar solo, reaching for the heavens, when suddenly, SCREEETCH , you screw it up. And man, it 
 really takes the wind out of your sails when you are playing an awesome song and really feeling 
 the rock, and then botch it. And the crowd feels it too. Mess up too bad and they'll be throwing 
 stuff at you and booing. At that point, you better start rocking or run for your life.
  
  So the game plays and sounds fantastic, but how does it look? My answer: about as good as you could 
 expect from this sort of the game. In Hi-Def, the visuals are pretty sharp and the cartoonish appearance 
 of the rockers fits the game perfectly. But in truth, you don't really care about the graphics, 
 Guitar Hero is all about gameplay, and this game has it in spades.
  
  Then, of course, there are the online leaderboards and the promised downloadable content. Once 
 you' blow through the 70+ songs already in the game on the various difficulty settings, you will 
 eventually be able to download new songs via Xbox Live. This is a fantastic idea, and I'm very 
 much looking forward to seeing what new songs become available. The only thing missing is an online 
 competitive mode. It would be awesome to go online and jam it out with other players around the 
 world. Unfortunately, this isn't possible, but you can play with another player on the same system, 
 granted you'll have to by a separate guitar. It's also too bad the provided controller isn't wirless, 
 but apparently Microsoft refuses to license out their wireless technology. It's a shame, but hopefully 
 Microsoft will release their own wireless guitar. These faults aside; however, Guitar Hero II is 
 an amazing game, and something just about anyone can easily pick up and enjoy. At $89, it isn't 
 the cheapest, but in the end, it is money well spent. You'll enjoy this game for months to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkycheese_70
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  This is a fun addictive game that is easily accessible for all people. Also a great party game 
 for friends and family. Everyone who knew this was not online multiplayer so that should not be 
 a disappointment to anyone. Maybe the next gen of the game with be live, but for now just rock 
 out and have fun.
  
  I can't wait to see what songs they will be providing in the future. I know some bands (i. e. Metallica) 
 are prudes about having their songs used, but they should think about the marketing factor this 
 adds to their fan base. I found songs I had either forgotten about or did not even know existed 
 tha were awesome to hear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashnmillions
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive, fun, easy or challenging. I'm very glad this game came to XBOX360, 
 I was thinking of purchasing a PS2 just to own it last year, but it was well worth the wait. The 
 graphics aren't spectacular, but you won't be focusing on those anyways. The sound is superb, with 
 a 5.1 system you'll really get the full experience. It took a while to get really good at it, but 
 it's failry easy to pick up. My wife doesn't play video games, but she can play this one and loves 
 it. She even has her own band on it. One downfall is that the guitar is small for large handed 
 people, and quite large for small handed people. The buttons are a bit uncomfortable for either 
 and at $89.99, it's quite pricey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Apples
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  A lot of games have been heralded with titles like game of the year , most innovative , and best 
 in genre , but Guitar Hero 2 truly lives up to this praise. But first, before I explain this rather 
 bold statement, some background.
  
  I've pretty much grown up with the video/computer game industry, going back to the original 8-bit 
 Nintendo system. I've played every blockbuster title out there, from FPS's, to RTS's, MMORPG's, 
 strategy games, puzzle games, and everything in between. In short, Guitar Hero 2 is a top five 
 title all time, in very select and privileged company. Here's why:
  
  Creative and unique: A lot of great games end up becoming knockoffs of pre-existing titles. Every 
 FPS is just a souped up and revisited version of Doom. Every MMORPG is in someway just a copy of 
 Everquest. The unique controller and ruleset of Guitar Hero are not comparable to anything else 
 out there, which makes it fresh and interesting in a world of rehash.
  
  Mass Appeal: The game successfully merges two of the most pervasive and popular cultures out there... 
 namely video games and pop music. This gives the game a very broad appeal to both gamers, audiophiles, 
 and stronger appeal to fans of both. The broad appeal also extends to the variable skill levels, 
 which can adjust to a broad range of players. I've seen total video game illiterates pick up the 
 guitar controller and eek there way through the game on 'easy' difficulty. I've seen hardcore gamers 
 that keep coming back to master tier-8 songs on expert. It is equally attractive to all skill levels, 
 and provides constant replay value as long as you enjoy the song list.
  
  Social element: Multiplayer allows the game to be a group experience. It can show up at parties, 
 among friends, family, anywhere. I've even heard of a rather elaborate setup at a post-prom party. 
 Pro face off allows hardcore competition and tournaments if that's your thing as well.
  
  
  The only criticism I can draw on the 360 version is the new Xplorer controller, which is of... 
 suspect... design and quality. This is more a manufacturing issue than anything. I fully expect 
 this problem will fade in time as manufacturing improves and/or a redesigned controller is put 
 on the market. It is an important thing to be aware of however, and the only blemish on what is 
 a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawbwilsh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have heard of guitar hero for the past two years from my avid guitar friends who worhsip this 
 game. I found a friend of mine who is an older casual sports only playing guy get into guitar hero 
 two so I had high hopes for this game. It lives up to your expectationss and beyond. The music 
 is awesome some classics I havent heard and years. My girlfriend is better than, its easy to pick 
 up and play especially on easy. It has a variety types of ease, so dont worry if you're not cooridnated. 
 The graphics are ps2 graphics they are nice nothing to write home about. Game play is awesome, 
 they really take puzzle games to the next level. This is a must own game for any 360 owner. I can 
 see this being a huge hit at parties too. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is not terribly difficult to review. Everyone knows about this game, and everyone has 
 probably played it at a Best Buy, a friend's house, or a roommate's console. The Guitar Hero series 
 has come a long way since the original. The Xbox 360 version improves on the PS2 version of GHII 
 in nearly every way a port can.
  
  The easiest thing to notice of course is the great new graphical facelift. The characters look 
 superb, the crowd looks ever-so-lively, and the sets are much more vibrant.
  
  The new songs are a very nice addition. Some of the new songs are excellent and have taken their 
 place on my admittedly long list of favorite tracks (especially Hush by Deep Purple) .
  
  As always, the gameplay is excellent and the already incredible replay value has been kicked into 
 overdrive with the ability to download new tracks. Most tracks are simply rumor at this point in 
 the game, but rest assured, several of the Guitar Hero I tracks will make an appearance along with 
 some dark horses (such as my favorite rumor of the Halo Theme... woo hoo!) .
  
  If you don't have a PS2 anymore (I don't, I'm sad to say... I went through six of them with 'disc 
 read error'... doh) this is a no-brainer. I say that in the best way possible. All Xbox 360 owners 
 that do not otherwise own a copy of this game should immediately buy it. It is the game that keeps 
 on giving. It has the same effect as the Wii -- people that have never played any game ever will 
 still try Guitar Hero because it looks so simple to pick up. I have seen grown men (and women) 
 begin an evening with some comment to the effect of oh, that looks stupid and ending the night 
 with bloodshot eyes and vice grip on the controller saying seriously, back away. I'm doing just 
 one more song... 
  
  If you do own the PS2 version, this game is still a compelling buy. The graphics, new songs, and 
 downloadable content are all welcome additions. And who doesn't love online leaderboards? Now, 
 onto the scoring for this marquee title... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawooten
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Xbox 360 Review: Guitar Hero II
  By: EliteDemon
  
  Red Octane has brought another stellar performance except this time it is for the Xbox 360. Guitar 
 Hero II is the long awaited release for rock fans that could only get their fill on the Playstation 
 2 before. This is not a port because it doesn't deserve that kind of name. It has the same mechanics 
 from the Playstation 2 version except revamped for the Xbox 360 with new songs, high definition 
 graphics up to 1080p, and the biggest improvement, downloadable content.
  
  To start, gameplay is the same from the Playstation 2 version where the player is to press the 
 colored button and strum the note on the guitar at the same time, using different combinations 
 of notes to play. As for what is used to play the game, the game comes bundled a different guitar 
 called the X-plorer. If Xbox Live multiplayer is what your looking for, all that is available is 
 leaderboard ranks for each of the songs. However, that can be fixed in the future with a patch.
 
  
  Next up is the graphics. Nothing much on this front because all that there is to really display 
 is the notes scrolling down the screen along with the guitarist and the rest of his band. For the 
 high definition lovers, the game boasted resolutions up to 1080p. Audio is where this game shines. 
 It boasts a large roster of talent from over 50 bands and around 80 songs including exclusive songs 
 for this version. To add to the 80 songs, Red Octane has announced that downloadable content via 
 Xbox Live. Overall, Guitar Hero II is a solid release for the Xbox 360 made for the hardcore that 
 just want to rock out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is simply fun as heck. The game has simple controls and you can easily pick it up and 
 start playing right away. This is one of the few games where graphics dont matter (even though 
 they are pretty good) . If you have already played Guitar Hero I or II than its the pretty much 
 the same. The only difference is the controller. I personally dont like the new explorer guitar/controller. 
 It looks fantastic but can feel awkward to hold at times. The spike things on the base of the controller 
 can dig into your arm and side and feel uncomfortable at times. Star Power activation has been 
 changed by tilting the controller all the way straight up. Which will and can mess up your playing. 
 I personally wish they would have kept the original controller but I understand their feeling of 
 change. I wish online play would have been added but it the same ole thing. If you have the PS2 
 version dont waste your money because its the same thing. If your new to guitar hero or dont have 
 the PS2 version this is not a waste of money but will add hours of fun. Not to mention this is 
 a very fun party game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssKick-U-Lator
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is straight out amazing.. this will be a quick review as im tired and want to sleep.
 
  
  Graphics are better than before with more detail and more shine to everything. we all know rock 
 stars need to be shiny, its the way things are.
  
  the music is great, with many recognizable tracks from the previous GH2 and some new tracks mixed 
 in. 2 more popular ones being Iron Maiden's The Trooper and MCRs Dead! but there ARE a lot more. 
 trust.
  
  there are a lot of achievments which will make u happy to see 'Achievment Unlocked every 30 minutes 
 or so, at least it does for me.
  
  gameplay is great, the only few things i noticed (negative) were that the controller is wired even 
 though i HEARD it was wireless and there is no online play.. or is there? if there is PLEASE tell 
 me cuz i have yet to find any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I have gotta say this game is freakin awesome!!! The creators picked out great rock songs for this 
 game. When I play it on my surround sound system it makes me feel like a rock star. The gameplay 
 is pretty self explanitory, push the right button as it passes on the screen. The graphics are 
 pretty cool but they look alot like the previous versions of the game. So I don't think the creators 
 put a whole lot of effort into making a next gen looking game but that doesn't bother me really. 
 The guitar controller seems a lil small but it works. The adjustable strap is very uncomfortable 
 on the neck. I am trying to look into some mods for the strap to make it more comfortable. So I 
 will end this review on this note. Good job on the game it will bring many fun months of strumming 
 my fake guitar!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robodawg11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. I just cant stop playing it. The graphics are not the best but the are 
 not bad either, if you pay attention you can see the guys are actually playing wat your playing 
 on the guitar, and all the flashing lights and stuff are pretty cool to.
  
  The game is addicting as hell and if you love rock and roll there is no doubt about it that you 
 will fall in love with this game. I truly mean it when i say this game is one of the best games 
 on 360. I would prefer playing this over a real guitar any day ( i suck at guitar by the way) . 
 The sound in this game is really good like the guitar playing, all the good songs, and if you mess 
 up the beat it will affect the song and your performance which i think is pretty cool. If you end 
 up doing horrible the crowd will boo you and if you keep doing bad then you'll get kicked off the 
 stage.
  
  This game will last you a long time since it is so danm addicting and crazy fun. There is 50 aheivements 
 to try and get and like 70 songs to unlock playing career mode.
  
  So overall all i have to say is this game kicks major ass and it owns DDR and if you love rock 
 and roll buy it now!!!! WORTH THE 90 BUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Guitar Hero II, it was on the PS2. I had a blast. After news of a 360 version, 
 I was greatly excited. I had good reason.
  
  Guitar Hero II is a great game. It's got a fairly simple concept, although actually carrying out 
 such a concept is often challenging and rewarding. You hold a guitar-shaped controller with fret 
 buttons on it and a strumming rod type thing, and notes cascade towards you on screen. You must 
 strum and hold down the according notes to score points. It makes you feel like you're really playing 
 the song, and it never gets old.
  
  Guitar Hero's presentation is very good as well, however, since the game's main focus is playing 
 notes, you won't have much time too look around. The graphics and sound do all they need to, and 
 the game's technicalities really do all they need to do. There are little expectations of them, 
 as they aren't the main point of the game, so they work perfectly.
  
  As it is, Guitar Hero II is a very unique game, and it has recieved multiple upgrades and facelifts 
 from the PS2 version, offered at only $10 more. If you haven't bought it yet, try it, because chances 
 are you'll end up buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhnshft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Awesome visuals, killer songs and pure fun. I can' t wait to see what songs 
 you can download. I have one small problem, and that it seems like there is something up with my 
 whammy bar. I'll hit it and nothing will happen sometimes. Is anyone else having this problem? 
 Could it be my guitar?
  
  Aside from that, this game rocks. I can't think of too many games that make me want to get off 
 of my rear to play, even though I could still sit be sitting down. Fantastic and totally addictive! 
 I haven't unlocked all of the songs yet, but I can't wait to get to those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first played guitar hero I was so surprised at how addicting it really is. I would really 
 choose playing guitar hero over any other game any day. Great soundtrack great gameplay and it 
 is just fun, especially when you play one of your friends. The only bad thing is that it makes 
 you look like an idiot when you get into the game (especially people that use the strum bar as 
 fast as they can) . This game is just awesome and anyone that owns a 360 should go and buy this. 
 It is one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Guitar Hero game I have ever played and I was a bit skeptical as to buying this 
 one. Man am I glad I did! Please read on!
  
  Graphics
  With a game like this you dont need graphics. All you need to do is pay attention to which key (s) 
 to press. The graphics arent bad anyways but dont expect a realistic crowd or band.
  
  Sound
  Well the sound is amazing. Over 70 songs to play and you can download new songs at the 
 marketplace. Each song sounds fantastic and when you miss a key your song sounds like crap. You 
 really feel like your making the music.
  
  Value
  The game is so addictive its unbelievable! It took me 45mins to get 100% on Cherry Pie . And thats 
 one of the easy songs to play!!!!!! You can jam with a friend in cooperative mode or challenge 
 him head to head. You can also use the whammy bar to make the sounds your own.
  There are a couple of difficulties to choose from. On easy you only have to play with 3 keys and 
 on the hardest level you have to play with all 5 keys and press more than one key at once.
  
  Overall
  I have to say that is one of the very few MUST HAVE games on the 360. The game is 
 a bit steep at $90 but the fun you get while playing is priceless.
  
  Score
  98/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilomez238
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best rythmic game i have ever played to date.... this has been on my to buy list 
 for 4 months now and tpday i finally got it. I have never played the PS2 version but with a better 
 system, graphics, sound and additional songs this game must be 10x what that one was..... The songs 
 are great the guitar is sick and i dont want to go to school tomorrow because i want to play this... but 
 you cant alays get what you want... but guitar hero was everyhting i expected it to be and well 
 worth the 4 month wait.. This game is a must buy for all ages even with the $90.00 price tag this 
 game is well worth every penny. CANT WAIT FOR GH3.. Rock On biotxh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodyrooster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Finally on a system that matters, Guitar Hero makes it's way into the next generation with style!!! 
 The controller is wireless. More songs, downloadable content. It's a guitar hero that will last 
 longer while previous older players will have to upgrade or go to the cool kid on the street's 
 house.
  
  I really liked the PS2 version, but it still was a Playstation, so you feel like it's missing something 
 (achievements, felt like the system was dated five years too long) . It is ten dollars more than 
 that version, but more than worth the extra content, wireless guitar, downloadable content, high 
 definition graphics, even though this game shines more on the fact that is is just plain fun.
 
  
  If you haven't played guitar hero before you should purchase this game, because it's innovative 
 and a very addictive experience that does well alone or with a group of people. The controllers 
 are funny and soo unrealistic, even if you are a guitar professional, you'll see the humor in it 
 and rock out in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  You can't argue that Guitar Hero is the best rhythm game to date. It was superb on the ps2 and 
 now its brethren has come to take over the 360. There's no arguing that the 360 version is better, 
 the graphics have been touched up to look very crisp on an HD screen, the sound quality has been 
 revamped so everything sounds clearer and louder. The 10 extra songs are a great addition, theyre 
 all fun to play and not a waste of space. Now lets get to the even better parts. 1. the guitar. 
 in my mind is alot better then the SG controller, larger body, smaller frets and a stiffer whammy 
 bar just make it alot better. 2. Downloadable Content, of course this will not be a disappointment 
 as there should be tons of songs to download within the next couple months and hell even maybe 
 the entire tracklist for GH1. And 3. the tracklist is fantastic, alot of people say its not as good 
 as GH1's tracklist but honestly i think its alot better due to its heavier music, faster notes 
 and bigger bands. Rhythm games have never really been the most amazing kind of games out there, 
 now that Redoctane and Harmonix stood up and tried something completely different, they have made 
 a fantastic game thats worth all the money you put into it and itll pave the way on how alot of 
 companies make their rhythm based games now. A definite 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playforpride372
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game because i don't have a ps2, so i never played it before, and i have heard 
 that it was awesome on the ps2. well, i got it, plugged in, AND ROCKED OUT!!! This a game that 
 can't be missed!!! It has great songs like sweet child of mine , You got me , and YYZ . It provides 
 gameplay, it doesn't take long to learn how to play. After 10 minutes, you'll feel like a rock 
 star!!! The only flaw i see is the price. $90 is alot of money, but i definitely worth it!!! for 
 those of you who don't have that money, the prices are bound to go down really fast so people like 
 you can play. Overall, this a great game that should not be missed by anyone that has an xbox 360!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentleylax2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  For the 360, the game has gotten even better. The new songs add just the right touch to make this 
 a perfect game for everyone who loves music, and enjoys trying to do it themselves. If you are 
 a fan of the ps2 version and are on the edge about it... GET IT... its a little different, but 
 is AWSOME non the less. Plus Downloadable content= worth the 90 bucks. I found myself getting better 
 at the real guitar because it helps with the rythum and finger agility.
  
  I have not tried the multiplayer on this, but i figure it is the same way. There is no xbox live 
 challenges though... so that not too great, but trading the axe around with your friends probably 
 wouldn't be too bad for the eyes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascar1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  as much as i was looking forward to this game, i was also skeptical... but after playing with it 
 for a good while now, i'm a little better at it then i thought i would be and the FUN factor is 
 off the hook !
  
  you can play the Bass Guitar or the Lead/Rythme Guitar and that is a MAJOR PLUS imo... the graphics 
 are sweet in HD, but the Sound in 5.1 Dolby Surround is Awesome to say the least and the immersion 
 of the gameplay makes you feel like you're really apart of the band.
  
  i was never a Rock-n-Roll fan or atleast i didn't think i was (which is why i was skeptical) but 
 the selection of songs that i've heared &amp; played so far are very enjoyable (and i haven't unlocked 
 any yet) .
  
  Guitar Hero 2 on the 360 is an addicting fun game and an excellent addition to the system library 
 of games already avail., at the moment it's challenging enough for me on the medium level... i can't 
 imagine doing it on the hard/expert level yet, but if or when i do it'll make this game that much 
 more enjoyable! the only thing that could make this game better imo is a wireless controller &amp; 
 different genres of music, and i mean ALL THE GENRES (i'd buy 'em all)
  
  so if you have the slightess interest in this game and not sure whether or not to get it... don't 
 hesitate, it's a definate keeper and a game the whole family can enjoy !
  
  CRANK IT UP ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic_rich
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  As a lefty, it's really hard to get the hang of the buttons with everything on the screen being 
 backwards. Something like an option to flip it so you see it on the screen like you see it on the 
 guitar would have been very VERY nice. Otherwise, it's a pretty cool game. Circuit City having 
 thrown in 1600 free xbox live points was very cool too. This game is an instant classic. And the 
 fact that you'll be able to download new songs via xbox live as you go along will definately make 
 this game re-playable 2 years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andersonjimmy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  While Guitar Hero II has been out for the PS2 for quite a while, the xbox 360 version was my first 
 real chance to play this great game. The game's learning curve really lets newcomers such as my 
 self ease into the game and ratchets up at a good pace. Starting my career on easy helped me get 
 used to the actions of the fret and strum buttons. After about 5 or 6 songs I was really getting 
 the hang of things and moved on to the medium difficulty. I really felt as if I was rockin in the 
 medium setting.
  
  The HD component of the game brings the characters to life, they strum in time with the music and 
 the background really adds a sense of playing a live show. The sound is amazing, with vocals, lead 
 guitar, bass and drums coming through crystal clear. The importance of quality audio cannot be 
 understated. When playing through some of the more difficult sections of the songs it really helps 
 to be able to hear the beat along with the visual cues as to when you are supposed to hit notes.
 
  
  Red Octane and Harmonix hit a home run with this game. It will allow those of us without much musical 
 talent to feel like rock stars. Everyone can enjoy this game, from the casual gamer just looking 
 for a good time, to the hard core musicians looking to bring their talent to the game. Guitar Hero 
 II for the Xbox 360 is a blast to play and a great all around game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
