-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero World Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/guitarheroiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great setlist with more than 80 songs.
 You can now sing and play bass, guitar, drums.
 Lets you create, share, and download original music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some new additions don't enhance experience.
 Doesn't do much that other, similar games haven't done.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.5, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,929 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
That's one giant leap for a franchise; one small step for a genre. 

  As soon as Rock Band let you play guitar, bass, drums, and sing to your favorite music, it was 
 clear the bar had been raised in the music-game genre. It wasn't long before Activision announced 
 that the Guitar Hero series would follow suit. The result is a very entertaining game that doesn't 
 break a whole lot of new ground. Guitar Hero World Tour's in-game music creation feature isn't 
 as revolutionary as it could have been due to its convoluted interface, but thanks to a huge setlist 
 of recognizable hits and cant-miss gameplay, World Tour is a great game and certainly a huge step 
 forward for the franchise.  

           Zombie Hendrix still plays a mean axe.      

  The most obvious difference between World Tour and previous Guitar Hero games is that you can now 
 sing, play drums, play bass, or play guitar. You can play one instrument alone, perform as a band 
 with a few friends, or even hop online and rock head-to-head or as some sort of Internet supergroup. 
 The long-awaited ability to play as a "real" band in a Guitar Hero game improves what was previously 
 an experience shared by one or two people on guitar and bass. Bickering over setlists; swapping 
 instruments midset; getting sweaty and stinky from jumping around in a small room while your friend 
 with the terrible voice gives it his or her all in "Livin' on a Prayer" as your neighbors bang 
 on the wall... that's when Guitar Hero World Tour is at its best.  

  GH World Tour is available as an instrument bundle or as a standalone disc. If you don't buy the 
 bundle, you can use guitars from previous games as well as peripherals from both iterations of 
 Rock Band. The latter option might be your best bet given the less-than-stellar performance of 
 the World Tour hardware over a week-and-a-half of play. The drums have several issues: Cymbals 
 are either too sensitive or not sensitive enough, and the bass pedal is inconsistent as well. That's 
 nothing compared to the problems that we've had with the guitars. The fret buttons began to stick 
 after a day, and it wasn't long before the strum bar failed to accurately recognize input. The 
 frets held up better on our second guitar, but the strum bar quickly failed on it as well. One 
 nice thing about that guitar is that you can activate star power either by tilting your instrument 
 or by simply pressing a new button below the strum bar with the palm of your hand. Just be careful 
 not to press the poorly placed pause button while you're at it.  

  The big new feature in Guitar Hero World Tour is the music studio. It lets you create and share 
 your own tunes, as well as download songs from others. Should you watch all of the tutorials and 
 put in the time to learn the complicated yet robust program, you'll be able to produce some amazing 
 results. The bad news is that you have to put in  a lot  of time and effort because it's incredibly 
 difficult to make music creation a user-friendly experience on a console, but it's near impossible 
 if you force people to use a fake guitar. To make matters worse, there's no way to add vocals or 
 lyrics to your creations, so it's quite possible your song will sound just like the hundreds of 
 thousands of bad MIDI songs that permeate the Web. That said, if you're unable to channel your 
 inner John Lennon, you can still enjoy the fruits of the music studio via other people's work. 
 Just a week after the game's release, there are already a number of impressive user-created efforts 
 available for download.  

           You'll need Mr. Miyagi levels of patience to use the powerful but complicated music studio. 

  World Tour has a Career mode, but it involves little more than playing sets of songs to earn money 
 and unlock more songs. You have some control over what order you tackle the setlists and can personalize 
 your rocker. You can even build custom instruments, but your career is linear and not all that 
 interesting. However, it is pretty neat to see Jimi Hendrix stroll out on stage for "Purple Haze" 
 (even if he does look a bit zombielike) , and now that they don't feature any weird string-breaking 
 gimmicks, the boss battles are actually enjoyable. The game includes more than 80 songs, all of 
 which are master tracks from the original artists.  The setlist  covers a variety of styles and 
 features a huge number of big-name artists. These include The Eagles, Metallica, Michael Jackson, 
 Van Halen, Lenny Kravitz, Sting, Oasis, No Doubt, Nirvana, Coldplay, The Doors, Foo Fighters, Jimi 
 Hendrix, and many more. It's an impressive collection of artists, and you're not often stuck playing 
 some unknown song by these acts, either. You'll get to play "Beat It" rather than "Man in the Mirror." 
 You also won't get stuck with some terrible Gary Sharone-era Van Halen; you'll get David Lee Roth 
 and "Hot for Teacher." As is now the norm for the genre, World Tour includes a store where you 
 can purchase new music. It should be noted that outside of the new Metallica album, none of the 
 downloadable content from Guitar Hero 3 is compatible, which is a shame.  

  For the most part, World Tour looks and plays exactly as you'd expect, but there are a few things 
 it does differently; some good, some bad. Musicians' animations have been improved, particularly 
 with regards to vocalist's lips being in-synch with the lyrics. The ability to customize your rocker's 
 pre-and-post song animation is also cool -- especially when you've got him or her doing the robot 
 after a good performance and smashing his or her guitar after a failed song. The vocals constantly 
 track your pitch, leaving a trail behind that shows how your pitch has changed. This is extremely 
 helpful when you're trying to sing the right notes and intervals at the start of a verse in a song 
 with which you're unfamiliar. Bass players get a new challenge to deal with in the form of an open 
 note, which is represented by a large bar that covers the entire width of the note highway. You 
 might not think hitting the strum bar without pressing a fret would be noteworthy, but as any bass 
 player will tell you, it makes the experience even more realistic. Last, but not least, the game 
 gives you a quick countdown when returning from the pause menu, which gives you a fighting chance 
 at hitting your first notes.  

  Those are the new mechanics that work well, but there are a few that aren't as useful. When playing 
 drums, you must activate star power by hitting both cymbals at the same time. While hitting the 
 cymbals isn't hard in and of itself, hitting them in rhythm so that you don't lose your consecutive 
 note streak is extremely challenging. Unless you're a skilled percussionist, you're probably better 
 off waiting until your streak ends on its own rather than trying to activate star power. Guitarists 
 will have to deal with the most unique and not-so-useful mechanic. Anytime you see notes attached 
 with a purple rope, you're able to move up to the touch-sensitive area above the normal fret buttons 
 and play the notes by sliding across or tapping the pad. This lets you play the "wah-wah" part 
 from "The Joker" with ease, you can play slap bass, and it's fun to act as if you're playing a 
 keyboard in "Rebel Yell," but those are the exceptions. Generally, you'll find that using the touch-area 
 results in missed notes because either it's not sensing your input properly or you're struggling 
 to go from the fret buttons, up to the pad, and back. It's a neat idea, but it's executed poorly. 

           The reliability of the new instruments is already questionable.      

  Guitar Hero World Tour is a huge leap forward for the Guitar Hero franchise. It's a blast to play 
 with friends, the setlist is top-notch, and the music studio is a nice -- albeit extremely complicated -- addition. 
 Although it's a great game, as well as a vast improvement over previous series entries, it doesn't 
 do a whole lot that Rock Band and its sequel haven't already done (and in some cases, done better) . 
 With that in mind, if you really like Guitar Hero's setlist and you're interested (and patient 
 enough) in creating your own music, pack your bags to head out on tour.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (132 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xbox360555
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  If rock band was the experiance of your live. Theres a rival. Guitar hero world tour for the xbox360 
 is definitly the best game in the series. First lets get to the new features this baby has!! You 
 now can create your own rocker, or customize the old characters. Then, you can create your on ''epic'' [as 
 the game says] song in the music studio. You can now sing [like singstar] And be the drummer. [Finally!!] 
 The guitar has a neck slider and a new star power button. [If your to lazy to tilt the guitar to 
 the sky!] The vocals is just about the same as rock band. Sing... sing... sing!!! But to use star 
 power, You tap the mic. [which sometimes dont work.] Now the game ply is just about the same as 
 the other guitar heros. Really freaking fun!!!!! The games graphics are nice. Really nice. A rocker 
 with long hair will flow to how he or she moves. [Realistic!!!!!] The music studio works fine. 
 But it takes time to make a good song. So if your not patient enough. This mode is not for you. 
 The character creation works out as well as rock bands character creation did. The neck slider 
 is cool but just like the studio. It takes time getting used to! This is the best guitar hero game 
 in the series. It has it all, so if you have a lot of money. Definitly buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  My first comment is a negative one - it was the drum sensitivity. I had issues with the cymbals 
 and bass pedal but after they promptly sent the midi cable and tuning software, I was able to alter 
 the sensitivity and the drums have been great since then.
  
  Overall, it's a good selection of songs but there were a few really old ones which maybe shouldn't 
 have been included. The song list would obviously differ in preference by the individual.
  
  Some of the guitar and drum songs are really hard, I mean extremely extremely hard on Expert 
 mode. Even on hard, I found the Ted Nugent Guitar dual quite difficult. A weird trick that Activision 
 have done is to make the ends of some songs really hard, so you spent ages playing the song and 
 get screwed in the end and you keep doing it and doing it but never succeed. 
  
  Bass was pretty easy but in reality, it would be the simplest of the instruments in choice. I was 
 cruising along all the songs on expert till I got bored half way and just stuck to Guitar and Drums. 
 Maybe they can work on the bass more in the next version.
  
  GHMix is hard to use, I wouldn't waste my time with it even though I had big plans for it prior 
 to purchasing the game. Recording is such a pain on it. GHTunes isn't developed properly, the search 
 results keep resetting and is a pain to use as well. Since they removed songs that are copywrited, 
 all you get is a bunch of crappy 'originals'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is a humongous leap for the franchise, adding drums, and a mic for the first 
 time. All instruments are better than Rock Band and the drums are much quieter and more fun to 
 play. The setlist is the best in any game. Featuring Korn, Muse, System Of A Down, Eddie Van Halen, 
 Ozzy Osbourne, blink-182, No Doubt, Linkin Park, Micheal Jackson, Metallica, Oasis, and many others, 
 The studio is fun, you can create your own songs and upload them to GH Tunes and you can get new 
 songs too. A pretty much flawless game except there is NO trophies for the PS3 edition. Half of 
 the Achievement List has Secret Achievements. And Most Achievements are only 5G. But otherwise 
 THIS GAME IS BETTER THAN ROCK BAND AND DEFEATS IT! But, it's $189.99 which is really expensive. 
 But the box is somewhat smaller than of Rock Bands and is less heavy. SO BUY THIS GAME NOW YOU 
 WONT REGRET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KraHicks
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:09 am PT
Review:  As a fan of rhythm based games in general, and owning or at least spending some hours playing all 
 the other Guitar Hero games (apart from Aerosmith, balls to that) , I expected more from this. I 
 will never stop comparing it to Guitar Hero 3, but I see no problem with doing that as I believe 
 development studios should not hit a peak level of game quality, and then drop it to make the game 
 appeal to a wider audience.
  
  For example, the achievements are *far* too easy to get. In particular, the 'Tool of Destruction' 
 achievement and others like it. I assumed because the required score was 444,444 that it was supposed 
 to be a solo achievement as it wasn't specified in the description, and isn't impossible to do. 
 I got to about 400,000 on Schism on guitar, and then went online to do band quickplay. Somebody 
 chose Schism, and because none of us sucked really badly we unlocked Tool of Destruction. I reckon 
 this is far, far too easy to accomplish.
  
  Where are the note streak achievements? What about 5 stars on all songs on a difficulty? You will 
 earn an achievement for simply connecting any instrument to your console and playing one song, 
 but where's the challenge? Online achievements barely exist on this, and the ones that do are just 
 as pointless as every other achievement in the title.
  
  While we're on the subject, as far as online modes go, it's horrendous. This matchmaking feature 
 will pair you up with anyone on any difficulty. Not so much fun for a head-to-head. No leaderboards 
 for online matches either, no real competition. Band quickplay I wasn't fond of either. Each player 
 doesn't even get an individual score at the end of the song. This happens offline, so why not online?
 
  
  This game is aimed only at casual gamers. If you want to 1000 point this game and be challenged, 
 you'll be disappointed. The highlight of it all for me was a couple of songs on the track list, 
 and the design of some of the stadiums. 
  
  In general I have no problem with easy achievements; they feed the gamerscore after all. But when 
 every achievement in this game is so easy, and theoretically judging by the games predecessor this 
 game should have been just as challenging, especially with the addition of new peripherals. The 
 addition of more difficult achievements won't exclude the casual gamer audience, as few of them 
 will care about getting all the achievements. On the other hand, the rest of us might feel like 
 there's not much point in continuing to play the game after we finish career mode, because we aren't 
 being challenged and it doesn't hold out interest any further.
  
  Mega fail in my opinion. Activision, Neversoft, sort it out. Free extra *real* achievement DLC 
 NAO!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixbaby44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  GH: WT gives you a wealth of options from the outset. You can just burn through the career mode 
 like past games, jump right to the music studio and make your own epic rock songs, or you can just 
 do quickplay by yourself or with up to 3 friends. The biggest news with this game is the addition 
 of drums and a mic to go with a new guitar. The touch pad guitar is so much fun cuz wen superfast 
 sections come, you can just tap or slide without the strumming. the drums are pretty straightforward 
 but at least they have cymbals and a better way to activate starpower than RB. The mic is just 
 a mic, and it does the job. The studio is the most important new feature though because now you 
 can actually make songs from scratch and add them to the setlist or put them online. You can also 
 download other user created songs for free and rate them, organize them and the top songs play 
 in the background while you're looking. My only complaint is the sometimes questionable quality 
 of the drums, but this isn't an issue very often. This game is definitely the best music game yet 
 and is one of the best games this generation. In fact, why are you still reading reviews? Just 
 go buy it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3DED
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:15 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the guitar hero series (even 80's) . So, naturally, I would like this one too. 
 I have to say, even with all the extra stuff, it isn't as good as GH3. I don't mind playing slow 
 songs, but many of them are too repetitive and boring. Also, the music creator is not what I expected. 
 I'm not saying it was a bad idea and I doubt I could come up with a better system, keeping legality 
 and copyright issues in mind, but I just can't rock out to midi. When I first heard of the concept, 
 I thought of something like uploading a song and letting the game work out what buttons went where. 
 I think that would have been amazing, sort of an unlimited supply of songs. I guess that doesn't 
 make much sense financially to to the business end though.
  One major annoyance is that there is no mode in multiplayer set the difficulty of you AND your 
 opponent like in GH3 pro face-off. It can be fun to play a less experience player who is playing 
 on hard level while you play on expert, but I want the choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  this game was near flawless to the very last detail. sure, I've played Guitar Hero 3, and that 
 was fun, slightly. but this game has pushed the franchise forwards to amazing limits. now, the 
 career mode well exceeds it's predecessor my a very lengthy margin. there are tons of places to 
 rock out, including the legendary Ozzfest! you really get submerged into the music experience. 
 and since you ave new careers, you won't be disappointed at all. you have guitar, bass, drums, 
 and vocals. this time around there were more celebrity appearances, which was pretty awesome... 
 except for Sting. I didn't notice many technical difficulties while playing. except for a few times 
 when I hit a not it said I didn't. grr! and this time there MANY different tracks to choose from! 
 and then there is the best thing. the music studio! with different scales to choose from, you can 
 record just about anything you want. I've even seen people create the Super Mario Bros. theme. 
 any with the new tapping feature, it's even cooler to play things. you don't have the annoying 
 guitar battles from the previous, with the amp overload nonsense. it's a simple guitar duel, which 
 is what I prefer. and like the others, yes, the game is pretty difficult, depending on the song. 
 so this game is definitely something you DON'T want to pass up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -A full 84-Track song list with loads of awesome bands and a great variety
  -You can now create your own songs, characters, and instruments
  -Drums, Microphone, and Bass 
 now included, each with their own career mode
  -Graphics are very good, and some cool cutscenes
  -Great for parties
  -Loads of famous Unlockable 
 characters such as Ozzy Osbourne, Sting, Jimi Hendrix, Billy Corgan, and Ted Nugent
  
  The Bad:
  -Takes a while to load and save
  -Some of the songs are forgettable
  -Takes a while 
 to create a real good song
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour was the first GH game I ever got, I got it the same time as Guitar Hero 
 2. I only got the pack that had just a guitar, but I already had a microphone. 
  
  The First thing you notice about GH World Tour is that it has really long loading times. This was 
 expected, given the amount of content stored in this ps2 disc, and it is pretty much expected from 
 any ps2 game. 
  
  Because I wasn't very skilled when I first got it, in fact, I had only ever played it once before, 
 I used the cheat codes to automatically unlock all the songs straight away. (I don't need the cheats 
 anymore, I can now do expert) . 
  
  I am pretty impressed with the songs that you can play in GHWT, you'll play songs by bands like 
 Muse, Oasis, Metallica, Motorhead and Bon Jovi, and songs by solo acts like Ozzy Osbourne and Jimi 
 Hendrix. There are also a whole lot of appearances from famous people, like Sting, Ozzy, Jimi Hendrix, 
 Ted Nugent, Billy Corgan, Haley Williams, and a few more. These are all Unlockable, but, if you 
 don't have the full band kit, then you probably will miss out on these great characters. 
  
  My microphone broke halfway through playing, so I was unable to unlock some of the good characters 
 like Ozzy, but I did manage to get Billy Corgan, but he kind of freaks me out.
  
  One thing that excited me with GHWT is that you can make your own songs. I love creating things, 
 so this was a huge + for me. The song creator is pretty good, but it takes a long time to get use 
 to, and it takes quite a while to make a good song, but, if you take a while, you can come up with 
 some killer music. 
  
  The career mode hasn't changed much, except for the fact that there is about 20 venues, so there 
 is way loads of songs, even though some venues are optional. 
  
  Overall, GHWT is an awesome game that changes a lot from other GH games, but keeps the same great 
 style that the series always had. 
  
  Overall, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cthulad
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Been playing Guitar Hero World tour now for the past 4 nights, and it a pretty good game. I'm still 
 waiting for that WOW factor that happens in most games. Maybe it comes in the form of DLC, but 
 I have yet to really say that is why I bought the game. I can't help comparing it to Rock Band 
 since I have spent well over 200 hours in that game just fooling around with it. I'm not a person 
 who will use the song creator. There have been a few songs that I would grab from others, but it 
 still doesn't seem like something that really adds a WOW factor either. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong this is a great game in it's right, but it's mainly a Guitar Hero game, 
 with the other instruments tacked on. I have noticed all of the extra content they have added to 
 the songs with "Extra length" added to the end of the song. I don't remember there ever being the 
 extra notes in Mr Crowley, or Crazy Train. I'm still wondering why they would need to add "more" 
 to a song. I bought this game for really only a few songs. Tool, Korn, Jimi Hendrix, just to name 
 a few. However I notice that there are so many songs that I play or look at and go: "Really. This 
 is a song that people wanted? Wow I never would have even thought it needed to be represented." 
 
  
  I have to say the best thing I have found about this game is the customization with the characters, 
 and the instruments. The first character made was a female corpse representation with Goth as the 
 persona. Second was the Black Metal spiked character. And the guitar, and the drums, and microphone 
 you can customize, it is just awesome.
  
  However I have to say more thing about this game before I finish, and I think it must be said. 
 They have never claimed that it has been about teaching drums, or even getting started with how, 
 but the drum parts, until Expert is really, really boring. Now I'm not against "On the road again. 
 but I never actually thought that I could fall asleep, and make a sandwhich while playing that 
 song. Granted it's not the best example of a song for drums, but really, something could have livened 
 it up just a bit. Thsi not being the only song that you can play with your eyes closed after the 
 first 10 hits to the drums. 
  
  I'm still glad for the purchase, and guitar being the most favorable part to this game gets the 
 most love like the title says. I really hope I can say the same for GH: Metallica when it comes 
 in 2 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero was the first game to truly jumpstart the music genre (no, not you DDR) . And then in 
 2007, Harmonix, the developer of the first two Guitar Hero games released their latest title with 
 EA Games known as Rock Band. RB took all of the elements of Guitar Hero and made it a full band 
 experience by adding vocals, bass, and drums to the mix. Rock Band received extremely high scores 
 and praise from all critics and became one of the most revolutionary and fun party games of all 
 time. So the people at Neversoft and Activision decided that it was time to jump on the bandwagon 
 (pun intended) and released Guitar Hero: World Tour.
  One of World Tour's biggest highlights is that the game lets you play guitar, bass, vocals, and 
 drums to a very large (80 songs!) setlist comprised of all master tracks. You get to experience 
 nearly every genre of rock ranging from the basic riffs of Bon Jovi's "Livin on a Prayer," to the 
 insane metal shredding of Bullet for my Valentine's "Scream Aim Fire," to the jazzy hammer-ons 
 of Steely Dan's "Do it Again." World Tour is also the first video game to feature music by the 
 one and only Jimi Hendrix! The setlist promises that there's something for everyone, and there's 
 no doubt that you'll have fun playing old favorites and discovering new ones! 
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour can be played by yourself or with up to 3 other friends. The basic solo 
 careers feel a bit basic as you do nothing but earn cash and unlock new songs, but it's still great 
 when none of your buddies or siblings are around. But when they are, you're definitely going to 
 have the most fun with this game. The band career mode lets you earn more cash and unlock new songs, 
 just like solo mode, but everything is determined by the entire band which can be for the better 
 or the worse. What World Tour's setlist lacks are the special challenges and slightly more authentic 
 feeling that Rock Band's tour mode gives you. There are no special gigs with unique (but risky) 
 opportunities to earn extra cash and fans (a feature completely missing from World Tour) , but the 
 chance to unlock new vehicles (unlocking more gigs) and other special features. And unlike Rock 
 Band's tour mode, Guitar Hero's is over when it's over. And from there, you're limited to replaying 
 the songs or simply playing quick play mode. 
  
  One of Guitar Hero: World Tour's best features that out-shines Rock Band is customization. Your 
 character (s) are highly customizable in every sense. You change their looks, clothing, personality, 
 and even taunts all to your liking. And not only that, but the lack of any instrument licenses 
 means that you can build your own instruments just the way you like them. I've made countless guitars 
 based on real life models and some completely made up ones. You can choose body shapes, headstocks, 
 fretboards, and a ridiculous amount of colors and finishes. Making instruments will NEVER get boring. 
 
  From a technical standpoint, World Tour looks, sounds, and feels great! The graphics have improved 
 a little bit since Legends of Rock, and the framerate is as smooth as ever. The hair physics are 
 excellent thanks to the Havok Physics Engine built right into the game. The animations are smooth 
 and entertaining to watch. My only complaint is that the order of the animations is exactly the 
 same each time you play the same song. They vary by what song you play, but when you play the same 
 song over again, you'll notice that all the animations happen again in the same exact order. 
 
  
  World Tour also brings back the celebrity cameos from Guitar Hero 3, but this time, more stars 
 are along for the ride. Guitarists include Jimi Hendrix (The Jimi Hendrix Experience) , Zach Wylde 
 (Black Label Society and Ozzy Osbourne's Band) , Billy Corgan (Smashing Pumpkins) and Ted Nugent 
 (The Ted Nugent Band) . Sings include Ozzy Osbourne (Black Sabbath, The Ozzy Osbourne Band) and 
 Haley Williams (Paramore) . Sting (The Police) does bass and Travis Barker (Blink-182) does drums. 
 All of the celebrities look real and don't feel like cheap add-ons to make their band's fans buy 
 the game. 
  
  The instrument that you use to play the game has a big factor. I've been playing the game using 
 the Guitar Hero: World Tour guitar controller and it is easily the best controller yet. It's larger, 
 feels more realistic, and best of all, feels like a quality instrument. The neck, strumbar, and 
 whammy bar are all longer and feel better. The strumbar is much quieter and is shaped differently 
 to feel much more comfortable. There's also a new button devoted entirely to activating star power 
 which after a bit of getting used to, feels spot-on. The biggest new feature on the guitar controller 
 would have to be the touch strip. Many of World Tour's songs feature a section of notes that are 
 purple and are connected by a "string." These notes can be performed by simply sliding your finger 
 up and down the touch strip in the order of the notes. It takes some serious getting used to and 
 it makes precision feel almost nonexistent, but it still adds a bit of fun to each song. If you 
 don't have the latest controller or if you simply don't want to use the touch strip, you can press 
 the normal buttons without strumming as an alternative. The World Tour controller also works with 
 Rock Band 1 and 2 and feels perfect. 
  Online play returns for the better in World Tour. The traditional co-op, faceoff, and pro-faceoff 
 modes return as well as an all new battle mode. Fortunately, the new battle mode doesn't feature 
 the cheap "attacks" that Legends of Rock had. You can also play band quick play online as well 
 as the never-done-before 4 on 4 battle of the bands mode where two, four-player bands face off. 
 It's fun and frantic and builds up your bands teamwork making it a great mode for everyone. 
  
  When you add all of these great things together, Guitar Hero: World Tour comes together to 
 be a surprisingly good game. While it might lack originality, World Tour certainly make up for 
 it with fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwilson014
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour was released in mid-November last year, giving it prime placement to become 
 the most wanted game for teens over the christmas period. After the great game that was, Guitar 
 Hero III, teens that didn't get it for christmas, (if their mums let them) were down GAME or Game 
 Station whatever, buying the guitar or newly designed full Band pack as soon as possible. I, after 
 purchasing Guitar Hero World Tour, was straight on and was impressed with the quality of the Drums, 
 Guitar and even the Mic! 
  
  After faffing for a bit, I was on the game and found a very easy to use and practical system for 
 the notes on Guitar and more importantly Drums, for which I learned quite quickly how to do due 
 to the system. If I were to stop this review now, I would be giving Guitar Hero a 10 because its 
 fun and easy to use but then you get on to the songs. 
  
  You do get some modern good songs such as "Human" by the Killers and certain classic songs such 
 as "Beat It" by the King of Pop; Michael Jackson. As soon as you've seen these songs, you get swamped 
 with random and not great forgotten tat such as; "Do It Again" by Steely Dan and "You're Gonna 
 Say Yeah!" by HushPuppies. Maybe, it is hard to find songs that have challenging Guitar, Bass, 
 Drum and Vocal parts but if Rock Band 2 can do it, why can't they?
  
  Come on, Who prefers Ozzy Osbourne to Bon Jovi? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dastour
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is a pretty fun game, but not a great game. First off career mode, you'll 
 probably finish in three days max. Even if you just started playing. There are some good songs 
 in the game but not what you would expect in guitar hero, but at least you have about ninety songs 
 to choose from, the most by any guitar hero song yet. The career mode has some cool appearences 
 from rock legends like Jimi Hendrix, Ozzy, Sting, Ted Nugent, the great drummer Travis Barker and 
 a few more. The creator mode is deeper with the edition of creating your own song. But once you've 
 done everything you can on the game it gets boring unless you have a PS3 or Xbox Live. The game 
 has good graphics, pretty much the same as any other Guitar Hero game. If your going to get GH4 
 then get the full instrument pack it'll be much funner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The Music scene has been a hot one for years now. Since the advent of the guitar controller, eight 
 (count 'em  8!) iterations of Neversoft's successful Guitar Hero franchise have been released, 
 each one building off the success of the previous one. But like the old saying, the more things 
 change, the more stay the same. Unfortunately, Guitar Hero makes a tremendous stride in the franchise, 
 but only makes baby steps in the genre.
  
  Anyone familiar with the annual release of music games will tell you that new games mean  NEW 
 INSTRUMENTS! This marks the biggest move forward for this series; unfortunately, it's also the 
 biggest misstep (NOTE: review is based solely on guitar, as I did not purchase entire kit) . The 
 guitar's sleek, sexy, and lightweight design is a refreshing change of pace from the bulky, oversized 
 lump that Harmonix packages. It has a very attractive starburst design and comes packaged with 
 several stickers to customize your axe. Moving your hand up the neck, you'll notice the newest 
 feature  The touch sensitive Neck slide. When playing a song and you see a notes strung together 
 by a purple string, you can use now play these notes by sliding your hand up and down the frets. 
 This guitar is great in theory, however the execution left a lot to be desired - the strum bar 
 not registering as often as it should (especially frustrating on higher difficulty levels when 
 alt strum is required) , the slide bar either partially registering or not functioning in general, 
 and having to detach and reattach the entire neck due to non-note recognition are just a few of 
 the problems I had. In addition, the guitar is so sensitive I often would miss notes for strumming 
 to hard and would deploy star power when I didn't intend to (Yeah, I rock entirely to hard, and 
 it's embarrassing) . I have since resolved the problem by using the Rockband guitar or one of the 
 older Guitar Hero guitars.
  
  Outside of the new additions of drums and vocals, not much has changed. The game still plays as 
 you would expect  descending jewels and all. One new addition given to bass players is the open 
 strum, which is signified by a purple bar across the fret, and is played by just strumming the 
 strum bar. Drums basically play likedrums. Rather than follow Rockband's queue of activating star 
 power by hitting the cymbal at the end of a fill, GH: WT players deploy star power by simultaneously 
 hitting the cymbals (Blue and Yellow for those with R. B. equipment) . While this gives the opportunity 
 to hit star power at any time, it is often difficult for those who lack the drum training (or are 
 incredibly spastic) , and you will more often than not lose your multiplier in the process.
  
  Players can shred to their favorite songs in quick play, compete with their skills online (in 
 1vs1, 2vs2, or 4vs4) , or take a rocker of their choice through the career mode. Career mode, which 
 was touted by producers as being "more than just playing the same f***ing songs" is unfortunately 
 nothing more than playing the same f***ing songs. Extracting the animated opening cutscenes from 
 each instrument, the career mode is nothing more than playing a list of setlists to unlockMORE 
 SETLISTS. It's nice to play as Jimmi Hendrix (albeit a little creepy) and join a super group with 
 the likes of Ozzy Ozbourne, Ted Nugent, Sting, Zach Wylde, but other than these moments, it's essentially 
 the same pick and play we have all come to know.
  
  From and visual and audible standpoint, this game is undoubtedly the best in the series. Characters 
 and venues still retain their comic features, but they have been drastically downplayed to look 
 a little more realistic. The setlist, which features over 80 master recordings is definitely a 
 robust library, but outside of a few songs, most of these have been seen on either previous editions 
 or G. H. rival, Rockband. Few standouts on the unimaginative list include Van Halen's "Hot for Teacher," 
 The Eagles "Hotel California," and Michael Jackson's "Beat it." 
  
  Perhaps the most redeeming feature of GH: WT is the overwhelming sense of freedom your given, thanks 
 largely to the robust creation options, including a genre-first  the Guitar Hero Music Studio. 
 Virtually every aspect of this game is customizable. The character customization is a welcome addition, 
 as well as the logo editor and the new create an instrument. This feature, which allows you to 
 create drums, guitar, or bass is a great touch that gives players a sense of ownership, although 
 future versions will hopefully have more depth. Finally, the music studio is the only feature that 
 sets this game apart from its rival, Rockband. This tool allows players to create beats and riffs 
 of their choice and attempt to put together a song. While it is lame (yet understandable) that 
 you cannot add vocals, this new mode finally allows was gaming musicians are looking for: an easy, 
 yet intricate way to explore music. It is not for everyone, as layering and chord progressions 
 can get even a modest musician confused, but those who understand it will surely use it to the 
 fullest capacity. On the flip side, GH: WT has given its fans infinite DLC, by allowing you to download 
 music created by other users. It is in this respect that the Guitar Hero franchise has taken the 
 biggest leap.
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour is a solid game. It is technically proficient and, while it is not devout 
 of flaws, it is fun play. Fans of the music genre are sure to enjoy this game, while those with 
 musical intuition and training are sure to get the most out of it. Let's be clear, it did not reinvent 
 the wheel. Rather, it stuck to its strongest suit while making a modest attempt at taking the genre 
 to the next level. Make it a point to give World Tour a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvieskimokidd
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  GH: WT Falls Flat on its Face (A Well-Thought Out Rant)
  When I first heard there was going to be a new Guitar Hero, I was pumped. After the massive success 
 of GH3, I'd figured, hey, this ought to be great! They've even got a music studio! Well, let me 
 warn you why you'll be straight-up disappointed with Guitar Hero: World Tour. And please, remember 
 that this is an opinion, as I'm not stating it as fact.
  
  The Setlist: Terrible. Seriously, this couldn't be worse. This whole time in production we heard 
 boasts of a "massive soundtrack" but when millions of rockers worldwide started playing the Lead 
 Guitar career, they learned what really composed the Setlist. Sure, it's over 80 songs, but I'd 
 say a good 95% of them are slow-paced, emo-ish, Cheap Trick-style light rock songs. It's a massive 
 soundtrack alright, but it's filled with fluff. Even if you're in for the 100G Expert completion 
 achievement, you'll have to dredge through those slow, boring songs. And it is not fun. If you 
 adored GH3's Setlist, you'll hate GH: WT's. Even if you complete the final Setlist, if you skipped 
 over any venues, you'll have to go back and play through the songs you skipped over just to save 
 yourself the pain (If you want the achievement, that is) . Sure, the last song sets are great, but 
 let me tell you, those are the only ones. 
  
  Playability: Guess what, if you're used to GH3 hammer-ons and not GH2 or GH: A, you're in for even 
 more pain! With World Tour comes the old, specific hammer-ons where you must press the button as 
 the fret is on the strike zone (Whereas in GH3 you could simply hold the button down) . But, good 
 luck even seeing those hammer-ons as the fretboard is significantly smaller (Will elaborate in 
 Interface) . However, the tried and true Guitar Hero formula is back and it's still fun hitting 
 those notes, but gee! I wish the songs were, you know, fun? At least Star Power works like Rock 
 Band now. Even while SP is activated, you can still hit SP phrases (Thus extending your SP duration) . 
 This is a fantastic and much needed addition. Also comes the 'slider' sections (The Slider on the 
 World Tour guitar is useless, will elaborate in Game Items) , which work like hammer-ons, but you 
 never have to strum. Simply press the button. This works well for difficult solos and allows you 
 to two-hand tap with ease (Which is highly suggested for Hot for Teacher and Satch Boogie) . Now 
 for those who never owned a guitar? Don't even buy this game because you can't use a standard controller 
 for Guitar/ Bass/ Drums. If you have a headset, you can plug it in and play Vocals, but the XBL 
 Headset is sketchy and often doesn't read your voice as precisely as the GH: WT microphone. As 
 for band play, it works fine and functions as intended. But that's unfortunately about it. When 
 you're playing an entire gig of a career song set and you finish a song, there's an awkward wait 
 to proceed. Trust me, you'll hate this. It's like they want us to sit and stare at our results.
 
  
  Interface: Woe is me. The interface is a disaster. Here's a list of why the interface sucks.
 
  -The fretboard is small in solo play. It's the same scrolling guitar neck you always see, but 
 it's tiny compared to previous GH entries. It takes up about 50% of the screen at the bottom, whereas 
 in previous installments it took 75%. Sure, it should look like this for band play, but that's 
 band play! I don't want a crappy fretboard during solo play! It's even half as tall!
  -The ROCK Meter is also smaller. The colors are more distinct so you can tell if you're doing great 
 or not so, but it's smaller, like the rest of the interface. It's somewhat difficult to tell when 
 it's blinking (When you're about to fail a song) .
  -What used to be your Multiplier Box is now a small, insignificant meter attached to the fretboard. 
 You used to see your multiplier with ease (I. e. No multiplier, x2, x6, etc.) , but since it's shrunk 
 (Like everything else) you'll nearly never know what multiplier you have. You used to be able to 
 use peripheral vision to see the color of your multiplier, but now since all you see is the gems 
 that light up when you hit notes (Which denote progress into the next multiplier) and the multiplier 
 (if any) itself above the gems in tiny font with faint color, you'll have to physically look over 
 to see your multiplier. 
  -In GH: 3 and Aerosmith, you could see your note streak with ease (The same applies to Star Power) . 
 Now, it's a small-font, green number underneath your score, which is located under the ROCK Meter. 
 Both are difficult to see. You used to be able to tell what streak you had because it'd pop up 
 on top of the fretboard in nice, big font, but now it's in miniscule font and you'll almost never 
 see it (The same with SP, once again) .
  -Choosing songs in an absolute hassle. Songs used to be in a straight-up list, easy to read, but 
 now they're presented in the form of posters. Posters! So you'll have to consistently sift through 
 all the posters to find just that one song. Wait, what? There's a list elsewhere you say? Not to 
 worry, it's equally useless! Like so many other things, the list font is small, and when you scroll 
 over a song, that one song becomes bigger, which quasi-blocks you from seeing other songs. Oh, 
 and if you're looking for a song based on its difficulty, sift through the posters. Otherwise use 
 the list sorted either alphabetically or by artist (Sorting it in chronological order is inexistent, 
 which is a major flaw) .
  -The interface of the Music Studio is terrible also. If you were to select a song you've downloaded, 
 you can't hear a preview of it. And when you select it and exit out, you return to the top of the 
 song list, forcing you to go all the way back down (You see, there's a thousand tiny faults accompanied 
 with a hundred huge faults which together drag this title down. This is one of those tiny faults) . 
 
  -The entire Music Studio interface. Read the Music Studio section.
  
  Game Components: They're all pretty bad, except the microphone and guitar. The guitar features 
 a useless new slider addition, but it's not like you'll have time to switch between buttons to 
 the slider (Located directly below the neck buttons) . And even if your reflexes are that quick, 
 have fun knowing which button you landed on (And you'd better not land on a button unless you're 
 in a slider section, because pressing those "buttons" counts as a miss-strum) , because they're 
 not really buttons, they're touch-sensitive pads. So you'll have to look down, make sure your finger 
 is directly above the correct pad, and then look back up (And by then, you've probably missed a 
 few of the slider-section frets) . Sure, during the slider sections, you can see which pad you're 
 pressing down on because it lights up a column on the screen (corresponding to the strike zone's 
 colors) to let you know you're on that pad (Slider-section only) . No matter what else I say against 
 this new guitar, there's no doubt you should still purchase it. It's heavier than the GH3 version, 
 but the elongated strum bar is great, less noisy, and generally exceptional. The whammy bar is 
 noisy (Akin to someone knocking on your door) but it's also extended, which makes it easier to 
 grab 'n' whammy. The drums don't fare well, unfortunately. The cymbals are too close to the rest 
 of the drums. Sometimes, when you reach for a cymbal, you'll end up hitting the bottom of it because 
 it's so close. I have a friend who told me of two of his friends who both had drums and within 
 the first week of use, broke. There's quality for you! As for the microphone, it works as intended, 
 but as I said earlier, don't even bother with the XBL headset/ standard controller setup. 
  
  The Music Studio: This was supposed to be the defining edge in GH's triumph over the Rock Band 
 versus Guitar Hero battle (I should throw it out now that you can't add vocals to custom songs) . 
 Too bad it doesn't work very well. First off, your sounds for each guitar, bass, rhythm, drums, 
 and keyboard are all very limited, having you personally edit about the fifteen preset sounds to 
 get the noise you want. Oh, and those limited amount of sounds? Yeah, the majority sound the same. 
 No matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't get that "sick electric noise". You'll grow sick of 
 the default Lead sound. And chances are you won't get the desired effect when you take the time 
 to tinker with the sounds. When you finally settle upon a sound, you'll go and record. After learning 
 the clumsy recording controls, you play from scratch. It probably won't sound too great, but this 
 is like your first Halo 3 Forge map: It sucks (PROTIP: Don't mash buttons, name your song UNBEATABLE, 
 then upload it. Everyone hates those) ! It takes a long time to nail a great song (But good luck 
 getting it noticed. Will elaborate in a little bit) . You can tinker with all the desired instruments, 
 and record individual tracks for all of them, or even copy tracks from instrument to instrument, 
 which works fine. To edit your song in an advanced manner, you have to be ready to conquer the 
 highly dysfunctional GH Mix. You'll probably be using a guitar, and navigating with a combination 
 of the strum bar and the wacky "thumbstick" on the WT guitar is an unnecessary thorn in your back. 
 For example, to scroll the first note of a song, the button is on the bottom. To scroll to the 
 last note, the button's at the top. Argh! It's a hosh-posh mix of irregular button placement. When 
 you want to copy a section of notes to relapse in the rest of your song, you better record your 
 notes right so that it lines up with a preset section of GH Mix. Otherwise, you'll see unwanted 
 blank sections, so you can't really get a true overlapping sound, unless you record it just right. 
 Furthermore, you lack the ability to place Star Power phrases and designate certain notes as hammer-ons. 
 The hammer-ons are designated by the closeness of individual frets, and Star Power phrases occur 
 (This is a guess) every thirty seconds of a song, so you may end up with an SP phrase at the end 
 of your song. Worthless! "Well, that certainly blows, I suppose I'll just shred." Well, too bad 
 the recorder itself lacks. I recorded a furious shredfest of pure awesomium. It consisted of holding 
 down the green button, and rapidly (VERY rapidly) two-hand tapping the yellow button. This created 
 that signature Dragonforce uber-fast momentum sound. Now, when I go to play it, I see that the 
 Music Studio managed to record only the yellows. So now it's just a lame, non-parallel sound that 
 could be done with the Lead Machine. Wait, what's the Lead Machine? Fairly basic yet extremely 
 useful, the Lead Machine (Which could also be designated the Drum Machine, Bass Machine, Keyboard 
 Machine, because you can implement it on those roles, but not rhythm) creates solos for you, in 
 a sense. You can choose descending, ascending, or alternating rifts. Descending rifts play down 
 from whatever buttons you hold down, ascending vice versa and alternating descend-then-ascend. 
 Unfortunately, you can't set the speed at which this happens (Another minor flaw!) . Now, the most 
 disappointing aspect of the Music Studio is the lack of a note-placing system. I can't look at 
 a graph then place notes wherever I want them using a drag-and-drop technique of sorts. Maybe this 
 is some sick way of Activision disabling us from making impossible songs. Well, it's OUR SONG, 
 if nobody likes it, who cares, why should you intervene?!
  
  The Music Studio, but Everybody Else's Songs: So, you've made your song, now upload it for everybody 
 to rock with! Well, you can upload it, but just once. If nobody notices it, downloads it or rates 
 it, that's it. You'll NEVER get to upload it again. EVER. So, generally, it'd better be epic and 
 hope that everyone notices it. Otherwise, it's lost to the world. Maybe your friends can search 
 for it and rate it then, but you need the power of the rest of the world to help get it noticed. 
 Neversoft has a dandy little section where they have handpicked songs that people have made. Too 
 bad these guys are either leetist jerks or simply don't care enough to look at everyone else's 
 songs (Probably because they know WT fell flat on its face, for example!) , because since the day 
 WT came out, it's been their songs. Just theirs. That magically has been rated five gold stars. 
 There's a top rated of all time, and the songs on that list are truly great, representing the few 
 that went through fire and flames (Heh!) to master the Music Studio. There are various other sections, 
 but aren't really significant like the best ever section. Okay, well, I want to ignore what you've 
 said before and how you've totally discouraged me, and I'm going to upload my song anyway! Sure 
 thing, champ. First thing you do is upload it to your "File Share" (I got that from Halo 3, what 
 better to name it?) . Then you finalize it and upload it to GHTunes. And it's up! Well, too bad 
 this song kinda isn't my best work and didn't get noticed. I guess I'll remove it from my file 
 share. Well champ, I mean, CHUMP, you can't remove it! That's right, Neversoft just spat in the 
 face of functionality! Once you've uploaded a song to your file share, you can't take it off. This 
 has got to be one of the most massive flaws of all time. This is like Master Chief without energy 
 shields, okay? So you'd better make well sure your song is going to be a hit and stay up there. 
 Otherwise, you've got to rate songs (Numheaded concept) to increase your file share... Right, just 
 let me take it off you dysfunctional Neversoft employees. I've rated what I would say around twenty-five 
 songs and not a single slot open on my file share! And my crappy songs are still RIGHT THERE!
 
  
  Rock Star Creator: Fantastic. From the get-go, there's a plethora of options for customizing, from 
 your band logo to your avatar's wrist wear. You also get loads of new unlockables by completing 
 songs. There are definitely enough options to get what you want.
  
  Achievements: These are a real mess. About half of them are secret. And get this; there aren't 
 achievements for stuff like that massive one thousand note streak. Apparently everybody is JLC 
 the Great (James Like Coulter, for the four of you in the world who play Guitar Hero yet don't 
 know who JLC is) and note streaks are insignificant. Or maybe Neversoft figured, hey with specific 
 hammer-ons, who's going to get a one thousand streak? And laughed it off as if it was no big deal. 
 Better yet, nobody can tell if you've five-starred all songs on Expert! Fan-freakin'-tastic! Now, 
 with the secret achievements. I mean, seriously, it's a secret achievement for creating your own 
 custom guitar, and other stuff. Now here's a point I don't understand. I read online on an achievement 
 list that one secret achievement is for getting something like two hundred thousand points on Satch 
 Boogie (Something like that) . I suppose Neversoft was thinking "Gee! We'd better make that achievement 
 secret, or everybody will do it just for the achievement points!" No, you IDIOTS, Satch Boogie 
 is a very hard song; I doubt your average achiever will do it for the points. Bottom line is that 
 their secret achievements have gotten out of hand. An example of perfect achievements? Refer to 
 GH3's achievements. Those were perfect.
  
  Well, if you've read this far, your eyes may be burning. You may need glasses or something if you 
 don't wear them already. Thanks for reading, seriously.
  
  If you'd like, add my silver account FatalKingX (Xbox Live) which I play GH and ET: Quake Wars 
 (Awesome game) on. Or hit me up on AIM as xvieskimokidd, or e-mail me at xviesk@gmail. com, or add 
 me as a friend on my useless MySpace page, myspace. com/recognizeson. Seriously, it's a profile 
 I have to look at other people's profiles (I'm a creep!) . I'm making a YouTube video of me doing 
 Devil Went Down to Georgia on Expert without using Star Power at all, so keep your eyes open.
 
  
  Peace!
  
  Edit: Forgot online play. Direct quote from Minion123 sums it up:
  "Online play has been destroyed thanks to removing the ability to duel people on the same difficulty 
 level. THERE IS NO PRO FACE OFF! Online is filled with kids playing on medium and hard so they 
 can cheat their way into a win. Finding no difficulty in the singleplayer I was hoping the multiplayer 
 would offer some challenge but sadly no." -End Quote
  Also: Choosing venues doesn't work too well. Before we could see a preview or a glimpse of what 
 it looked like. Now there are simply too many venues and you won't remember any of them, so you're 
 often charging blindly into a place you likely don't remember. On the upside, they all look great.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coheeds_Avatar
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  By now, you'd have to be living under a rock to be ignorant of the concept of Guitar Hero or similar 
 games, so I'm not going to go into too much detail for newcomers. Rather, this review will cover 
 fundamental differences between World Tour and previous games in the series.
  
  **Please Note: I played this game using the Les Paul guitar from GH3 and the original Rock Band 
 drum kit and microphone. I have no experience with any of the GH: WT equipment aside from the guitar, 
 which I will address in a bit.
  
  With Rock Band carrying a strong following, it appears the makers of Guitar Hero felt the pressure 
 to create a multi-instrument game of their own. Hence, World Tour. Now you can play with up to 
 three other people, with each person playing a different instrument (bass, guitar, drums, and vocals) . 
 There is a career mode in which you'll visit a good number of different venues playing a series 
 of between 4 and 8 songs in order. You'll earn money based on difficulty and overall score which 
 you can spend on new instruments, characters, and other odds and ends to customize your characters.
 
  
  A lot of where the game shines is in the customization department. Beyond designing your own characters, 
 there's a reasonably deep instrument creator (moreso for guitars) . You can build guitars from scratch, 
 choosing from handfuls necks, bodies, headstocks, knobs, and finishes. You can even choose what 
 your note highway will look like while playing that instrument. It's awesome to see your character 
 wielding something unique to your specifications. 
  
  The song creator is also an interesting addition, if you have the patience to learn its ins and 
 outs. The interface is a tad bit complicated, and would be much easier to use on a computer. Song 
 tracks can be designed for all instruments with the exception of vocals. Created tracks can then 
 be uploaded to a collective database where they can then be downloaded by users over Xbox Live. 
 Unfortunately, the result is a lot of garbage tracks thrown together by people who have very little 
 musical taste and just attempt to create the most difficult lines possible (in my experience) . 
 There are, of course, a good number of exceptions to this. I found quite a few excellent tracks 
 based on video game themes, but due to copyright issues, these are often quickly deleted by moderators. 
 It's a good start, but it's definitely in need of some tweaking.
  
  A couple of new features gameplay-wise were welcome. Bassists now face an open note where a line 
 similar to the kick pedal line appears on the screen. This is played by strumming while holding 
 no frets down. It helps to mix up basslines a bit. Guitarists will now run into notes that will 
 have to be sustained while the player continues to strum other notes. There are also sections where 
 all the player has to do is press the fret buttons in time, similar to hammer-ons; there's no need 
 to worry about strumming at all.
  
  
  Unfortunately though, this is where my positives ended. The set list was lacking over all. After 
 being treated to such a varied and well-scaled set list in Rock Band 2, I was disappointed to blow 
 through almost every track with little issue, even on expert difficulty. Drum patterns were very 
 similar from song to song, and I didn't run into any serious trouble until I hit Hot for Teacher 
 or the end of Dammit. The star power system for drums, which required me to hit the blue and yellow 
 pads together, was often spotty. Many times I'd have to break pattern to activate it, and sometimes 
 it wouldn't even activate, resulting in the loss of my streak and multiplier. 
  
  I found the guitar that came packaged with the game to be unreliable and uncomfortable. Many will 
 appreciate the new longer and quieter strum bar with a bit of a lip on the ridge, but personally, 
 I enjoy the clicking as it helps me keep time during fast strumming. After just a day of use, the 
 fret buttons became unresponsive, and I'm still waiting to send a repair request under warranty 
 to Activision. 
  
  I understand what the direction was here, but I really just can't recommend this game when Rock 
 Band 2 does it so much better. World Tour has a lackluster setlist that isn't supplemented by a 
 very good online catalog (and it appears GH is sticking with the 3-song pack releases, from what 
 I've seen) , and if you're someone who can play expert with relative ease, you'll find yourself 
 blowing through this wondering when it's going to become challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfalfa323
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I should have worried about this product due to the low pricing at ToysR'Us. com . Upon receiving 
 the packaging (with notification not to sell until 10/26/08) , it became obvious that this was the 
 original release of this product with all its inherent manufacturing issues.
  
  1) Drums defective: the blue center pad does not register properly. The defect was evident before 
 the peripheral was even plugged in, as the blue pad had a looser timber compared with the equivalent 
 red and green pads. During gameplay, striking either the red or green pads automatically initiated 
 the blue pad. It is obvious that the drum peripheral was never tested before retail delivery. I 
 have contacted the manufacturer for the midi/usb connection to allow "tuning", but I am certain 
 that this peripheral will need to be replaced.
  
  There is a reason that these units being sold be Toys R' Us are priced $50 below retail.
  
 
  2) Compatibility Les Paul: Any thought of using the GHIII Les Paul guitar controller as a second 
 guitar should be eliminated. Even with multiple tweaks of the calibration, the strum bar of the 
 Les Paul had repeated registration problems within the GHWT environment.
  
  3) Overall scope of GHWT is less impressive than that within Rock Band. However, as always, the 
 guitar play is much more vital and fluid than in Rock Band, and continues to be the highlight of 
 the GH world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wezleee
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour (initially referred to as Guitar Hero IV) is a music video game developed 
 by Neversoft and published by RedOctane and Activision. It is the fourth main entry in the Guitar 
 Hero series. The game was launched in North America in October 2008 for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 
 3, Wii, and Xbox 360 consoles, and a month later for Europe and Australia.
  
  While the game continues to feature the use of a guitar-shaped controller to simulate the playing 
 of rock music, Guitar Hero World Tour is the first game in the Guitar Hero series to feature drum 
 and microphone controllers for percussion and vocal parts, similar in manner to the competing Rock 
 Band series of games. The game allows users to create new songs through the "Music Studio" mode, 
 which can then be uploaded and shared through a service known as "GHTunes".
  
  World Tour received generally positive reviews with critics responding positively to the quality 
 of the instrument controllers, the customization abilities, and improvements in the game's difficulty 
 compared with the previous Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock. However, some reviewers have commented 
 on issues with poorly laid-out note tracks, the limited Career modes, and the difficulty of the 
 music creation tool and the poor quality of the resulting songs.
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour builds on the gameplay from previous Guitar Hero games, in which players 
 attempt to simulate the playing of rock music using special guitar-shaped controllers. World Tour 
 expands beyond the core guitar-based gameplay by introducing the ability to play drums and sing 
 vocals, and supports the ability for up to four players to play together in a virtual band through 
 these different instruments. Successfully hitting notes increases the player's or band's score, 
 as well as increase the "Rock Meter" that represents the song's performance. Missed notes are not 
 scored and negatively affect the Rock Meter. If the Rock Meter drops too low, the song ends prematurely, 
 with the virtual audience booing the band off stage. Completing a consecutive series of notes successfully 
 will increase a scoring multiplier for that player up to 4x. This multiplier is doubled when the 
 player activates star power. Similar to Rock Band, the band shares a common score, scoring multiplier 
 and band performance meter while each player has their own performance metric; the band also shares 
 the same "Star Power" meter, though any player may activate it at any time. A player that performs 
 poorly and reduces their performance meter to zero can still continue to play, but they drain the 
 overall performance meter for the band, requiring the other players.
  
  The guitar interface remains relatively unchanged in World Tour. As with previous Guitar Hero titles, 
 the guitar and bass player must hold down the correct fret button (s) on the controller while strumming 
 in time with the notes as they scroll on-screen. One addition to the guitar gameplay is the ability 
 to play notes while holding a sustained note. Additionally, the bass guitar player will be required 
 to play notes representing an open E string, which is shown on-screen as a solid line across their 
 note track. To play these notes, the bass guitar player strums the controller without pressing 
 any fret button keys. [4] The drum interface is similar to the guitar's interface, with each on-screen 
 note track equivalent to a colored drum head on the controller, with the bass drum indicated by 
 a line across the note track. The drum player only needs to hit the correct drum pads simultaneously 
 to the note gems to successfully play their track. There are also marked sections on the drum part 
 wherein the player may play any notes they wish in a 'solo' to gain points. The vocal track requires 
 the player to match the pitch of the notes in a manner similar to Karaoke Revolution to be successful. 
 Special sections of each players' note track are marked with glowing notes, which, if completed 
 successfully, builds up Star Power. Once enough Star Power is accumulated, it can be released via 
 various means to double the band's current score multiplier. For guitar and bass, this is done 
 by lifting the guitar controller vertically or (though not in bass) by pressing a button on the 
 guitar face; for drums, by striking both cymbal pads on the controller at the same time; for vocals, 
 by tapping the microphone or making a similarly quick sound.
  
  Game modes
  The primary single-player game mode is Career mode, which can be played on either the lead guitar, 
 bass guitar, drums, or vocals. Career mode has been slightly altered from previous Guitar Hero 
 games. After creating a band, selecting or creating an avatar, and then selecting an instrument, 
 the player is then presented with one of several gigs containing two to five songs each. Most gigs 
 end with an encore song that is not revealed until the other songs are completed. Two of the lead 
 guitar gigs feature "boss challenges" with Zakk Wylde and Ted Nugent; these boss challenges, featuring 
 original songs by Wylde and Nugent, are different from Guitar Hero III's boss battle, removing 
 the focus on attack power-ups and instead featuring a call-and-response mechanic similar to the 
 existing Face-Off mode. The gigs are arranged by difficulty based on the selected instrument. The 
 player is awarded in-game money for each song completed, and completing each gig can also award 
 additional money for meeting certain criteria, such as never letting the Rock Meter drop below 
 a certain level or playing the first several notes of a song perfectly. Completing a gig can also 
 unlock one or more gigs with more difficult songs to complete. Additional awards, such as customization 
 items, are also awarded for completing gigs. The player's accumulated earnings across any of the 
 single player Career Modes are tracked and used to rank the player's overall performance level.
 
  
  Band Career mode is similar to the solo Career mode, with the game songs presented as several gigs 
 to be completed. A band must have at least two players to proceed, but the second player may be 
 either a local player or one over the network. Players may be at different levels of progression 
 in the game, but will still gain benefits for successfully completing songs when playing together. 
 The in-game interface features vocals along the top of the screen, and three tracks underneath, 
 for bass, drums, and guitar; only tracks for active players will be shown. Full four-player bands 
 can compete with other bands online in a Battle of the Bands mode.
  
  Both single players and bands can play a setlist of up to six songs in Quickplay mode, still earning 
 in-game money rewards for their performances. Existing competitive modes from the series, including 
 the Battle Mode from Guitar Hero III, are also present in the game.
  
  The Wii version of the game features a special "Mii Freestyle" mode that allows players to use 
 their Miis as their characters as they improvise songs via the guitar and drum controllers or using 
 the Wii Remote and Nunchuk.
  
  Characters and customization
  Players are able to use the Create-a-Rocker mode which is based on the Create-a-Skater mode in 
 Neversoft's Tony Hawk series and the advanced character creation scheme from the Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour series. Players can change their character's poise, clothing, tattoos, makeup, and age. Selected 
 characters from previous Guitar Hero games are available as templates for creating a rocker. Previous 
 games featured Gibson Guitars, but as a result of a lawsuit with Gibson Guitars, branded guitars 
 are not featured; instead, the player can create a customized guitar from various components, such 
 as bodies, fretboards, and headstocks. The player's in-game drum set and microphone can also be 
 similarly customized. Activision had formed partnerships with several instrument equipment manufactures 
 to featured in the game, including Ampeg, Audio-Technica, EMG Pickups, Ernie Ball, Evans Drumheads, 
 Guitar Center, Krank Amplification, Mackie, Marshall, Orange County Drum & Percussion, Pork Pie 
 Percussion, Regal Tip, Sabian, Vox and Zildjian.
  
  In addition to the computer- and player-controlled characters, avatars of notable musicians are 
 featured in the game, either with motion capture or the licensing of their image for their character. 
 Such artists include Hayley Williams [11] , Jimi Hendrix, Ozzy Osbourne, Zakk Wylde, Billy Corgan, Sting, 
 Ted Nugent, and Travis Barker.
  
  New venues in the game include virtual recreations of real arenas, such as Ozzfest, Amoeba Music, 
 Live Nation's House of Blues, Sunset Strip and San Francisco's AT&T Park. One venue showcases the 
 trademark art style of Tool and was developed in collaboration with the band. World Tour is the 
 first Activision game on the PlayStation 3 to support dynamic in-game advertising provided by IGA 
 Worldwide; similar advertising for the Xbox 360 version is provided by Massive Incorporated.
  
  Instruments
  RedOctane developed a new guitar controller for World Tour. The unit is approximately 
 25% larger than previous controllers, making it closer to the size of a real guitar. The new controller 
 includes a longer whammy bar and places the Star Power button directly below the strum bar, improving 
 the access of these features. The strum bar itself was made quieter and longer. The neck of the 
 guitar is detachable, similar to the Gibson Les Paul controller for Guitar Hero III, but the connector 
 has been hardened to avoid connection issues experienced with the previous unit. The neck of the 
 guitar features a touch-sensitive pad just below the normal five fret buttons. The player can use 
 either the fret buttons or the touch pad to play regular notes. The pad also allows the player 
 to play notes via "tap strumming" similar to the slap bass method for bass guitar, and to alter 
 the pitch of sustained notes. Guitar tracks feature notes connected by a semi-transparent purple 
 line, (except for the Wii version which instead doesn't have a semi-transparent line but the gems 
 are instead semi-transparent) called "Slider Gems"; the player can play these notes by sliding 
 their fingers up and down the touch pad or by tapping the fret buttons without strumming. The touchpad 
 can also be used for sustained and staccato notes in the music studio feature while recording guitar, 
 and is used for finer control over loops when recording other instruments.
  
  World Tour features a wireless six-piece drum kit, with a bass drum pedal and five velocity-sensitive 
 drum pads for snare, two toms, and two cymbals, which Activision has stated provide the "most realistic 
 drum experience ever in a video game". The drum kit was designed with help from John Devacka, the 
 developer of MTV Drumscape, and developed key patents used for most modern music [disambiguation 
 needed] games that are now owned by Activision. Special note gems on the drum track are "armored", 
 requiring the player to strike harder on the appropriate drum head in order to break the armor 
 and score points. During song creation, the velocity sensitivity feature of the drum pad allows 
 players to alter the sounds made by the drums. The drum set also has a MIDI input port in the back, 
 allowing users to connect a compatible MIDI drum kit to play in the game. The Wii version of the 
 drum controller includes a slot for the Wii Remote to fit into, enabling it to become wireless, 
 much like the guitar controller introduced for the Wii version of Guitar Hero III.
  
  The official microphone used for vocals uses a USB connection. When playing vocals, a gamepad or 
 Wii Remote is necessary in order to navigate menus, select difficulties, and pause.
  
  Logitech and Activision announced that the former company will produce "premium" instruments to 
 be released later in 2008.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero sequels in the past didn't do much of anything to change its gameplay. For the 
 most part, each new game was a full priced track pack with a couple of improvements. With World 
 Tour, the developers are finally broadening their horizons, although it is to mixed results. It 
 is impossible to review this game without comparing it to Rock Band 2, so there will be several 
 references to which game I think handled a particular aspect better. I have spent a good amount 
 of time with World Tour, but any opinions of Rock Band 2 are based on a two hour play session at 
 a friend's house.
  
  Let's get it out of the way now; World Tour owes a lot to the first Rock Band Though Rock Band 
 owes a lot to Guitar Hero, so let's call it even) . The same exact instruments were added: bass 
 guitar, drums, and vocals. As for the actual instruments themselves, I prefer the new Guitar Hero 
 guitar over the one from Rock Band 2. The new slider has a better feel to it than the five separate 
 button of the Rock Band one. I have heard about complaints that the slider isn't as responsive 
 as it should be, but I have any problems and I have grown to really love it. The bass is basically 
 an easier version of the lead guitar part, but some notes need to be strummed without pressing 
 any buttons, which helps spice it up a little. The vocals are done exactly the same as any other 
 karaoke game; only the pitch of your voice is measured and you are graded depending on how close 
 to the song's pitch you are. I would say the edge here goes to Rock Band because it had section 
 where you clap on the microphone in rhythm with the songs, whereas World Tour is only about singing. 
 I didn't get the version with the drums (just the new guitar and I had a mic from another game) , 
 so I don't have any experience with them. What I can say is that I like the idea of cymbals and 
 three drums in Guitar Hero over simply having four drums in Rock Band.
  
  The single player progression hasn't changed too much. Instead of selection a single song to play, 
 you must select a gig that consists of three or more songs. These songs cannot be changed, but 
 there is much more freedom to skip gigs that you don't like since you will always have a handful 
 to choose from. There are far more guest appearances than in the past and just about all of the 
 real life artists participated in creating their in-game counterparts. The only major gripe I have 
 with the career mode is the same I have had with every music game's career. You don't actually 
 have any sense that you are living the life of a rock star. The gigs are little more than a flyer 
 on a bulletin board. You don't even feel like part of a band since your other members are randomly 
 chosen for you at the beginning of each show. I would love to see something that showed some real 
 progression, similar to the Rock Band multiplayer (though strangely, the same problem applies to 
 Rock Band's single player) where you earn rewards and get more unlocked depending on your performance. 
 You can earn money to buy clothes in this game, but it isn't long before you can buy anything you 
 want. You are also given a ranking based on your earnings, but this is little more than a number 
 and there is no draw to increase it.
  
  For some unknown reason, the developers decided to ruin the boss battles in this iteration of the 
 series. Unlike in the past where playing well means you win, in World Tour you simply lose if you 
 play bad. Your note highway shows on the left and the boss's shows on the right. In between is 
 a meter that shows who is doing better. You can play perfectly and the meter will stay pegged on 
 your side, but you still have to finish the song. However, if you do poorly and the meter makes 
 it all the way to your opponent's side, you lose instantly. This makes the rules for this mode 
 completely unfair. The attacks from past games have also been removed, which successfully ruins 
 the 'battle' aspect of these boss battles. Both you and your opponent build up multipliers for 
 playing consecutive note streaks and it is endlessly frustrating to miss one note and have to watch 
 the meter slowly creep toward the computer's side and know there is nothing you can do about it. 
 All you can do is hope the computer messes up, and waiting on a machine to make a mistake always 
 seemed like a dumb gameplay idea to me.
  
  I don't usually spend much time in multiplayer in games, but it's expected in a game like this. 
 All the instruments work well together on screen and there isn't any confusion. The only major 
 change from solo play is that everyone shares a single Star Power meter, so a band must work together 
 for maximum scores. The edge here I think goes to Rock Band 2, since World Tour's multiplayer progression 
 is just like the single player. It is little more than playing to simply unlock more songs.
  
  The character creator allows for some very unique avatars and it isn't difficult to create 
 one that looks just like you. The clothing options are hit and miss. For example, there were dozens 
 of different shirts, but only three different pairs of glasses I could choose from. All in all, 
 though, the variety in everyone's characters is impressive.
  
  The one area that I think the game needs serious improvement is its presentation. The graphics 
 are acceptable (not great) but far too many corners are cut. I would venture a guess that in each 
 gig, there is around five to ten character models repeated over and over for the crowd. This means 
 that it is not uncommon to see a group of quadruplets standing together wearing the same close 
 and doing the same dance moves. I also think the series has reached the point where it needs some 
 kind of replay option. Since the average gamer spends most of the song staring intently at the 
 oncoming notes, a replay option would allow us to enjoy all the action and cool camera shots going 
 on in the background.
  
  I preferred the World Tour track list over the Rock Band 2 one. If I had to venture a guess, I 
 would say that the Rock Band list goes for the younger crowd while the World Tour one aims for 
 the older. There is a good bit of new stuff in this game, but there are far more obscure 80's and 
 90's classics that will only be familiar to people that listened to them when they were younger. 
 Even most of the songs I didn't know turned out to be great. Surprisingly, some of my new favorites 
 to play were sung in Spanish. I have no idea what they were saying, but that didn't stop me from 
 rocking out to them. The biggest problem I have with the track list is contained in the last two 
 gigs of the guitar career. In short, they suck. Note to developers: the reason that the end of 
 your music games are mostly heavy metal songs is because when converted to a game format, they 
 make no rhythmic sense. The entire last two shows (save for one or two songs) felt like random 
 button pressing rather than playing music. I also don't think a game that includes the vocal part 
 should have so many obscure songs. No one wants to try and sing a song they don't know and there 
 are far too many unknown songs for what is basically a karaoke game.
  
  World tour doesn't do anything new, but it takes what it did well in the past and improves on it 
 (aside from the boss battles) . Hopefully in the next game more care will be put into really making 
 us feel like part of a band and improving the presentation. As for deciding between Rock Band 2 
 and World Tour, both do some things better than the other but I think everyone's decision should 
 come down to which has the track list they prefer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogert
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Since Rock Band came out, it was looking down for Guitar Hero, Now comes Guitar Hero: World Tour, 
 which includes the Bass, Drums and Microphone which is sweet. The game also includes more songs 
 that I recognize, like "What i've done" and "Everlong", which are some of my favorite songs. Also 
 the area design is really good, and the fact that you can create you're own characters and music 
 is an awesome addition. Also, using the drums is my favorite. But, again there are some flaws. 
 Singing can be embarassing. And the Guitar is way too difficult to get used to. And there are some 
 odd and poor character designs during gameplay. But overall this is a must have great game with 
 good music dude! Stay tuned for more reviews as i review every game that i've played. That's all 
 for today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  + All of your favorite characters returned from GH2.
  + Improved guitarist annimations and camera cuts.
  + You can create your own characters and your 
 own songs.
  + Randomized band members.
  - Still weak Single-Player
  - Music studio feels weak at times.
  - All character models are a bit bland.
  - Xbox Live is 
 slightly boring.
  - Dropped depth.
  ---
  
  It has been 2 generations since Harminax (sp?) left the GH series into the hands of Neversoft, 
 and although not every game in the series has been great ever since Rockband came out, one of the 
 better ones have finnally hit the consle.
  
  
  GHWT tries its best to be similiar to Rock Band's all-insturment element of gameplay, which is 
 its biggest flaw, so I will get right to the actual review if you have a past experiance of RB. 
 The gameplay hasn't changed; you have the fretboard, the notes, the rock meter, and everything 
 else GH3 had. You also get a new guitar controller that immitates the GH3 version (detachable neck, 
 etc.) as well as a new slider bar, which lets you run your fingers down certain parts of the neck 
 to hit special types of notes for different effects. But because you can play as guitar, drums 
 or vocals, there is an even devision of difficultly between all of the insturments. For instance, 
 unlike past GHs, which had you mindlessly tapping all the notes in the song, here, playing as lead 
 will only have you playing less-than-hard occasional notes while the bass, rythem, vocals, and 
 drums hog up the rest. The fret board, regardless of what insturment you play, is still full enough 
 to make you feel like your playing, but at worst, very disapointing.
  
  
  
  All of your favorite characters, varying from Clive Winston, Pandora, to Mindori, Eddi Knox (sp?) , 
 as well as the original Axel Steel, Judy Nails, Izzy Sparks, and so on are included in the game. 
 You also happen to be able to make your very own Rockstar, customize his/her attire, and even customize 
 his insturments. The sad thing is that all of the characters in the game where created using the 
 create-a-rocker system. That means many of the characters look very deformed; Axel looks no buffer 
 than he was before, Lars looks like he's decreased in size tremedously, Judy Nails looks 12 years-old, 
 and Pandora looks like a hidous gothic zombie without eyeballs.
  
  
  
  
  The setlist isn't that great, but it has some of the more modern-day songs, like Foo-Fighters, 
 Tool, Black Label Society, Billy Idol, and a few more, unlike what GH3 had. In keeping with Guitar 
 Hero tradition, Career mode has no real storyline or customization and just has you complete several 
 gigs or make up your own, with songs taken directly from the setlist in an attempt to gain cash 
 and unlock items. You'll also notice that the character annimations have improved greatly. Instead 
 of the  that was not always bad but very unrealistic, the 
 band members will jump around, bend their knees, tap strum, occasionally smile at each other, flip 
 their hair back, immitate MJ's dancing and stuff like that while the improved camera cuts follow 
 them. And unlike the past guitar games where you started a song with the exact same bassist, the 
 exact same singer, and the exact same drummer, the cpu controlled band members are randomized with 
 the create-a-rocker system, depending on the genre; metal, punk, emo and so on.
  
  
  
  Another new addition is the Music Studio, which is a feature that allows you to make your very 
 own songs, and upload them online, or play them, solo or in band mode with your friends. I won't 
 spoil or waste my time explaining how to use it, but I will just say for now that despite that 
 you cannot add lyrics, and many of the notes reside in the Major scale of music, this tool proves 
 to be very powerful for making songs, designing your own albulm art, and sharing them online.
 
  
  
  The worst thing that can be said is that the Online portion of the game SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
 
  You have the ablility to play solo or Band Mode online, if your lucky. Many times, though, you'll 
 randomly be picked with a person, usually a 9 year-old girl who has a terrible singing voice, is 
 magically able to pick all the songs to play, and plays with a custom-created rockstar named Hannah 
 Montanna. This obviously isn't always the case, but it shows the worst of the online play. If you 
 can avoid the unfourtunete fortunetly, GHWT is definetly worth a pickup. You will probably enjoy 
 it just as much as Rockband.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homicidal_Sloth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is currently the newest addition in the Guitar Hero franchise, much like 
 Rock Band it uses guitar, drum and vocal peripherals. I will base this review on the assumption 
 that you have already played Guitar Hero. The game works the same way as the others and it will 
 not take much effort to learn how to play the drums or use the vocals. I will name most of the 
 new additions, and pay less attention to other things. The first thing that I did when I booted 
 up the game was make a rockstar with the new Rockstar Creator. I was blown away. I had tried the 
 WWE wrestler creators before, and I was amazed at that. But in this game there were a ton of other 
 features, and you can make a ton of different looking characters, whacky or cool. It was amazing, 
 and I have a lot of fun making them. The next thing I tried out was the drum set. I was very surprised 
 at how nice they were. And I play drums in real lie. They felt really nice, and play even better. 
 It was really fun playing my first song. The only real thing I can complain about is that some 
 songs can be repetitive. 
  
  I then tried my good ol' trusty guitar. It felt really good, and I was amazed at how good they 
 made the strum bar feel. It was much easier and more fun playing. It was awesome. One of the new 
 features about the guitar is the slider bar, which is one disappointing feature about the game. 
 It's cool, but it's just too hard playing it well, because it's very sensitive. It's much better 
 to just use the frets during slider bar parts. It's not that big of a deal though, because if it 
 'aint broke, why fix it?
  
  I then tried the vocals... Now this is probably the most disappointing part. The vocals are terrible. 
 I'm admitting it even if I do love this game. They suck, and they don't work very well. The only 
 way they are even slightly fun is if you're on Easy. You practically need to be the person who 
 sings the song to even play on Hard. But if you take the drums and the guitar and add them up, 
 then I believe it's still worth it and better than Rock Band overall.
  
  If you are thinking of buying this game, then I would definitely say yes, with all the new features 
 and peripherals it is definitely worth it. And if you're thinking of buying Rock Band instead, 
 well don't. The drum set and guitar in that game suck compared to this amazing one. Unless you're 
 looking for vocals, then I would recommend Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tystra09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I deeply liked this game. It made history as one of the best music games overall. I would've liked 
 more charactors and some bomb songs but i can only ask for so much. It is still a very fun game 
 that everybody can enjoy. I never expected La Bomba to be a song on it. lol But anyways don't rent 
 the game. Its to good just to be rented. This game will make you have fun. If you dont have fun 
 with this game then your a loser. I recommend this game for people who want to be rockstars at 
 their parties. so just to get more characters out of the way.
  
  jjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjj jjjj jjjjjjjjj j jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjj jjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosstitan
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  it's easy game play, bad set list, bad fretboard graphics. but there are some good features. music 
 studio is basically a recording studio to do or create your own song, which is good only if you 
 think you can make songs at a professional, standard. plus compared to rock band, WT is out of 
 its depth. the DLC isn't what you expect for guitar hero, European songs, Travis Barker and so 
 on no real rock classics or metal involved. As its guitar Hero i have to say it is addictive, dispite 
 the dissapointing turn offs, do not buy the whole package, if you have guitar hero 3 or 2 use those 
 controllers but i reccomend rock band 2, more professional, better DLC, better special effects, 
 although i do enjoy the Guitar Hero WT instruments and actual graphics also there's the new slide 
 bar to consider. (It helpps you get though solos, as long there's a purple rope connecting the 
 notes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  As another casual reviewer said:
  "I remember when Guitar Hero World Tour was first announced and they revealed that you would be 
 able to create your own custom songs. At that moment, I instantly knew that Guitar Hero would indeed 
 rule the next round of music games."
  
  It's only a shame that it didn't rule the next round of music games. The one extra feature that 
 World tour had and they botched it terribly. I am speaking of the song creator which is very uncomfortable 
 to work with and very limited, so limited that I might as well just create songs like row your 
 boat, or yankee doodle.
  
  The other new item that had me in high anticipation mode of course is the drums, but what a let 
 down to actually see them. While they function as game drums, their visual style leaves SO MUCH 
 to be desired. Not to mention that the cymbals don't have enough travel distance to get out of 
 their own way. With the vast amount of plastic on the main drum deck, I have to wonder why they 
 didn't include a cup holder, it would certainly have fit in with the style or lack there of, of 
 the World Tour drum set.
  
  Instead of spending what I can only imagine was a vast amount of time programming the avatar customization 
 this time would have been better spent in the recording studio.
  
  I scored the game a 4.5, but my gut reaction is really only a 2 after getting the game setup and 
 giving it a try. There really wasn't enough that was new AND good in this version of the game. 
 
  
  The track list was a bit bizzarre too, like a jack of all trades, never specializing in one thing, 
 so it was all over the place and never had enough of any one genre to make it stand out.
  
  In my humblest opinion, I think that the Guitar Hero franchise is just another one of Activisions 
 cash cows and they are currently milking it for all that they can, regardless how poor the game 
 turns out, they are stuffing them out there as fast as they can without proper quality control. 
 Nothing new for Activision in my opinion, they've been doing this for decades now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:13 am PT
Review:  As always, you know what to expect from this by now, & if not where the hell have you been? 
  
  Ever since Harmonix left the series it hasn't been quite as good. This is mainly down to the 
 note placement, where it feels more 'videogamey' in this rather than feeling natural & where they 
 should be. In GH it seems they are placed more to create more of a challenge, fun or just random. 
 But in the end its just not as satisfying as GH2 or RB.
  
  However it is better than it was in GH3, which was just ridiculous. The difficulty has also been 
 toned down which is a very good thing. Im all for a challenge but GH3 reached insane levels on 
 some of the later tracks on hard - that final battle still eludes me today. But GHWT is much more 
 balanced & just much more enjoyable because of this.
  
  Now you'll know if you like this type of game already so its basically up to you to check the track 
 list & decide for yourself how much more appeal it has & if its worth buying. Personally, I found 
 it to be great. For [i] most [/i] of the time. Unfortunately though they decided it was a good idea 
 to include euro pop songs in it. Why they have done this I have no idea. These tracks are not only 
 a bit rubbish but they are nigh on impossible for anyone who likes to do the vocal aspect of the 
 game. Which immediately ruins the single player experience for these people & means some of the 
 tracks are just pointless in Band Play.
  
  The rest of the game is just as brilliant as ever though. It has a great new career mode where 
 not every gig has to be tackled to move onto the next set of songs so you can come back to them 
 later & it can also be played in full as a band both on & offline. The gameplay is just as much 
 fun as ever too, nailing tough tracks is as ever, very satisfying & there's a great selection of 
 oddball characters & loads more stages to do you gigs in. The bass is now a good instrument to 
 be playing too thanks to the open notes. It is actually a viable alternative to the guitar, which 
 I'd never thought id say. 
  
  However the biggest problem is the instrument set. They are brilliant when they work, in fact if 
 you have a full working set you can add a point to the score. However myself, & ive found [i] many 
 [/i] others after visiting some sites, will have problems. In my time with the game I have gone 
 through a guitar where the strum bar stopped registering down hits so I had to use my old, reliable 
 GH3 guitar to play it. My drum kit had one faulty cymbal out of the box, & after I received the 
 replacement my other cymbal went. There's also the fact none of the drum pads were sensitive enough 
 so I had to order a MIDI tuning kit & only after a full month & half after purchase is it actually 
 working properly - for how long though is anyone's guess. Its pathetic & really brings the package 
 down. 
  
  So a great game then, just ruined by the poorly made peripherals.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  After the release or Rock Band, everybody knew the next Guitar Hero game would have to do the same 
 to keep in check with Rock Band. Sure enough, they do. Unfortuanetly, Neversoft's execution at 
 its first band game is poorly done.
  
  First off, I should start with the praise worthy things. Like the drumset. Extremely durable, way 
 more durable than RB's drumset. The guitar is also very nicely designed. The difficulty is not 
 impossibly difficult as GH3. There's Crazy Train, Santeria, Hot For Teacher, Sweet Home Alabama, 
 Mr. Crowley, Scream Aim Fire, Trapped Under ice, Beat It and Pull Me Under. That's it. The rest 
 of the review is going to be about criticism (so if you're a GH fanboy, then leave) . Um, let's 
 see. Of 86 songs on the disk, the songs I listed are the only good one to play and enjoy. The rest 
 either suck, aren't very fun to play or were already in Rock Band 2. Why couldn't they have chosen 
 better songs like they did in GH3? I mean, even though "What I've Done" is a great song, it's too 
 f*****g easy to be in any music game (if you can't FC that song on expert guitar, then you are 
 an epic failure, because that song is the easiest one ever) . Shame. Also alot of the songs are 
 poorly charted. And what's with the foreign language songs or the songs that no one in the world 
 has heard of. WTF?! Like "Aggro". What? I'm not sure; must not be that good if I can't remember 
 it. As for online play, I said this alot "Wait; is this GH: WT or Rock Band 2?", because the interface 
 and design seems eerily similar to RB's. The interface is poorly designed; its difficult to tell 
 whether you're bandmate is failing out (by the time you realize your bandmate is about to fail, 
 guess what? He probably already did fail.) And the custom song creation thingy is terrible. Its 
 too damn difficult to actually make a song, and the quality of them is s****y. Just leaves a bad 
 taste in your mouth after playing.
  
  All in all, GH: WT was one -- for me -- of my most anticipated games of this year. But after I purchased 
 RB2 (due to its excellent setlist) and saw GH; WT setlist, I just knew WT was going to be a "joke". 
 Sure enough, it was and more. Just a huge dissapointment for me. I looked forward to World Tour 
 for along time, then was dissapointed with what I got.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band came out and changed the world of music/rythm games by allowing people to play drums 
 and vocals on top of the original guitar and bass. Of course Guitar Hero had to respond by following 
 Rock Band's footsteps or the series would be left behind. Let's see how well they caught up.
  
  Visually, the game is far better looking than Rock Band or Rock Band 2, but that's not saying 
 much. It's a slight upgrade from Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock. I never notice any frame-rate 
 drops, glitches or pop-in, but it would be sad if this game had them, as it doesn't come anywhere 
 near close to pushing the system's limits. 
  
  The sundwork is a place where this series should shine, and it probably will for most of you. The 
 sound clarity itself is great, with the exception of the music studio which for some reason sounds 
 horrible. All of the tracks in the game are master recordings, a very much appreciated upgrade 
 that truly makes a difference in a game like this. The soundtrack is disappointing for me. First 
 of all, while it is bigger than the one in Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, it pales in comparison 
 to Rock Band's massive track list. Second of all there's some very questionable choices like Michael 
 Jackson. Lastly, I listen almost excusively to metal, where I would have had the most fun by far 
 and this track list is really lacking in that department. Rock Band doesn't have the largest amount 
 of Metal tracks either and I realize it's because it isn't popular but this is just pathetic. The 
 songs I enjoyed playing were "Assassin" by Muse, "Crazy Train" by Ozzy Osbourne, "Everlong" by 
 Foo Fighters, "Hot For Teacher" by Van Halen, "Hotel California" by The Eagles, "Love Me Two Times" 
 by The Doors, "Mr. Crowley" by Ozzy Osbourne, Overkill by Motrhead, "Purple Haze" by Jimi Hendrix, 
 "Trapped Under Ice" by Metallica, and "The Wind Cries Mary" by Jimi Hendrix. I absolutely detested 
 the rest of the songs and avoided them as best I could, but you're forced to play them in career 
 mode.
  
  The instruemnts themselves are far better than Rock Band's. The guitar is awesome, the best fake 
 guitar available for these kinds of games without a doubt. The drums are again, far superior to 
 that of any others ina music/rythm game. They are very sturdy, have cool cymbals, and are somewhat 
 quieter than Rock Band's but not by much. The kareoke part, well that all depends on who's singing. 
 
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much if you've played Rock Band, just more polished. Take Guitar Hero 
 III: Legends of Rock, make the guitar parts a fair amount easier, add in drums and kareoke and 
 you've got Guitar Hero: World Tour. The character customization is fantastic, way more detailed 
 than you would ever need it to be. The same goes for the awesome guitar, bass, drums, and michrophone 
 customization. The music studio, which was tied with the drums as my most hyped addition to Guitar 
 Hero: World Tour, was a bitter disappointment. The sound quality is horrible, and the program itself 
 is extremely restrive in terms of what ti will let you do, I got very frustrated with it because 
 it only let me make fairly simple and boring songs. The menus are a bit sloppy and confusing sometimes, 
 but other than that the game works pretty seamlessly and is a lot of fun as long as you're playing 
 with friends on a song you don't hate.
  
  So there you have it, a great multiplayer rythm/music game that is quite a bit of fun if you give 
 it the chance. Some features need polishing but in the end it's a more than solid product. I highly 
 recommned it if you have the cash and enjoy rythm/music games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjapenguin1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Guitar Hero World Tour was first announced and they revealed that you would be 
 able to create your own custom songs. At that moment, I instantly knew that Guitar Hero would indeed 
 rule the next round of music games.
  But first I will will start with the negatives. I know many will say that "Guitar Hero is lame, 
 they just copied Rock Band!" But lets not forget who originally started the whole ever-popular 
 Rock'n Roll video games genre. Besides, World Tour is more of a perfection of the "Band Set" rather 
 than another clone. Many people can argue that the setlist doesn't consist of Rock songs. Which 
 is true in that there isn't as many Heavy Metal, or Rock songs as previous Guitar Hero games. Because 
 the developers wanted to reach out to a broader audience (*gasp "families") that didn't mainly consist 
 of Emo's and/or Goths. This includes some foreign songs as well such as "La Bamba" and "Escuela 
 de Calor". I agree that I don't like a lot of the more contemporary songs included in the setlist 
 but with over 85 songs to choose from it is not that big of an issue. One could also state that 
 the the Career mode is confusing. But the real issue is that most do not realize that there is 
 4 different careers that each have their own save file. A band career (2-4 players) and a Drum, 
 Singing, and your standard Guitar career (1 player) Plus any band member has the ability to change 
 their difficulty at any time during career or quickplay modes, which a cool new feature. One big 
 negative though is the drop of being able to use a standard controller to play the game. I know 
 a lot of people who used the controller instead because it was cheaper or it was just plain easier 
 to them. This is the first Guitar Hero game to do this which makes it even more confusing but now 
 a days it seems anyone will go that extra mile to make a few more dollars. Which did i mention 
 the $190 price tag for the full band set of the game! *ouch! So you better start saving up those 
 Christmas cards from Grandma Ruth.
  Now one of the best features of the game is the Music Studio which I mentioned earlier. You have 
 the ability to create, record, and edit your own custom song with up to five different parts (Lead 
 Guitar, Rhythm Guitar, Keyboard, Drums, and Bass) . Each instrument has dozens of different sounds 
 and sets to choose from which can really make your song... "Your Song"!! The GHMix option lets 
 you fine-tune your songs to get the perfect pitch and placement for every single note. And don't 
 worry if you aren't familiar with any music terms or have no idea how to make a G-scale arpeggio 
 with the Lead Guitar, followed up by a rotating rhythm-based power chord loop. With the option 
 to use a "machine" (which is especially useful when creating drum loops) to play parts for you even 
 beginners can enjoy the thrill of creating your own song. If all else fails head over to the GHTunes 
 store to download songs created by other users around the world for FREE!!! It is awesome to see 
 someone out there who takes the time to create a rock remix of Banjo-Kazooie or to re-make August 
 Burns Red's "Carol of The Bells". You also get a sense of accomplishment when you see that your 
 created song becomes #6 on "Hot this Week" with over a thousand votes upon the first week of it's 
 release. (NO im not bragging)
  Well, that's enough about the Music Studio. Now im going to give you an overview of the actual 
 hardware that comes with the game. The Guitar is definitely the best in the series with a nice 
 long smooth design it looks very cool and more realistic than any other video-game guitar out there. 
 But the main feature is the all-new touch pad that you can strum "Wah" and slide with. The slide 
 feature is by far the most useful, all you have to do is simply slide your finger on a smooth area 
 below the buttons on the fret board to play fast streaks or runs in the songs. (Which would have 
 been nice for Dragonforce's "Through The Fire and The Flames" in Guitar Hero III) Of course you 
 don't have to use it, you can just hit the notes as if they were hammer-on notes except you do 
 not have to strum at any time. (Shoutout to all you Guitar Hero II Explorer users out there) But 
 I would defiantly recommend using it whenever possible though. Now the drum set is fairly the same 
 size as the "Rock Band" set and features 2 symbols along with 3 lower drums and a foot pedal. (You 
 can even use your past Rock Band drum set for the game!) It stands together great and if you don't 
 like the sensitivity of your set, you can get a free tuning cord from Red Octane and tune the sensitivity 
 of each individual drum and even the foot pedal. As for gameplay it's what you'd expect except 
 for one main new feature. The new "Armored Note" which has a white circle over the note which mean 
 that it is accented and you need to hit the note harder than normal. This is possible thanks to 
 the touch sensitive drum pads, which can respond in many different tones and volume depending on 
 how hard you strike the pad. (Which is another cool feature for creating songs) Im gonna skip the 
 Microphone because there isn't anything spectacular about it and it is pretty much the same as 
 every other singing game's microphone. 
  One last cool feature about the game is that there is multiple real-life rockers who performed 
 motion capture and appear in the game. Such as "Blink-182" drummer, Travis Barker, Billy Corgan 
 from "The Smashing Pumpkins", Ozzy Osbourne and Zack Wylde form "Black Sabbath", and none other 
 than the original Guitar Hero Jimi Hendrix! Even with all these character options and more, there 
 is your favorite Guitar Hero rockers from Judy Nails to Johnny Napalm, plus the all-new character 
 creation (Which is similar to that of the Tony Hawk games) Oh and did I mention that every single 
 song in the game is a master recording!!! For me, that is what ticked me off in the past Guitar 
 Hero games, I mean c'mon Gun's 'n Roses "Sweet Child of Mine" in GHII just wasn't the same without 
 Axl Rose singing the chorus. As far as downloads go, songs are $2 each and there are numerous track 
 packs out there with everything from classic to heavy rock. They are also releasing entire albums 
 for download including Metallica's "Death Magnetic" which is a first in music games. 
  Overall this game shows how good music/rhythm games can be if the proper techniques and modes are 
 added. This game has great competitive multiplayer, as well as being one of the best party games 
 available. Plus if you already have a guitar from a past Guitar Hero game you can use it to have 
 a bass player to truly rock out with a full band of 4 people. And if you don't have any friends 
 to play with fear not, for you can jam with other bands online or go into band vs. band matchmaking. 
 
  I highly recommend this game and give it the highest marks for a music game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:38 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a great series of games. Guitar Hero World Tour carries on this name. The setlist 
 for Guitar Hero World Tour is a great one, with a few odd songs in it, but they all make the game 
 fun and enjoyable. The new instruments are really well done; the new guitar is really good in my 
 opinion. The touch slider is a bit weird but can be fun if you have enough of a warning for when 
 to use it. The new strum bar is much better than the old one I found, and the addition of a new 
 star power button makes it easier if you are having some difficulty activating the star power. 
 The new drums are brilliant, allowing you to really think that you are going all out. The pads 
 are quite sensitive and a lot of my friend's ones have been broken, but a lot of them work just 
 fine and you can have a lot of fun drumming away to some of the classic songs and some new ones. 
 All in all, playing these instruments together with a bunch of mates yields nothing but good times, 
 with everyone going mad to a favourite song, our personal being Re-education Through Labour by 
 Rise Against. The gameplay is great, playing through the career pits you against some of the most 
 iconic people in music history, such as Billy Corgan, Zakk Wylde, Ted Nugent, Travis Barker, and 
 many more. 
  The new character creation tools are amazingly intricate, allowing you to create your own personal 
 image in rocker form, even going so far as to completely customise the instruments they play, and 
 even the strange funky moves you do when entering, finishing or failing a song. 
  All in all the game is a great one, which can give either a group of friends or on your own, several 
 hours of great fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:22 pm PT
Review:  If you're too lazy to read the entire thing, skip to the last paragraph:
  
  The long awaited Guitar Hero: World Tour has arrived. Of course, that was back in October so I'm 
 a little late. Anyway, this is my second review. My first review I was being a total D-bag and 
 the thing got deleted, so here we go again.
  
  Pretty much, as it says in the review deck, this is Guitar Hero IV. World Tour is a misnomer, because 
 if you're not playing on a plastic guitar, chances are you're not having fun.
  
  Of course, the guitar moments have their flaws as well.
  
  So, where to begin?
  
  Full 
 Band: Shared star power is the dumbest idea I've ever seen. One person failing causing the rest 
 of the band to fail is the second dumbest idea I've ever seen. Failing after like, 10 missed notes 
 is the third dumbest idea I've ever seen. I didn't read Gamespot's review closely enough to discern 
 the truth behind it, but my girlfriend's brother told me GS said that there is no display to determine 
 how close anyone is to failing in game. While this is obviously false, I wish there was something 
 similar to the meter in Rock Band, because it's really damn tiny and I always forget it's there. 
 There still is no display of how many stars you currently have or how far from the next star you 
 are, but they did keep the active note streak counter and the more stats page, so it's not ALL 
 bad I suppose.
  
  Guitar: The new sliding feature seemed like an awesome idea when it was announced. Mostly because 
 it sounds great on paper, and I'm sure it's even fun if you can learn to utilize it properly. But 
 considering the sliding pads or whatever they're called are wider than the buttons, it makes it 
 difficult because you can lose track of your fingers in a heartbeat. Then add in the fact that 
 I can just mash my way mindlessly through the Beat It solo and not even drop into yellow and it 
 makes the sliding feature altogether pointless.
  
  The new feature of sustained notes being played at the same time also feels gimmicky. I don't know 
 about you, but I don't want to start playing four-note sustained chords, even if they bring them 
 in one at a time.
  
  Other than that, the broken HOPO's and overcharting that pissed me off from GHIII so bad are very, 
 VERY toned down thankfully, but still present. For the most part, it's ignorable, but it's still 
 obnoxious.
  
  The HOPO's themselves aren't broken like before, the problem more in lies with the fact that the 
 timing window is WAY too lenient. I found myself bashing my way through trills and rolls with ease 
 without even paying attention.
  
  Anywho.
  
  Bass: The open note feature is a cool addiction, and there's actually not a whole lot wrong with 
 bass.
  
  Drums: This is where the game goes downhill quickly. There is nothing wrong with the actual drum 
 gameplay itself, for the most part. Star power activation is annoying, but I do understand they 
 had to do something different than Rock Band. Also, the purple bass note? Hard to see. They should've 
 made it some other color. Something bright and shiny to stand out.
  
  That could be ignored, but the fills. Oh my God, they are obnoxious, drawn out, and take away from 
 the impact of the song. Mostly because in RB, the fill takes the place of, oh, I don't know, a 
 drum part? As opposed to "Wail the drums while you're not supposed to be playing!"
  
  Of course, all this could be cast aside if it weren't for the biggest issue: The songs are long 
 and boring. Seriously. There are like, maybe 10 songs I played in the entire setlist that were 
 exciting to me. But seriously. Who the hell looked at the drum chart for On the Road Again and 
 didn't say "You know, guys, we need some better ****ing drum songs. Seriously."?
  
  Which brings us to the setlist itself. I won't cover vocals because the vocals in this game are 
 honestly a joke.
  
  So, the setlist. Pretty good, right? I mean, The Eagles, Tool, Skynyrd, Wings, Sublime, and Jimi 
 friggin Hendrix? Well, honestly, the setlist is pretty damn awesome. If you like guitar.
  
  As I mentioned, everything is boring on drums. Everything.
  
  But the other problem: Some of 
 the worst track selections for these big name artists. For some of them, anyway. Tool being the 
 main example. Schism is stupid as hell for this game. Let's play the same set of single notes 26 
 times! :D! And yes, I counted. Oh, and while we do that, let's have the drummer play a distracting 
 ass fill with GH's lame sound effects.
  
  Also, other issues arise in terms of sound. In L'Via L'viaquez, for example, I'm not sure if it's 
 the fault of the radio edit or GH just mishandling the master, but what the hell is up with the 
 part where Cedric sounds like he's moaning? My girlfriend's brother showed me it because he thought 
 it sounded horrible. I had never heard it before. I listened to the CD version and, lo and behold, 
 that part is BARELY audible on the CD as compare to the rest of the track. And then a lot of songs 
 (especially in the main menu) sound like they're being played a in a freaking hallway. I don't 
 understand where this issue comes from, but considering I have a new TV and I had the same problem 
 on other TV's, I know it's an issue with the game.
  
  The presentation is a little lame. The graphics, note highway, animations, just about everything 
 comes off as really, really cartoon-y and lame. It's part of why I start to get really tired when 
 I play drums, the entire thing just bores me.
  
  As far as other features go: The song creator tool is a great idea, and it is implemented fairly 
 well. I just wish they made it a little more accessible to the musically inclined. But hey, other 
 people have the opportunity to make some pretty awesome tracks with it.
  
  Also, the character/instrument editor is awesome. It's something I wish Rock Band would implement.
 
  
  To summarize my review: The game has some cool features and some fresh new ideas to an over-saturated 
 game genre. But if they're not implemented absolutely poorly, they're overshadowed by the game's 
 other flaws. If you absolutely adored Guitar Hero III and found no solace in Rock Band whatsoever? 
 Play it, you might like it. But I'd suggest to every single rhythm game lover out there, regardless: 
 Rent it first to gauge your interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwhedon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  You can never hate a rhythm game, unless it's Rock Revolution. If the game has a solid soundtrack, 
 good gameplay, and somewhat good graphics, then it's almost impossible to hate it. But to say it's 
 alright well... let's just get on with the review. Guitar Hero: World Tour is the 4th installment 
 in the main series, as some spin-offs have been created, (like Guitar Hero: Aerosmith) . This is 
 Neversoft's 3rd console-based Guitar Hero game, and so far they seem to have done a nice job. The 
 new features in Guitar Hero: World Tour are of course the addition of a drums and vocals part. 
 Some others are fully customizable characters and instruments, and a Music Studio mode, where you 
 can create your own songs. Playing the guitar part in GHWT is of course going to be the best out 
 of all the instruments, because well, the series was made for the guitar in the first place. The 
 drums are solid as well, but some expert drummers may feel disappointed if they have been playing 
 Rock Band because the drum parts in World Tour seem a bit easier than they do in Rock Band. Now 
 the vocals. First of all, I do wanna say that I played Rock Band vocals first instead of WT, so 
 if I didn't than I would probably have a different opinion. Now then, the vocals in World Tour 
 are broken, muddled, and a complete mess. Now in Rock Band, the game tells you if you're going 
 the hit the phrase you are singing so it is much easier to 100% songs. But in WT, the game doesn't 
 even tell you how well you hit the phrase until the end of the song. And even if you THINK you 
 hit it perfect, you probably didn't. The game expects you to hit every single note in the entire 
 phrase to 100% it. So then it is basically impossible to FC any song on vocals. Well, mabye the 
 Beastie Boys song, but you would still have to be ultimately perfect to 100% it. Speaking of the 
 Beastie Boys, let's talk about the song list. Guitar Hero World Tour has a good song mix of rock, 
 pop, metal, and even some rap that is actually decent. But one thing, why do we have to have the 
 foreign songs in the mix? I don't have any clue what they are saying, so it makes vocals even more 
 difficult. I guess they are there to make the setlist more diverse, but most English speaking people 
 buy the game anyway, so what's the point? The Music Studio seems the most disappointing though. 
 It is difficult to make songs in it, and even when you have something made up it sounds terrible 
 anyway. The graphics really hasn't changed a bit, but at least the characters on stage have a bit 
 more motion and just don't stand there like robots when playing Scream Aim Fire or something. I 
 guess it's time to wrap up. Guitar Hero World Tour definitely took a big step with the series, 
 but other games like Rock Band have done things much better, and didn't include foreign songs in 
 their setlist. Stupid La Bamba. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game, since the release day.. And I must say, compared to all of the other Guitar 
 hero games, this one has much more to offer. There are more songs, new twists to the game play, 
 and new features added that NONE of the previous Guitar hero games had. There is a create a rocker 
 feature, edit your guitar, Drum, or bass feature as well.. all the new editing features brought 
 out a whole new twist to the game.. its not anything amazing, but its something to make Guitar 
 Hero gamers make things in their band, how they want it.. From color to style, to shape. And world 
 tour explains it all.. there are all sorts of song on this game from all genres, incredible graphics... 
 a more difficulty to the songs. The main thing is that NOW THERE CAN BE AN ENTIRE BAND.
  
  This is a great game for current guitar hero player and beginners.. Oh it also has a new difficulty 
 called "BEGINNER" its great to really younger players or just someone that has no idea how to play.
 
  
  this is a must purchase title, it will keep you going and going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headcrabsrule
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  I know that some people are gonna be really angry after i type the next sentence but. This game 
 is bad!
  Rock Band beats it all the way. Seriously by the time i played GH3 i thought that they might be 
 running out of songs to put on. (Mainly because that everything thing you hear today is stupid 
 rap and techno) Then i was hoping for a full on rock game for world tour. But it turned out to 
 really well take that bad it doesn't suck ( i still play it.. but hardly) It's alright!
  Some songs on it didn't deserve to be on it
  Like:
  Good God
  On the Road Again
  La Labamba 
 (don't think i got the spelling right)
  There is more but i can't remember.
  Common La Labamba! Activison What were you thinking!
  At the end Don't mean to spoil but it is 
 so bad!
  You play rise against (which is good might i say)
  La Labamba! (which is just weird)
  Scream Aim and Fire (WOOOOOOOOOOOOO)
  and i think Soad (yeah 
 system rules) !
  With Ozzy Osbourne, Sting and Travis Barker. What the hell!
  So i hate this game mainly cause most of the songs are crap. Let hope they choose good songs for 
 Metalica (suggestions to put in.......... Everyone of there songs!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero WT is a great game. There's room for improvement, but it doesn't put itself above it's 
 competitor Rock Band 2. Both games have their advantages and disadvantages but in my opinion it 
 comes down to what most important you you and what you want to get out of one of these games.
 
  
  Single Player:
  A fun single player mode (with or without addl instruments) that let's you create the most customizable 
 character from head to toe. The character creator in this game is very deep letting you customize 
 everything from tatooes, to looks, accesories, instruments etc. Being a guiatar player myself, 
 I became lost in all the options for customizing your guitar and instruments. You can customize 
 everything from the colors, to the stickers, the shapes and even the fret boards knobs and strings 
 to name a few! The same is said for all the other instuments like the character drumset, bass guitar 
 and mic.
  Once you've created your "look" and start playing from gig to gig unlocking new ones as you go, 
 you can't stop. The crowd chants and sings as you start to nail the song and activate star power 
 and the sound quality of the song gets better as the star power goes on. It's a great way to accomplish 
 the "Live Concert" factor and puts you in the game like you are there. The venue locations are 
 very cool such as House Of Blues, a Tool Venue, etc. but my favorite was playing on the aircraft 
 carrier. As you get better and successfully complete gigs, you unlock different items and clothing. 
 Unfortunatley, this part of the game becomes meaningless as most of the cool apparel items were 
 made available from the begining leaving you to unlock thing like a new spike bracelet or crazy 
 Guitar shapes like an Eagle or an Anarchy shape. Wohoo! Other unlockables are things like amplifiers 
 that serve some kind of purpose and I'm still trying to figure that out. (no purpose) But one of 
 the coolest things is unlocking special rock legends such as Billy Cougan, Travis Barker, Sting, 
 Osbourne etc. 
  
  Song List:
  The song list is about 84 songs with a great varitity that leans toward the youger crowd with exclusive 
 (also downloadable) tracks from Tool, Smashing Pumpkins, Lost Prophets and The Killers to name 
 a few. You can't get on Rock Band. Some other notable Artists I liked (and forgot about) were Dinosaur 
 Jr., 30 Seconds To Mars, and 311. The song list is good, don't get me wrong, but compared to the 
 500+ songs that are downloadable between Rock Band 1 & 2 there's no question Rock Band has fans 
 simply for the wide song selection. And to be honest, there's definatley some "filler songs" toward 
 the end of single player including a couple spanish rock songs. WTF?
  
  Instruments:
  It's a tie between GH WT and Rock Band 2 when it comes to instruments. Guitar Hero has the flashy 
 Drum Set w/ Symbols to market, but it falls short with the guitar. The buttons stick after a couple 
 hours of play, and my fret bar was squiekey after about a week. The buttons are a problem to live 
 with, but the fret bar is an easy fix. (youtube) Although, the finger slide bar on the neck is 
 a very cool addition and idea which Rock Band doesn't. It's a little tricky to nail the solos on 
 it, but a very cool addition. 
  
  Now for the Drum Set:
  The drums are way better than Rock Band's. The additoin of the symbols are huge and fun. There's 
 been alot of neggetive whinners online complaining about the sensetivity and rightly so, but it's 
 not a big enough problem to discourage the purchase. The Cymbal sensetivity is a little off but 
 it's nothing that can't be fixed in 5 mins. With a screw driver and 2 small pices of masking tape, 
 the cymbals (or all drums) can be fixed. If you unscrew the cymbals detach the top from the bottom 
 and place a small piece of masking tape over the sensor, it acts like a spacer between the sensor 
 and the vibration of the hit. Screw it back together and it's not an issue. For a detailed explanation, 
 youtube it. You save yourself alot time and hassle from shipping it to warrenty and in my opinion, 
 it works better than what they send you back. And if that's still not enough, you can go onto the 
 Red Octane website and they will send you a free calibration kit so you can perfect it.
  
  Overall I really feel these 2 games are in the same league. There are many advantages and disadvantages 
 to think about, it just depends on what you want out of the game. For me, I like the customization 
 and characters in GH WT along with the guitar and drums. Some like Rock Band for the downloadable 
 songs and an efficient guitar. Truth be told, I'll end up buying Rock Band 2 the games seeing as 
 the instuments are interchangable and I've already beat GH. I think they are both equally as good. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  + new controllers are very nice
  + new guitar gameplay elements work well for the most part
  + great setlist with diverse songs 
 both in style and difficulty
  + career is less linear than before
  + sharp, lively graphics
  + awesome online play modes
  + band play is a blast
  
  Negative:
 
  - drum sound hardly comes through the TV
  
  Rock Band and Guitar Hero will probably continue to be the two main rhythm franchises in gaming, 
 and predictably each will probably put out a new game every year. This means there will always 
 be competition between the two. Guitar Hero seems to win with sales and Rock Band with critics, 
 but which is really better? While I can't answer that question as I've barely played Rock Band, 
 I CAN tell you just how great a game Guitar Hero: World Tour is. So here's a review that (shocker 
 alert) isn't comparing World Tour to Rock Band 2.
  
  The main gameplay mode for World Tour is the Career. In previous Guitar Hero games, you had to 
 beat all the songs in a set to move on, but now you have several sets to choose from all the time. 
 This makes the game feel much less linear and allows for you to get to the end of the game without 
 actually clearing all the gigs if you want. The game's set list is huge too, so the career is really 
 long. You can also make your own set of songs, which is cool. The other major mode is Quick Play, 
 which you will likely go to most after finishing the Career. This has been improved from before 
 too. You can now select up to six songs to make up a set rather than going back and choosing another 
 between every song, which is really convenient.
  
  Both of these modes feature both single player and band play. The multiplayer is really one of 
 the best parts of World Tour, playing with friends and family is a blast. Four players can play 
 the guitar, bass, and drums, and another person can sing. You can play with the band in either 
 Career or Quick Play or take your group online to play Band vs Band mode, or if you have two or 
 three people you can find others to bring in for some cooperative play as well. The band play is 
 really what's at the very core of World Tour, and it's brought to every frontier very nicely.
 
  
  The game's guitar gameplay still has its core rooted in the foundations of the previous games, 
 but there are some good new additions. The main new gameplay features involve the slider on the 
 neck of the guitar: a touch-sensitive strip with the five colors on different sections that you 
 simply have to be touching at the right time to hit a note (you don't have to strum) . These sections 
 of the songs have purple-ringed notes, and usually they go really fast. The only bad thing about 
 the slider sections is how inconvenient it is to reach down the neck and suddenly have to get your 
 hand back on the main fret buttons when the section ends (you WILL miss at least two notes, guaranteed) . 
 The slider has other uses too, such as making a wah effect instead of using the whammy bar or slapping 
 it instead of strumming (while still fingering the notes on the fret buttons) . The slider is a 
 neat addition to the controller that's fun, if sometimes hard, to use. 
  
  The drums have been added to Guitar Hero with much success, but also one or two issues. The drum 
 kit is really nice, with the two elevated symbols and bouncy pads, and they make a lot of noise 
 but it's not like beating the crud out of a hard wood floor (ok, fine, I compare to Rock Band once 
 in this entire review) . The gameplay works just fine except for Star Power, which is activated 
 by hitting both symbols simultaneously and is pretty inconvenient. Adding the extra symbol to one 
 you're supposed to hit only works about 50% of the time, and throwing in an offbeat hit is just 
 hard. Activating Star Power may be a challenge in itself, but the drums are still a lot of fun 
 to play.
  
  Singing is pretty well done. It picks up your voice pitch pretty well when you're singing loud 
 enough (which really isn't TOO loud) . Star Power is a bit of an issue here, too: you have to either 
 hit the top of the mike or press A on the remote. It's awfully inconvenient to try and hit the 
 mike while singing, and I doubt the remote will actually be in your hand while you sing. Overall 
 singing works well and goes with the game nicely.
  
  There is also a Music Studio, where you record and edit your own music. It's great for people who 
 know a lot about music and don't mind spending hours perfecting their work, but the rest of us 
 will probably not really feel inspired to use it. Thankfully, you can take advantage of other peoples' 
 work for free through GH Tunes, where you download songs people have made with the game.
  
  With all these great game modes and solid instrument gameplay, you still wouldn't have a complete 
 game without a great list of songs. Thankfully, World Tour delivers in great and sometimes surprising 
 ways. The song selection is absolutely huge and is very diverse both in the areas of difficulty 
 and song style. The setlist contains easy songs like 'What I've Done,' very difficult and challenging 
 songs like 'Hot for Teacher' and 'Mr. Crowley,' and just about everywhere in between on the difficulty 
 meter. The types of songs chosen are quite varied as well, with songs like 'Everlong' and 'Re-education 
 Through Labor' and very different songs like 'On the Road Again' or 'La Bamba.' There is also a 
 good mix of classic hits and newer works, which makes the song selection great for the adults too. 
 There are also a few songs within the list that aren't very fun to play or are too long (I'm looking 
 at the three Tool songs in particular) but overall the setlist does a good job of catering to all 
 potential players' tastes and skills and delivering lots of fun songs to play.
  
  Graphically, World Tour looks very sharp on the 360. The characters are very well-animated and 
 their movement is pretty smooth. The instrument playing has been much improved from GHIII and it 
 looks much more realistic. Even the gems (notes) look really sharp, shiny, and polished. The band 
 performances are very cool to watch too, and the gig locations are also very well done. Overall 
 World Tour succeeds in creating a great visual experience on the 360, even if it is the least important 
 part of the game.
  
  The sound quality of World Tour is great, but there is at least one issue with it. Songs sound 
 very good and the quality is pretty much perfect. But the main problem lies in the sound mixing. 
 I don't know about you, but I like to actually hear the drums through the TV when I'm playing them. 
 Unfortunately, even with the drum volume all the way up, I can barely hear them at all when playing 
 the instrument. Overall, though, the sound department is good because of the quality of the songs.
 
  
  When a game is as good as Guitar Hero: World Tour, it's hard to complain too much even if it's 
 not as good as Rock Band (which I still do not know myself) . Within its own franchise it's a real 
 winner, not only because of the massive in-game setlist and added instruments, but also because 
 of the touches to the Career and Quick Play modes that make them so much better than before. I 
 highly recommend World Tour to anyone who has enjoyed past Guitar Hero titles; you shouldn't be 
 disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Camera & Control: 9.0
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 8.5
  Value: 9.5
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelboy08
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:49 pm PT
Review:  the guitar hero and rock band franchises are strange games in as much as the tracklist is basically 
 what makes or brakes them. Unfortunatley, in GH4's case, the tracklist is the downfall of what 
 would otherwise be a very good game.
  
  -Sound-
  The most important thing in any rhythm game is the sound. The sound quality of GH4 is on the whole 
 very good. Songs sound very sharp, the indidual instrument you play on is slightly louder so you 
 know what your playing and the crowd sounds a lot better than previous titles. The problem is caused 
 by that fact that GH4 has too many slow song in its track list and a lot of the time these slow 
 songs are in the middle of a set, breaking the flow. On the plus side though, all the tracks are 
 the original master copies which is a first for the GH series. Also on a pretty personal note, 
 as a Mars Volta fan, I feel cheated that GH4 has the editted version of L'via V'iaquez when songs 
 like Ted Nugent's Stranglehold and Dream Theatre's Pull Me Under are in their entirety. I'm going 
 to give the sound a 4 purely because of the amount of slow songs breaking up the sets. 4/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  Another important thing in a rhythm game is knowing that the equipment is going 
 to work. Since GH4 has three seperate bits of kit, I'll break each one down then give an overall 
 score.
  Drums: Works pretty well although the orange pad is pretty hit and miss. Sometimes it registers 
 as a hit and other times it gives nothing at all although it is pretty rare it doesn't register.
 
  Guitar: I'm left handed and I've found that the buttons stick a lot more than playing on right 
 handed mode. This is a major problem when playing on the harder difficulties. also, the positioning 
 of the star button isn't particularly great. If I had a pound for every time i hit it while activating 
 star power, i could probably buy two more complete band kits.
  Mic: Very responsive although there's no extra features, it's just a usb mic with a guitar hero 
 logo on it.
  Overall, the kit is pretty good and much better than rock bands first attempt at a drum kit but 
 i can't help feeling the guitar still hasn't been properly tested for left handed players.
  Another note to add would be the ability to write your own songs although I found this way to fidgety 
 and annoying for what is pretty much a MIDI programing tool. It was a good idea though. 8/10
  
  -Graphics-
  Not a huge improvement over GH3 although the lip synching and drummer movements 
 are a lot better. Watching the singer dance like Michael Jackson during Beat It is a nice touch 
 too. I'm going to give the graphics 7 because they do look good and they are improved but some 
 of the stages' lighting can obscure the lyrics which is a real pain when you're trying to sing 
 a spanish song you've never heard of. 7/10
  
  -Overall-
  If the setlist was even just a little better, GH4 would be by far the best of the series, maybe 
 even the best rhythm game around but unfortunately they just didnt quite do it. The drum kit is 
 still fun to play on the good songs and if you're right handed, so is the guitar but a flawed lefty 
 guitar and a below average tracklist have made me give this 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Note. i first played GHWT on the ps2 and well... it sucked but this past week i got it for the 
 xobox 360 and well heres the reveiew.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Take guitar heros note style with rockbands gameplay style and thats what you can expect from this 
 game. But aside from being tryed and true therea are plenty of fun tracks here from The mars volta 
 to van halen. The one thing that really got to me was the way you have to activate star power, hitting 
 both sybols at the same time can really mess up a beat and cause you to lose rather then win.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The game looks great very colorful and full of character. Though the stage show isn't as powerful 
 or pulse pounding as rock band, but fun and nonetheless. There's also a great palet of animations 
 here and the character creator is very deep and rewarding.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Great sound quality from the master tracks but the music creator just doesn't sound quite good 
 enough. You will most likely find yourself wondering what went wrong with the music studio and 
 why does it sound so tinny, that is at first. But once you play around it is actually a pretty 
 good feature thogh not as deep or rearding as you may have liked.
  
  Value 8/10
  I didn't buy the new drums guitar or mic i simply used my RB stuff and it works great. theres a 
 good amount of tracks here and the DLC seems pretty nice though not as good (obviously) as rock 
 band.
  
  The good 
  A great change of scenery for the series, some really great tracks, character creator is a blast 
 to use.
  
  The bad 
  Music studio sounds tinny, not as much energy in the stage show compared to rock band, could have 
 done somthing different with gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodweiser5
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  My personal biggest expectation for 2008 is finally here with new instruments and play modes. How 
 excited I have been for this day, but sadly, GHWT feels more like a "That's it?" feeling.
  
  Let me begin with the game itself, since it's the best thing about the whole band package. 
 As a first for the series, you get drums and a mike, to complete the band experience.
  
  The new career mode is similar to GH3, but instead of playing 1 number at the time, you play an 
 entire gig, consisting of between 3 to 5 numbers or so. This is great, as it gives you a feeling 
 of really playing at a concert, instead of just playing 1 number and selecting a new one. You can 
 choose a career path as any member of the band. Another great part is, that if you're stuck in 
 a number, you can always change the difficulty to another setting. This is extremely usefull, if 
 your just can't beat "Tapped Under Ice" by Metallica for instance. During the career, various artists 
 will apear at your gig to play with, or without you. My favorite part, was when Jimmy Hendrix went 
 on stage, and pushed me, the guitarist, aside. Hey, whatcha gonna do, the guy's a legend (and dead) . 
 Also playing "Crazy Train" with Ozzy Osbourne was really awesome!. Unlike RB, there are no fans 
 or fame to be made. You just play the gig, move on to the next, end of story. Do it all over with 
 a different instrument again.
  
  Like RB1 & RB2, GHWT also features DLC. Unfortunately, for all us GH3 players, the GH3 DLC will 
 NOT work in GHWT. Not even just the guitar parts. Which is, honestly, really a shame, since GH3 
 has such a cool tracklist. GHWT DLC isn't as big as RB, but does have it's jewels, like The Eagles 
 track pack and Metallica's new "Death Magnetic" album. We hope to se more cool DLC in the future.
 
  
  GHWT also has a music studio, which enables you to create your own music. I'll make this short; 
 If your looking for a new ringtone for you cellphone, it's good. Otherwise, stick to the DLC. Wii 
 music has better sound than the GHWT music studio.
  
  As a band experience, they could've done a better job. Unlike in RB, if one band member fails out 
 of a song, the entire band does. The star power is more or less USELESS to get a band back on track. 
 Everybody collects it as a band, but anyone can just hug it for their own need. When playing, it's 
 very difficult to tell who's doing good in the band, and who isn't. This becomes quite frustrating, 
 and is a clear demoter on the games final score.
  
  When looking at the music, there are QUITE a lot of great numbers in it. All are master recordings 
 which is cool, but not quite what it's hyped up to be. Admit it, GH3 did have some great cover 
 songs afterall. The selection of music is perhaps a bit too wide. What are numbers like "On the 
 road again", "L'Via L'Viaquez", and "Nuvole E Lenzuola" doing in this game? These numbers are paired 
 up against classics like "Hotel California", "Beat It", "Purple Haze" and "Livin' on a prayer". 
 If it's an attempt to widen the hollow career mode, it's failed in my book.
  
  Now for the instruments. I can honestly NOT recommend them. Here is why: I purchased the band packaged 
 with drums, mike, game and new guitar. Within 2 weeks, a cymbal didn't work, the guitar strumbar 
 became squeeky and failed to register hits correctly when strumming down. I got the packaged exhanged 
 for a new one, and got the USB-MIDI cable to adjust the drums. Within another 2 weeks, same problems 
 occured. And on the red and blue drumpad, it felt like i was hitting solid metal at some points, 
 like something had snapped loose inside the drums. Returned the entire thing, AGAIN!, bought RB1 
 instruments and GHWT separately, no problems! All RB instruments are compatible with GHWT on the 
 X360.
  
  GHWT has showed off with having real drummers helping to design this thing. Let me quote what drummer 
 Chad Smith from The Red Hot Chili Peppers said; "If it holds up to ME beating on them, it should 
 do pretty good". I have great respect for The Red Hot Chili Peppers and their music and will in 
 NO way critisize them. They have nothing to do with the final product. The sad thing is, the drums 
 don't even hold up to regular gamers.
  
  Bottom line: GHWT is not what it's hyped up to be. It main advantage is it's cool soundtrack, which 
 remains the primary reason why I bought it. For a truly great band game, I recommend RB1 & RB2. 
 I hope Guitar Hero Metallica will succeed better than this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  As an avid GH fan I was excited to finally get my mitts on this game. And I can tell you now I 
 am far from disappointed.
  
  I suppose you are fed up of the on going argument of which is better GH or Rockband (well I am 
 if no one else is) So for a change I am not going to mention rock band and how it compares because 
 it would not be much of a review of the game.
  
  From the second you place Guitar hero world tour into your console you can immediately tell that 
 it has had a bit of a visual over hall. The cartoons have been stripped (safe from right at the 
 start of the game) and allot of the cartoonyness has been stripped in game. But that's not to say 
 it has disappeared completely, Never soft have stayed loyal once again to GH's tongue in cheek 
 attitude when it comes to being a rock god. And for me that is a great thing because who would 
 want to take a game with plastic guitar really seriously?
  
  The career mode has had an over hall as well. With the set list being split up into a selection 
 of mini gigs to work through. This has its merits such as a bigger selection of stadiums and locales 
 to play at, and the fact that if you're stuck on one song on one gig you can just move to another 
 gig and come back to it. But it also has its draw backs as well, you have to pay to play at some 
 gigs (the tool one is especially a rip off) and in some way it makes the career mode seem shorter 
 than others in the series.
  
  Note: The tool gig unless your a fan of tool is a bit of a drag, with the songs lasting forever 
 and the tool visualisation in the background instead of your band rocking out can be a little tedious
 
  
  Character customisation is second to none. Pretty much every aspect of your DIY rocker is changeable 
 from facial features to The instrument they play which I have personally always wanted in GH and 
 I am very glad its here.
  
  Boss battles are back this time with the weapon system being totally thrown out meaning you have 
 to riff your way to the epic climax of a song against your rock legend of an opponent. This is 
 a big improvement as the weapons system seemed a bit broken in GH3.
  
  Now with the inclusion of the other instruments the game is getting ever better. With the open 
 note included in the bass playing it makes the feel of play the bass a little more authentic, and 
 as I have only played with the guitars on world tour I can't say much about the drums but I think 
 it is fair to say that he inclusion of the drums is a very good step in the right direction and 
 will make multiplayer that much sweeter.
  
  All in all GH world tour does good justice to the series. Even though it has included other instruments 
 the game has stayed loyal to its name and has not skimped out on the guitar game play at all.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is fun and all but its exactly like rockband but with diffrent songs so 
 if you like rockband you will kind of like guitar hero world tour but you will feel like your playing 
 the same game over and over again its realy good with the charecter customazation because it has 
 better clothes and more stuff you can add on to the charecter but for rockband there all like hard 
 metal or soft rock its only some of the clothes that should go in the game and in rockband you 
 can buy guitars and color them but in World Tour you can make and color your own with stickers 
 on it like your annitals thats awesome so thats realy cool in there part and all of the songs on 
 rockband have the same tune to them unless you go from soft to hard rock but if you pay attention 
 its sound like the same thing on drums so that cover up the song and the Guitar Hero World Tour 
 drums are made of some type of realy soft rubber so its fun and not as loud as rockband plus it 
 feels realistic because of the symbols on the top and if you feel like "Unleashing your inner rock 
 legend" you can make your own song and tune but you have to know a lot about music to make a good 
 song or else it would sound like your just being crazy on the bass, drums or guitar because you 
 cant make your own lyrics on it so that fun but doll because of the vocals are gone in the song 
 you make on the game but its realy is fun and you dont have to play the same songs so thanks for 
 reading and enjoy your game :-} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanos1960
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero world Tour is easy to get to know; just like a nice person you're getting acquainted 
 with. But then the problems arise with the function of the instruments and before you know this 
 "nice person" is starting to annoying you because you can't take it to the place first met (the 
 nearest video store) and return it or exchanged it, but they usually tell you that you can call 
 Activision (we will call this the nice person parents) and get some type of download hoopla (we 
 will call this the nice person's medication) that is now a necessity otherwise you won't get your 
 full playing pleasure. After investing over $200.00 into something, you really want to take it 
 home and enjoy the simulated musical thrashing and mimic-kry of being a rockstar, right? Not fart 
 around with a website and figure you're going to have to invest a little more than plan; after 
 only playing on it for less than 3 weeks. I like it a lot...... when it delivers. Caution my brothers 
 when checking out this product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilbert3k
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me state up front, I only bought this for the guitar part. I did not buy the whole set and 
 do not care to try the other parts.
  
  This review is for the Guitar part of Guitar hero (Go figure) .
  
  Let me start with the good.
 
  
  This is a good looking game, you get a ton of new characters and can make any new ones you might 
 like. This was very well done and I hope they keep this in future Guitar Hero games.
  
  The sound studio wasn't much to my liking but I can see how many people would love it. I really 
 like that they added this function and it seems to work very well. I just have no talent for this.
 
  
  I really only have 2 complaints about the game.
  
  The first is fairly minor, somehow they seem to have made it MUCH harder to activate star power. 
 In Guitar Hero 2 and 3 I have no problem getting it to go off, but in this game I have to lift 
 the guitar straight up and hold it there for a LONG time before it will activate. Leading me to 
 mess up more often then not. In the end I gave up and just stopped using it. Sad.
  
  The big problem and the one that makes me want my money back is the song list.
  
  The song 
 list is really really weak. Im about 75% through the game and when I make my own gig I can only 
 find 5 songs I want to play. Mind you these are not the 5 best songs just songs I don't mind playing. 
 In fact out of the whole set list I have only found 1 song I really liked.
  
  I am not sure what is going on, but Guitar Hero needs to do MUCH better with the song lists or 
 they are dead.
  
  The song list seems dominated by the lamest songs of the 70s. Sure they have songs from other times 
 but at least 1/3rd are really bad 70s songs.
  
  Then if you really want you can buy a gig that will cost a arm and a leg to get hold of the worst 
 Tool songs. I like tool, but why did they pick these weak songs? And why take away the stage and 
 give us the boring eye background as well?
  
  Trust me unless you are a huge Tool fan, save your $8,000 and skip the tool gig.
  
  Thats about 
 it kids, I'm sad to say that I would suggest skipping this game. I dont know much about Rock Band 
 2 but it has to be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Since Harmonix left the Guitar Hero license behind to make their multiplayer band juggernaut Rock 
 Band, Neversoft has had their hands full with the Guitar Hero property. Competing with Rock Band 
 using the guitar-only Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock was a challenge in itself. A high difficulty 
 and rather sparse gameplay made the game tend to stand in its competitor's shadow. Fortunately, 
 Neversoft is ready to take the next big step for the franchise: a full band mode. Guitar Hero: 
 World Tour is the newest installment in the critically-acclaimed franchise and Neversoft has a 
 few new tricks up their sleeves for this one. Can it compete with the Rock Band experience?
  
  If you've played the original Rock Band, you'll notice that Guitar Hero: World Tour takes quite 
 a few gameplay styles from the famed band simulator. The drum controller is shown with different 
 pads and a kick pedal. If you have an official World Tour drum set, you get two cymbal pads along 
 with three drum pads. Activating Star Power requires you strike certain drum pads simultaneously, 
 which is a cool improvement from Rock Band's stationary fill sequences. You can also freestyle 
 drums at specific times in the song. Singing with the microphone requires specific pitches, but 
 like the drums, there are freestyle moments where you can go improvisation and call out to the 
 crowd. Activating Star Power with the microphone requires you to tap your hand on the top of the 
 microphone, which is pretty distracting and can be unresponsive at times. As expected, the guitar 
 and bass controls are the same as always: hold down buttons on the neck of the guitar and strum 
 using the strum bar. The official World Tour controller also has a touch pad for sliding solos, 
 but the positioning of the touch pad makes it more of a hassle in important situations. Tilting 
 the guitar controller up or pressing a button on the controller activates Star Power for the guitar. 
 Not much has changed with the guitar, but it still remains a major part of the gameplay itself. 
 The improved freestyle sequences and cool Star Power activation motions are welcome to the genre, 
 even if some of the motions tend to be a bit unresponsive.
  
  Once you enter the world of Guitar Hero: World Tour, you're introduced to the character creation 
 and band creation aspects. These are pretty addicting if you're looking to remake yourself in Guitar 
 Hero imagery and are quite complex as well. You also get a selection of modes to play: Career, 
 Quickplay, along with multiplayer options and the brand-new music creator. Career is the meat of 
 the game where you play gigs to unlock songs and venues. The near-linear progression makes World 
 Tour feel dated, and it can be a real hassle when all you want to do is play your favorite song. 
 Once you get the songs unlocked, however, the game really gets fun. Quickplay allows for solo and 
 band mode, so any player can jump into unlocked songs quickly. The game also allows for a solid 
 multiplayer mode, both online and off, and playing against other bands online is a great time. 
 But probably the most progressive of modes in World Tour is the music creator, which allows for 
 the creative to develop their own tracks to play. While it's definitely a great idea, and if you 
 have the time and patience you can really create some excellent songs, the song quality is usually 
 low. It can be quite addictive and it's great that the folks at Neversoft decided to try something 
 new, but the result is pretty so-so. Regardless, the modes in Guitar Hero: World Tour manage to 
 match Rock Band 2 well, creating some familiar and unfamiliar ideas that in the end capture the 
 feel of being in a band.
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour has a comprehensive set list, featuring songs from many decades. You'll 
 find classics like Fleetwood Mac's "Go Your Own Way" and Wings' "Band on the Run" along with newer 
 hits like System of a Down's "B. Y. O. B." and Bullet for My Valentine's "Scream Aim Fire." Even progressive 
 metal band Tool makes an appearance with three songs. You won't find a flawless list, though. As 
 easily as you will find a song you absolutely love to play, you'll find another that you won't. 
 Overall, however, the set list's mix of genres and collection of big names in rock and metal will 
 be sure to please. The set list is complimented by some great downloadable content from bands like 
 Smashing Pumpkins and even Jimi Hendrix. However, if you've been keeping up with Rock Band, you'll 
 find the list of DLC to be pretty low compared. It's something that Neversoft is still attempting 
 to master, but it's a major improvement from Guitar Hero III. If you like rock or metal, you'll 
 find a majority of the tracks to satisfy, even if a few won't.
  
  Guitar Hero's presentation has always been a great mix of the alternative and experimental, and 
 World Tour delivers that same quirky humor and excellent graphical tricks. You'll find plenty of 
 great and stylized animations in the opening alone. During gameplay, the animations are smooth 
 and great to watch, although you'll mostly be focused on the scrolling words and circles while 
 playing. The use of real-world artists and venues is also quite cool. Seeing Billy Corgan come 
 on stage to play "Today" is actually quite cinematic, and watching stages erupt with fantastic 
 animations during encores makes the game brilliantly presented. Of specific note is the Tool stage, 
 which doesn't have the band members, but instead shows a trance-like visualization in conjunction 
 to the already alternative tracks of Tool. As expected, the soundtrack is plentiful and well-presented. 
 The use of master tracks adds a sense of authenticity to the game and sound great as well. In contrast 
 to Rock Band 2, Guitar Hero: World Tour adds a sense of personality and pizzazz to the band, and 
 the over-the-top animations match up well with the Guitar Hero's classic atmosphere.
  
  Pros
  + Song list is full of familiar tunes
  + New music creator is inventive
  + Great band 
 multiplayer
  + Incredible presentation
  + A major step forward for the franchise
  
  Cons
  - Takes a while to unlock all the songs
  - Still sparse on DLC
  - Microphone Star Power 
 activation is unresponsive
  - Career Mode feels a bit dated
  - Music creator is minimalist and low quality
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour is by far the most 
 expansive and in-depth installment in the series thus far, and although it has its share of barriers 
 and inconsistencies, it manages to propel itself forward with plenty of new content. The minor 
 alterations from the Rock Band standard manage to work well and fuel the gameplay's creativity, 
 while still making it accessible and easy to jump into. The song list, though slightly flawed, 
 has enough rock and metal to satisfy your local headbanger. The modes are plentiful and varied, 
 and like many other band-based rhythm games, the game is a blast to play when with friends. The 
 inclusion of the music creator is definitely a worthwhile idea, and although the final result isn't 
 the most best-sounding of plans, it manages to give the genre a much-needed step forward. The presentation 
 is classic Guitar Hero, with the expected over-the-top animations and great performances to show. 
 Guitar Hero: World Tour has plenty of great additions to the gameplay and modes and definitely 
 has the power and longevity to match Harmonix's Rock Band 2. Between the two, it's a tough call 
 as to which to buy, but it is safe to say that Guitar Hero: World Tour has entered the band game 
 market with its dukes up. Any music game fan will love World Tour's plentiful modes and rock-solid 
 gameplay. It's an expensive purchase for sure, but it's Guitar Hero at its finest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WEARETHEWII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  First off i love the setlist in the game. When i compared the songs from rock band 2 to GHWT i knew 
 more songs in rock band 2 but when i played GHWT i grew to love satch boogie trapped under the 
 ice and hot for teacher. GHWT really did a great job with the song creating and i love the fact 
 that all these music celabirties come out. The songs that they put in GHWT were very challenging 
 but now all i have to do is beat satch boogie on guitar expert and and also the graphics are off 
 the hook. They really kicked the charater creating up a notch from rock band.
  
  There are some things that i dont like about this game. When i play singing career it make me pick 
 songs instead of jus giving me the gigs. Also sometimes i have to pay for gigs amd then i have 
 no money to pimp out my character. When i play online i am playing on expert mode guitar while 
 i am playing against a 5 year old playing on easy in pro face off mode. Also i would like them 
 to add singing to song creation and also if they are worried about copyright then why did they 
 even put the song creation because what about the songs thatt dont have words in them.
  
  So many people are saying that rock band 2 was better than GHWT but i think GHWT was rock band 
 2 just 10 times better. If ativision just fixes the things i said then GHWT would get a 10 out 
 of ten but for now i am giving it an 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  In this Guitar Hero game you can now play bass, drums, and you can sing. The game is has alot of 
 songs for example No Sleep til Brooklyn, Trapped Under Ice, Crazy Train, and many more. The game 
 has the other instruments to compete with Rock Band. The game is alot easier then the other Guitar 
 Hero games. A bad thing in the game is that if you are doing a full band if one person messes up 
 then it is over. The game also has a create your own song mode. Which is very confusing to make 
 songs at. The game has alot of content. The game is very good to get for a party or for a family 
 to play together. The game deosn't have that much good songs to play and enjoy. You can use a character 
 from the other Guitar Hero games or you can make your own guitar hero character. You can customize 
 your characters outfit and everything. You can even make a guitar, bass and drums. The game is 
 really fun and really enjoyable.
  
  The good of the game is that there plenty of things to do. Customizing is really fun to do. You 
 can play bass, sing, guitar, and drums. 
  
  The bad of the game is that creating songs is really confusing. Some new additions don't enhance 
 expierence. There reallly isn't that much good songs.
  
  Overall this game is a really fun game to play with the family members. I rate this game 8.5 outta 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasomelnyk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  A lot like rock band but its unique in its own way cause it allows you to create and share your 
 own songs. Also the new drum set may be a little more complicated and hard, but once you get used 
 to it you will feel like your actually playing the drums. The new slide board is really cool allowing 
 you to finger tap and put a unique twist to the way you play music. Personally i don't know why 
 everyone is shunning this game. Its a really great game. It basically takes rock band and makes 
 it 10 times better. I think everyone is mad that they copied the whole full drum set and guitar 
 thing. It was eventually gonna happen and everyone knew it. But whats amazing is that guitar hero 
 took those ideas and improved them made them better. So just drop your little "I'm so mad that 
 they copied rock band" and just pick it up and play and you will realize that you may like it better 
 than rock band. 
  
  And finally the song list. The songs on this game are great! It goes into all the different genres. 
 From Tool to Credence Clearwater Revival and all the way to Paramore. I was reading some other 
 people reviews on this game and most said that they didn't like the song list or the song list 
 was too slow. Well i just want to get this out nice and clear. People have different tastes in 
 music. I don't think people should base their review on what the music was like. They should base 
 their review on what the game play was like or the reliability of the instruments or the new features 
 that make this game so unique in the genre. I mean this game basically allows you to make your 
 own music. So what if you don't like the song list. When new songs become available on the marketplace 
 then buy those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion123
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  I'll get right down to the nitty gritty, GH: WT is just plain awful. I say this because as an avid 
 GH3 fan this game simply did not live up to the previous game in terms of song selection, online 
 play, and most importantly gameplay!
  
  The setlists in this game are pretty much a joke save for a couple near the end. I found virtually 
 no pleasure or challenge beating this game in a few hours unlike the weeks of practice I had to 
 do to just beat TTFAF on expert in GH3. The songs themselves aren't very good or appealing I think 
 to the majority of people that play GH, a lot a bit too old or too slow for many tastes.
  
  Online play has been destroyed thanks to removing the ability to duel people on the same difficulty 
 level. THERE IS NO PRO FACE OFF! Online is filled with kids playing on medium and hard so they 
 can cheat their way into a win. Finding no difficulty in the singleplayer I was hoping the multiplayer 
 would offer some challenge but sadly no.
  
  And Finally, The game just doesn't feel right. For this installment of GH they decided to tighten 
 the notes up, you cant finger flail your way through a lot of tough sections like in GH3 which 
 I don't mind except the feeling of the game is all off. I can't really describe it, even though 
 the tightness is along the lines of rockband's... I just flat out hate the feeling of playing GH4. 
 I loved playing GH1, 2, and 3 plus Rockband 1 and 2, yet GH4 doesn't seem to ring the same bells.
 
  
  Add to all this the fact that the peripherals are just as shoddy and weak as rockbands, as well 
 as the fact that the new purple bar on the guitars is impossible to use, I say stay far away from 
 this game. I feel many GH fans are going to be let down by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero : World Tour : The latest installment in the inanely popular musical rhythm game, expanding 
 the range of playable plastic instruments to include plastic drums and USB microphone singing.
 
  
  Story : The in-game story is just the usual bits about cartoon musicians going from a garage to 
 the big time. The out of game story is the one people seem be enamored with; original Guitar Hero 
 developers Harmonix were bought out by MTV and ditched the franchise to produce Rock Band, leaving 
 the development duties of the Guitar Hero franchise to Neversoft, the team who helped create, popularize 
 and bring down the Tony Hawk series (though the downfall may just be more due to Activision's insistence 
 on milking the series for every possible drop.)
  
  And thus the music video game pissing contest was born. It resembles the same pissing contest that 
 most sports game franchises engage in. One company pumps out a game with virtual drums, the other 
 claims to incorporate the same drums but tack on a music creator tool. One company boasts about 
 securing content from AC/DC and the Beatles, the other scores Jimi Hendrix and Metallica. It goes 
 back and forth, and looks like it'll continue to go back and forth until one of the major companies 
 pulls an EA and just buys exclusive rights to the plastic guitar in general or something ludicrous 
 like that. In this year's battle between Guitar Hero : World Tour and Rock Band 2, who pisses the 
 farthest and who just squirts out random yellow splashes?
  
  Indeed, Guitar Hero : World Tour expands on the range of instruments by including vocals and drums. 
 This does make me a little sad on the inside seeing as I thought the one strong point of the first 
 three Guitar Hero games (well, the numbered Guitar Hero games) was the guitar part, and how the 
 setlist seemed to be based on what songs were the most fun to play on guitar and guitar alone, 
 even if it meant the drummer had all of one type of beat to maintain, but alas, the bar has been 
 raised and I'll just have to deal with it. I can't tell you how the World Tour-specific drums and 
 guitar (with its newfangled touchpad neck) handle being as I don't exactly have the kind of scratch 
 that lets me afford buying the latest set of instruments for every annual music game release, but 
 I can tell you that the game really wants its guitarists to use that seem touchpad neck, based 
 on all of the loading screen messages proclaiming how cool you'll be if you do. No thanks.
  
  All of the instruments, on their own, handle okay. Singers can opt to have their words presented 
 to them in a scrolling fashion ala Rock Band or in a karaoke-esque, one-line-at-a-time approach. 
 There doesn't seem to be anything wrong with the note recognition, but you're going to need to 
 hold on to the Xbox controller and press a button to activate star power. For drums, the one difference 
 between this game and Rock Band is you can activate star power by hitting the blue and yellow pads 
 simultaneously; better than waiting for a drum fill and just mashing pads and throwing your band 
 off, but bothersome in that if your timing is off, you can ruin your score multiplier.
  
  Keep in mind, the only reason I know this is because I read it online, as the game doesn't let 
 you view the drum tutorial if you're not using the official Guitar Hero : World Tour drum set.
 
  
  The only new tweak for bass players is the occasional purple line that means "strum the flipper 
 without holding notes". Guitarists now have to contend with translucent notes that are supposed 
 to be played with that bizarre touch screen on the new guitar controller, but I can't imagine having 
 too great results on that being that I'd have to keep an eye on the controller to make sure my 
 finger is sliding on the right part. That new feature seems to be more for show-offs than any practical 
 purpose.
  
  If the game has one nagging flaw, though, it's that when you're playing with more than one person. 
 Namely, when one person fails, everybody fails the song. No chance to rescue your buddy with star 
 power, and no "no fail" option as seen in Rock Band 2. So this comes off as, at best, inconvenient, 
 and at worst, crippling when you play with not particularly skilled (or sober) friends.
  
  World Tour's career mode should be commended, not for what it brings to the table, but for what 
 it doesn't, including:
  
   Hiring promoters or agents for meaningless bonuses
   Halting your progression until you complete a setlist comprising of songs you've played already
 
   Requiring a set number of "fans" to progress
   Numerous extra setlists that mean nothing in the grand scheme of things, except as an alternate 
 means to grind more stars, "fans" and money needed to progress.
   In essence, none of that extra crap from Rock Band 2's World Tour mode.
  
  My idea of a good 
 campaign in a music game is one that just lets me play and unlock all the songs in order of progressing 
 difficulty, so that I can later go back and just play the songs I like. Essentially, what we originally 
 had in the first Guitar Hero. However, World Tour insists on grouping the songs into setlists and 
 making you play through the tracks in groups to advance. However, the issue with this playlist 
 approach is that many of the game's songs are of the morelengthier variety. There's a decided 
 emphasis on concert anthems over singles in this game; the type of songs that would get over huge 
 at a live event and would thus get over huge with people that imagine themselves as rock stars 
 while playing these games (the type of people that bought the Rock Band STAGE adapter perhaps) 
 but playing 4 or 5 of these, along with an out-of-nowhere encore song, is draining on the psyche. 
 One particular setlist ends with a five minute guitar duel with Ted Nugent, followed by the 8+ 
 minute Ted Nugent track Stranglehold.
  
  Speaking of which, here's a game that does what Guitar Hero 3 : Legends of Rock misled you into 
 thinking it was doing; provide more than two actual legends. There are 8 iconic performers within 
 the game, including such legends as Jimi Hendrix, Zakk Wylde andHayley Williams? Is anyone really 
 willing to put the singer of Paramore next to Sting or Ozzy?
  
  In addition, you can create your own character, and the creation tool is fairly robust in terms 
 of appearance. In terms of animations, you're limited to about ten preset stage movement sets. 
 I bring this up because it seems that the previous cast of characters from Guitar Hero games are 
 limited to the same animations. Gone are the days when Lars Umlat breathed fire or Clive Winston 
 busted out a solo on his violin.
  
  At the end of the day, everything about Guitar Hero : World Tour rests on the music itself. I found 
 myself being more compelled by the oddball track picks than the headbanging anthems. Songs like 
 Michael Jackson's Beat It and Willie Nelson's On the Road Again proved to be shockingly fun to 
 play, moreso than the obligatory Metallica track, and I can't imagine that bodes well for the upcoming 
 Guitar Hero: Metallica. The highlight of the entire game is an unlockable three song set from Tool, 
 which replaces the canned animations that normally accompany each song with a moody light show 
 provided by a floating eyeball surrounded by scenery associated with Tool album art. It's a hypnotic 
 set piece that matches the tracks perfectly and makes you wish for more songs in future music games 
 to take this kind of abstract approach to accompanying visuals. Even more satisfying is that once 
 you unlock it, you can use the eyeball as a stage to accompany any song. So you can get that eyeball 
 to perform La Bamba if you felt so inclined.
  
  However, as mentioned above, your enjoyment of Guitar Hero is going to depend on your enjoyment 
 of lengthy rock anthems from the 70s, as it seems like they outnumber the more contemporary songs. 
 While that isn't statistically the case, many of the more modern songs come from lesser known groups 
 like Silversun Pickups (well, lesser known in comparison to The Doors I guess) , as well as a large 
 number of international acts like Tokio Hotel, that are popular in Europe. Likewise, 12 songs (15 
 if you count downloadable tracks) are already in Rock Band 2, so if you played Rock Band 2 first, 
 your experience here will feel a bit more underwhelming. I can understand certain staples like 
 Eye of the Tiger popping up twice, but I'd like to think that the Smashing Pumpkins have a beefy 
 enough discography for both games to not have to feature Today. The difficulty of the songs scale 
 at a more reasonable pace than in Guitar Hero 3, and you can swap difficulties in career mode at 
 any time without having to start all over, a much needed improvement over the previous game. That 
 said, unless you're playing on Expert, the notes you play on your controller don't always seem 
 to match with the music you're hearing, and even Expert will sometimes throw more notes at the 
 player than the musician himself would actually be playing. I tend to think that this would only 
 bother guitar players, but the track listing itself seems to be catered to that very audience
 
  
  And finally, should you feel so inclined, there's the song editor. To actually make a song takes 
 an incredible amount of time, patience and many, many, many tutorials. However, the fruits of your 
 labor will not be so sweet, as the audio quality of original songs is below par and you can't lay 
 down vocals. A handful of the songs that you can currently download from other users are mildly 
 interesting, and perhaps someone will become some kind of YouTube celebrity for making some kind 
 of breakthrough hit or an obscenely challenging track for expert players, but I'd tend to think 
 that real musicians should stick to real instruments for producing real music.
  
  Going back to the toilet analogy, Guitar Hero: World Tour aims to out-urinate Rock Band but comes 
 up against the wind. I'd recommend renting it if just to check out some of the more interesting 
 songs, but whether or not to purchase it depends on your enthusiasm for the playlist as a whole, 
 whether or not you're playing on Expert and if you have 3 like-minded buddies to jam with. However, 
 Rock Band 2 is the music game of choice for me now, the one that I'd rather be busting out to parties 
 with people that never heard of Fleetwood Mac. A music game lives and dies on its setlist, and 
 Guitar Hero : World Tour's is more of an acquired taste, or perhaps a result of trying to please 
 too many people at once and ultimately leaving no one satisfied.
  
  Pros : For more giggles, get Ozzy Osbourne to sing La Bamba.
  
  Cons : It may be too early 
 to make an official judgment, but while the World Tour online music shop is already better than 
 the purchasable songs from Guitar Hero 3, it's nowhere near the level of the Rock Band store.
 
  
  3  stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I think I summed up my entire feelings for this game in the headline, but they don't let you post 
 such a short review, so let's get down to details, shall we? 
  
  I'm the rhythm game "go to" guy in my group of friends, so I always feel bad when someone asks 
 me how GH: WT is. I really enjoy it. But there's nothing it does better than Rock Band. And I feel 
 bad saying it, because I've been with GH since the beginning. Let's break it down. 
  
  Graphics. The graphics here aren't horrible, but the models are FUGLY. I like to make the same 
 guitar player in all my games, and let me tell you, it took me an hour refining her just so she 
 didn't look like a crack whore. It's fun to make your own guitar, but they all look a little too 
 big on the characters. Minor detail. The game just doesn't look as polished as RB. 
  
  Gear. The drums are AWESOME. It really makes a difference. The pads are bigger, they feel like 
 real drums, and the raised cymbals are a bigger improvement that I thought. I like the RB guitar 
 better, but that's personal prefrence. I like the flush buttons and the less clacky strum bar. 
 Strum bar on this one is nice and big which I like. I'll take the RB mic 10 times out of 10. The 
 GH one feels like a toy (I know it is, but the RB one feels like a real mic) . 
  
  Gameplay. The game plays like a Guitar Hero game. Closer to GH2 difficulty, so nothing's impossible, 
 but there's a good deal of work required to finish the expert career. So it's all good. Drums play 
 well as long as you have the GH: WT drums. I first played it with the RB drums, charts were all 
 over the place. Played it with the GH drums, they're charted fine. Singing is broken. Really broken, 
 but that will surely get fixed with a patch in the near future. Sometimes depending on the highway 
 you pick for your instruments the purple bar is hard to see, but it's only on like 2, so no big 
 deal. 
  
  Setlist. Now this is the most important part of a rhythm game. I love being able to play some songs 
 on this game, like the Ozzy songs, Stranglehold, the Hendrix songs, No Sleep 'till Brooklyn and 
 a couple others, but most of the ones I like are already on RB. Some of the more obscure songs 
 (especally the Spanish ones) really grew on me. So there's lots of songs to enjoy here, but with 
 the Who, Elvis Costello, Ramones, DK, and so much more DLC on Rock Band, it wins there as well. 
 
  
  Bottom line, this game is great. It's fun. But it's not Rock Band. If you have a choice of 1 bundle 
 and 1 game by itself, I'd go with the GH: WT bundle and the RB game, but if you can only have one 
 of the games, I'd say go with Rock Band unless the setlist really grabs you here. All I ask is 
 that you don't take this as a bad review. Just not as good as the one I gave RB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When one thinks of Rhythm games nowadays, one tends to think of Guitar Hero. The first two games 
 single handily created a new gaming icon, cemented in the millions upon millions the series has 
 made ever since.
  When lead developer Harmonix parting ways with Red Octane after Guitar Hero II to make their own 
 music game, the overly superior Rock Band, the guys at Guitar Hero thought it best to try to emulate 
 this new type of game, instead of trying to pull of the best "Guitar" Hero game possible.
  
  As you'd expect from the name, Guitar Hero: World Tour, emulates the 'whole band experience' 
 with Guitar, Vocals, Drums and Bass. Even though there are extras added to this new game, don't 
 be fooled, it's very much still a Guitar based game. 
  
  The Guitar portions are fairly straightforward, and by now anyone within contact with a gaming 
 system these days would know what to do. The new guitar, a design created by the team themselves, 
 features a type of sliding sensor bar. You see, while you play on the normal highway with normal 
 coloured notes, you'll come across darker tinged notes, strung together with a purple line. These 
 sections (usually the blisteringly hard sections of difficult songs) are to played with the sensor 
 part of the guitar neck. One wonders if this is a feature simply put in to help those who can play 
 the harder settings, but can't to the incredibly still in-human fast sections of solos. Nevertheless, 
 it's feature is interesting, if yet lazily added to the game since you can actually get by without 
 using it.
  
  And then we have the drums and vocals. The drums play much like Rock Band, except now you have 
 three pads and two symbols, making five instead of four. You activate star power by hitting the 
 two symbols at the same time... a long way away from the fun and exciting drum fills of Rock Band 
 to activate 'energy', though one can't except GH to emulate RB to the letter.
  The vocals are solid, playing much like any singing game.
  The drum hardware is awkward, and 
 annoying. At any time you play, a single hit feels like it'll break the thing apart. The stands 
 are loose, and don't sit right on carpet, and the kick pedal is just plain lazily designed. This 
 doesn't effect my opinion on the game, it's just annoying to note that the hardware is awkward 
 to use.
  
  For me personally, the game shine in the Bass sections (given it's own career in GH, the only one 
 aspect I prefer over RB) Re-creating Bass Guitar a little bit more realistically, is the open E 
 notes, performed by simply strumming without holding down fret buttons. Call me shallow, but as 
 a Bassist myself, this makes for a rewarding experience. It's not Bass, but it makes it feel a 
 lot more at home than any other featured instrument (excluding vocals) in this game 
  
  Now, how far does the game stem from Rock Band, and other previous GH games? Well! Gone are the 
 tiers, the set list being bundled together in a series of stages, where you MUST play a series 
 of three to five songs in one go. The idea behind this is obviously Rock Band's more superior 'World 
 Tour' mode where it consists of not only single song sets, but multiple song sets with various 
 degrees of variety. And this is the solo tour mode. Least to say, the band tour mode is the same, 
 feeling tacked on, where it doesn't make the experience any better.
  
  The presentation of this game is poor, very poor. When I loaded it up, not excepting ground breaking 
 graphics, but something reasonable with the 360's engine, I was met with ugly character models 
 which were poorly animated, a lazy set design for the venues, poor crowd animation. Did Activison 
 have to cut down on the games engine to cram in all those needless extras? Needless to say, it 
 felt like I was looking at a PS2 game circa 2002. Maybe the next gen versions weren't given any 
 special effects or tweaks in the engine, maybe it simply was made to better suit the Wii and PS2? 
 It doesn't matter, pick up the slack next time Activison, your in the big boy leagues now.
  
  Speaking of extras, GH; WT brings in the Music Studio feature. It allows players to create their 
 own GH tracks, the uploading it to a type of in game store where others can download it for free. 
 The studio feature, in theory, is a fantastic idea. However, only will benefit those with musical 
 and songwriting abilities, leaving the bulk of the user base to simply make crap or to ignore it. 
 I for one, have chosen to ignore it. Why? I've written real songs before, and have found it's incredibly 
 easy, yet, the complex studio on show here, is far too complex and tediously limited. Yes, it does 
 present a chance for more content to play, but I don't want to get several hundred versions of 
 Canon in minor littering my play list.
  
  As for the songs, well, the bulk of the 80-something list, is crap. For some reason GH experts 
 have thrown in some trashy unknown songs by unknown bands. Even the bands we know, the song choices 
 are questionable. I can name, right here and now, the best songs from the 80 strong list. Both 
 Ozzy songs, all three Tool songs, 'Beat It' by M. Jackson, 'Assassin' by Muse, 'B. Y. O. B' by System 
 of a Down, 'Hot For Teacher' by Van Halen, and that's it sadly. Yes but the set list can grow on 
 you, muck like Rock Band? No. After finishing the game on Bass, Guitar and Drums, I frank; y don't 
 want to play this game ever again, just so I don't have to look at ugly characters singing ugly 
 songs.
  
  As for characters, a 'create-your-own-rocker' feature has been slide in. As Activison have a history 
 of this stuff, one may think it's going to be good. Wrong. Because the character models are ugly 
 as arse, the facial and hair templates to choose from are hideous. The clothing option, right down 
 to the ability to create your own personal instrument (though cool, yes) are downright disappointing. 
 
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour in my eyes, is a failure. It goes to great lengths to recreate the magic 
 Rock Band had, but falls short when it simply tried too hard ti emulate it. There are shining points 
 to this game, in the Bass and certain song choices, but that's where it really ends. I admit I 
 have a critical view of this game, but all it's problems are out there for people to see. Perhaps 
 a solid Guitar based game was in order this time around, while more research was done to create 
 a more 'fuller' band game? I can see the rush to emulate Rock Band. If it weren't for Rock Band 
 though, and World Tour was the same beast it is today, would it be better for it? Simply, no. This 
 game is a miss mash of half boiled ideas that at it's core, still wants to be purely Guitar based. 
 There are some interesting ideas here, but poorly and sloppily executed.
  
  In closing, World Tour is a sour mix of the Rock Band formula so obviously stolen from the ground 
 up and slightly tweaked, and the formula that made Guitar Hero so great, but missing some of it's 
 vital elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Maitomies
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The main hype from the Guitar Hero - World Tour was the ability to play 4 players consisting of 
 a vocalist, lead guitarist, bass guitarist and a drummer. Since Rock Band was the first to come 
 out with the band kit, it was evident that the music game gender had reached a new level. So it 
 was no surprise that GH would bring a band kit to their games.
  
  With a few additions added, GH-WT didn't fall short making this their best game yet. The setlist 
 is fantastic, having 80 great hits from bands like Bon Jovi, Bullet for My Valentine, Coldplay, 
 Foo Fighters, Lenny Kravitz, Metallica, Muse, Oasis, R. E. M, Van Halen and much more. The setlist 
 is one aspect that has shadowed Rock Band 2.
  
  The GH-WT's instruments are quiet superior to RB2, keeping it wireless and easy. The GH-WT's guitars 
 are able to disemble into 2 parts, making it easier to carry around. The drum kit looks great and 
 giving a more reallistic feeling. One big bonus is that its compatable to use GH-WT's instruments 
 with RB2 and visa versa.
  
  The game itself is fantastic, adding afew new features. One is the graphics of the band in the 
 background has improved. Another is a 'Spare note' which the bass guitarist must hit the strum 
 bar without a fret. There is also a track studio where you can create your own tracks, however 
 its seems confusing and time consuming. Playing the vocalist is fun and challenging. Unlike some 
 singing games, it isn't as easy as humming along to the song and scoring a 'Perfect' without saying 
 a single word. It measures your pitch and there is a marker to see if your hitting the notes properly.
 
  
  Online multiplayer works well, having not only the 1 on 1 play-offs with the guitars but also with 
 the bass and the whole band.
  
  All in all, i gave this game 9.0.
  
  It definitely lived up to it's expectations and is worth the money. Although a close second, Rock 
 Band 2 (the game only) is also worth getting in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  A funny thing happened when I bought this game. Being a huge fan of Guitar Hero, I had been anticipating 
 this game for months. Finally, the day came when I was finally able to afford this game (definitely 
 the most expensive game I've ever bought) , and the second day I had it I got the red ring of death 
 on my 360... an Elite at that. Good thing Microsoft instated that extended warranty, or I'd be mad. 
 At first I thought it was the microphone for this game causing a problem because the first time 
 it happened was the first time I plugged that in and it had initially stopped when I unplugged 
 it, but fortunately for Activision, it was just a hardware failure because it started doing it 
 constantly only a few hours later.
  
  That being said, this game was worth the wait, but liek most games it could have used some touchups 
 here and there. While I do have a few grievances about the game, none are too overwhelming for 
 the game to lose its fun. Of course, as always with the series, the graphics are good. They seemed 
 to have eliminated a lot of the graphical jumpiness as seen in previous games especially when you 
 activated Star Power, but I have seen a few minor glitches. The music selection is kind of mixed, 
 and while the game does have a huge song list, some of them will not be known by most players. 
 Don't get me wrong, I like most of the songs, but most people that play the game are like "we're 
 playing What by Who again?" A lot of the less familiar music is really repetitive too, and for 
 the first time I got 100% on one of the songs on Expert on the first try. The music studio is an 
 interesting addition and a great start, but it is ridiculous and frustrating to use. I wish you 
 could upload songs from your hard drive an just add the notes to them, but that would of course 
 never happen because they wouldn't make any money off of future games. The character creator is 
 great, although they should have added a few more clothing items, particularly shirts. I find myself 
 giving every character I create a wife-beater because everything else is too funky. It's also good 
 that you can create you own instruments instead of using the same old Gibson guitars.
  
  Now, of course, for the few inconveniences about the game. My biggest gripe is with the guitar 
 controller that it comes with. It is flat out horrible, and I play the game with my old Explorer 
 controller. I don't know what's wrong with it, but it just will not play right. Some of the notes 
 are way off, and sometimes there will be absolutely no notes on the screen and I won't be touching 
 a thing, and it will act as if I missed a note or strummed. I've tried playing with both the strum 
 bar and the buttons, both still have the same problem, but the old controllers don't. On a different 
 note, I haven't noticed too many problems with the drums or mic, aside from some occasional unresponsiveness 
 from the drums (but I think that may be because people literally beat the crap out of them) .
  
  Controller aside, there's not a whole lot else that's bad about the game. In career mode, some 
 of the songs seem to be in no particular order. For example, "Re-Education" is one of the later 
 songs that you play, but in Expert it's still pretty easy. Meanwhile, "Crazy Horse" and "Mr. Crowley", 
 which come before it, are way harder. Some songs in the same grouping even will go from extremely 
 easy to relatively difficult. The beginner mode seems useless, but I guess they included it to 
 help people get the rhythm. I think that the difficulty is actually a little light as well, although 
 it did present more of a challenge than the Aerosmith game. I'd like to see them add a few more 
 fret buttons to a controller or add an even higher difficulty called "Unpleasant" and release "Guitar 
 Hero: Don't Play This if You Want to Keep Your Fingers." I could only imagine having to play with 
 7 buttons instead of 5. I don't know where the franchise is going to go with future games, but 
 I think keeping the guitar playing part difficult on the higher difficulties would be a good start. 
 Aside from those gripes, the game is definitely worth it, especially if you're nerdy enough to 
 save your money and buy the full band version.... just make sure you have a spare guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  World Tour introduces the concept of a whole group of people being able to play as an entire band, 
 and the result is fantastic. World Tour expands the dream of being a rockstar into being part of 
 an actual band, with the obvious fun of humiliating each other at the same time. The feature to 
 create your own character is a great addition, and the game does well overall. The song list is 
 good, with only a few songs that will leave you questioning "what the hell was that doing in there?". 
 The game suffers from a few little glitches here and there, and as usual the expert difficulty 
 can sometimes be seen as too difficult, but the game makes up for it with great songs and gameplay. 
 Overall it was a great game, that all fans of previous guitar hero games will enjoy, as well as 
 newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoochpube
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Many different emotions come up when I play this game. To start off on a positive note, the song 
 list is just as good as Rock Band 2, and better than the list from the previous Guitar Hero's. 
 Also, the song studio, yet very challenging and sometimes confusing, is a fun and innovative addition. 
 One of the best new features is that the new guitar battles are much better than Guitar Hero 3. 
 Instead of using impractical and unrealistic battle gems, like the whammy bar or amp overload, 
 it's just you and a legend, and whoever wins over the crowd comes out victorious. For me though, 
 the best new feature was the fact that now they sometimes make you play a held note, and while 
 you're holding the note, you'll have to play other notes at the same time. This is best seen in 
 "Santeria", but I believe that this is only used on hard and expert difficulties. 
  
  Now for the negatives. First off the new "world tour" is not convincing at all. Although it is 
 really cool that you can make your own setlist anytime you want and get paid for it, that definately 
 doesn't outweigh the crappy new world tour. It really just seems like you're just playing a list 
 of songs like in the previous 3. I also have a HUGE beef with this game. I had gotten through the 
 whole game on expert up until the last 2 songs, then I had to switch to hard, and I ended up beating 
 it. You know what happened. Well okay, I'll tell you. It gave me the achievement saying that I 
 had just beaten the game on easy. It specifically said, "You've beaten the game on easy, ready 
 for Medium yet?" I was SO pissed. But I'm sure that doesn't happen very often.
  
  Overall, it doesn't quite live up to the expectations that Rock Band 2 has set, but it's still 
 worth playing for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frosty789
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  I already know what people are thinking; "Oh look, a Rock Band rip-off!".
  
  Well its not, it kicks ass compared to that Rock band crap, and you'll see why, as soon as you 
 pick up the drum sticks and start tapping it all becomes second nature to you. To be fair it was 
 hard to start with, and it was easy for me to impersonnate a patient with Parkinsons, but after 
 the tutorial, and a few songs, me and 2 of my buddies were tearing up the living room.
  
  We looked liked a bunch of retards, but it didnt matter. As soon as I found different ways to hit 
 the drums, or time it differently, well I dont wanna blow my own horn but it was pretty damn slick.
 
  
  People..... you have to get this...... or atleast play it....... twice.
  
  It rocks, the song choices are amazing, Bon Jovi; Living On A Prayer and Beat It by MJ are my top 
 2, and so much fun to play again and again. 
  
  It was well worth the money, and I would recommend this to anyone who wants to have a laugh with 
 there mates, ot just chill out and hit the mic for a few hours, dont rate it on other peoples opinions 
 though, try it for yourself, and try and proove me wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  To start off, I do not own this game. But I have played it at walmart and gamespot (the full game 
 not the crappy demos) for like 6 hours the last two days, and ive played all of the instruments 
 except for vocals. Ive played all the modes to. Career, Music Studio, Rock Creator and everything. 
 So it is pretty much like ive had the game.
  
  THE GOOD-
  *The New Guitar just feels more naturally better.
  *The Bass has a new note that looks like a 
 purple bass
  *The music creator is super deep and is fun to make songs.
  *The game has many challenging songs
  *The music studio lets you play other peoples songs
  
 *The GH Tunes lets your search for good songs and yours.
  *The Rock Creator is really deep too, and it rocks!
  *The Drums has cymbals, and are very bouncy.
 
  *The song list is my favorite yet (Vicarious fav)
  *The celebrities like Hayley Williams and Ozzy
  *The guitar battles are beast!
  *Tool IS ON 
 GHWT!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  THE BAD (ONLY REASON ITS NOT a 10) -
  *The whole just overall everything can be confusing
  *Its confusing to make your own song onto 
 GH Tunes
  *Activating Star Power on drums are a pain
  * Some User Made Content is like impossible
  *Career made out of gigs (though more realistic)
 
  *There has to be a leader for the band career (like RB1)
  
  Achievements-
  Even though i was just playing the game on gamespot and did not get achievements, i know the achievements 
 and what i would have got. If you beat the game on Expert, you will about get 400 points, which 
 is pretty crazy, and all the little secret achievements are easy to get, like making a rock girl 
 or rock boy, and getting tattoos and crap like that. Im getting this for christmas so if anything 
 i missed from the gamestop game to the one im getting ill put back in here and ill include the 
 mircophone vocals but i bet it aint much different from RB2. 
  
  This game is great and everyone should get it. So close for my opionion of a 10!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  While the tracks are varied and the character creator is pretty good, there are several things 
 that hold this game back. The tracks are more lose and easier to play than GH3, the music creator 
 comes up short with sloppy controls and a confusing interface, and the instruments are poorly made. 
 I use Red Octane instruments to play with Rock Band but having to take back my guitar once for 
 button issues and my buddies drums breaking right out of the box, there's no excuse for that, especially 
 for the price tag. The only thing that I liked about this game is the fact that it gives you time 
 to get into position after you pause the game. That's it! I've played every GH game, including 
 Aerosmith, and I hate to say it but Activision is turning the series into the next Tony Hawk. Hopefully, 
 they can fix the current problems and come out strong with the next series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  ok guitar hero world tour this time brings all instruments just like rock band 
  is this game better than rock band in some way yes in others not.
  
  graphics-they are improved 
 from gh3 but animation is again abit robotic compared to rock band great animationss.
  
  soundtrack-this sountrack is great i dont know why people hate it so much im 16 years old an here 
 are better songs then rock band 2 this got misery bussines monsoon scream aim fire van halen and 
 others i like rock band only have like 15 songs i liked this have a huge library but bad thing 
 is not to much songs as dlc right now.
  
  gameplay-just like rock band but much more hard the timing is the same as gh3 and the drums fell 
 more real than rock band ones. but it also have technical problems i really dont get the point of 
 begginer mode wtf
  if some ones loose youre all screw and campain alone fells terrible
  
  online-online is really bad this time i liked the gh3 way more than this theres no vocal vs vocals 
 duels and 2 vs 2 battles fells stupid and random
  
  value-well f the dlc come youl be playind this until gh5
  
  
  a great game that feel inovative 
 i forgot to talk about the studio but i dont know how to use it well but this game is much more 
 challenging and fun than rb with better sountrack but technical inferior 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshTheMod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Brilliant game, full of fun and engaging game play, and thats wtihout talking about the multiplayer 
 which is a whole new level of FUN. Sure at first the drum pads don't seem responsive but once you 
 realise you have been hitting on the sides or some other kind of dumb way you realise the drum 
 kit is AWESOME.
  
  The track list is full of loads of big names and there are big faces to go along with the names 
 which makes it even more exciting when you are rocking away with the likes of JIMI HENDRIX :-D. 
 There are also some fun qurky songs like "on the road again" and "la bama" which are a joy to play 
 on any format
  
  The multiplayer is brilliant full of embassment when you and your friends to "sing" lol all in 
 all i LOVE this game Rock on ACTIVISION!!!!!!
  
  The downloadable content is awesome but unfortunately not enough is add over time but stilll there 
 are some cracking songs available at the moment
  
  and be excellent to yourself and each other 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say that Guitar Hero World Tour meant well when they added vocals and drums with 
 the guitar and bass but I thought Rock Band was better in a few ways with one of them being online 
 gameplay. World Tour has Face-Off, Pro Face-Off, Duel for guitar, bass and drums and also has band 
 quickplay and online band career like Rock Band does. One of the problems with Guitar Hero World 
 Tour was that there wasn't a vocals duel and that's where Rock Band was better and World Tour lost. 
 How can they have a game like this but no online vocals duel? Vocals in general was a bit confusing 
 because you know the song and you're singing and you think you complete the song at 100% but it 
 ends up being like 90-something. Vocals are something I need to work on but in the meantime, I 
 think Rock Band's vocals are better. I'm gonna talk about the songs in the game. NO COVERS!!!! 
 Every song in World Tour is a master recording. EVERY SINGLE SONG IN THE GAME!!! From Billy Idol's 
 Rebel Yell to Pat Benatar's Heartbreaker and Wings' Band On The Run and Go Your Own Way by Fleetwood 
 Mac (Also in Rock Band 2) . All master recordings. Some of the songs are great but as for others, 
 they are songs you don't really want to play again. The setlist still has what you would expect; 
 from classics to modern day rock. I was glad to see Hotel California because that song is close 
 to me. I first heard the song when I was about 7 or 8 years old and it's been a childhood song 
 of mine so I was really happy to find out this song would be in the game. Tool is in the game too 
 and I liked one of their songs but I loved that background. So artistic yet trippy. One of No Doubt's 
 songs are in the game too but I don't really care for that band or Gwen Stefani. I don't care for 
 Tokio Hotel either but I know the song Monsoon. (Bill Kaulitz looks like a chick lol.) I noticed 
 that most of the songs from Rock Band 2 and DLCs like BYOB were in Guitar Hero World Tour. Whereas 
 some songs are good, others you just don't want to play again because it's either too hard to too 
 annoying. I will talk about the famous musicians now. Guitar Hero III was the first of the series 
 to feature famous musicians. Slash, Tom Morello and Bret Michaels. World Tour has 7. Travis Barker 
 (Blink 182) , Billy Corgan (Smashing Pumpkins) , Zakk Wylde (Black Label Society) , Sting (The Police 
 and solo artist) , Ted Nugent, Hayley Williams (Paramore) , Ozzy Osbourne and the resurrected Jimi 
 Hendrix. I was happy to see Zakk Wylde because he's one of my favorite guitarists next to Dan Donegan 
 (guitarist for Disturbed) , Joe Satriani and Buckethead. The music studio was a good idea but you 
 can only make instrumental songs. a better idea would've been if you can make your own chart out 
 of songs you have in your hard drive and being able to sing. I'm still trying to figure out how 
 to make songs and upload them to GHTunes. Well, Guitar Hero World Tour was good and it beats Rock 
 Band in characters and music studio but Rock Band beats it by online gameplay and drum freestyle. 
 Oh, I forgot to mention that Guitar Hero no longer has the Gibson license so no more Les Pauls 
 or SGs. Instead, you make your own guitars with a selection of body, fretboads, top, pickguards, 
 strings, pickups and bridges and knobs. As for the drums, here's the difference between Rock Band 
 and World Tour: in Rock Band, you get a little drum freestyle mode when you have enough overdrive 
 energy so you can activate it. In World Tour, you have to hit the blue and yellow pads but you 
 have to do it at the right time so you won't break your note streak. Rock Band's drum mode was 
 better in my opinion. In conclusion, Guitar Hero World Tour wasn't what I expected it to be but 
 the famous musicians and songs make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is obviously a huge jump for Guitar Hero now that you can use more than just a guitar, 
 so when will they change the name??? If we are playing drums and mic as well they should change 
 it to "Band Hero" or something of that sort!
  
  Well I shelled out the $205 after tax for this huge system as I heard that the RockBand drums are 
 a piece of crap, and I wanted to try out the cymbols on this system. It sure as hell is a blast! 
 I have NEVER played the drums before, nor on any Rock Band setup or game either, so this was my 
 first crack at it, and yes it's a bit tough to start out but well worth your time and the experience 
 is amazing!
  
  I am still a whiz at the guitar, yet that slide bar is a little ahead for me I can't seem to get 
 that mastered down at all as it's hard to swap back to the normal buttons then back to the slider, 
 but it's a nice effect! I like the larger guitar, my wife doesn't like it, but i hate that mine 
 squeeks like crazy when playing it.
  
  The drums are great as I mentioned, just need to learn to master them, and once that midi-cable 
 adjuster comes out to tune those drums, then I'll be set for life!
  
  Well the mic is debatable, alright if you are spending $200 for this system AT LEAST they can give 
 you a wireless mic! They sell that wireless one at the store with the Xbox 360 buttons on it to 
 switch around, but this mic is lane, you have to run the dang wire and then use a regular controller 
 to switch things around. They could have at least given a wireless mic with buttons on it for the 
 price this entire system costs! Also, trying to get rock star on the mic hurts like hell! You have 
 to slap your hands together and hitting them on the mic actually causes some pain, that's why a 
 wireless mic WITH BUTTONS would be great so you could touch a button to get rock star to enable.
 
  
  Overall, the game is great, the machines are somewhat debatable especially for the huge price tag 
 I had to spend. Also, the setlists are not that great. I dont like much of the new music out right 
 now nor do I waste my time watching that crap they play on MTV over the past few years, so all 
 the NEW songs I have never heard before, nor do I like them. I preferred the songs on Rock Band 
 2 much much more! Dammit and freak on a Leash were my overall favorites in this game, while in 
 Rock Band 2 you get Down with the Sickness, Chop Suey, and Judas Preist, Dream Theater, and Megadeth!
 
  
  The better thing about this than Rock Band 2 is that you play through a set/gig and you only have 
 to play the song once, while on Rock Band 2, to go through a World Tour you have to play the same 
 dang songs over and over and over again in different sets which gets extremely annoying! But the 
 fact also that in GHWT you have to buy sets/gigs to complete your career really sucks as well. 
 Especialy because the Tool setlist costs $8000 for only 3 songs! And I am not a Tool fan, so perhaps 
 something like Blink 182, Disturbed, Metallica, Slipknot, or Korn would have made this much better 
 to purchase that gig for $8000.
  
  
  Well also the fact that there are numerous songs and bands from GHWT and Rock Band 2 that are the 
 same really sucked, paying more money to play the same stuff over again.
  
  get the game if you like the series, BUT remember in March comes Guitar Hero: Metallica which is 
 going to be the greatest game ever made! A whole game dedicated to Metallica is what we all need 
 to complete our lives :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan_10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour adds the newest features in the series. The guitar and bass makes friends 
 with the drums and the microphone and with these instruments combined, they will make the greatest 
 rock band in the world. The game only lacks graphics but don't mess with the game's setlist, thanks 
 to a lot of familiar hits in the setlist the game is something that you can't avoid playing. In 
 the previous game only three made a special guest appearance but this time the game adds nine special 
 guests which are Hayley Williams of Paramore, Ozzy Osbourne of Black Sabbath, Zakk Wylde of Black 
 Label Society, Travis Barker of Blink-182 and +44, Ted Nugent, Sting of The Police, Billy Corgan 
 of The Smashing Pumpkins and returning from the dead is Jimi Hendrix. The guest appearances aren't 
 the only thing that makes the game addictive, there's also the venues from real life like the AT&T 
 Park in San Francisco, the Ozzfest and the House of Blues. The setlist now contains over 80 songs, 
 such artist in the setlist include Linkin Park, Ozzy Osbourne, Paramore, Jimi Hendrix, Michael 
 Jackson, System of a Down, Korn, Van Halen. etc. A good feature in the game is the Character Creation 
 mode where players can create and edit characters in different categories which are Rock, Metal, 
 Black Metal, Goth, Classic Rock, Pop, Mixed, etc and creating instruments for a character. Another 
 good feature is the Music Studio mode where players can create their own song or download songs 
 from Xbox Live. In the previous games, players must progress through Career mode by playing songs 
 in the setlist but in Guitar Hero World Tour instead of playing songs in setlists the player progresses 
 by playing "gigs" where the player must play the game without choosing which song goes first then 
 after the player finishes a "gig" the player is awarded in-game money by meeting the required criteria 
 such as Never Red (not letting the Rock Meter reach red) , Hot Start (starting a song without missing 
 a note) , etc. In Career Mode, players are given two options to play solo or as a band (duo, trio 
 or full band) . Unlike the previous games, the characters are given different kinds of movements 
 depending on which song the players are playing like the vocalist doing the moonwalk while playing 
 "Beat It", the vocalist and bassist rapping while playing "No Sleep till Brooklyn", etc. A new 
 addition to the game are the instruments which the guitar/bass controller is closer to being the 
 size of real guitar, added with a touch pad below the fret buttons for notes connected be a line, 
 a longer whammy bar and the start and select buttons moved slightly below the strum bar. The drum 
 controller is placed with two cymbals, three drums and bass drum pedal. The microphone controller 
 requires an Xbox 360 controller for selection. The next question is "Are you ready to rock?" if 
 "Yes" then form a band and start touring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juvenal123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got the game reserved as I was excited to play it but when I began to play it, problems 
 occurred. The drum pedal won't work. I didn't mine as I could just play the game without the pedal. 
 I finish the whole tour in two days which was about I say 3 hours each day, I think. The songs 
 are good but some I just didn't like. A huge disappointing thing about the game was the music studio. 
 It's kind of weird on how you make the song you want and much more. Above all this game gets pretty 
 boring when you play by yourself but with a few friends its a blast. I thought the game was going 
 to be Awesome but i think it was overhyped to me in the end. I think its a game you rather rent 
 to see if you like then instead of buying if you like the songs. But if you have the money and 
 a guitar hero fan then go buy it but don't expect too much. Not there best work but an okay game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-chump-x
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  So basically unless you just really want about 50 or so songs that aren't on Rock Band 1 or 2, 
 or you just like the Guitar Hero franchise better, than have fun with this game. However, throughout 
 playing it, I came to realize one thing. BORING. I almost dozed off while playing Hotel California 
 as well as numerous other songs. Even songs I remember from Rock Band 2 weren't even delieverd 
 as epically in this sad excuse to compete with Rock Band.
  The songs are empty, and the drums feel thrown together. As far as guitar goes, it feels just as 
 if it could be called Guitar Hero 4: Band Cameos Edition.
  There's more random artists popping up and you don't even know why.
  Another thing that got on 
 my nerves is the repitition. A shining example of this is playing Beat It with Rock Band's drums 
 rather than the ones that come with the bundle. I literally played the same thing over.. and over.. and 
 over.. and over.. for 4 or so minutes. Not only did my wrists hurt, but it felt like a chore just 
 trying to get through a playlist!
  
  
  In short, Rock Band 2 is better in just about every way imaginable, so do yourself a favor and 
 pass on this broken gem. I was definately disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minh91
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was just done really poorly. The character animations look robotic, the note charts are 
 just terrible, and character customisation is very, very limited.
  
  Granted, there are a few great songs in there, which may be fun playing with up to three mates, 
 but just sheer lack of innovation (the slide feature, even though I use a GH3 guitar, works, but 
 gets old fast) kills the series.
  
  Everything else just looks, or is, broken. My guitar activates every single time I get up to half 
 full star power. I usually play my guitar tilted, because that's how I always play guitar, but 
 at least on GH3 it doesn't be a bastard after the first time and automatically activate.
  
  The whole band bowing down to you after a song on single-player is just very annoying. For some 
 reason they worship you like a god after you do the easiest song. It's stupid. And when the characters 
 move, they look retarded.
  
  Instrument-wise, the new peripherals aren't bad, however I hear reports of the instruments failing 
 after a few days. In comparison to the Rock Band 1 instruments, they are pretty much the same, 
 however, I prefer the Rock Band 1 guitar's solo buttons and the Rock Band 1's drum kit, as the 
 GH: WT drum kit feels less natural with only three toms.
  
  However, like I've said, some good songs just barely save the game. For other Australians out there, 
 you pretty much have two choices: 1. Get Rock Band 1, save your money, and be happy with your decision, 
 or 2. Be a proud ignorant bastard, boycott EA, blow 300 dollars and, well, suppose if you're that 
 proud, you'll be happy anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplayer23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game, better than rock band 1 by far. great animations, great gameplay, the highway 
 seems to be improved which doesnt do much but it is a good change, and great creation modes. the 
 creation is way better than rock bands and way more extensive yet it is still very simple to use 
 however some camera angles during the creation of tatoos on arms are poor but thats not too bad 
 at all. the music studio is a bit tricky to get used to but its very fun. overall this is a great 
 game until you get online, then its problems come out. the Band vs Band mode sounded like a great 
 idea and it definatly had me stoked on it, but when you go to connect to play with another band, 
 it finds the players but doesnt link up. also, it sucks when your playing on expert and your playing 
 the hardest song out there and your opponent is on easy hitting every note and then you lose because 
 you couldnt keep a combo. i think the online game should be connected based on difficulty level. 
 all and all, this is deffinatly a solid game with minor little flaws that can be fixed but it still 
 blows its compettion away
  
  PROS:
  great animation and lighting effects
  great creation software
  easy UI that is simple and quick to pick up on
  music studio and GHTunes
 
  peripherals
  
  
  CONS:
  drummers animation is at times behind what the actual song is playing
  online flaws
  music 
 studio is complicated
  NO TRANSFERRABLE DLC!!!
  peripherals
  
  
  
  
  
  
  * [NOTE] despite my name on here, i own the 360 version and reviewed the 360. from what i hear, the 
 Wii version is beyond bad.
  
  i tried to make it even with the pros and cons but if i were to go on, the pros list would be better 
 and longer than the cons list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Neversoft placed fair to many boring guitar songs for the sake of drums and vocals. It's great 
 that they added the other instruments but, terrible that I have to play "Freak on a Leash" on Guitar 
 Hero. To many songs are not aimed towards guitar
  
  Seems that your timing doesn't have to be quite as good either. I would purposely play slow and 
 still hit notes when I was far off.
  
  Al that with the new touch frets makes the game far to easy for the seasoned Guitar Hero. This 
 maybe a good thing though. Not many people play in expert before but, now they can. There are also 
 one to many songs from previous titles for my liking. Just wait for Guitar Hero: Metallica next 
 year. That's all anyone really wants anyways. After that title I predict a drop in GH/RB sells.
 
  
  They only aspect of the game I enjoyed was making music though they setup wasn't that great. Hopefully 
 the creation software will be more streamlined and represent actual software like Acid Pro or Ableton. 
 Picking the duration of each note can become veeeeeeeeery tedious and the real time recording is 
 just to far off.
  
  If you have all the other GHs and RBs buy a different title unless you really like to create music 
 under many restriction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgcrider08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  My biggest complaints about Guitar Hero have always been issues dealing with not enough "familiar" 
 songs, as well as not being able to rock out with a band over XBL. However, this game solves both 
 of those issues quite well. The playlist is extra solid, with over 80 songs to play, and the playlist 
 includes music from several different genres, which I like because I'm not a metal head and I like 
 the mix. The venues and graphics are insane and the overall sound of the guitar is just better.
 
  
  I am also annoyed to hear everyone say this is a copy of RB2. I realize many of the songs are the 
 same, and the instruments and all that. We get it. It's really a matter of preference in which 
 series you like best. If you like Rock Band better, then play it and don't whine. Both games easily 
 have their merits. This game has many improvements that were much needed for the Guitar Hero series, 
 and I think has finally found the right difficulty level. Slightly harder than Aerosmith but no 
 where near the insane difficulty of GH3. The crazy number of songs keeps you busy for a while and 
 the ability to rock out with people online gives this game "replayability", which is huge when 
 you are talking about the value of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRAMPAGE03Xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is soo much fun for the first insrtument u play it on... then the songs get a little 
 boring... they need to start making new songs faster... theyve come out with lke min. of 10 songs 
 and they arent that good. online is good but u can never find a singer. its almost imposible to 
 get a 4v4... band quickplay is fun. not as much stuff in the character creator and instrument creator 
 as i thought/wished. the new guitar is so dirty and whats good with bass is that they have free 
 strums and pull offs. makes it a little tougher and hard to get used to. the touch strum is a good 
 idea, but very hard to get used to. i just playthem as hammer-ons mostly. over all this game is 
 fun.... great when u have 4 people on one console... its a blast. try singing while playing another 
 instument. tricky but ur so happy when u finally get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game, first of all. This article won't compare this game to Rock Bands 1 or 
 2, (this and those are similar) but it will look at the game by itself. First of all, the drum 
 pads and drumming set up is very smart and innovative, and they got such drummers as Travis Barker 
 to design the thing.
  
  There is an awesome list of songs from all different genres of music and there is something probably 
 to please everybody, unless you enjoy music without any guitar in it. If the latter is the case, 
 do not buy this game.
  
  The guitar has been thoroughly improved because the size increase makes it feel more real, and 
 the microphone is very good as well.
  
  My biggest criticism is that the game seems to be too forgiving of mistakes at a first glance and 
 isn't as challenging as Guitar Hero II was. Besides that, the game hasn't been bad at all so far 
 and I look foward to playing it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarheel5042
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 8/10 - Aren't much too them. They have improved the background music video thing, but 
 again, you dont buy the game to watch the band in the back. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - Guitar is awesome as always. I def. like playing guitar on GH: WT then I do in RB:1/2. 
 As the drums sit, it was a great attempt by Activision, but they failed on a couple of parts. The 
 drum pads double hit alot, the foot-pedal misses on alot of stuff. I give RB:1/2 the nod on drums. 
 Still a great new addition in GH and will be great in next years game for sure, but I think they 
 just rushed it this time around.
  
  Soundtrack 7.5/10 - Very dissapointing sums the soundtrack up. They have a great list of "decent" 
 songs, but not big enough list of "great" songs. Seems to me that they just took a list of albums 
 and randomly picked songs from each one. Hopefully the downloadables will bring nice songs. 
  
  Fun Factor 8.5/10 - While its a great and fun game to play, this one gets boring faster then 
 previous years. Multiplayer is alot more fun due to the additional instruments. Single player just 
 lacks this year though, mainly due to the poor soundtrack.
  
  Overall Rating 8.25/10 ---  8.5/10
  Still a fun and great game for what it is, but it dissapointed 
 me to say the least. They rushed the drums and microphone, and did a very poor job on the soundtrack 
 selection. I love the game, but it should be a 9.5/10 instead of what it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterj93
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Well to begin guitar hero world tour is a solid game with plenty of things to do such as creating 
 songs, characters and playing the soundtrack. One of the problems though is that the campaign is 
 pretty boring unless you have another player with you. Another is that the song creator is difficult 
 to use unless you really know how to use it. The songs are not the best ever but they have some 
 good ones such as BYOB, Crazy Train, Heart breaker and more. Overall this is a good guitar hero game 
 but the whole franchise was better when it wasn't trying to act like rock band (plus copying like 
 20 songs from rock band 2) . But since this is still a guitar hero game it deserves some good in 
 its name even though some things about it might disappoint you. I wouldn't consider it to be a 
 full buy but a sure rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glitch_Fox
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game by far beats rock band in visuals and customization for your avatar and guitar, but for 
 the soundtrack I recommend you see what the list is first. To me the list was pretty crappy, I 
 have to say tho that eye of the tiger and some other songs that are found on RB is way better on 
 GHWT than RB.
  
  There is some spanish songs on GHWT, I found it quite awkward cuz if i did want to sing the song 
 i would have no idea what in the Fudge i was saying sorry i slep thru spanish I just find it odd.
 
  
  I am just goin to say if you like the music list you will have a blast with this game if not look 
 elswhere if you have access to downloading content and get music you do like than have a blast 
 as for me if you have RB or RB2 or any of the GH series if you have played one you have played 
 them all
  
  I own all the GH series and RB series they are all great and this game is just as great, just needed 
 a better soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Irving
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna write this in a rush, so expect some grammatical errors here.
  
  I'll start with the good stuff. It's what you've come to expect from Guitar Hero, for better or 
 for worse. Notes come down. You hit them. That is good. Sarcasm aside, the addition of drums, bass, 
 and mic give it a much better multiplayer. While this isn't anything new to Rock Band players, 
 such as myself, it's still a welcome addition and doesn't change the fact that it's straight-up 
 fun. GHTunes/Music creator (whatever you want to call it) is useful and excellent for those who 
 take the time to use it well....
  
  
  .... However, too many people are just jumbling together songs that are XTREME HARD LOLZ! This really 
 discourages downloading songs off GHTunes. Plus, you can't record vocals. Being an occasional vocalist, 
 this really bummed me out.
  Another major flaw are the instruments. Is it really that hard to create a functioning product?! 
 Rock Band had this problem too, and there was mass complaint over it, so I assumed Activision would 
 be cautious when they released their full band game. I guess not, because my new guitar wasn't 
 working out of the box. My friend said his drums were broken. On the off-chance you got the proper 
 equipment, you'll have fun right away. For us, we'll have to wait and use our old GH/RB instruments 
 (which all work together, which is a nice touch) . 
  Even when the instruments work properly, many of their functions are plain annoying. The drums, 
 for example. To activate star power, one must hit both symbols at once. It turns out to be annoying 
 to deploy star power in the middle of a long streak or a difficult section. The guitar is also 
 poorly thought out. The touch-strip comes off as gimmicky, and it turned out (at least for me) 
 to be easier to simply hammer-on with the buttons than reach for the strip (which, I've heard, 
 sometimes goes off accidentally mid-song, but I personally haven't had this problem) .
  The song list, while containing songs and groups that definitely deserve to be in a music game 
 (Van Halen, Eagles, Beat It by Michael Jackson) have several odd choices. Assassin, which is a 
 great song and sounds exciting, turns out to be quite boring for all instruments but drums. Hot 
 For Teacher?! Van Halen is a great band, but they have much better songs. What I've Done is a poor 
 Linkin Park choice (although I'd have preferred no LP) . Three Tool songs is overkill. I could tolerate 
 one, but there are more deserving bands. Why not three Van Halen or Eagles songs? The Joker is 
 a great song to listen to, but there are better Steve Miller Band songs to party to.
  While famous musician characters are a great idea, but several of them just look ugly. Sting looks 
 drugged-out and oddly thin. I could barely recognize Travis Barker. Hayley Williams is much more 
 attractive in person.
  This isn't exactly a criticism, but the way the guest characters are introduced is a little iffy. 
 Why is Ozzy jumping in with La Bamba? I didn't know Zakk Wylde liked No Doubt.
  
  
  I know it seems like there are a lot of cons (because there are) , but they don't change the fact 
 that it is fun. Get a few friends together and play it. You won't notice a lot of these flaws. 
 It's the same, tested music-game formula, and if you just want a good time, this game deserves 
 to be played, despite some unpolished spots.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniackilla1136
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Same tried & true gameplay. Just as fun as it was from GH1. Amazing Graphics. Some pleasant 
 surprises in the set-list. Great for those who've never played GH before. 
  THE BAD: Some interesting new features that are poorly executed. Music studio completely unnecessary 
 (unless you like composing music that belongs in a SNES game) Carreer mode entirely uninspiring. 
 Difficulty level scaled down way too much. Everbody hated the boss battles! Why are they still 
 there?
  
  Guitar hero World Tour... what can I say about it? How about meh, it's alright. I concider myself 
 a huge Guitar hero fan. I own every version of GH that was ever released (except this one, wich 
 I rented) . So, obviously, when I heard about GHWT I was rather excited. When I heard it was going 
 to include drums & vocals, my excitement level dropped a bit. The whole "me too" strategy (in my 
 opinion) is weak! I guess they thought they could take what Rock Band did & do it 10 times better, 
 by filling it with a bunch of crazy new features. Appearantly, not so much!
  
  I can't really say much about the new peripherals, because when I heard all the horror stories 
 about the faulty equipment, I decided not to get them & just stick with the Rock Band instruments. 
 The whole touch pad strip thing is a dumb idea (in my opinion) & doesn't really resemble actual 
 guitar playing. The whole reason GH is fun is because you really feel like your playing the guitar. 
 The drums look very cool, seeing as they have cymbals. When they finally improve the faulty peripherals, 
 I may just purchase the drumset. Rock Band is coming out with cymbal add-ons to the RB2 set so... 
 maybe not. We shall see.
  
  Now there are actually a few things GHWT does better than RB. While subtle changes they are, they 
 make a big difference to me. One is being able to switch difficulties mid-song or mid-set. I applaud 
 this feature! How many times have you played RB & during a mystery setlist, they throw one of the 
 more difficult songs at you. You know you can't get through the song, so you have to abandon the 
 gig & lose a bunch of fans for doing so. This frustrates me to no end & makes me not want to play 
 anymore. Good thinking when they added that feature. The custom character creator is superb, allowing 
 you much more control over how your avatar looks. If you work at it hard enough, you can get your 
 avatar to look exactly like yourself. That feature definitely draws you into the game more effectively 
 & actually makes you pay a little more attention to your avatar while you play. The non-strumming 
 (hammeron/pulloff) notes are a lot easier to see than RB, but that's nothing new. RB actually improved 
 that (in RB2) by making the non-strumming notes even smaller than before. I also like the fact 
 that during sets the game pauses between songs & lets you continue on with the set at your leisure. 
 RB does not give you enough time between songs to go grab another beer, that is unless I run to 
 the fridge really fast & barely make it back in time for the next song. I hate that LOL. Pausing 
 during a song is great too, for now when you unpause the game it gives you a little countdown before 
 the song resumes. You just don't understand how great that feature is. RB could learn a few things 
 from GHWT & hopefully these subtle yet profound features will be included in RB3.
  
  Now let me talk about the most major addition to the game, wich in my opinion, is comeplety unnecessary 
 & has already been done 1000 times better on a humble little system called the PS1. The Music Studio!! 
 Why am I so opposed to this feature you ask? A lot of people really love this new feature & have 
 made some interesting songs with it, but.... The songs that are created with this sound like total 
 crap. Unless you enjoy listening to polyphonic ringtone music. If you can learn this complex peice 
 of software, you can do some pretty neat stuff with it, but all I can do is think back to the good 
 old PS1. A little peice of software that I spent (litterally) hundreds of hours on, creating cassette 
 tapes full of original music. The software was called the "MTV Music Generator" & it was a stellar 
 peice of software. Now if they could put an extremely deep & user friendly music creator on a little 
 PS1 disc (800 megabytes or less) , allowing you to create great sounding radio quality music, what 
 the heck is this monstrosity in GHWT?! I just don't get it! I guess the feature sounded great on 
 paper, but poorly executed & extremely non-user friendly. I think they just tried to cram way to 
 much content in this insanely bloated peice of software.
  
  Although my review seemed pretty negative (concidering the score I gave it) , The game itself is 
 still very fun. If your a seasoned GH player & are looking for a new challenge, I suggest you stick 
 with Rock Band. While RB is much easier than GH3, it is much more challenging & fun for us serious 
 plastic musicians. If your new to the plastic instrument games, definitely give GHWT a shot because 
 it's a great entry level game. The game mechanics are extremely addicting & fun. Songs you never 
 liked before will begin to grow on you & you might even discover some new music to add to your 
 music collection. Heck! It might even inspire you to learn to play a real instrument!
  
  So all in all GHWT is a good game, but not great. the scaled down difficulty will atrract a lot 
 of new gamers to the franchise & will put off a lot of the seasoned GH players. That's OK though 
 because they seem to really listen to gamer feedback & I'm pretty sure the next GH will be amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trentsta107
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to compare this to Rock Band so don't worry about all these bulls*** reviews that 
 say this is a bad game because Rock Band is better.
  Okay I have owned and beaten every Guitar Hero on expert. DO NOT buy this game if you are looking 
 for a challenging guitar career. The guitar career is very very fun but it's not challenging to 
 hardcore GH players.
  Overall I have some problems with the overall 4 person band play. If someone dies 95% through a 
 song then you all have to play it over which just plain sucks so there should be a saving ability 
 involved. Also its hard to tell when someone is failing unless you are somehow watching everyone 
 else's fretboards while you are playing. But besides those small things this a good and very fun 
 installment in the GH series that should be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorwang12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is a great game with great new additions... i will b talking about the instruments, 
 setlist, music studio, create a rocker, 
  
  DRUMS: The drums r a great addition 2 guitar hero. it feels and looks right. its better than rock 
 bands in my opinion. its definitely less annoying than rock bands (plastic beating) . it has very 
 good response 2 it and it picks up most of the notes. but 1 bad thing about it is that the yellow 
 cymbal is the least responsive for me. that doesnt mean it didnt work i just had 2 hit it harder. 
 another downer is that the colors arnt like the guitar controller which i had 2 get used 2
  
  GUITAR: The guitar is very awesome. its a little more bigger and realistic than previous guitar 
 heros. it has a nice new color 2 it and its shiny!! but the 1 thing that stands out about the guitar 
 is the touch strip. the touch strip is very neat. its perfect 4 hard solos. that was deffinitely 
 my favorite addition on the guitar. the strum bar is also bigger and less noiser than previous 
 guitars which is awesome. and there is also a bridge right below the strum bar 4 using star power 
 which is cool
  
  MIC: the mic isnt anything special. but its easy 2 hook up. it definitely picks up sound very well. 
 u can also hear urself very good through the tv (if thats a good thing or not lol)
  
  SETLIST: i think the setlist is very impressive with a few exceptions. it spreads out songs from 
 different bands and years. it has a lot of great variety. some songs on there r "Beat It", "Hot 
 for Teacher", "Crazy Train", "No Sleep Till Brooklyn","Livin On A Prayer, and "B. Y. O. B" (which 
 is a very hard song) .. with 86 songs and recordings, how could it b beat?? but it does have some 
 bad songs on here which makes me mad. Good God is one of them (good god that song sucks!) . but 
 theres way more good than bad songs so dont worry. it also has alot more artists in this time around. 
 There r people like Jimi Hendrix, Ozzy Osbourne, Zakk Wylde, Ted Nugent and more
  
  MUSIC STUDIO: this part of the game is very awesome. theres tons of different sounds and tunes 
 for every instrument (except mic) . it also has a way where u can tranform ur guitar into a keyboard!. 
 but its very fun 4 when u and ur friends get tired of the music on here. very fun 2 mess with but 
 gets kinda boring after a while
  
  CREATE A ROCKER: this is a good addition 2 the game also. it has many different clothes and accessories 
 u can chose from. u can make someone look like a weirdo or a emo lol watever u want its awesome.
 
  
  EXTRAS: graphics are great. better than previous. career is long and very fun for all instruments. 
 the ability 2 make custom songs is great. 
  
  Overall this game is great. Very addicting by yourself or with a full band (full band is much funner 
 tho) Much better than other guitar heros. and (in my opinion) rockband 2. its a monster improvement 
 over previous gh games. THANK YOU ACTIVISION!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballgt05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Like that but thats not the case. Guitarhero world tour is really fun. Its nothing too new but 
 has kool new drums that work and look way better than rockbands. This isnt a comparison even though 
 its hard not to when the games are so similar. Guitar hero world tour has 80 plus songs which are 
 great. Downloadable content for the wii and graphics that are alright. This game will last you 
 for months and months. Its a game where you will stop playing for a few weeks than realize you 
 have it again and start being addicted to it. Its simply fun for family's, friends, or whoever wants 
 to rock out.
  
  Now for the rockband comparison i think that rockband is also a fun game and i like the style. 
 I would give credit to rockband for the game itself but for instruments i would have to say guitar 
 hero all the way. Their put together well for a first time go. compared to rockband 1 drums which 
 where dissapointing to me and alot of other people. In my opinion get both guitar hero world tour 
 and rockband 2 to get the full effect of being a rockstar.
  Or you could just start a real band? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok, So I really do LIKE it. It's great fun to mess around with make your own Rocker and guitar 
 and drums etc... I just wish It had more going for it than the same old stuff with flashier packaging. 
 I was hoping for GH3 with added instruments and as I mentioned make your own is great, I haven't 
 gotten the hang of the vocal thing past the easy level, That Mic. is really touchy! If you can't 
 carry a tune at all then it really isn't for you. As for the drums, well I got booted from playing 
 when we (my kids and I formed a Band) got booed too many times. I apparently have no rhythm! Of 
 course the Best part is the guitar, I am in LOVE with the Gibson. The Fret bar is really fun to 
 play with. Now if your looking for a really fun thing to do or just something to pass time or maybe 
 even try your hand at making your own record well then this game is for you. Just don't expect 
 it to be something it's NOT. I learned that on day one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is, to me, quite frankly the best music experience I could ever have for 
 a music simulator, period.
  This version of GH puts us, the players and wannabe rock stars, on center stage for playing one 
 of the best set lists I've seen since the original Guitar Hero came out quite a while ago.
  
  Artists such as The Eagles, Van Halen and Billy Idol are things to expect to play great songs 
 of, and hopefully in the future more downloads from each individual artist if Activision keeps 
 true on their claims for constant uploads to usurp Rock Band with it's 500+ and growing library.
 
  
  But anyway, enough drooling on the songs for now, it's time to talk about the game play and overall 
 experience of shredding away at said songs.
  First off is the newly redesigned axe, this thing is purely modeled after a Fender Stratorcaster 
 Ala RB but is a little bit more refined if I do say so myself.
  It's a little bit longer in the body but the fret buttons are immediately available, and house 
 below them the "touch strip", not buttons like RB has, to take down those wicked solo's.
  
  Then your Whammy Bar and strum bar, but this also has a specially designated Star Power bar that 
 you can hit with your wrist in a pinch, and is designed for both righty and lefty users with handy 
 start buttons on either side for easy access.
  
  Next up is the Drum set; Finally us rockers can whack away at a digital drum pad/set.
  This is 
 normally what you'd see on a typical one kick drum, drum set, you've got your tom toms, kick pedal 
 to simulate the bass drum and your crash cymbals up on top.
  The pads themselves are actually a little bit quieter than their RB counter part, and include a 
 small and under utilized feature which is the velocity sensitive application, when seeing a silver 
 rimmed gem appear other than your standard white rimmed gem as a note, hit this and it gives you 
 more points when you hit the corresponding drum pad harder.
  
  And then close to last is the Mic, not much to speak about here, it's just your run of the mill 
 Mic, make sounds and it does the same thing on the game when it registers something high or low.
 
  
  And last but not least the songs; what can be really said for the songs but that it's one of the 
 best set lists I've seen since the first Guitar Hero, sans the covers of course.
  That's right kiddies all these songs are master tracks this time around and they sound pretty good.
 
  While I won't list all of the songs on here that's up to you to find and play on your own; although 
 my personal fave right now is ElectroRock on the unlockable song list.
  
  Actually one more thing to point out is the ability to Create-A-Rocker ala the Tony Hawk series.
 
  You can customize their faces, eyes angles bulbous nature, ears hair, and height even, along with 
 age.
  Also customizing your hardware, your axe, drum set, base guitar and Microphone.
  
  But this game as with any other video game, isn't without it's flaws, as much as I both rue and 
 lament saying anything bad about Guitar Hero.
  First is the somewhat steep learning curve to some of these songs, depending on what your difficulty 
 at shredding in which mine is Expert; some of the songs can be pretty easy for the expert rocker, 
 and then suddenly shift to downright frantic on some songs especially if your reflexes aren't in 
 tune, case in point Hot for Teacher by Van Halen.
  
  The other thing I like but don't really like, is the over robust nature of the music creator, it 
 requires alot of knowledge on how to piece together song sections, set tempo and where you'd like 
 your notes to appear on que.
  It's fun but alot of work needs to be put into it before anything comes to fruition.
  
  Other 
 than that I really can't point out anything else that's flawed so far, well perhaps the fact that 
 you can't import your Guitar Hero 3 downloads into it, that kinda sucks.
  But overall this game is a relative delight and is sure to keep your fingers going up until the 
 point of carpel-tunnel syndrome.
  
  I give this 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullgangs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am a REAL guitarist, and my brother is a REAL drummer, so we know what's good and 
 bad.
  
  We never owned any GH games, just played them at friend's houses. However, we did buy Rock Band, 
 so I'm comparing this to that, (not this to Rock Band 2.)
  
  Well the GH "instruments" blow the RB "instruments" outta the water! I love how the strum bar actually 
 clicks!!! My brother says that the drums have much more "rebound", and the cymbals add a very realistic 
 feel! And well the mic... is a mic... lol
  
  The setlist of songs is ok. Alot of good songs... and alot of crappy songs... there's only a few 
 that really stand out from the constant grind of meteocricy.
  
  This problem can be fixed however! GH Tunes! You can now create your own song (or copy another 
 song) and share 'em with everybody! I'll go ahead and say that this is the ONLY feature that made 
 me buy this over RB2.
  
  If you have no idea how to play REAL music, then the "creating" part of GH Tunes is gonna be pretty 
 wothless to you. But I CAN, so here's what I think of it after creating about 30 seconds of Led 
 Zep's "Rock And Roll": The controls take awhile to get familiar with, but it's pretty easy to operate 
 after a few days. The "step record" feature is a life-saver! I love it! While step-recording, you 
 can sustain the notes! Yay! You cannot map the "lead" and "rythm" parts to the one guitar, only 
 one or the other. You cannot record "pitch-bends". STUPID. My brother is sick of having to smash 
 his "yellow" cymbal to get a "crash cymbal" effect. He wishes he could just choose the effect, 
 and then map it. You cannot record vocals. STUPID.
  
  The character creation feature is worse than Rock Band's. There are hardly any descent looking 
 threads to choose from. More later, I haven't time atm... sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  This fall marks the first time where we are truly swamped with full-band plastic instrument games. 
 Each of them, ideally, should bring something unique to the table to distinguish themselves from 
 one another.
  
  Rock Band has its hook via DLC, and copious and regular amounts of it. Guitar Hero: World Tour 
 has a grab bag of me-too and legitimately unique features like the music creator. And Rock Revolution 
 distinguishes itself from the other two games by sucking, hard.
  
  First off, there is no denying that World Tour has a fantastic selection of songs. Many of them 
 are aped from Rock Band or Rock Band 2, of course, but that doesn't really hurt it much as you 
 still get good value for your money if you're buying both games. That's kind of where the positives 
 end, however.
  
  The new features are numerous but inconsequential. Although everyone says you need the touch strip 
 to play the strung notes on guitar, you can tap them out on regular fret buttons a la Rock Band's 
 solos. It's as silly a feature as it is in Rock Band, but someone might find it amusing if they 
 put on a show while rocking out to a hunk of plastic.
  
  The music creator is a neat idea but awful in execution. More complicated than decade-old MOD tracking 
 programs, you'll spend hours creating a song that sounds roughly on par with a piece of background 
 music from the first Streets of Rage. MIDI may be flexible, but sound quality is not its strong 
 suit.
  
  Vocals are a mixed bag. The pitch tracker is a nice feature over Rock Band, but the jerkiness of 
 the indicator feels awkward and the lack of percussive segments (tamborine or cowbell) means that 
 the vocalist is going to be bored out of his skull during the longer guitar noodling solos. Star 
 power is also extremely awkward to initiate and the sole indication that you've gotten it to work 
 is that the tiny pitch ball starts glowing white.
  
  The in-game layout has changed slightly, presumably to look more like Rock Band. During multiplayer 
 the resemblence is uncanny. During singleplayer, the multipliers are placed awkwardly and the 'new' 
 multiplier meter for guitar is so tiny that it's almost useless.
  
  Feedback is the other main issue. Star power accumulates and is spent with little more than a slight 
 glow. Crowds sway with Rock Revolution-esque unity and are mysteriously silent outside of loading 
 screens. Even the songs themselves are mixed poorly, particularly for singleplayer. Your instrument 
 of choice is not boosted in volume, which reduces the impact of your own solos and chords as they 
 tend to blend in far too much to the rest of the band. If it wasn't required for them to have masters 
 in order to cut out missed notes, I'd swear they were simply using the straight album version and 
 slapping note charts over top.
  
  The graphics themselves are alright. The style of the previous Guitar Hero games is gone, and all 
 of the popular characters now sport the generic character creation look. There are plenty of options 
 (almost too many when it comes to faces) but nothing is particularly inspired, and there are a 
 lot of clipping problems with hair.
  
  Arenas are amusing, although the starting shots of many of them are so blatantly chosen to highlight 
 a given sponsor (AT&T and KFC are the two biggies) , as are many of the encore animations, which 
 start off with a pool ball bouncing against a KFC bucket.
  
  One of the other features they're pushing over Rock Band is the inclusion of actual stars, like 
 Corgan or Ozzy. They're as creepy (if not creepier) than Stephen Tyler and his flapping maw from 
 GH: Aerosmith, with Corgan initially taking the cake for looking kind of like himself before transforming 
 into a muppet with a rubber jaw as he sings Today.
  
  The overall graphical look is very similar to the game as a whole, whether we're talking the note 
 charts, the sound, and the feedback. It's competent yet uninspired, and for something that purports 
 to be about rocking out it feels remarkably sterile. At no point during the experience will you 
 ever forget that you're playing a game, and through a combination of tiny things the end experience 
 is inferior to that of Rock Band. By aping the entire-band experience, Activision and Neversoft 
 have not done themselves any favours, as they've made it impossible not to directly compare the 
 games and conclude that they come out on the bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeverEndingXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is an excellent game that deserves some praise, there are a lot of new ideas 
 and mechanics added to the game. Some of these are fun and others are complete duds.
  
  Lets Break it down.
  
  Gameplay: Similar to all the other Guitar Hero's out there except there 
 is only one flaw, the HUD. It is a lot less flashy and it is hard to tell if you have a 4x multiplier 
 or 2x, its all because it is hidden to the right side of the guitar hero highway and it doesn't 
 show the colors unlike its predecessors. To the left of the highway is an even smaller rock out 
 meter. Which is also hard to tell how well your doing in a song, this is one of the main things 
 that frustrates me. I forgot to add about the note charts. They are annoying, I play the real guitar 
 so it really grinds my gears when they add notes that aren't really there and in this particular 
 game they do it waaay more than usual.
  One of the new additions to the gameplay is the Create-A-Rocker and all the other creation options 
 which Activision usually adds to their games. (That was the main thing I was afraid of, Activision 
 adds all that extra garbage and forgets about MAKING THE GAME. Thats what they did with the most 
 recent Tony Hawk games.) But these features to not really slow down the game play in anyway, they 
 are a lot of fun to use and add depth to the game, I personally love the create-a-rocker, but many 
 will turn to the Music Studio. This is where the game can really shine if you know what you are 
 doing. Only problem is, it is soooo robust you have to actually know what your doing, you can't 
 just jam out and hope it sounds cool. You have to have actual experience with music and recording 
 studios.
  
  New Peripherals: The new additions to the guitar hero game are the drums and mic. I LOVE the look 
 of the drums they are a lot more flashier than the rock band kit and feel really responsive and 
 have a lot of rebound. The thing is about the drums is the kick pedal, I found my self into a song 
 and notice the kick pedal is turning sideways halfway through the song so I have to pause and put 
 it back to place, I wish they would of added a rail to attatch the pedal to the rail, like the 
 rock band kit. Another thing about the drums, they suck. Playing the drums on guitar hero feel 
 really retarded and I have not found any joy out of playing them. I guess Im used to the greatness 
 of the rock band drums, the circular notes make it even weirder. The mic works perfect, it is similar 
 to any other karaoke game. The new guitar is really really really great. Mine broke as soon as 
 I got it out of the box but I have played it enough elswhere to know what I'm talking about. The 
 guitar is very comfortable and feels like it has more weight and more realism to it. The look is 
 spectacular and the new slider feature is great. This guitar is the best one that has came out 
 so far. (Far better than both of the Rock Band Guitars and all the Guitar Hero guitars.)
  
  Songlist: Sucks, I mean not flat out terribad, but pretty bad. There aren't as many classics and 
 it seems they went to more pop rock, which makes me mad. I am a HUGE metal fan and there are only 
 2 metal songs from my viewing, at least they are really good metal songs. All in all I don't think 
 too many people will be disapointed.
  
  Verdict: This is a great game, with a few flaws I'd recommend this game to anyone who loves games 
 like this. If you are willing to purchase this, I would not do what I did and bought the complete 
 band set. Go for the complete guitar game, you will get more worth out of your money and you save 
 like 80 bucks.
  
  
  P. S. If you are wondering, Rock Band 2 is better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am a REAL guitarist, and my brother is a REAL drummer, so we know what's good and 
 bad.
  
  We never owned any GH games, just played them at friend's houses. However, we did buy Rock Band, 
 so I'm comparing this to that, (not this to Rock Band 2.)
  
  Well the GH "instruments" blow the RB "instruments" outta the water! I love how the strum bar actually 
 clicks!!! My brother says that the drums have much more "rebound", and the cymbals add a very realistic 
 feel! And well the mic... is a mic... lol
  
  The setlist of songs is ok. Alot of good songs... and alot of crappy songs... there's only a few 
 that really stand out from the constant grind of mediocricy.
  
  This problem can be fixed however! GH Tunes! You can now create your own song (or copy another 
 song) and share 'em with everybody! I'll go ahead and say that this is the ONLY feature that made 
 me buy this over RB2.
  
  If you have no idea how to play REAL music, then the "creating" part of GH Tunes is gonna be pretty 
 wothless to you. But I CAN, so here's what I think of it after creating about 30 seconds of Led 
 Zep's "Rock And Roll": The controls take awhile to get familiar with, but it's pretty easy to operate 
 after a few days. The "step record" feature is a life-saver! I love it! While step-recording, you 
 can sustain the notes! Yay! You cannot map the "lead" and "rythm" parts to the one guitar, only 
 one or the other. You cannot record "pitch-bends" with the whammy bar. You cannot record vocals. 
 STUPID. But no matter how many mistakes they made, this is one of the best things to hit videogames 
 in a long time!
  
  The character creation feature is worse than Rock Band's. To make a long story short, Rock Band 
 had TONS more of EVERYTHING, and let you choose the color of about EVERYTHING. Get it?
  
  Being able to create your own axe is pretty cool. Sadly there's not as many things to choose from 
 as I had hoped for. You can't even have a double-neck... You CAN ,however, play on Ernie Ball Super 
 Slinky strings! WOO!!!
  Drum and mic creation is about the same... not as much stuff to choose from as hoped for... but, 
 oh well...
  
  The mic in RB has one feature that makes it better: the cowbell/tamborine. No more tapping the 
 mic to the beat... you just stand there doing absolutely nothing in guitar solos... BORING
  
  One more metionable thing: The naming feature! Name you, your band, and your instruments!!! 
 While making the name of something, it's very hard to see the letters! Getting close to your t. v. 
 doesn't even help!!!
  Also, "yellow" accepts a letter, and "green" accepts the name! I always find myself pressing "green" 
 for the letter! It's annoying!!! - ok that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOke622
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I must start out by saying that I am slightly biased towards Harmonix and the Rockband 
 series (maybe because they're the ones who created the first two Guitar Hero's, which were also 
 the BEST two) .
  
  This game was supposed to be great. I don't think anyone thought that this game would receive such 
 a bad response from many of the series' devoted fans. Trying to one-up the popular Rockband series 
 which took the rhythm game genre in a new direction with the 4-player band concept, the folks at 
 Neversoft created a game with an unimpressive soundtrack, faulty and cheaply made instruments, 
 and gameplay that will bore you within 30 minutes of playing.
  
  THE PROBLEMS
  
  SOUNDTRACK:
  
  This game's soundtrack is an interesting one. There are many songs on the game 
 that may impress you at first, such as the addition of Jimi Hendrix (finally) and new Metallica. 
 However, this game really lacks those songs that make the player go, "Hey Look! That song's in 
 the game?! Sweet!" The setlist almost appears as if its favoring the vocal component over the other 
 instruments (wtf is Michael Jackson doing in a Guitar Hero game?!) . Oh, and sorry Coldplay fans, 
 but Chris Martin doesn't exactly scream Rock n' Roll for me. When the most important part of music 
 games is the songs, it seems that Neversoft forgot what Guitar Hero is all about, THE MUSIC. Also, 
 why are there about 15 songs in the setlist that are also on RB2? 
  
  INSTRUMENTS:
  
  Seeing as to how the instruments were the one big thing that was supposed to seperate this game 
 from Rockband, Neversoft should've probably spent some more time making quality, fun-to-play instruments.
 
  
  Drums:
  
  These new drums have three drum pads and two symbols, made out of a new silicon based material 
 that makes them extra-bouncy and super-quiet when hit. That's the good part. The bad part is the 
 fact that the red pad hardly ever registers notes, the symbols are sometimes faulty, and the drumsticks 
 feel like they're made out of plastic. Combine that with the fact that you can barely tell when 
 you hit or miss notes on screen, and you've got yourself quite the soon-to-be backorder here.
 
  
  Guitar:
  
  The new guitar has improved in several ways. The body is slightly larger than before with a larger 
 strum bar, a longer whammy bar, and a button at your wrist to deploy star power. However, the touch 
 pad was a terrible mistake. Obviously an attempt to mimic the "solo buttons" on Rockband, this 
 pad is super sensitive and hard to use. Because the pad has no seperator between its colored button 
 sections, the player can't tell the difference between the green button and the blue button at 
 their fingers as they're trying to hit the notes on the screen. Not to mention the fact that these 
 little "tapping" segments pop up almost out of nowhere, leaving the player confused and frustrated 
 trying to make the transition from regular buttons to the touch pad. All in all, the guitar is 
 better minus the faulty touch pad system.
  
  Microphone:
  
  Not much different from Rockband's mic, this microphone has a good weight and feel.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  
  If you take away all the previous bad things I've said about this game, this game plays pretty 
 much the same as Rockband right? WRONG. This game simply is not as fun to play in a group as RB1 
 and RB2 are, and here's why:
  
  1. Star Power - shared by everyone and only one person gets to use it.
  
  2. If one person 
 fails, the entire band fails.
  
  3. World Tour Mode is not as cool nor fun as Rockband's. Never did I feel like I was in a real 
 band.
  
  4. Multiplier is next to note highway and almost impossible to see using peripheral vision.
  
 
  5. Drum solo sections are random and hard to distinguish from regular sections. The sounds the 
 drums make during these sections are also not very exciting.
  
  6. Customization is very in depth, yet unneccesary (Who really cares what kinds of strings and 
 knobs are on your VIRTUAL guitar) .
  
  7. Music studio is innovative but not user-friendly whatsoever. People who've never played an instrument 
 before will ignore this feature altogether, while those who are interested in music theory won't 
 waste their time.
  
  
  IN CONCLUSION:
  
  This game tries too hard in some places and forgets what the game is all about: the players. It's 
 not nearly as fun to play in a full group as Rockband 1 & 2 are. The instruments are cheaply made 
 and the setlist simply doesn't measure up to the high bar RB has set. If you're looking to invest 
 $200 this Christmas on a music game, this isn't the one. I highly suggest Rockband 2 both for seasoned 
 veterans of the music game genre and newbies alike. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nilotic1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  The track list leaves a lot to be desired, but thats just the beginning of this games problems. 
 The band/solo world tour is short and rather lackluster, and the "Guest" musicians are cheesy. 
 I wish they'd spent more time and money on including good songs, and a more interesting tour. Thought 
 the new guitar was cool at first but have found that I use the slider feature very little and I'm 
 afraid its more of a gimic than anything. Wish I'd left this one on the shelf. If Neversoft wanted 
 to compete with Rock Band 2, they sure didn't do their homework. In my opinion RB2 is superior 
 to this game in every way. The music creator feature is a bore for us non musicians and I'd be 
 surprised if most musicians find it entertaining for any length of time. They really need to stop 
 cranking out crap and take their time and give us a good quality game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkj_champ
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  i thought wrong. A total waste of money when rock band 2 is the 10 times better than this.. DO 
 NOT BUY GH4... RB2 is way better.
  
  The drums in GH4 were supposed to be great but the gameplay is horrible and the touch screen on 
 the guitar is really pointless and actually harder to use than normal strumming. Even though the 
 touch part of the guitar isnt what i thought it would be, it is still better than the rock band 
 guitars... the only good part of the game. The singing is ok nothing great nothing bad but without 
 alotta good songs its pretty boring. Career mode is nothing great either. its same old thing as 
 every time and rock band career mode is same type of thing but as i said before the gameplay of 
 RB2 blows away the gameplay of GH4
  
  The setlist of GH4 is flat out bad... thats all i can say... its just bad theres a cupple good 
 songs but compared to the original RB and RB2 its nothing...
  
  MAJOR LETDOWN!!! RB2 is the way to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ltes get this in out of the way, this is like rockband having 4 instruments now and the highway 
 style of rockband too, but it is a different game!
  
  For starters, they drums have 2cymbals,3drums, and the foot peddle. You activate star power by hitting 
 both cymbals at the same time. The guitar has became bigger with a new strum bar, same buttons 
 from gh3, and a new touch sensitive pad on the guitar. They bass also get a new button which is 
 an open not where you dont press a button to strum. The Mic is, well, a mic.
  
  In gh4, there is alot of customization. You can make a character, use a premade character [axel 
 stell, johny naplam, etc] and change their cloths around too. You can also mak custom instruments. 
 FOr example, you can change the body, fret board, strings, and alot of more things to make an unltimate 
 guitar. Same goes for bass, drums, and mic although mic is kinda really limited.
  
  The new worlt tour mode is where you play solo or as a band and play gigs. You may be thinking 
 its a rock band copy cat buts it's not. You select a gig and you play all the songs there in order 
 then get an encore and someimes a proffesional musician such as zack wylde, jimi hendrix, halye 
 williams, ozzy, etc. It is somewhat linear but still fun.
  
  They most innovative mode in this game though is the music creator. Theis is really, REALLY deep 
 and takes alot of time to get use to but is worth it when your jamming on your new song!
  
  
  Now, the killer song list will keep you playing for a good while. Some of these songs include 
 beat it, crazy train, hot for teacher, trapped under ice, sweet home alabama, and many more good 
 songs. This game does have about 9 of the same songs from rock band2 so be aware of that!
  
  The game has also gotten a difficulty boost for expert players and now there is a beginner 
 mode for well, begginners.
  
  Now alot of people are gonna start saying this game is a total rock band2 copy cat but in truth, 
 this game is alot better so those people who dont believe will be missing out!
  
  For any questions, contact me on gamespot messaging or send me a message on my xbox-360 live gamertag=shweet117. 
 Thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  And by everything good, I mean that calling this a Rock Band clone would be actually calling it 
 a good game.
  
  The few things they did well, they did really well. Jimi Hendrix having two on-disc songs and at 
 least three more coming, for example, is awesome. Not to mention an in-game character. The entire 
 Death Magnetic album by Metallica, also awesome. Sublime is one of my favorite bands, their hit 
 single 'Santeria' is in game. The Doors and Ozzy... that's about it.
  
  But holy christ is there a long list of problems... why is this game so damn hard compared to Rock 
 Band? Why does my band look like it was rendered on a Nintendo 64? Why do you have to BUY the damn 
 Tool gig for $8000? Why does every single gig have a encore, a usually crappy encore I might add? 
 Why are there so many no name bands on the setlist? Why do vocals on this game totally suck? Why 
 are there twenty songs that you can also find in Rock Band?
  
  And my biggest problem, WHY IS THIS GAME SO USER UNFRIENDLY? I can't quickly scroll through the 
 track list to get to a song I want, so I sit holding down on the strumbar until I can get my song. 
 Naming bands and instruments take forever because instead of using the green fret to add a letter 
 and Start to finish, you press the yellow fret to add a letter and green to finish, resulting in 
 it take ten minutes to type out "The Flame Sama Band". If one of my band members fails, we all 
 fail instantly, killing the appeal of a friendly band game.
  
  One of my Les Pauls activates star power by itself, ONLY on GH: WT, on GH: III and Rock Band it works 
 fine.
  
  The terrible looking interface with the multiplyer on the side of the note chart and the rock meter 
 in the top left corner sucks.
  
  The majority of the setlist is terrible. GHIII got me into music rhythm games, but this is NOT 
 a good game, buy Rock Band 2 instead, honestly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdocz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  As an owner and experienced player of every Guitar Hero/Rock Band version, on both the PS2 and 
 360 platforms, I am certainly qualified to provide an even-handed, unbiased opinion of this game.
 
  
  The look and feel of GH: World Tour is very similar to previous installations of the series. This 
 is a good thing and establishes a distinction between the game and its primary competitor, Rock 
 Band 2. The oft-criticized graphics of GHWT continue the charm of the original GH series and in 
 no way diminish the package or its game play. If one prefers the Rock Band graphics, no sweat, 
 but this is a matter of aesthetic preference not necessarily quality. To you critics out there, 
 you really didn't expect Rock Band-looking graphics anyway, did you?
  
  As for the game play itself: the drum play is initially more difficult than RB2 if you are already 
 used to the Rock Band drum layout but GHWT is I suspect more realistic (I am not a "real" drummer 
 so what do I know...) . The guitar instrument is far superior to previous models from either RB 
 or GH series and unique enough to offer long time users a fun new twist. The vocals are similar 
 to RB2 with a slightly different feel.
  
  So what makes GHWT a worthy addition to the full band genre? Aside from the quality game play, 
 and retention of GH series worthy guitar play, the music studio is a fabulous and ground breaking 
 addition. For those of you not interested in spending the time to create your own songs, guess 
 what you don't have to! The real point of this feature is that others will and they will post them 
 online for you to preview and download if you are so inclined. The game has only been out a few 
 days and there already some interesting and quality GH-Tunes downloads available. In the long run 
 this will result in an virtually unlimited quantity of DLC. Don't know the songs? Don't find covers 
 of existing rock classics? Wait for Activision to release some. But open your mind to all of the 
 long term possibilities. I would not be surprised if one or many of the user created songs eventually 
 end up being recorded by "real" musicians and released for sale.
  
  In summary, get a grip Rock Band homers and 5-star Expert-level Guitar Hero meatballs. The initial 
 song list may not have any songs worthy of "Raining Blood" frustration but the tracks are fun to 
 play and challenging for 95% of the buying public, those of us that don't lock themselves in the 
 basement for 30 hours at a time drinking Red Bull and brooding over the lack of carpal tunnel worthy 
 riffs in GHWT.
  
  GTWT is a great game and is RB2. One may have a bias or preference for one or the other but this 
 is all the more reason for GHWT to maintain a distinction between its gameplay and RB2. Enjoy either 
 or both of these excellent packages but please save the silly comments for your uneducated friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mott555
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  For the most part, this is classic Guitar Hero, but it has some things that really confuse me.
 
  
  First, the menu system. It simply doesn't make sense to me; it wasn't intuitive at all. It took 
 me quite a while just to figure out how to navigate through the menu. Entering a band name threw 
 me through a loop, strumming up moves towards the Z-end of the alphabet and strumming down moves 
 towards A, which seems backwards. Then I press green button to accept the letter and it accepts 
 the whole band name instead. This pretty much sums up the menu system, things just don't work the 
 way I expected them to.
  
  Even in game it can be quite confusing. Players now have separate Rock Meters (... kinda) but it 
 seems if one player fails the whole band fails -- I think... I failed out once playing guitar on Expert 
 and I don't even know how, our main Rock Meter was green and then my screen flashed red once or 
 twice and I failed in the middle of some fairly easy solo I'd have 100%'ed on GH3.
  
  Star Power drives me nuts. Players can now go into Star Power separately, but only sometimes. You 
 can now hit Star Power phrases while you're in Star Power (just like Rock Band) which I love. However, 
 your Star Power constantly turns itself off when you use it. I have to activate it four or five 
 times to use up a full Star Power supply. That is pretty confusing to me and seems counterproductive.
 
  
  The new guitar seems gimmicky. It plays pretty good but the touch strip is pretty much useless 
 (like the solo buttons on the Rock Band guitar) . You're not required to use it (thankfully) but 
 I always have a hell of a time trying to use it. Usually by the time I manage to find the touch 
 strip the touch-strippy portion of the song is over. It's just easier for me to stick with what 
 I already know.
  
  You can also use the touch strip as a "wah effect" (that's what the game calls it) on held notes, 
 which has an interesting sound, but it's definitely not a wah effect, it's more of a phasing effect. 
 The incorrect terminology drives me nuts since I'm a RL guitar player.
  
  Bass players now can have open notes, which show up as purple bars going across the screen in similar 
 fashion to the Rock Band drum's kick pedal. I haven't played bass yet but it definitely confused 
 my friend for a while. Guitar has no open notes, and according to the tutorial "only bass players 
 will hit open notes." Again, as a RL guitar player that kinda bothers me.
  
  UI issues and confusing factors aside, the song list is pretty good so far, minus the Nirvana song. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink88
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  why is it that no one states the obvious that all of these games are exactly the same. Both the 
 rockband and guitar hero franchises have pushed this guitar and music thing way to far and its 
 getting realy tired now. whether they have a music maker or not in the end the only real difference 
 is the songs and these games get boring after the first 2 weeks 
  
  i bought rockband and all the other guitar heros and when i saw the line for this game all i could 
 think was that these people are wasting there time cause this game would be just the same as the 
 others and the novelty of those wore off a long time ago.
  
  i gotta be honest and say i havnt even played this game but just by looking at it and reading the 
 reviews tells me im not gonna waste 200 bucks on this when ive got rockband sittin at home collecting 
 dust. 
  
  these games are unoriginal and im gonna gie you some advice save your money on smething better 
 because you will regret this in the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRHuolihan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I really don't feel like writing a complete review for this since Gamespot will do that eventually. 
 However, I will voice a couple rants I have about this latest installment. I understand that GH 
 was trying to play catch up with Rock Band in terms of getting that demographic that only plays 
 these games at parties, what i don't understand however is why that would detract them from making 
 at least some of the songs difficult? Rock band was pretty much sandbox in it's level of difficulty 
 and now GH is becoming the same. I also felt that the change up of the set list to become a series 
 of gigs was way more of an annoyance then a cool feature. I found myself doing 6 or so songs in 
 a row, that should have all cut from the game, very often! If i had to pin point my dislike of 
 this game it would have to be the easy game, and the gig style set listing. Having to endure 21 
 minutes of Tool songs in one gig, in which you encounter notes about as often as GH games get Led 
 Zeppelin songs, was a bad experience, that is going to keep me playing GH 2 and 3 until someone 
 else comes along and makes something as good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itodobien
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to say that as a Guitar Hero fan (atic) that I was really disappointed in this latest 
 version. It is just like Aerosmith and the hammer on's are the same, or like GH2. Not to mention 
 the game has gotten too easy... There is no challenge anymore, there are still songs on GH 3 I 
 can't beat on expert (TTF&F) and this latest game offered no challenge. I didn't even have to use 
 star power to help me through any of the songs. The new guitar has problems too, the slide bar 
 will just register notes out of the blue and ruin your note streak, and the drums don't work very 
 well either. I have to regretfully say that Rock Band 2 is a better multi player band experience... 
 I am just generally disappointed in this game, a real let down from a really good franchise. Back 
 to back sub par efforts with this one and Aerosmith. Hope the Metallica version is much better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwhutson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  In Guitar Hero 4 or World Tour Neversoft introduces some new cool aspects to the game such as character 
 creation, new instrument with nice features, and the all new music studio. With all of these new 
 components there are some issues that really tick me off though. First off my drum kit is screwed 
 up with the yellow cymbal and the red snare. Secondly, the music studio isn't what it is all hyped 
 up to be in my opinion or it could be that I don't really know how to make music. Although there 
 is some minor problems with the game its still a fun game to play with much replay value. I just 
 hope Activision does something about the faulty drums. Some other things I did like though would 
 be the character creation with a massive selection of options and most of the older songs were 
 great picks while nothing much for newer songs. Another good aspect that I love being a guitar 
 manic is the touch slider pad, a definite must while rocking out. All in all its a decent game 
 with a few minor uh-ohs from Actvision. If you are deciding between this and Rock Band 2, I would 
 go with this but wait until they fix the drums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drir495
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. Sure its got its issues but they're very easy to overlook. First off the 
 graphics are a big improvement over Guitar Hero 3. They definitely made everything look less cartoonish. 
 The drums are a great addition to the franchise. They take some getting used to after playing rock 
 band for so long, but once you get the hang of them, they are really fun and easy to use. The new 
 guitar is alright but to me it has more flaws than advantages. The whammy bar is a little too big 
 and it can hurt your hand after a while. I really hate the new touch pad that you can use for solos 
 because it's hard to reach and doesn't work very well. Also, the new star power button is cool 
 but makes it hard to hit the start button. The microphone is just a microphone. Now for the gameplay. 
 They made some improvements and some disadvantages in the gameplay department. On drums my only 
 problem is the star power activation in which you have to hit both cymbals at the same time and 
 this makes it very hard to do in the middle of a fast paced song. The only problems with the guitar 
 are that the hammer ons are much harder to use and often don't even work. However, They made some 
 cool additions like having a long note going and hitting other notes at the same time. The touch 
 pad ,as i already said, sucks. The mic is just like every other singing game. A cool addition to 
 the bass is the notes where you don't press any notes and just strum. A new thing called GHStudio 
 is very hard to use and makes it difficult to make anything good so i suggest just leaving that 
 alone unless you want to spend 3 hours just making a 10 second track on the drums. The new character 
 creation system is in depth and fun. You can even customize the instruments that you play so i 
 think that this is much better than just playing with a built in character. Also all 84 songs in 
 the game are very fun to play and i think that they made very good choices.
  
  Overall Scores:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Songs: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Peripheral: 
 7/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blanez90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  First off i would like to say that rock band 1 last year had so many drum flaws. I have not known 
 anybody that made it a whole year without something going bad on there set, my point is that no 
 matter the creator there are going to be flaws, its hardware. In my personal opinion, agree with 
 me or not I like the feel of the Guitar Hero Guitar a heck of a lot more then RB. 
  
  As far as instruments, I am really enjoying the feel of GHWT, although my set has been 100% fine, 
 i have read many complaints about theirs. The Microphone is a good weight and solid, the guitar 
 is my favorite although. The whammy bar is much improved, the buttons are really comfortable out 
 of the box unlike GH3 were they were extremely stiff. And the new slide feature is a nice touch 
 although they did use it as much as i would have liked them to. 
  
  The Game lacks in "omg that song is hear!" moments but there are some quality tracks. For me there 
 is enough difference between GHWT and RB2 that I find them both extremely fun to play. 
  
  Another small note is that the character that you create in GHWT can be used to do all the instruments 
 in single player or world tour which is a nice feature. 
  
  In conclusion its a solid game that could have been great, a simple patch could fix the multyplayer 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpedKnight
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  i was reading a gamer review and the only thing he was bashing ghwt on was the fact that its not 
 like rock band.
  why would i want it to be!? "the notes are hard to get used to, the drums are different" YEA! and 
 waaaay better!
  guitar hero started it and rock band made it better with the band idea. thank you. but this game 
 has ohh so much more to offer than rock band... a new playlist with a buncha good songs is nice... but 
 there is no customization in songs... if you dont like to make them then just download other peoples 
 songs... they dont cost anything as opposed to like 2$ a song. sooo yea..."thats all i have to say 
 about that" - forrest gump.
  PEACE!!!
  
  the guitar is awesome too an i dont want to make this 800 words long... it freaking reminds me of 
 the 5th grade... skrew that.... even tho my teacher was kinda hott. in the.... eyes of a 5th grader? 
 wow maybe i should take that back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I heard this game was in production, I had been anxious to see how it would compare 
 to Rock Band. I'd have to say I was disappointed, but I was expecting it. It has a good playlist, 
 but I think Rock Band 2's is much better. Also, Rock Band 2 lets you add the Rock Band 1 songs 
 onto RB2 and RB2 also has a ton of downloadable songs.
  
  GHWT's guitar is great, for it hasn't changed its interface, but the round fret notes may be hard 
 to get use to for RB vets. The Vocals are fine, not better or worse than RB. The drums are a little 
 disappointing. It is cool that you get symbols, but they are really hard to get use to. The drum 
 set up seems weird, for the drum pads (left to right) go: Red, Blue, Green and the symbols are 
 yellow and orange. I like the drum pads better, but my red one is less responsive on some songs 
 and the symbols aren't too good on fast notes.
  
  Last but not least, makings your own songs. This concept was neat, but it seemed rushed to me. 
 It's neat, but I don't feel like I'd use it too much. I'd rather play real songs. The touch frets 
 on the guitar are awesome though. 
  
  If you already have Rock Band 2, don't get this unless you're rich. It you don't, it is worth comparing 
 the two. Go to Best Buy, they usually have both set up to play and compare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephten
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has some serious flaws. First of all the instruments, my guitar AND drums came broken 
 out of the box. My red fret wouldnt work on guitar and the red pad for my drums wouldnt work.
 
  
  The band ability isnt good either, for instance when you and your friend are playing a song, and 
 you fail, The ENTIRE band fails and you cant rescue them.
  
  The only thing i was looking forward to in this game was the music creater, is ok, but the sound 
 quality IS HORRIBLE. Sure you can make a song, but it will take you 2 hours.
  
  The song choice is ok, but a little more metal please? I can't some of the songs, and imo, rockband 
 2 had a MUCH better settlist.
  
  In the end i wish i didnt buy this, and if you have a choice, but ROCKBAND 2 if you have to, as 
 this game is horrible, doesnt even match to rockband 1, so buy rockband 2 if you can 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYoung103175
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  First off, let me get out of the way that I do not have the new periphials, as I got to many games 
 to get this season then to buy more guitars and drums, even though the drums look awesome.
  
  Also, I already have Rock Band 2, so I can compare the two with actual play time on both.
 
  
  Rock Band last year was amazing, and really changed the face of the genre. This year we get its 
 sequel, but not with enough new content except for the soundtrack to really move the franchise 
 forward.
  
  Now enter Guitar Hero World Tour. Besides the music creator, I also believe after RB, they did 
 not do much to move the genre forward. But, saying that, I think the game is susperior to Rock 
 Band this time around.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, and you can customize your rocker down to the last hair of his ass 
 crack. j/k But you get my point.
  
  Also, the soundtrack is phenominal. Even though the two games share a handful of songs, GHWT has 
 the far superior soundtrack. Who doesnt want to play some Jimi Hendrix or Tool, among others.
 
  
  What we really stood out to me, which has been cool before, is the REAL rockstars in the game. 
 Something about playing with Billy Corgan, and rockin out Purple Haze with the God Jime Hendrix 
 is exciting. 
  
  As you move along, you just open new gigs in diffrent venues. I was a little disappointed that 
 you didnt really seem to move up in the music world except for size of the crowds. In this area, 
 Rock Band wins because you hire and fire people, not that they do much, but it feels like you are 
 doing more. This is not enough to give Rock Band the edge though.
  
  Guitar hero has the superior periphials, the superior soundtrack (for now atleast, before downloadble 
 content that not every player buys) , the rock stars that are fun to rock with. and the graphics 
 and customization of your own rocker make GHWT the better game. Neither made a huge step forward, 
 but all in all, GHWT took this round. Cant wait to see what we get next. Til then, I will be rocking 
 out on both. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  In a couple years, when we're reviewing Guitar Hero 13- Second Reunion Comeback Tour, the only 
 thing we're going to be able to say badly about it is that it lacks innovation. Because let's face 
 it, it is what it is. It doesn't matter how many extra goodies it has in it; A Guitar Hero (or 
 Rock Band) game is going to be good game, and the fact that there's a seemingly endless well of 
 songs out there to make new titles and DLC for, this is a genre that can justify such frequent 
 installments, so long as we don't tire of the core gameplay itself.
  
  So how bad can Guitar Hero: World Tour really be? I think you already know. The worst it can be 
 is a mediocre band experience when compared to the highly superior Rock Band. But it didn't have 
 to be this way. Guitar Hero was great on it's own, and I was quite happy having two vastly different 
 music games that justified having a room full of plastic guitars. Guitar Hero has thrown challenging 
 guitar and competitive single player out the window to try to be just like it's rival, Rock Band. 
 What makes most people upset is that we had a comfortable living condition and now suddenly, the 
 room isn't big enough for both franchises.
  
  Guitar Hero's full band experience is pitiful. The HUD is too difficult to read, the screen is 
 too scrunched up, and just by not changing the elitist fail system that works well with only two 
 players, turns the four player experience into a total wreck. But does this stop the single player 
 game from being any worse off? Yes, actually. The game makes too many concesions for band play. 
 The guitar charts are still more challenging than in Rock Band, but it's never natrual. The song 
 selection itself is born of songs that are balanced on each instrument, so in order to make a somewhat 
 simple song challenging on guitar, we're left with overcharted messes that can be fun to play, 
 but are often misses. Songs like Hotel California are just epic to play through with solos, but 
 Freak on a Leash (personal feelings about my love for the song aside) is relatively simple, and 
 it's highly overcharted to make up for difficulty.
  
  The only thing that Guitar Hero has the one up on is the song creator. It actually resembles studio 
 work a little too much, as I found myself scrapping track after track as I would recording a real 
 song. It's a fun diversion, but it's too hard to make something truly amazing.
  
  But all in all, last year when asked for my opinion on what to buy (GH3 or RB) I said that both 
 were fantastic games with their own individual strengths. Now, Guitar Hero is a carbon copy of 
 Rock Band. And since we can compare them directly, it's easy to see as far as musical accuracy, 
 multiplayer, interface, and gameplay modes, Rock Band 2 is definitely still the top dog compared 
 to this copy-cat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polakis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  What a perfect game! Garage band style song writing makes for unlimited possibilities. You can 
 then download as many songs as you want from GHtunes online and enjoy everyones creations. It is 
 much more enjoyable than the previous guitar hero games! When you first start you find cool new 
 features such as the touch pad which lets you slide through the solos. I have finished the carrer 
 mode already in easy mode and i must say that the track list is amazing! Including tracks like 
 what I've done by linkin park, Michael Jackson etc. Tracks for all tastes! This game was well worth 
 the wait and the price. Much better than Rock Band 2! It is definitely a must have for anyone who 
 enjoys the guitar hero series!
  
  I am from greece and i dont want to wait 5-6 months for forckband2 to arrive! So i will only play 
 guitar hero world tour till the end of the game completely, on all difficulties! Easy, medium, 
 hard, expert!
  
  Dont miss this beautifull game! Period... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingpat22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  First off let me start by saying that Guitar Hero World Tour fixes problems you had in previous 
 titles like the frame rate issues and also difficulty. I will start with the flaws that keep this 
 game from being perfect. First off let me say that navigating the menus in the game can be a little 
 confusing at first but after a little time with them they do become comfortable. The game also 
 lacks a lot of structure in the career modes. This can make it confusing and hard to know what 
 you are supposed to do next. That problem with the structure of the career mode really is caused 
 by bad menus. The game also does not let you save a band member if they fail out, if they do fail 
 out the entire bands fails the song. This can get pretty frustrating but is more realistic in the 
 sense that in real life of a member of a band just stops playing mid-song the rest of the band 
 is not going to continue. Although the flaws are minor they do hurt the game by making it to hard 
 to just do things quickly and effectively.
  Now we can discuss all the great stuff about World Tour, and there is plenty. We will start with 
 new features. World Tour has added a new difficulty called beginner, almost anyone should be able 
 to play in this mode as it is clearly for beginners. The difficulty has defiantly been toned down 
 from the last game and the difficulty spikes are also not really bad anymore either. I was able 
 to play almost all the songs on expert except a few. What I really enjoyed though was the fact 
 that when I played through the games career mode on hard it was still very fun. The games also 
 allows you to change difficulty mid-career which really makes any difficulty spikes not matter 
 at all. That is enough about difficulty. The game adds a few small things that are very nice touches, 
 you can now add star power while you are gaining it, when you pause the game mid-song and resume 
 it counts down so you do not really miss any notes from pausing mid-song. You can also change difficulty 
 right from the pause menu mid-song. In terms of game play World Tour does it about as good as you 
 can for a rhythm game. Everything small and nice that they added really works well.
  When it comes to hardware I have not used the new drums but have played all the instruments and 
 the new guitar. The layout for the drums is very good and feels very nice while you are playing 
 them. The only real issue I have with the playing the drums is that to activate the star power 
 you have to hit the two cymbals at the same time which usually causes you to lose your multiplier, 
 if you use the Rock Band drum set like I did you have to hit the the yellow and blue along with 
 the kick pedal to activate it. This system is nice in the sense that you can now activate star 
 power at anytime with drums but very annoying in the sense that you will lose your multiplier doing 
 it. Other than that the drums have really no issues. Singing is slightly different and appears 
 to be a little easier than Rock Bands. But other than that really no difference in the singing. 
 The new guitar peripheral is fantastic, how ever the touch pad is very underutilized in the games 
 songs from the set list. So if you own a Guitar hero III Gibson controller I would not recommend 
 buying the new one. The biggest reason for the getting the new guitar would probably have to be 
 because the fact that it is extremely fun to use in the music creator. The bass role has a great 
 new feature about it in terms of game play. There is now a new note which is just a open strum 
 that appears on screen as a bar across the note highway. This simple feature makes playing the 
 bass challenging again as while you are playing it really throws you off. Overall all the new peripherals 
 are very nice and if you don't own the Rock Band drums I would recommend you buy this kit. In terms 
 of the guitar if you would like a better experience with the music creator I would consider buying 
 that you.
  When it comes to customization World Tour goes above and beyond any previous title in the series 
 and beyond any thing that Rock Band one or two does. You can make you own guitar which is very 
 fun to do. Making your guitar you can choose to edit almost anything about it from the fretboard 
 to the strings. Your character can now be changed to look identical to you. All the customization 
 in this game leads you to be much more attached to your character and much more into it while you 
 are playing the songs in the game. Basically put this game allows you to customize tons of stuff 
 and it does it very effectively.
  Now on to the big feature the music studio. The music studio is very deep. In fact so deep that 
 you might find yourself lost about how to do things. There are quite a few tutorials that should 
 help you to be able to get the basics down and from there all it takes is time and practice. To 
 make good music in the studio will without question take time. The best way to make a track that 
 you can listen you very quickly is the use the machines which basically are small beats that you 
 can do for the keyboard, drums, bass, or lead guitar, somewhat is missing is a rhythm guitar machine. 
 If you don't use the machines to create the music I would recommend that you have a full band with 
 you playing with you just jamming because this is likely the best way way to make good music. When 
 you play the music in the game once it is finished it just sounds decent do to the fact is is kinda 
 fuzzy sounding, but considering the verity of different sounds in the studio you can get over it. 
 The reason having the new guitar peripheral is a nice treat is because you can use it to easily 
 make loops and and different things to your song using the touch pad. Overall the music studio 
 is a nice extra feature added to the game that allows you to be creative and also allows for more 
 longevity. The music studio with no question needs some polish but this one of the most innovative 
 things seen in a game in a while and will be improved with time.
  In closing this game is great it flaws are so minuscule that you probably will not notice them. 
 The game gets game play near perfect and has a fantastic 86 song set list that consist of songs 
 from great bands like Tool, Ozzy Osbourne, Jimi Hendrix, Van Halen, and many many more. If you 
 are stuck in limbo about whether to get this game or Rock Band I suggest you just look over the 
 set list and decide which songs you will enjoy the most. Guitar Hero World Tour is a great game 
 and is a fantastic entry into the full band genre for the Guitar Hero franchise.
  
  Graphics: 7.8 out of 10: Less important in this game than most but still decent never the less.
 
  
  Game Play: 9.5 out of 10: The only real flaw is that the music studio isn't as easy to use as it 
 was expected to be.
  
  Sound: 9.5 out of 10: This is again do to the fact that songs created in the music studio do not 
 sound that great when they are actually being played.
  
  Overall: 9.0 out of 10: Overall despite the music studio being a little bit of a let down the game 
 still does almost everything else perfectly and in my mind is the best rhythm game on the market 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitekiller1172
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i got it Sunday morning i haven't stopped playing it. I got my friends over and we just 
 rocked out from morning to night. I like the customization of everything, how you make your character 
 and how they give any option on how to make them look. From making a custom guitar, to dressing 
 your character. You can chose to put tattoos any where and any size you want all over the body.
 
  
  I'm finished with the game now and i was really happy with it. Only little things i was wondering 
 about were how come i didn't rock out with some of the other characters, like Haily Williams, Or 
 the guy with the dress. Never rocked out with them or got the achievements for them. My guitar 
 is awsome everything is perfect and i saw the part where you connect the neck, its like a USB now 
 which is way better. The only thing about my guitar that is messed up is the yellow touch sensor 
 pad. It waorks perfectly except where sometimes it doesnt read the yellow right sometimes, it doesnt 
 really bother though. I like this game a lot its great and i do not regret buying it. NOW GO BUY 
 IT ALREADY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The cool thing about this is that when ever Neversoft is weak on a certain genre (for instance, 
 "Tony Hawk") , EA comes in (Being awesome, like they are.) and steals their thunder (for instance, 
 with "skate.") . I was starting to think Neversoft was going to comeback with Guitar Hero World 
 Tour, I got my hopes up to high, the only thing enjoyed was the soundtrack and the overhyped Song 
 creator, but when it comes to playing the game, it epicly fails to a new level. You start up the 
 game getting all excited about it and your hopes get shot down. I reccomend to music puzzle game 
 fans, to let stick to EA with Rock Band, oh, and at least EA is nice enough to give 20 free songs 
 away to everyone. Neversoft also, tried ripping off half the soundtrack from Rock Band 2, or if 
 not, taking all the bands from Rock Band 2, for instance,
  Paramore
  Interpol
  Foo Fighters
  The Almand Brothers
  Steely Dan
  Modest Mouse
  Dinosaur Jr.
  
  Wow, Neversoft, 
 nice comeback!
  not......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all yes i have RB2 and GH: WT both are great games so there is no biased here.
  
  Pros: I love the new guitar, The drums are really good, The mic well it pics up the sound so thats 
 good enough i guess?
  The tracklist is so so i mean alot the songs were on rockband and alot of them suck but hey its 
 not like they could just put a certain type of song in the game or it wouldnt appeal to a wider 
 audiance, so that can be justified.
  
  The cons: I had trouble with my guitar at first but was able to get a new one
  Alot of the songs 
 are forgettable to the point you dont ever wana play them.
  Rock band/guitar hero fanboys flood forums for this game and it pisses me off alot
  
  Plus 
 to all you people who gave this game things like 3.5 or so are idiots and fanboys i know you all 
 have you're own opinion but be fair with the scoring becuase that is rediculous to rate such a 
 game so low.
  
  Anyway i love both RB2 & GH: WT they are both really fun with friends and without them.
  
  LONG 
 LIVE MUSIC!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  It has been quite awhile since i posted a review. My friends and i recently picked up guitar hero 
 world tour from a midnight release. We set everything up and began playing and immediately started 
 seeing many many flaws. They use the whole band leader crap that rock band did away with. The view 
 bars for guitar and bass seem to be shorter then before. The free notes in bass add a bit more 
 to playing bass and is a nice touch, but i don't believe it is enough to save this game. I have 
 yet to see vocals done on it so my review will not reference those. The drums felt really good, 
 a bit more fun then rock band's but the duel symbol for star power seemed to be hard to work in. 
 Also seemed that it didn't work properly. The visuals in my opinion are worse then guitar hero 
 3's. And with a set list of only 85 songs it doesn't come close to providing you with quite the 
 library that rock band did. In guitar hero's attempt to compete with rock band i feel that they 
 failed and the screens become far too cramped. I've never been a fan of the round notes that guitar 
 hero uses. My reasoning behind this is, they are harder to follow and time. They also hurt your 
 eyes rather quickly when playing on the higher settings such as hard and expert. I feel guitar 
 hero could of done much better with this release and hope many issues that i have with the game 
 will be addressed in updates. I feel it didn't live up to the hype that surrounded it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  That's right kids. where the guys like Rock Band and past GH Games, would only go to 10, GH WT's 
 amps in fact go to 11. The new features breathe fresh, new life into the series.
  
  Guitar is better than ever and not only are you still playing interesting designed songs, but they 
 kicked it up a notch with the slide bar. You will come across notes with purple strings attached 
 to them, plus a little extra shine to the notes as well, designating the slide bar. The slide bar 
 will take some getting used to with transitioning from buttons to the slide, but it works great 
 and adds a lot of fun to the guitar.
  
  Bass also gets some new life, and makes it well... as fun to play as the guitar. Rather than constantly 
 mashing on the strum bar and holding possible the same or 2 notes constantly, they added a purple 
 flat line that comes across, meaning you need to hit an open note. That open note adds new variety 
 and twist into being the bassist and in fact, maybe it is finally cool to be the bass player?
 
  
  The addition of Drums and Mic make this as fun as Rock Band in the party scene and already, I have 
 seen it being picked up and just as popular as Rock Band. More friends playing, means more fun. 
 You would be amazed how in Beer Pong and GHWT/RB go together!
  
  Last GHWT kicks it up a notch with studio mode, allowing you to make your own tunes and share with 
 other GH fans. Being that the game has only been out a few days, the content is a lack there of, 
 but that is because these songs are made by the gamers, not Activision, so the fans need to get 
 cranking, but again the game is been out for 3 days, so you will see more.
  
  GHWT is stepping it up and already has fresh new music available to download via the marketplace 
 and Activision has said more is on the way. Plain and simple, GH fell behind last year with the 
 launch of RB, but they came back swinging and swinging strong. So far I have had very good luck 
 with the new equipment and the game play is just great. Touched up graphics are just another sweet 
 spot in why this game beats all else. It seems in every way, shape and form, Activision made sure 
 GHTW would be better than all else. If it wasn't for the lack of downloadable user content on launch 
 (which they should have made a studio program available, like Spore Creature creator, ahead of 
 time to get a jump on the user created content. That is the only reason GHWT does not get a perfect 
 score. 
  
  Get out there, get your copy and get Rocking. This is a game you do not want to pass up if you 
 like RB or GH games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  So I have finally played this game enough to believe that I have a pretty decent opinion on this 
 game.
  
  To get this first point out of the way, WHERE ARE THE HARD SONGS!? I beat the entire guitar career 
 and went "woah, that was it? THAT is what I get for playing this damn career for about 8 hours??? 
 WHAT THE HELL!?" The hardest song in this game is sadly a song by a band called "Bullet For My 
 Valentine" although you are required to play 2 solo duels against Zakk Wylde and Ted Nugent. Those 
 were exponentially easier than even Tom Morello's guitar duel in Guitar Hero 3. I'm not exactly 
 sure how that was made possible since Ted Nugent and Zakk Wylde are amazing guitarists and Bullet 
 For My Valentine is one of those fad bands that high school teens listen to in order to fit into 
 a certain clique. Also, the difficulty of every song had me falling asleep because the Guitar Hero 
 developers I guess decided it would be "cool" if they made the game as easy as Rock Band 1 for 
 the guitar even though the NAME of the game is GUITAR Hero: WOrld Tour.
  
  Now I must admit, I love a bunch of the songs in this game, and some are embarrassing secret pleasures, 
 but it still makes me content when I'm able to sing along and play on the drums to those songs 
 now that they finally "copied" Rock Band and added the whole set of instruments. One thing that 
 must be declared though is how broken the singing mechanics are. I thought Rock Band did a terrible 
 job of introducing the singing mechanic until this game came along. See now, I can play very close 
 to every song on expert on Rock Band 1 and 2 + DLC, with Guitar Hero I was lucky to get a 94% on 
 a song on hard with vocals for one very simple fact. When you are done singing a verse, the retina 
 or reticule on the screen resets to the centre of the vocal track, and if you are trying to set 
 your voice to the next note of the next verse, good luck, you might as well go and memorize the 
 song you are trying to sing because if you have no idea how the next verse goes, you can't hum 
 the note to try and help yourself. The game pretty much says "what, you didn't know the next verse 
 was a step and a half higher than the previous one? For shame!" Which I'm sure leaves some vocalists 
 at dismay when playing with an entire band.
  
  The drums remain fun to play but also remain even EASIER tha Rock Band 1 for the maximum difficulty, 
 although I would say that the average difficulty out of all of the songs combined is probably a 
 bit higher than that of Rock Band 1. I compare to the first Rock Band because it really seems that 
 Rock Band 2 purposely tried to make the game hard to appease the "hardcore" fans, although they 
 added so much double bass to the ending songs that you can't even play them natural on the crappy 
 convoluted set of Rock Band drums that they made for the game. Anyways, enough about Rock Band. 
 
  
  The band playing in this game fails instantly in my mind because if one person fails, the band 
 fails. That means if you are trying to find people to play with online and you get ONE person who 
 sucks terribly at expert but they want to look cool, you are done. Also, if you get some tool who 
 just feels like ruining people's days, you are also done. One person fails and the band fails, 
 that is the most ridiculous thing I have ever experienced in a "Co-op" game. Every single co-op 
 game from near to the beginning of co-op games has presented the idea that your partner can help 
 you out of death or can at least provide some time for you to respawn/put another coin in the machine. 
 This game gives no sympathy. And then god forbid you can't play EASY mode, you might as well throw 
 this game in the trash and tattoo "Moron" on your forehead for even bothering to get this game. 
 I know there is Beginner mode but that is the equivalent to the  
 mode in DDR, and ironically they were named the same thing in pretty much every DDR. Wait, did 
 Supernova have that mode too? Regardless...
  
  This game in all honesty SUCKS as a Guitar Hero game. It is fun with friends I'm sure, I have been 
 a little sick the past few days so I've only played it with my girlfriend, but I'm sure that it 
 will at least get played a little bit.
  
  I forgot to mention the "Create Your Own Music" part of the game. This part of the game might as 
 well have "Go buy a real instrument and find a band and learn how to REALLY record music because 
 for the effort you are putting into making this crappy near-to-MIDI sounding music, you could be 
 making something worth while with less effort and more time put in. Regardless, it is still cool 
 to do the little freestyle playing in a group of people though I'm sure (but like I said above...) 
 The only real fun I had with this game so far was creating musicians and their instruments. I have 
 wanted to make a custom guitar for myself for quite awhile, but custom guitars require money, financing 
 doesn't work there, and saving $1200 is generally a hard task for me. But hey, here I was able 
 to create a couple guitars that I have actually wanted to make in reality so I thought that was 
 pretty cool. I also was able to create a couple of my favourite musicians. The inability to add 
 makeup to guys was upsetting though, you have to makeshift your own lipstick out of graphics in 
 the face paint category which really isn't that bad though. 
  
  All in all though, the expert mode in this game for guitar is so much easier than the previous 
 games, it's almost remeniscent of Guitar Hero: Encore, Rock The 80's where you somewhat know OF 
 the songs in the game, but you never cared about them, and every song was so easy to beat that 
 you didn't need to play through more than once or MAYBE twice. I actually had more fun beating 
 Rock The 80's then this game just because that game was slightly more difficult since every song 
 had a solo, and because I love 80's tunes. I definitely would suggest going out and spending $350 
 on Rock Band 1 and 2, the Guitar Hero 2 or 3 guitar, the Rock Band TWO or Guitar Hero World Tour 
 drums, and then the Guitar Hero World Tour mic? I still have the Rock Band 1 mic which sucks pretty 
 badly so I'm not sure if theirs is better. But then you can buy yourself a couple of those 2800 
 microsoft points card (or the playstation store cards) and get a bunch of the amazing song packs 
 and albums that Rock Band has right now.
  
  And just a word to anybody at RedOctane, Activision, Harmonix, or Neversoft. Get these franchises 
 to join forces, the fact that Guitar Hero: World Tour was programmed in a way to actually accomodate 
 for the Rock Band drums was almost a romantic gesture, you both need to get together and make a 
 third party game and combine every single song from the Rock Band content and the Guitar Hero content, 
 combine features, take the best ones from both games and slap them into one. I guarantee sales 
 would not be hurt in any way. In fact, I almost guarantee the sales would be better due to people 
 being more relaxed and able to settle on buying the instruments for the one franchise since that 
 would be all that's left for this style of rhythm game. I really hope this happens *crosses fingers* 
 but I know it's only wishful thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punch37
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  i picked up this game on the sunday it came out i played for about 2 hours and i'm sorry but i 
 was not happy first off it felt like i was playing rock band 2 but it wasn't as good as rb2 first 
 off i played the guitar no change there after that is was the vocals and all i can say is terrible 
 half the time the mic could not even pick up my voice and then the drums i'm not even gonna say 
 anything just bad the world tour is a cheap rip-off of rb2's world tour in rb2 i have so much fun 
 playing the world tour this one i couldn't play for long before getting bored of it also what happened 
 to the bonus tracks that we could unlock in gh 1-3 i didn't see that anywhere also you can't buy 
 guitars you have to make custom one that took some fun out of the gameplay sad to say the studio 
 mode is the only thing this game has going for it i've only had it for two days and already i'm 
 thinking of trading it in and i love the gh series i stil own 1 on the ps2 2 and 3 on my 360 it 
 was nice that gh tryed something new but in the end rock band 2 pulled it off nicely and i can't 
 say the same for ghwt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raregamer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is not as good as Rock Band, but the instruments are way better then Rock Band, but it 
 is still a fun game and worth your time. I am not going to do a review because I am lazy, but I 
 will to a Pro, Con List then a wrap up.
  
  
  Instruments:
  
  Pro
  -Drums Feel Awesome ( They are way better and more responsive and stronger then the Rock Band Set.)
 
  -Midi input so smart Rock band should have did this to begin with
  -Very quiet I love how quiet it is very high quality they really feel like my Roland pads.
  
 
  Con
  -The Velocity thing doesn't really work. I believe it making a issue with the red button for people, 
 because if you throw in rock band in my case works perfect and that goes for every button.
  
  -The Pedal Sucks.
  
  Pro
  - The Guitar Feels really solid also prefer this over the Rock 
 Band one, The Touch section is really fun and way easier to use then the Rock Band Button Frets.
 
  
  Con
  - The strum bar sucks to me I don't know what they are thinking, I prefer the Les Paul.
  
  
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Game Its Self:
  
  In A way this is all con, but I'll add some pro
  
  Pro
  -The Game 
 is called Guitar Hero.
  -The Set List are fun to play, Charts are just fun which is nice.
  -Story/Script
  -Online Play 4 VS 4
  - The New Guitar Part things I have no idea what to call 
 them are really cool addition. Like new chords they added and touch spots.
  -The Drum long notes like the guitar is a nice little addition.
  
  Con
  -The Audio rate doesn't 
 sound like its of a high quality.
  -The Colors aren't as bright as Rock Band, They don't feel lively
  -HMX doesn't make it.
  -Menus 
 seem messy and aren't easy to navigate
  -When you miss a notes I really don't know I am missing the note, the new meter for you combo is 
 in a bad place they should have left it the same GH3 one.
  
  Neutral
  -The Graphics, Animation they are just fine. I do like when you hit a symbol your drummer will 
 repeat no matter what, but truth in these games I don't care all that much about graphics.
  
  -Some of the animations are cool
  
  -I like the venues (Especially the NYC one in Time Square)
 
  
  Wrap up
  
  -It really feels like they aren't going to continue the way RB is with Download content, Rb Feels 
 Like a platform where this feels like a sequel will come out and my content wont transfer if I 
 buy songs for that reason I don't know what my chances are of downloading songs.
  
  -Rock Band Just feels like they put heart into the game and not money as much, they take risk I 
 am not sure how to explain this exactly. HMX Gameplay seems more solid from the notes to how they 
 have the crowd sing with you it feels like home and the true foundation. Where Neversoft seems 
 really like the Call of Duty at world at war and HMX is COD4 they build the foundation and other 
 team uses there engine to copy, but just not quite as good.
  
  So I agree with ign how they gave it a 7.8 I would have gave it an 8 though and RB a 9. I think 
 if HMX was still with Red Octane we would have a perfect 10 game. That split and now with these 
 new instruments prove they should have never split up who ever decided how that worked is crazy. Also 
 one last thing I think GH can fix a lot of issues with a patch for even a better experience with 
 the game. Overall I still love the game and any music game is fun to me I just to switch between 
 rockband and GH to play a song I want. If I was to get one I wouldn't I would get Rock Band Standalone 
 wait for some GH instruments.
  
  
  I know there is probably mistakes in here and people don't agree probably, but this my opinion 
 there is more issues I am sure of people have and I might have also, but I forgot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikotz94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  some flaws with the game but made up for it with the very good game play the studio music feature 
 is very cool and you can even get songs other people make the guitar is very comfortable when using 
 it the drum set is very quite also the menus are well designed. over all this as good as rock band 
 2 and maybe better. i would say its worth the buys . not of course if your an rb2 fan boy. the 
 only reason i am dissapointed a little bit is the song list they put one metallica song in there 
 and its not one of there better songs but im lovin the the fact that they finally put some van 
 halen in there =) its a great van halen song too. hope you have fun with this game!!!!! !! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!! ! @ @ ! @ ! @ ! ! ! ! ! !? ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! @ ! @! @! @ @# @ @# # $$# $ %$$%^@@! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 vs. Guitar Hero 4. Many this Christmas will be making the choice. Easy option... buy 
 both. But if only one can fit on your list, here is the breakdown...
  
  Guitar:
  
  RB2 has generally less exciting guitar lines, but it does have a guitar solo counter. Usually under 
 charted. Okay guitar peripheral.
  GHWT has generally more challenging guitar lines, but is usually over charted. Good guitar peripheral.
 
  Verdict: If you want a better guitar game, buy Guitar Hero World Tour. 1/0
  
  Drums:
  
  RB2 has 4 pads and a kick peddle. Very hard drum parts on Expert. 
  GHWT has 5 pads and a 
 kick peddle. A little easier than RB2 on Expert.
  Verdict: Tie. GHWT has cymbals, but RB2 has better charts. 2/1
  
  Vocals:
  
  RB2 features 
 a USB microphone. GHWT also has a USB microphone
  Verdict: No difference. 3/2 (Buy SingStar if you want to sing...)
  
  Songs:
  
  RB2 has 
 lots of songs and an amazing amount of DLC.
  GHWT also has a lot of songs and DLC seems to be coming along nicely.
  Verdict: RB2 has a slight 
 edge with the DLC and better tracks overall.
  3/3
  
  Band Tour:
  
  RB2 features a great world tour mode and introducing a new online mode.
  GHWT has a world tour 
 and online world tour, but it is not as exciting as RB2.
  Verdict: Rock Band owns in this category. 3/4
  
  Competitive Multiplayer
  
  RB2 features 
 online multiplayer with Face off and Pro-Face off. Also has a battle of the bands.
  GHWT has many different types of competitive multiplayer options.
  Verdict: GHWT is definitely 
 the king of competitive multiplayer. 4/4 
  
  Extra Crap
  
  RB2 has a drum trainer and fill trainer... that's about it.
  GHWT has a song creator and an online 
 system called GHTunes. Creating songs is time consuming but fun.
  Verdict: Guitar Hero has a cool song creator, which is slightly more impressive than a fill trainer. 
 5/4
  
  4 Player Co-op
  
  Verdict: Rockband 2 has a better star power system, failing system, and a better everything in 
 this regard. Maybe GHWT 2 will be a bit better on this front...
  5/5
  Looks like its a tie!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is the new installment in the Guitar Hero series, and after the dissapointment 
 of Guitar Hero III, it really shines. Rock Band 2 didn't show much improvement from the first game, 
 and this does just that.
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  Amazing soundtrack, although it does repeat a few songs from Rock Band, such as Ramblin' Man, One 
 Way or Another, The Middle, and The Kill. Activision did manage to pick up some great tracks --- 
 Purple Haze by Jimi Hendrix, Crazy Train by Ozzy Osbourne, Sweet Home Alabama by Lynyrd Skynyrd, 
 Hotel California by The Eagles and Hot for Teacher by Van Halen. I'd say the soundtrack is equally 
 as good as RB2.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/0
  They look a lot like Guitar Hero III graphics, but the graphics when creating your own character 
 or instrument are pretty good. In games such as this, the graphics don't matter as much because 
 you are watching the notes.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  The new instruments are great. I haven't played the new drumset though, and I'm guessing the new 
 microphone isn't too different from the Rock Band one, but the guitar is great. They found a way 
 to make bass interesting with a new purple note, where you just have to strum, not press any notes. 
 Also the feature to create your own song is blast and something I'll be spending hours on.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 9/10
  Although I think I'll be playing Rock Band 2 more mainly because of the 
 DLC draw, and better songs so far, this is a game I'll freqeuntly come back to. With such good 
 additions to playing, who wouldn't?
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  If you are a Guitar Hero fan, or just a fan of music games in general, I would defenitly pick this 
 game up. It has no major flaws, but I wouldn't compare it to Rock Band 2. They are two different 
 games. I would pick up both of them because they are both equally great. Also, time spent is only 
 10 Hours or Less because I just got the game a couple days ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delare22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  First I Will Pointing The Pros And Cons Of GH: WT.
  
  Pros:
  
  -GH-Mix Music Creator (Which Does Get Boring After About 20 Mins)
  
  -Cymbals on The Drums 
 Work Perfectly
  
  -Guitar Works Fine
  
  
  Cons:
  
  -Band Play Is Total Garbage (Just Like GH3 Co-Op, but With Drums and Vocals Included) Compared 
 To Rock Band 2 
  
  -Drum Pads (Not Cymbals) Are Not very sensitive and require a hard hit to get them to register 
 notes (Or They Sometimes Don't Register Notes at All)
  
  -And Overall, Mostly Everything Was Cheaply Made
  
  So In My Opinion, Stick With Rock Band 
 2 If You Like Playing With Your Buddies. As well, If Your Still REALLY want this game, Make Sure 
 You Buy It From a Store that has some sort of return policy if you're not satisfied. (I Don't Think 
 Anyone wants to be Out $200 for Something They Won't Use) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Guitar Hero games for a while now. I originaly was not planning on getting 
 this but ended up going to the midnight launch just because I like rhythm games alot. Overall this 
 game is pretty much the same thing as Rock Band. World Tour does have some good songs that RB does 
 not have.
  
  I think the main thing that differs from RB is the Recording Studio. I find it fun to use and mess 
 around with. If you learn how to use it you can make some crazy songs that sound pretty good.
 
  Its also cool that you can download other people's songs to play.
  
  I just bought the game so I don't know how the GH drums are but if you own RB I suggest you save 
 some money and just get the game since the drums are compatible.
  
  I would recommend this game to anybody that likes rhythm games. If your low on money and can't 
 buy all the games coming out now then I suggest you skip this for now and buy it later down the 
 road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelnied101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I think this game is amazing! Ive been a huge fan of GH since GH came out in December 2005. I can't 
 stop playing it. I got the midnight release and me and my friends stayed up for 13 hours straight 
 to beat it! Some songs are a bit on the down side but fans of Ozzy and others will be very pleased.
 
  
  Drums are a great addition. At first they feel terrible when you try to hit notes and for some 
 reason this stopped and i started getting huge streaks. Just keep trying and the drums will be 
 great.
  
  Mic is way better then it was on RB. When you sing instead of having the difficulty choose how 
 thick the Note Pitch should be, the difficulty changes how hard your voice is graded. For example 
 on RB expert it would have a very small area i have to hit my pitch on. On GH expert its just the 
 same but when i change pitch my pitch meter changes alot faster making it having to be dead on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is the best music game I have ever seen. The drums in the game is very cool and very 
 realistic. The things that I loved in this game is the character customization and the song creator. 
 Another really cool thing in this game is the 4 on 4 battle of the bands. When I got this game 
 my friend got it at the same time, 4 people were in his house and 4 people in mine and we just 
 had the best battle of the bands tournament ever. The set list in the game is pretty impressive 
 and very long. The guitar is pretty impressive. What I liked in the guitar was the tap pad. There 
 are parts in the game where you have to tap or slide rather than strum. The drums were actually 
 the best. "Playing with the guitar is cool but hitting stuff? That's just amazing"- Chad Smith 
 (Red Hot Chilly Peppers) . The best thing was that if you hit them harder then a different sound 
 would come than hitting them softer. I hope more songs come to the Xbox Live market place... I 
 just can't wait... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kutchena
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Summary: I really don't have much to say about the game because it is more of the same from the 
 rhythm genre: a lineup book-ended by fierce tracks offset by mild stinkers. The character animations 
 have been updated; your band looks much more like they are rocking people's socks off. You'll notice 
 neat little touches like the lead singer doing the choreography from the "Beat It" music video 
 during the performance of the 'controversial', yet enjoyable Michael Jackson track.
  
  Graphics: 9 out of 10 - As mentioned before, all of the characters got updates in both the looks 
 and animation department. While the game looks good, I do not imagine seasoned gamers being "Wowed". 
 
  
  Sound: 9.5 out of 10 - This is a rhythm game so it had better sound great. Good news: it does. 
 My only gripe is that your own vocals are too soft, even after turning the volume up to "11" (seriously, 
 the max is 11 a la Spinal Tap) .
  
  Execution: 8 out of 10 - This was supposed to be a huge step forward for Activision. While the 
 game is well put together, there is an unexplainable taint on the execution of the game. There 
 are new features and the instruments work well (when they work) , but the game seemed a little rough 
 around the edges.
  
  Fun: 8.5 out of 10 - I was expecting to have a ball with this game, but it got kind of old somewhat 
 quickly. Part of the issue is that the drums seem to have a common quirk; the red pad either does 
 not register notes as it should or - somehow - the yellow 'nodes' are activated at the same time 
 as the red 'nodes' without ever hitting the cymbal. The pedal is also frustrating; we need the 
 ability to calibrate the sensitivity, and I have read in some forums that this option is coming. 
 
  
  This game is good fun, but it is sometimes feels muddled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World tour is defineately worth the wait. Its a guitar hero game for sure, and fun 
 at that. The career mode I think is one of its major flaws. Its hard to tell exactly whats going 
 on, and what songs you have done. It doesnt show your star ranks or score, and there is no general 
 list of the songs, they are just classified in sections, or "venues". That aside, the quick play 
 menu is just what its supposed to be. Simple, and cool looking. The menu system is easy to naviagte, 
 but nothing special. Ill give a quick note on the peripherals. The guitar is amazing, by far the 
 best GH guitar in the series. They fixed GH3 guitar problems and turned it into an amazing guitar. 
 The mic is what you would think, its a mic, it has some weight, good quality, and picks up sound 
 well. Now for the drums. I was hoping to have a little better here, but dont get me wrong, the 
 drums are amazing. Cymbals and drum pads are very durable, and the silicon pads not only make this 
 drum set very quiet, but make it easy to roll. The Pedal is iffy. Its plastic, seems pretty strong, 
 but double hits A LOT. I have already ordered an omega pedal for mine, since this thing just double 
 its way too much, and loses the combo very often. Overall, a very solid game, a definate improvement 
 over GH3, and better than RB2 in my opinion, although RB2 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Pre-ordered this one at was looking forward to playing it on the first day. Got the box home opened 
 it up and set-up the drums first. I like the feel of the drums and they were suprisingly responsive. 
 I was a little leary of the cymbals. The only thing I don't like is the feeling the whole set can 
 tip over if pushed enough. The pedal I thought was real good, even if it is slightly different 
 from the RB2 set.
  
  Now for the bad. I guess I lucked out in all of my GH and RB purchases before, until now. I put 
 together the guitar and was happy the neck snapped it nice and tight. I figured it was good to 
 go. After I started it up I found out the up-strum wasn't working. After strumming it a bit even 
 the down-strum crapped out. I got mad a banged the guitar on the backside and it started working. 
 It was completely responsive but then after awhile it started to fail again. Gamestop doesn't have 
 any for a return so it looks like I need to call Activision/Red Octane. We'll see what happens.
 
  
  I did play it though with the drums and the Les Paul and it is still fun to play although nothing 
 all that new in the standard game play. I was able to checkout the music creator and it looks like 
 it has potential but you will have to devote some serious time to get the most out of it. Overall 
 World Tour is good, even if I need a new guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napkin4TheFace
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 4 is a great, if not amazing, game. The game itself can be played hours upon hours 
 with out ever really getting played out. Its just missing a few game play aspects. Although the 
 set-list is quite amazing and extremely entertaining they didn't put enough "rocky" type songs 
 in the game. The songs are pretty light and have more of a pop like feel with quite a few exceptions. 
 Also the drum part of a few songs are missing a few obvious notes. Besides those few minor flaws 
 the game is amazingly fun. It was played by me for about 9 hours so far. I loved it. It is just 
 down-right fun. The actual playing of the notes is great. They made it a tad harder too for us 
 expert players. They too made the game's graphics much more aesthetic than any music-rhythm out 
 to date. Overall the game is best in the series and as of now I don't believe any game can top 
 this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nills
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I went with my friend to pick up the bundle this morning, and were ecstatic to put the disc in 
 the tray and fire this baby up. 
  
  Before this of course, we had to open the colossal box. In there were the drums, guitar, and mic 
 and we were pretty psyched once we saw the cymbals. Quickly we put together the kit and the new 
 guitar with the confusing finger pad and fire this baby up.
  
  We arrived to an okay menu, but once we went in to Band World Tour, we came to a crammed and confusing 
 interface. So we said 'whatever' and started up the first song. I then learned that the yellow 
 cymbal wasn't working correctly and the green fret on the guitar sometimes unresponsive. I failed 
 because of the unresponsive fret, and then saw that when one person fails, the whole band fails! 
 Okay I thought, to the music creator!
  
  I came to a confusing menu with a crazy amount of options that were hard to use. Maybe I need to 
 learn and see how to use these features, but it just seemed very hard. Another feature I decided 
 to explore was the character creator. 
  
  The character creator was by far one of the best in a music game. It was a lot better than RB2's 
 (though rock band 2's was still cool) . There were many different accessories and styles I could 
 use, and was very pleased with the outcome.
  
  List of Flaws:
  Flaw #1: Broken/unresponsive kit
  Flaw #2: When one person fails, the whole band fails
  Flaw 
 #3: Confusing music creation
  
  List of cool new features:
  Feat. #1: Music creator (after learning curve)
  Feat. #2: Good songlist
  Feat. #3: In depth 
 character creation
  
  Overall, I expected much more of this game than what was delivered. Its flaws prevent it from being 
 the great game I expected it to be, and Rock Band 2 stole the show this time around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  -Right off the bat, you see Neversoft hasn't touched or bothered improving the wacky cartoony gimmick 
 applied on every facet of the game. The interface is a strange assortment of greens, purples, and 
 blues that looks like a menu straight out of the 'X-Treme' decade of the late 90s. Rock Band has 
 seemed to move on from this cartoonish style and develop it's own sleek, slick, and simple brand 
 of UI, whereas Guitar Hero seems to be stuck in it's ways. This look is dated now, and just looks 
 amateur.
  
  Of course, first glance doesn't matter too much. What matters is, how does it look in-game? Can 
 you see the notes, score, and hammer-ons without trouble? Sort of. Call me spoiled by Rock Band, 
 with it's UI so huge that could make the highway easy to see from a mile away, but GH's UI is so 
 scrunched together it gives me a headache. There is literally space on the sides where the developers 
 definitely could have stretched out the highway, but they apparently decided not to. The score 
 box for example is crammed into the middle with the highway, where it could have had room to breath 
 on the sides. A strange decision.
  
  -Playing drums for example, the purple kick line is ridiculous. The highway itself is already a 
 purple hue, so what better to accent it's purpleness? Make the kick line purple! That will not 
 be hard to see at all. I feel sorry for anyone who plays drums more than 2 feet away from the TV. 
 Here I am playing it on my 1080p LCD HDTV, and it's still a pain to spot. 
  
  Along with the drums, activating starpower is a mess. To use starpower on drums, you have to hit 
 2 certain pads at any point during the song, while the notes are still scrolling. There is no patch 
 of freedrumming we are all used to like in RB2. With this comes a handicap, where the game skips 
 a few beats when you hit them, which gives you time to recover. This also makes it completely confusing, 
 as you don't really know which are being skipped for you. It has thrown me off heavily many, many 
 times. This is just poorly executed, and a bad idea any way you slice it.
  
  -As for the bass guitar, the new open-note strum is a well-implemented idea which I do like. Flows 
 well, and is charted just as it should be. Not much to say other than why did it take this long 
 to think of doing that?
  
  -Not much to say for the vocals. Work as they should, no problems, no improvements over Rock Band.
 
  
  -The enormous hitbox from GH3 is back. This will depend whether or not if it's a good thing or 
 bad thing, based on the way you like to play. Alot of the time I found myself hitting insane solos 
 I didn't even believe I was pressing the correct buttons for, that's how big the box is. Overall, 
 comparing Rock Band and Guitar Hero, Rock Band is a very tight feeling, GH is very, very loose. 
 
  
  -A little pet peeve that is highly irritating to me: There is no reason at all why big band finishes 
 at the end of certain songs need to be charted. Rock Band fixed this by having a section where 
 all players can just mash on buttons and play whatever they want. Guitar Hero: World Tour makes 
 you play every single little nonsensical note. So when you've finally plowed off that big solo, 
 and are heading towards the end, and are assaulted by a frenzy of musical gibberish, you'd wish 
 you were playing Rock Band.
  
  -The songlist is probably the worst in the series. Now, don't go fanboy rage if your favorite bands 
 or songs are in this and think I'm bashing them. It's simply the charts being so boring, undercut, 
 and just plain bad choices for a rhythm game. The tracklist feels as if someone closed their eyes, 
 grabbed a few CDs, stuck their finger on a random track, and decided to throw that in the game. 
 There is a huge lack of hit songs, and the ones that are, are already shared by Rock Band, which 
 leaves the tracks in this game feeling like filler. There's a few fun songs here and there, but 
 overall it's just a bit of a bore. On the upside, there are a few great exclusives. On the downside, 
 when I say few, I mean few.
  
  In short summary, Guitar Hero: WT is little brother looking up at big brother Rock Band. This feels 
 too much of a "Me Too" effort by GH in order to keep up with the Jonses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonyw
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero, once was my favorite game I bought every single one until I learned that the original 
 developer Harmonix had been moved and Neversoft were taking the reins. I really didn't care and 
 so bought GH3 which I had been Obssesed with since I heard about. When I got it I had four friends 
 with me While we played it. While no one got really as much as time to play it. I ultimetliy thought 
 it sucked after the first 3 weeks. So I orginally hated rock band I got and Loved it (especially 
 it's dlc) . So when GHWT came out today I thought I'll give it another chance. Sadly it was good 
 but it felt like a rehash of all the songs on Rock Band. I mean they had The Kill by 30 Seconds 
 to Mars which I originally played that song DEC 07. I mean come on Neversoft you could've had a 
 little more creativity to release more songs than 20+ songs from Rock Band. The Positive is that 
 I do Like the instruments a lot to me having both Rock Band and GH's instruments together is the 
 best. But there a lot of stinkers songs that were sorta like GH3 songs. Ones either from the pre 
 80's or the 00's. Then for quickplay you could only have up to 6 songs in a setlist, why can't 
 you have more. Overall, Both are good games and you don't have either one flip a coin, because 
 both are equally great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biigdady
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  This is my first review ever for anything, so hopefully that speaks to how I strongly I feel about 
 this game. First off, I'll mention this. I'm a HUGE Rock Band fan, so you won't get any GH fanboy 
 bias here.
  
  Simply put, this game ROCKS.... hard.
  
  Personally, I've never liked the Rock Band guitar, so it wasn't ever really hard for the GH hardware 
 to top it. With that said, the new World Tour guitar is just about the most amazing peripheral 
 I've used. The strum bar is a vast improvement over the previous GH guitars. I've never been all 
 that great at "upstrumming", yet with the new guitar, it really feels like I've been able to upstrum 
 for a long time. it's a bit larger and has a bit of a knobby tip to it, making it extremely easy 
 to find a comfortale grip. The addition of the palm mute to deploy star power is another welcome 
 addition, especially for those who have trouble tilting the guitar up and playing notes simotaneously 
 (Hi, honey! LOL!) 
  
  I have to say, though, that my favorite addition to the new guitar is by far the touch strip. It 
 may sound like a novelty at first, but it has multiple uses and all are executed quite well. For 
 instance, you can simply tap on it in any position while holding down fret buttons instead of using 
 the strum bar. Another use for the new touch strip is the ability to modify the sound of sustained 
 notes, much like the whammy bar. The COOLEST use of the new strip though, in my opinion, are in 
 conjunction with the new "transparent notes". These can be played my simply tapping on the touch 
 strip in the corresponding fret position. Furthermore, there are sections where the transparent 
 notes are tied together with wavy, purple lines. these sections are played like hammer-ons. You 
 simply slide your finger up and down the strip to move from one fret position to another. It takes 
 a little getting used to, as all new things usually do, but once you have it down, it's a really 
 cool new way to play!
  
  Now on to the drums! In real life, yours truly is a drummer, so I tend to be alot more critical 
 when I judge the drums. However, I can sum this part up very quickly. BEST. DRUMS. EVER! Seriously. 
 They're uber quiet (far quieter than the new RB2 drums. I know this because while I was waiting 
 at WalMart for midnight to roll around, I could hear someone playing the RB2 drums from clear across 
 the electronics department) , they have superb "bounce back" to them (super easy to do a drum roll 
 if you wanted to) , and they can be played more quietly or more loudly depending on how softly or 
 how hard you hit the heads. Add to that the addition of actual cymbals, and you have my personal 
 pick for best video game drums available (Well, that is unless you really feel like dropping an 
 arm and a leg for a tricked out 3rd party set.)
  
  Now for the set list. I think alot of people would agree that GH3 really dropped the ball. There 
 were a few gems in there, but all in all, it was a pretty big let down. World Tour brings the Guitar 
 Hero franchise redemption in a BIG way. All original tracks, no covers. That RULES! There's a great 
 variety of songs, and I have yet to play a song that not only sounds great, but has the notes mapped 
 out really well. For example, "Eye of The Tiger" appears on both GHWT and RB2, however (in my opinion) 
 not only does the song sound better (including a MUCH better ending to the song) , but the way the 
 notes are mapped out makes for a far better play through. That's all I really have to say about 
 the songlist side of things. We all have different opinions about what specifics we'd like to see 
 in the game (I'm a diehard Coheed & Cambria fan, so I'd love to see they're entore discography 
 in there! LOL!) , so I won't start any huge debates on that topic.
  
  Anyways, that wraps it up for me. Oh, except I need to say one more thing. The guy that who gave 
 this game a 3.5 and said it was "too little, too late" is out of his damn mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyest
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Amazing game. Garage band style song writing makes for unlimited possibilities. You can then download 
 as many songs as you want from GHtunes online and enjoy everyones creations. They even found a 
 way to do a whole scale with only five buttons. You can also play a higher scale by tilting the 
 guitar up. This gives many possibilities when added to base lines and the keyboard. When you first 
 start you find cool new features such as the touch pad which lets you slide through the solos. 
 I haven't been able to finish the campaign yet but so far the set list is amazing, including tracks 
 like what I've done by linkin park. I plan on spending a great amount of time on both career and 
 writing songs. This game was well worth the wait and the price. Much better than Rock Band! It 
 is definitely a must have for anyone who enjoys the guitar hero series or anyone looking to become 
 addicted to a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  this game is the best guitar hero game but i wouldn't call it guitar hero now that you can sing, 
 play the drums, and the guitar it should be called ''band hero'' :) . But serioulsy, one of the 
 biggest problem of this game is the tracklist i mean TOKIO HOTEL?! Seriously who put that there 
 and almost none of the songs here are really that famous excpect ozzy, metallica, hendrix and motorhead, 
 the tracklist maybe be big, but they should put more metal songs in there. So the gameplay its 
 basically the same game as rock band but with a diffrent drum set which is easier to play ,well 
 at least for me, the music making thing is pretty hard but in time you will learn how to master 
 it and its pretty cool like making the name of your band, album cover art publishing it on GHTunes 
 its awesome. So overall this game is good the drums, mic, guitar works great and it would have 
 been the best one if the tracklist was better, but hey thats just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxdave316
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game was totally worth the wait! It is much better than rock band 1 and 2 in both gameplay 
 and instruments.... also for some reason I never liked the rectangle notes in RB. I'm not really 
 going to talk about which play list is better because that comes down to more of personal opinion. 
 
  
  The guitar is great and it's really fun using the touch strip..... the drums have met my expectations 
 that I had from reading articles and looking at pictures/videos of them. They feel really nice 
 and have a good bounce. It took a few songs to get use to the new set up and having raised cymbals..... so 
 far I had only been use to playing the rock band 1 drums. I haven't had a chance to get into the 
 Music Creator, but I did do a quick run through... I definitely want to come back and play with 
 it some more tomorrow.
  
  If you haven't picked this game up yet, go buy it it's great! Well that's all for now I want to 
 get back to play GHWT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albatross83
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Not much new here, except for the MIDI song designer (but of course, no renditions of existing 
 titles are allowed, so not a whole lot to look forward to there) . The "battle" mode is a bit more 
 forgiving than in GH3, and experienced players should have no problem beating them on the first 
 try.
  
  Aside from that, there are far too many repeat/overlapping songs from previous games, including 
 the competition: Rock Band II. 15+ songs, by my count. Also, a lot of the other songs will be unknown 
 to most people, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but in this case they seem to be unknown for 
 a reason. The lineup is very heavy on pre-85 and post 2005, with almost nothing from metal's glory 
 days or the grunge era, aside a Smashing Pumpkins tune (repeat) and an early Metallica song.
  
  The gameplay is standard fare for the GH franchise, as is the animation and cut scenes. A lot 
 more licensed star avatars this time around (Corgan, Ozzy, and a few others) , as well as a very 
 limited amount of covers, from what I can tell.
  
  All in all, if you have RB, or especially RB2, you can safely skip GHWT. If you don't own RB2, 
 and you're trying to decide between the two, it's a bit of a toss up.. I'd probably lean toward 
 RB2, but I'm probably biased against GHWT. Having played RB2 first, I was extremely disappointed 
 to see so many of the same songs in GHWT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game is just generally amazing, Ive had it for two hours now, and I think it is safe to say 
 this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. I havent tried the vocals yet, so i cant 
 really say anything about them, but the drums and guitar are amazing. The touch pad on the guitar 
 is very helpful and cool. they made the songs harder than the previous games, which is cool for 
 expert. They also added a new difficulty, so there is a really easy mode and an easy mode. drums 
 are very fun, but i only have played them twice. also, the character creation is very cool, for 
 you can create endless things with there many ways to customize. Another cool thing is ghtunes, 
 allowing you to make your own songs, and ti is great because i made some very hard ones, and also 
 download a few other peoples. I cant sya anything about multiplayer yet though. . I love this game 
 and I will be playing it for a while 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
