-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero: Metallica
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/guitarherometallica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great array of Metallica songs.
 Solid setlist includes plenty of other acts.
 Good Metallica-flavored extras.
 New level of challenge for expert drummers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great value.
 Only supports Death Magnetic DLC.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 31, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 522 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Mar 29, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero: Metallica is a juiced-up track pack likely to please both solo guitarists and full-on 
 bands. 

  Although the old adage about books is usually applicable to video games, it's actually just fine 
 to judge Guitar Hero: Metallica by its cover. It conveys that, in this game, you can play Metallica 
 songs "on guitar or with the whole band," as well as other tracks from "over 20 guest acts." Which 
 songs and which guest acts, you wonder? The 49-song setlist is on the back cover, and how you feel 
 about it will play a large part in how keen you are to pay full retail price for this game. Aside 
 from some new online features and an intense Expert+ drummer mode (with two kick pedals!) , this 
 is little more than a Guitar Hero track pack jammed with metal songs and Metallica extras. Fortunately, 
 a lot of the songs are fun to play, and there are plenty of tough tracks to challenge expert players. 
 It's a bit overpriced when compared to the 80+ songs of the similarly priced World Tour, but Guitar 
 Hero: Metallica is still great fun for those who like to rock out in their living rooms.       
   

  Whatever your feelings about Metallica may be, there's no denying that this game has a lot to offer 
 folks who are looking for a challenge. The guitar solos can be blistering, especially given that 
 many of the songs are quite long. There is also an Expert+ mode for drummers, which demands that 
 you use two bass pedals (splitter required) to keep up with the fierce onslaught of percussion. 
 The suite of online competitive modes from World Tour is back with a few new additions, notably 
 a four-versus-four Battle of the Bands mode. Online competition is still as fierce as ever, so 
 casual players are advised to stick to the accommodating difficulty range of local play.  

           Metallica in all their cartoony avatar glory.      

  The presentation benefits from 
 the metal theme, and the avatars of James Hetfield, Kirk Hammett, Rob Trujillo, and Lars Ulrich 
 are instantly recognizable. Their animations are unique and add a lot of character to any Metallica 
 song you play, though their lack of shoulder straps and occasionally goofy faces will still remind 
 you that you're playing a Guitar Hero game. When you're not playing a Metallica song, you can use 
 one of the iconic Guitar Hero characters (Axel Steel, anyone?) or you can use your own created 
 character. Career mode (either solo or in a band) is structured in the same dull list format, but 
 the arenas are quite impressive and you don't even have to play all of the songs to complete a 
 career. This allows a welcome bit of flexibility, so you can avoid Metallica's heavier early work 
 in favor of their more melodic stuff if you like, or vice versa.  

  There are a bunch of Metallica-themed extras included, from live video of performances to Metallifacts, 
 which are performances of each song accompanied by trivia about the band, the song, and the game. 
 The robust music studio from World Tour is back with a few new guitar sounds, but this game is 
 really about playing songs, not recording them. At 49 songs, the game gives you less than the $60 
 World Tour, but $60 is less than you pay for 49 downloaded songs, so it's really a matter of perspective. 
 Metallica haters should steer clear, and metalheads should snatch it up. For World Tour players 
 who are on the fence, Guitar Hero: Metallica is a solid game with a strong setlist that offers 
 you a great fake-plastic-rock experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bfguitarhero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I did not like Guitar Hero: World Tour. It wasn't because of the gameplay or the instruments or 
 the song creator or the career mode or the online features or any of that stuff. It was for one 
 reason that makes Guitar Hero: Metallica such a great game. It's the songs. The combination of 
 great Metallica songs and other guest acts really provides a challenge that World Tour failed to 
 do.
  
  If you don't know how Guitar Hero works, then that must of been a pretty comfy rock you were under. 
 You have a highway of notes that come at you, you strum or hit a pad or sing when they cross the 
 bar, and you score points. You can gain star power by hitting certain phrases, you have a rock 
 meter which tells how well your doing, which will go into red if you miss too many notes and will 
 cause you to fail... you get the idea.
  
  Guitar Hero: Metallica is, in my opinion, the best Guitar Hero since Harmonix abandoned the series 
 to start working on Rock Band. The soundtrack is what makes the game such a success, as Metallica 
 is what people consider to be one of the greatest metal bands of all time. The songs (not only 
 the one by Metallica) are fun, challenging, and are good songs to listen to if you like metal.
 
  
  One of the key editions to the game was the addition of Expert + for drummers, which allows them 
 to use 2 drum pedals to play songs. This where Guitar Hero: Metallica shows what it really is - 
 a hardcore game for hardcore players. Expert plus is INSANE, and the song One, which was considered 
 the 2nd or 3rd hardest song in Guitar Hero 3, is easily outside of the Top 5.
  
  However, there are several flaws in the game. Singing is still overly difficult, which can be frustrating 
 when your going for some of the vocal achievements. Speaking of achievements, it is my personal 
 objection that there is an achievement for completing all the turtorials, and then the games says 
 you need the official Guitar Hero drum controller to do the drum controller (WTF!) . Also, there 
 is no online band career or online band quickplay with less than a full band.
  
  Despite these complaints, Guitar Hero: Metallica is one of the best Guitar Hero experiences available 
 right now. In my opinion, it does not top Rock Band 2, but is still worth the attention of fans 
 of the series. And now, only one question remains - where is Ride the Lightning? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like Guitar Hero Aerosmith that much because I'm not exactly a fan of the band to begin 
 with. It's different with Metallica because I like that band way more than Aerosmith. The setlist 
 is Metallica songs and other songs that they covered and bands who played with them. I like the 
 opening because some of the album art is used. Some cool things you see in this game are the "Metallifacts" 
 and the album a certain song is in and other stuff. I saw a behind the scenes with the band doing 
 mo-cap for Master of Puppets and I thought it was pretty cool. Even though Cliff Burton isn't anywhere 
 in the game, you can unlock one of his guitars and his song Orion is in the Metallica setlist. 
 He wrote Orion and they haven't performed the until a few years after his death. It would be cool 
 to have Cliff but they can't have an animated Cliff without the real Cliff. The Metallica is the 
 current Metallica we know as of now which is James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett and Robert 
 Trujillo. This Guitar Hero is definitely the best Guitar Hero to date because it's Metallica. I 
 liked a lot of the band's songs in the game and what's cool is the Death Magnetic album pack that 
 was downloadable for Guitar Hero III and World Tour is transferrable to this game. For drummers, 
 there's Expert + which uses 2 pedals and since I don't play my drumset, whatever for me. Vocals 
 are fixed this time around so now I think it'll be easier to ace a song. I think Guitar Hero Metallica 
 was better than World Tour and a huge improvement over Aerosmith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentlord833
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:16 am PT
Review:  DUN! DUNDUNDUN! BENTUM BENTUM BUN BENTUM BUN BEN BEN BUM!!!
  
  If you like Guitar Hero, Rock Band, and all the fun happy goodness that comes with them, THIS is 
 the game to get. Metallica is to rockinrolla music what (something snappy is to something creative) . 
 
  
  After spending lots and lots of time playing Rock Band 2, I felt that the difficulty was seeming 
 to wane, but I had forgotten that I was still playing the few Metallica songs in the library (downloaded 
 content) in medium. I quickly remembered after attempting to play "Disposable Heroes" on Hard in 
 GH: Metallica. This game is HARD. The library of Metallica songs is epic as far as the choices 
 made. If you are a fan of the source material, you will not be dissappointed. The difficulty could 
 be seen as a bad thing, but honestly these songs are hard to play for real, so they really shouldn't 
 be dumbed down for the game. 
  
  The sound of the game is also as would be expected very very good. No surprise there, turn it up 
 and let it out. 
  
  While as of yet, I have not gotten into all the different game modes, one worth noting is the 4v4 
 head to head challenges. You and three of your metal bangin friends can show off your stuff against 
 another four person band via XBL, and it seems like the thing to do. 
  
  The extended library offers some different fare, some songs that are easily recognized, others 
 not so much, all are fun to play. Plus, having Slayer, SamHain, and Machine Head on the game isn't 
 hurting it IMO.
  
  Achievements are all named after Metallica Songs, or other Metallic-esque things, so getting "Achievement 
 Unlocked: ... And Justice For All" is pretty sweet.
  
  not alot of downsides to this game, the only one I could think of, is if this is a first time Guitar 
 Hero/Rock Band purchase, and play, it may be a little difficult to get into. Other than that, if 
 you are a Metallica fan...... Get it.
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Audio: 10 out of 10
  Online: 9 out of 10
  
  If you like: Any Guitar Hero or Rock Band game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Metallica has come a long way since the underground days of heavy metal music. Despite initially 
 being dismissed by the mainstream industry, the future became bright after the group began cracking 
 the music charts. Listening to James Hetfield's brash might in his voice or hearing Lars Ulrich 
 pound upon his drums were moments in the making for the music industry. But those timid times have 
 passed, and Metallica has become one of the biggest metal bands in history. The folks behind the 
 Guitar Hero franchise knew this just as well as everyone else. Metallica made their Guitar Hero 
 debut with their hit "One" back in Guitar Hero III, and fans have put their fists up for more from 
 the Metallica guys in Guitar Hero. After the release of the Guitar Hero: Aerosmith game, the Guitar 
 Hero franchise entered the full band market with Guitar Hero: World Tour. But as fans rocked out 
 to "Trapped Under Ice", rumors of a Metallica-based installment shook the rhythm game market. After 
 months of speculation, Metallica's legacy was announced to be adapted for the world of plastic 
 instruments. Guitar Hero: Metallica is Neversoft's second round for a band-specific installment 
 of their treasured franchise. Does it do the legendary metal group "justice for all"?
  
  The song list, expectantly, is rock and metal with a grand majority of the songs being hits from 
 Metallica themselves. If you've kept up with the famed metal band over the course of their extensive 
 career, you'll find plenty of fan service in the songlist. You get the classics like "Master of 
 Puppets" and "Enter Sandman", along with a slew of earlier hits like "Seek and Destroy" and "Welcome 
 Home (Sanitarium) ". In addition to Metallica songs, you also get songs from other bands, many who 
 have either played alongside or been inspired by Metallica. These range from Mastodon's "Blood 
 and Thunder" to System of a Down's "Toxicity." Guitar Hero: Metallica is also compatible with the 
 Death Magnetic DLC from Guitar Hero: World Tour (though not with any other DLC from the game) . 
 The song collection doesn't reach the caliber of World Tour, mostly because the songs lack diversity 
 and quantity, but the songlist makes up for that with challenge and intensity. While it doesn't 
 reach the sheer insanity of Guitar Hero III, the game is difficult, thanks in part to Metallica's 
 fast and complex music style. If you aren't a fan of Metallica, Guitar Hero: Metallica probably 
 won't change your mind. If you ARE a fan, however, you won't find a stronger songlist than the 
 one in Guitar Hero: Metallica.
  
  When it comes to gameplay changes, you really won't find many. Guitar Hero: Metallica is essentially 
 World Tour with a new songlist focused on Metallica. Fortunately, the minute changes do in fact 
 make a difference. Most importantly, Quickplay has all of the songs unlocked from the start. No 
 longer will you have to trudge through song sets to unlock songs when all you want is to play your 
 favorites; now you and your friends can find your top songs and play them from the get-go. Instead 
 of unlocking songs, you can unlock Metallica pictures and options in the Career Mode, which also 
 has been improved. Progressing in Career Mode depends upon your amount of stars, so it's completely 
 fine to skip a song you don't like or one that isn't at your skill level. It's a great improvement 
 which will hopefully be implemented into future games in the series. The rest of the game plays 
 much like World Tour, though now with a bigger challenge and the new Expert+ drumming option. If 
 you have a Guitar Hero World Tour drum set, you can plug in a second foot pedal and take on the 
 ridiculously difficult Expert+ mode. This may satisfy the hardcore Guitar Hero fans who've mastered 
 every song, but for the casual player, this is far too much challenge. It's a cool installment 
 for long-time World Tour drummers, but everyone else will probably find the Expert+ mode to be 
 over the limit. Overall, the improved Career Mode and accessible Quickplay options are welcome 
 to Guitar Hero: Metallica and the Guitar Hero series in general. The familiarity of the rest of 
 the game may concern fans, but there's still a good amount of improvements to check out.
  
  Much like Guitar Hero: World Tour, Guitar Hero: Metallica has a slick, alternative presentation 
 that focuses on cinematic intensity. The game has video game representations of the band members, 
 all of which are animated well and provide a sense of authenticity to the music. Even cooler are 
 the obscure animated cutscenes featuring the band, which manage to burst onto the stage with humorous, 
 though undeniably clever animations. These cutscenes may seem like they're not taking the band 
 seriously, but that's far from the truth. Metallica is represented on stage with incredible style 
 and design. As expected, the music quality is also strong and easy to rock out to, with master 
 recordings and a few re-recordings throughout the songlist. Explosive sound effects and a clean, 
 easy-to-navigate interface are just icing on the cake. New to the mix are the extras, like Metallifacts 
 (tidbits that you can read about certain songs while the song plays) and plenty of Metallica related 
 photos and media. All of this adds up to a stellar presentation with enough Metallica-related madness 
 to satisfy hardcore Metallica fans and headbangers alike.
  
  Pros
  + Excellent collection of Metallica songs
  + Plenty of Metallica-related extras and info
  + 
 Awesome presentation
  + Career Mode is greatly improved
  + Rock-solid gameplay
  
  Cons
  - Could've used more songs overall
  - Only compatible with Death Magnetic DLC
  - Too 
 far aimed at Metallica fans
  
  Guitar Hero: Metallica is a genuinely great example of how to make a band-specific Guitar Hero 
 game and make it right. The robust collection of Metallica and Metallica-related songs has plenty 
 of strength when it comes to challenge, though if you're not a fan of Metallica, you probably won't 
 find a majority of the songs to be worth checking out. However, those even slightly interested 
 in the famed metal band's music will find the improved Career and Quickplay options to be excellent 
 fixes to the original World Tour formula. The inclusion of unlockable Metallica media makes going 
 through the Career mode a Metallica fan's dream. The presentation is some of the best seen in the 
 Guitar Hero series; the excellent use of the band's personas and the awesome animated cutscenes 
 are incredible and give Guitar Hero: Metallica its own definitive style. However, the inability 
 to use DLC other than the Death Magnetic album combined with the slightly short song list may feel 
 a bit less than expected, especially compared to the massive songlist from World Tour. If you can't 
 stand Metallica, Guitar Hero: Metallica won't change your mind in the slightest. From a gameplay 
 standpoint, however, the game fixes many of the design issues of World Tour. It's just a shame 
 that the game isn't as universally appealing as World Tour was. At the end of the day, Guitar Hero: 
 Metallica's improvements to the Guitar Hero formula are definitely a solid step forward, though 
 unless you like Metallica, you'll probably simply consider this to be a track pack for the fans. 
 But for the Metallica fans and anyone with a passing interest in metal music, Guitar Hero: Metallica 
 is one of the best games in the Guitar Hero series yet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I like to consider myself a pretty big fan of Metallica. I basically like everything that isn't 
 St. Anger or Death Magnetic. Hell, Hero of the Day and Wherever I May Roam (go in-game!) are two 
 of my favorite songs. That said, this game underwhelmed me.
  
  It has the same positives and same negatives as GH: WT (Gasp! Shock! Surprise!) . I would say the 
 charting has "improved" but there are still a decent number of songs that are charted like Activision 
 just doesn't care for accuracy. As long as it's in the ballpark, we're good.
  
  The Expert+ mode is a pretty cool addition if you happen to be a drummer and are actually awesome 
 enough for double bass pedals. Sadly, my left leg isn't quite as adept as my right, but it's a 
 fun mode nonetheless.
  
  The solos are still pegged away with mashing random buttons instead of using the touchpads, which 
 is a shame.
  
  The character models you can tell are the members of Metallica, but I hate them. I dunno', it's 
 a REALLY messed up jaw here, too big of a head there, the fact that I hate Rob's hair in real life 
 let alone in game over there. Oh, and Lars is king douchebag now and forever.
  
  There's a great selection of songs, honestly. The Metallica tracks are all very well thought out 
 and chosen. I wish there were more Garage, Inc. songs and Hero of the Day was included, but I can 
 deal with it. Fade to Black, Master of Puppets, Wherever I May Roam, and Hit the Lights make the 
 Metallica side of things awesome. Then you have Mastodon, Bob Seger, Queen, and Judas Priest to 
 make everything else bad-ass too. The game itself still suffers from the boring presentation and 
 bad charting, though, so hey. I'd go into detail, but I already wrote a review for GH: WT, so read 
 that.
  
  In summation: Rather than take their times to craft a truly satisfying rhythm game, It's like Actvision 
 is more banking on the fact that's called Guitar Hero and the fact that coupled with their hall 
 of fame induction, Metallica could sell dirt right now. They have some great ideas for the genre, 
 honestly, but the execution is failing them over and over and they're not really caring enough 
 to fix said problems. Why? Because they're making money. Which, I don't blame them on that basis, 
 but this is MY review of the game. Its audience is too narrow for a game that really isn't THAT 
 enjoyable to its target audience anyway. Give it a rent, if you love it enough? Buy it. But I strongly 
 warn against rushing to the stores for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got my new Xbox live card I saw a limited downloadable demo for one of my favorite franchises 
 Guitar Hero. Guitar has proved to be one of the most revolutionary games of all times and is trying 
 to be bigger and better by using the rockband mic and drums. After the dissapointing world tour 
 which I thought was lackluster and had a terrible song list comes a game with one of the most insane 
 bands to walk this earth. Guitar Metallica has all of the Metallica members like Larz Umulat (cant 
 spell his name) and the previous guitar hero characters like Axel and Johnny. I was dissapointed 
 with no Xavier that made me pissed. World Tour was a wannabe Rock band. Rock bands Guitar is harder 
 to use which challanges how good u are. Metallica is a World Tour with much better songs and includes 
 mostly of Metallica songs. Minor problems are still here that were not tweeked from World tour 
 and the game is far from perfection. Then songs usually take about 6 minutes which really makes 
 the drummer and guitaist tired, which is good because games with a challange makes me excited like 
 giving weed to a crackhead. It follows the same guitars has the previous games . The drum is my 
 favorite part of world tour and was so fun to play thats the only reason i gave it a 8. The drums 
 are now pak with its action packed symbols and now to claimMetallica rulez they put in a extra 
 DRUM PEDAL thats how fast the songs are. I do not like the way the mic works and is the reason 
 why rock band is still the top dog of music games. In Metallica their is a flowing line and u have 
 to sing where the line goes but that is not that fun. Rock band proves to use the mic for better 
 porpuses. Metallica still blows me away and shows how much Areosmith sucked without drums and mic. 
 Metallica does murder the guitar hero series but it does it sort of quick which proves this is 
 not the best guitar hero but one of the best. Metallica should definently be bought by metallica 
 fans and people who love challanges. Metallica proves Guitar Hero will be here for a while. - Crazybankai 
 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay let's get one thing straight. Guitar Hero: Metallica is the best Guitar Hero game ever. However 
 it has it's set of issues. But over all the game is good and If you like Guitar Hero or Rock Band 
 (or hell even Rock Revolution) . 
  
  Let's start off with the good points. 
  
  The Audio is all in order, the songs sound great and they don't have any syncing issues. The song 
 list is probably the best thing about this game. It's 1000x better than any other Guitar Hero line 
 up (SLAYER!!!) . However I'm not one of these guys who are gay for Metallica. Sure Metallica is 
 a okay band, and In my opinion they've never had a bad album. Which brings me to my next point, 
 I love the fact that Metallica didn't decide to put their official Metallica cock ring on this 
 game and only put their songs on this game. 
  
  The Graphics are amazing they're probably one of the best in game graphics I've seen in a while, 
 but they're is a problem with that. I have to see Lars Ulrich's constipated face... 
  
  Okay Now to the bad points.
  
  While the inclusion of other bands is awesome. They chose some 
 of the worst songs (or bands) possible. I mean really Blood And Thunder by Mastadon? Come on there 
 are like 1000 better songs by Mastadon. Okay it's good to see another Mastadon song on a video 
 game but still. Okay, the only other problem I have with the combination is they included a bunch 
 of bands that have already been in Guitar Hero or Rock Band.... and the same songs for that MATTER! 
 Like System of a Down, Motorhead, Queen. That brings me to my next point, really I understand Metallica 
 is trying to pay tribute to the orginal bands they covered, the only problem with that is that 
 their covers were better! Especially with Turn The Page.
  
  I also had a bit of a problem with the vocals. It seems if you play any song on Medium it's makes 
 you thing you're the best singer ever. Then you play on Hard and you have to struggle to match 
 pitches that James Hatfield couldn't even match (or at least without his voice cracking) , and you 
 can't even add your own sound to the vocals. Don't get me wrong, I'm not just saying this to make 
 you believe I'm a good singer. I just don't get a game that has some of the best Metal songs ever 
 and it won't let you growl.  : (
  
  Over all it's one of the best Guitar hero games ever made, some people will beg to differ, but 
 those are the people that listen to wuss metal/rock, like Aerosmith or AC/DC. But like I said I'm 
 not that big of a fan of Metallica. If they decide to ever make a GH game with REAL metal... A. K. A. 
 PANTERA. Give me a call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GR1MNIR
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I jumped on the Guitar Hero bandwagon a little later than most people since I never actually owned 
 a PS2. But since it's release on the Xbox 360, I have been entertained with the idea of "rocking" 
 out. I've been sold on the experience because it's a great game to play with your friends, or at 
 a get together. Rock Band obviously raised the bar in terms of gameplay with the addition of the 
 drums and microphone, but both now offer instrumental options. I tend to lean towards the RB franchise 
 now, but took the time to play Guitar Hero Aerosmith.... and was let down. It just didn't seem like 
 there was any heart in it. Pretty much a standard Guitar Hero game with fancy new characters. I 
 knew then, that if they were to do another game like that, that Metallica would be a great band 
 to focus on.
  
  My prayers were heard by the gods of metal, and I was totally stoked upon hearing about the game 
 so many months ago. I was wary, but kept tabs on the development of the game. Having now beaten 
 the "campaign", I can honestly say this is THE best Guitar Hero game to date. It definitely shows 
 the effort the company put into developing the game, as well as the effort that Metallica (One 
 of my favorite bands EVER) has put forth into this title. Starting from the fiery intro, to the 
 icy ending, I couldn't stop rocking out to all of my favorite Metallica songs. The addition of 
 the "Metalli-facts" feature, and all the various clips and unlockables makes this a complete package.
 
  
  This game definitely delivers on everything, as well as giving you a challenging ride through this 
 bands career. A must for any metal fan.... or for the casual gamer looking for a challenging rhythm 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, at least it's better than GH: Aerosmith... by a decent margin.
  
  Metallica is one of my five favorite bands, so this might be biased by a point or two. Can't complain 
 about the soundtrack then can I? This is the first GH game I can say I don't hate a single song. 
 However, there are some BIG omissions. No Exodus? No Black Sabbath? No Echobrain, No Joe Satriani? 
 No Blue Oyster Cult? And even some iconic Metallica songs are missing. (Four Horsemen, Blackened, 
 ... AJFA, Jump In The Fire, Ride The Lightning
  
  Neversoft and company took the GH: WT engine and improved upon it. Well, improved in SOME ways. 
 The HUD while playing is cleaner and better in a few ways. (Moved rock meter, etc...) But some 
 things don't change, like the incredibly BAD vocal engine. I've played through the guitar career 
 on Expert, so I'm mainly telling this from a guitarist's point of view. Ironically, the game is 
 too easy! Not the songs, persay (can only get about 18% through War Ensemble) , but the game itself. 
 Someone at Activision said "Hey, let's steal some stuff from the other guy, and have your star 
 progression mark progress!" All good, I guess, but I'm a decent guitarist, so I unlocked and beat 
 "Thing That Should Not Be"-the last song, in about a day and half. It only requires about...70-75 
 stars to complete the career? And there's a possible total of 290 or so? Geez, couldn't it have 
 at least been a hundred?
  
  And aside from achievements, there's not a lot of substance in the 'content'. Some small pictures, 
 a handful of low quality bootlegs, and some behind the scenes making of crap. No interview with 
 the band, no career retrospective, no awesome videos of them failing their own songs in game. The 
 Rock Star Creator is near pointless with a lack of clothing options and, hell, you only use them 
 for about 40% of the setlist.
  
  Hell, Cliff Burton and Jason Newsted aren't even shown and barely mentioned! I can see why you 
 might leave Dave and Ron out of a mention, but one of the classic members from their first album 
 and someone who was in the band more than ten years don't even get a photo in their crappy photo 
 album? I can see not having them PLAYABLE, but WHERE ARE THE CLIFF BURTON BASS SOLOS?!
  
  In the end, this game suffers the same issue GH: Aerosmith had; lack of replay value and content. 
 Even metalheads would be slightly disappointed at the lack of depth. 7.5 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SidV101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  All you need to know is that GH: Metallica is extremely fun (the note charts are laid out fantastically) , 
 there are loads of extra features, and that this game includes almost every Metallica song you 
 could possibly want to play.
  
  Beyond that the animations are above and beyond anything you've seen in a guitar hero game, the 
 game isn't impossible to beat (its actually kind of easy - you don't need to beat most of the hard 
 songs to beat the game) but manages to have some extreme challenges (I can pass Through the Fire 
 and Flames on expert but I fail Slayer's War Ensemble in seconds) .
  
  Finally, the Expert+ mode on drums is just as insane as you could hope for, and it'll take you 
 an obscene amount of time to get good enough to pass songs like Dyer's Eve and War Ensemble with 
 the double bass.
  
  High Points:
  -Beyond awesome setlist
  -Extremely fun and reasonable (ie not overcharted/overly hard) songs
  -Cool bonus features
 
  -Provides a challenge without being impossible
  -Great animations and graphics (for a guitar hero game anyway)
  -New additions (Expert+, drumover) 
 work well
  
  Low Points:
  -Throwaway "story"
  -Potentially too much metal for non-metalheads
  -Less songs than WT, but this is balanced by 
 the specialization (meaning you're getting songs that you actually want if your a fan of the genre, 
 as opposed to buying GH: WT and disliking 2/3rds of the setlist)
  -DLC not supported besides Death Magnetic
  
  Summary: 
  Buy GH: M if you're a metal fan. 
 Buy GH: M if you're a fan of the Guitar Hero series. This is the best addition to the franchise 
 so far. It was lovingly and thoughtfully put together and the results are solid. The only reason 
 you might not want to buy GH: M is if you are new and not a fan of metal.
  
  8.9 out of 10, it would be a 9 if they put the few remaining Metallica songs up as DLC (like Ride 
 the Lightning, Harvester of Sorrow, Four Horsemen, etc) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a total fan of GH; and I usually can 5 star 9/10 all the Expert songs (and Gold star a few) 
 from GH:2 to GH: WT. But GH: M is not for the feint of heart. That aside, GH: M is defintely the prettiest 
 version yet.
  
  Simply, I've resorted to playing half the songs on Hard just to complete the game. And let me say, 
 most of these songs don't translate well to any level other than Expert (which ironically makes 
 Hard a little harder than it should be) .
  
  There are quite a few WTF songs here too. Like the Queen version of Stone Cold Crazy. Seriously 
 the dumbest song of the bunch (though the Metallica version rocked) .
  
  However, for anyone else who was a Metallica fan as a kid, all the great tracks are here, Orion, 
 Master of Puppets, For Whom The Bell Tolls, King Nothing, No Leaf Clover, Wherever I May Roam, 
 Sanitarium, FADE TO BLACK !!, Seek & Destroy, Shortest Straw, and.... The Thing That Should Not 
 Be.
  
  However, of ALL the non-Metallica songs on here, personally, I think only Alice In Chains - No 
 Excuses is worth your time. Tuesday's Gone is kinda cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstclair1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this game and I cannot help but feel I paid too much. It seems like it should be the price 
 of an expansion pack; something the console world has not caught on to yet. You get about 45 songs 
 with the game plus the standout Metallica songs throughout history of the band, almost. The reason 
 I say almost is some the standout songs such as the four horseman and the justice for all album 
 are missing or just under represented. (I would bet that these were left out on purpose so Activision 
 can nickel and dime you for them) .
  The gameplay is the same as GH: World Tour so you can get online with your band. The guest bands 
 are a kind of a an odd bunch but I assume that Activision is going for variety. The bands range 
 from Lynyrd Skynyrd to a System of a Down. Also, might I add they these songs are MUCH easier to 
 play than any of the Metallica selections. I usually play fairly well on hard but I had to gear 
 down to medium just to get by some of the smoking guitar solos in most of the Metallica songs. 
 
  The career is refreshing because it does not force you to play every song in a set before moving 
 on the next venue. It's something I would like to see in the future from the next GH; you only 
 really have to play the songs you want to play in order to progress.
  All in all, I would not buy this game if I knew what I was getting in to beforehand. It seems like 
 too little for the price you pay and given the band's already diminished (greedy) reputation, I 
 can't help but feel like I fell for the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero Metallica is the second Guitar Hero game focused on a certain band. The game follows 
 an up and coming band looking to headline for Metallica. They play classic songs that inspired 
 Metallica to play the music they play, with bands such as Queen, Diamond Head, Mercyful Fate, and 
 Motorhead. It also features bands like System of a Down, Suicidal Tendencies, Slayer, Bob Seger, 
 and Lynyrd Skynyrd. Then, of course, there are the Metallica songs. There is at least one song 
 from each of their albums, including St. Anger (don't worry, the song is Frantic, so, not too bad) . 
 I am actually glad that there are songs from each album, that way, there is a variety of Metallica, 
 instead of just 80's Metallica, or something like that. Most of the Metallica songs are from the 
 Kill 'Em All - Black Album era, with a couple songs from the Load - St. Anger era here and there. 
 If you have the Death Magnetic download, then it is playable in GH Metallica. The avatars of James, 
 Lars, Kirk, and Robert are eerily life-like. They even act like they do in real life. Robert plays 
 his bass in his monkey stance, James constantly walks around stage, Lars is all over the drums, 
 and Kirk will melt your face with a solo like he would in a real Metallica concert. There are also 
 classic venues like The Meadowlands and the Damaged Justice Tour. An interesting addition is the 
 Song Extras. There, you can view the song lyrics, extra information, and Metallifacts, where you 
 can learn things about the song you hadn't knew previously. For example, the Metallica song, For 
 Whom the Bell Tolls was written out of James' love of Ernest Hemmingway books. So basically, Guitar 
 Hero Metallica is great for any Metallica fan. Since I am a huge Metallica fan, this review may 
 be a little biased, but you can see the game for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuyufan0701
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The simple fact that it's a Metallica game that isn't just Twisted Metal with a Metallica sticker 
 on it (there was such a game and it was awful, can't remember the exact title though) is more than 
 enough reason to buy it! It has one of the most demanded songs ever on it, Master of Puppets, and 
 the tabbing is almost exact. Even if you aren't a Metallica fan, or you're one of those idiots 
 that can't let go of the whole Napster thing, just play it because it's Guitar Hero there are over 
 20 other bands on there that are good, like System of a Down, Judas Priest, Mastodon, and Slayer. 
 It does have a great Metallica song selection on it though, its got newer songs like All Nightmare 
 Long, Broken Beat and Scarred, and Frantic, but it has oldies like Whiplash, Hit the Lights, One, 
 and as mentioned before Master of Puppets so it definitely has something for the old-school hardcore 
 fans like myself but also newer stuff for those just joining the Metallica bandwagon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  First off I love Metallica and this game does a good job with the list of songs given in the game... 
 That being said if u are new to the series try guitar hero 3 or world tour or rock band 1 or 2 
 because these songs are LONG... It is like 6-8 minutes per song and while I was playing u get tired 
 so quick... The online is alright, the song creating system is lame because u cannot do chords, 
 and the graphics are not really improved at all and still look cartoony with the video game crowd, 
 but at least the band models for metallica look alright... This is a metalheads dream, but I think 
 it needed more Slayer, and maybe some tracks from anthrax, megadeth, slayer, soad, ratm, qotsa, 
 alice in chains, the darkness, or something and some songs like lynard synard and thin lizzy feel 
 weak and do not fit... The co-op is fun, but really this game feels like an expansion pack and 
 is worth a rental, maybe a buy for a hardcore fan... and is alright..... though I must say that 
 the graphics, story, and gameplay are all the same so if u like guitar hero and want to pay 60 
 dollars for this expansion pack... whoopss I mean new game. then go ahead... This game should have 
 been downloadable content... their are better rock games out Rock Band 1 and 2 and better games 
 period (RE 5, Halo Wars, Star Ocean TLH, and TC End War, Fable 2, COD WAW) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:17 am PT
Review:  First off, I may be dating myself somewhat when I say that the first time I saw Metallica live 
 was on the "Justice" tour as an 8th grader. Metallica was my life then, and even though they've 
 taken their share of jabs for selling out, suing fans for downloading illegally, crappy drum production, 
 cutting their hair, and the miriads of other whining people have done over the years, I still call 
 myself a fan. That said....
  
  This game brought me back to my parent's basement in 1988, in my room, stereo cranking, guitar 
 in hand, trying play along with guitar tabs I bought with money I got from my first job as a little 
 league umpire. Metallica was the reason I picked up a guitar in the first place, and all these 
 years later, playing their songs and many other great metal tracks on my little plastic toy makes 
 me smile wider than I have over any other guitar hero game in recent memory. I tend to favor "the 
 other" major music game.
  
  Being able to play "Dyer's Eve" on the Expert setting is probably the closest I will ever come 
 to seeing it performed live. That alone is a freaking must play. The songs are charted well, the 
 visuals are awesome, and the setlist is great. The bands that lend their tracks to the game are 
 as varied as Mastodon to Lynyrd Skynyrd, Machine Head and The sword. Bar none, this is the most 
 metal game ever made, and is no less than a rental, even if Lars needs you to buy this game so 
 he can use your $60 as TP when he sits on his gold plated potty. What are you waiting for??? Go 
 get this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWFAttitudefan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so first off, I preordered this game about 3 weeks before it came out and was pulling my hair 
 out waiting for it and it's finally here! So here's the review:
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics are downright amazing! Lars, Kirk, Rob and Jamez all look like their real life counterparts 
 and their Motion capped movements add much realism to the game and the stages are downright beautiful 
 even including my favorite stage from the 'Broken Justice Tour' (I love the Metallica - Live ****: 
 Binge & Purge - Seattle 1989 DVD) including all the classic venues from almost every tour such 
 as: The Stone (Kill 'Em All days) , The Hammersmith Apollo (Master of Puppets Tour) , The Forum (Black 
 Album Tour) and more!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Gameplay is very nice plays just like World Tour and has the Expert+ mode, now I can't do Expert+ 
 because I only have the RB1 drums and I can't play above Medium Difficulty anyway, so...
  Now... The vocals are... Difficult... The little fireball is very... Jumpy... I will be singing in tune 
 and pitch and the ball will jump around like I was screaming gibberish, so... That's kind of annoying 
 but other than that very well done overall.
  
  Features: 10/10
  
  This game has a load of features including the ever-popular "Music Studio" and rock star creator, 
 with lots of customization. Now, The career mode is short and you must start it with the same 2 
 songs every time you do a new career... But you don't have to do every song to beat the career which 
 means you're not forced to play a song you hate to continue (Can't say the same for online though...)
 
  
  Setlist: 9/10
  
  This game's setlist includes some of Metallica's best songs and biggest hits (Master of Puppets 
 anyone?) however there are a few songs I felt shouldn't have been included and some that should 
 have such as Harvester of Sorrow and Ride The Lightning but the game includes a nice set of guest 
 acts songs like Stone Cold Crazy by Queen, Albatross by Corrosion of Conformity, War inside my 
 Head by Suicidal Tendencies (Rob Trujillio's old band) , War Machine by Slayer, Ace of Spades by 
 Motorhead (featuring LEMMY!) and a rerecording of Evil by Mercyful Fate (I never heard Mercyful 
 Fate till I played this and I love this song!)
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.5/10. If you are a die-hard Metal/Metallica fan or even just a casual 
 Metal/Metallica fan or even just a GH/RB fan, this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridethepiggy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  Overall Score: 6.5
  Guitar Hero: Metallica is not much more than an expansion to Guitar Hero: World Tour. I understand 
 capitalizing on the success of your first game, Neversoft, but you had the chance to make something 
 great and failed to accomplish this once again. Following their usual notoriety of endless sequels 
 with little to no updates, GH: Metallica falls short of what could have been and will soon become 
 what Metallica is to most of their fans now, has-beens. Hardcore Metallica fans and Guitar Hero 
 fans may be the only ones who can truly enjoy this title and I wouldn't recommend it to someone 
 who owns Guitar Hero: World Tour if they don't fall into that other criteria. Good thing is, most 
 people that own GH: WT also own or have owned the rest of the Guitar Hero series and probably Rock 
 Band. Might as well add to the collection! The game does have its improvements and the music is 
 great but with the shortened career mode, lack of online career, and pseudo-profaceoff mode there 
 isn't much that will bring you back to GH: M everyday.
  :note: check the youtube sidebar for a complete runthrough of GH: M's guitar solo tour in less than 
 3 hours. My gamertag is RidethePiggy if you'd like to play online with me.
  
  Presentation: 8.5
  Stunning introduction videos and cutscenes intermixed with the career set-list. 
 The boys in Metallica looks just as they should and you do have the option to unlock the 80's Metallica 
 (long hair and all) or Zombie Metallica for kicks. The character customization hasn't changed much 
 and you can still make ridiculous looking avatars and watch them jam it out on stage. Speaking 
 of jamming out, the game could use some improvement on the synchronization of the on-stage characters 
 and the music you're actually playing. Nothing is as awkward as watching your drummer continue 
 to bang the toms while you have a break in the song. Way to go Neversoft. Of course, this isn't 
 much a problem since that's just crap in the background but this is next-gen gaming and we want 
 to see what you can do about it. Watching Metallica walk to the stage as you start your first song 
 in career is pretty sweet and definitely gets you into the game but seeing the screen shake when 
 Lars and Hammett sync up for some heavy beats gets annoying after a while. I'm still not sure what 
 causes the whole shaking since it's different from the shake you get when you break your streak. 
 The "slider" sections on guitar have been much improved visually with an easy palette change from 
 purple to silver and combined with the ability to customize your avatar's fretboard or highway 
 to a solid black makes the game much easier on the eyes. Vocals have had a few tweaks, mainly to 
 give the vocalist the chance to full combo songs by changing the scoring element from per word 
 to per section like Rock Band. Aside from the few minor tweaks here and there the game hasn't changed 
 too much. Not a bad thing but other improvements could have been made (I really, really hate the 
 slider gems that have the black rings in them like a regular strummed note instead of having the 
 white ring like hammer-ons do) .
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Same game as Guitar Hero: World Tour with some new features and fixes. Drums had the most focus 
 and that trend will probably continue. Accented notes and the addition of true double bass with 
 the new difficulty Expert Plus have made their way in to challenge the best of the best expert 
 players. Most people were able to pick up a free pedal and splitter through Gamestop, Best Buy 
 or many other retailers that offer a pre-ordering system. Otherwise, I'd recommend 
  http://www. rockbandparts. com and grab their splitter they have according to your drum kit at home. 
 The engine is the same one used from GH: WT which is apparent the first second you start a song. 
 The hit windows are closed a bit more than GH3 but still open enough to let you play off-rhythm 
 and still carry a note streak. This is especially annoying on drums but allows for the not so great 
 players to pass easily through songs they would normally fail. Not a big issue but being a music-rhythm 
 title they should have tighten that up a bit. 
  
  Replayability: 7
  Fun for a while but you'll get sick of Metallica soon enough. Having a game full of one of rock's 
 most recognized bands sounds like the perfect idea but the lack of variety in the playlist tends 
 to become dull very quickly. Yes, you do see an assortment of other bands like Queen, Mastodon, 
 Alice in Chains and Motorhead (guess which song!? Seriously, do we need another music game with 
 Ace of Spades in it???) but no more than one song from any of those bands. So far, the only DLC 
 that will be compatible is the Death Magnetic album and there doesn't seem to be much promise for 
 future GH: WT DLC having the ability to switch over. Someone please correct me on this one. How 
 far into the ground can you drive your own game if you don't allow us to use DLC? Aside from solo 
 play, there's always work with the band and online multiplayer which is covered in the MP section 
 below. 
  
  Story: 4
  Weak sauce poured upon a metal-laden burrito. The general idea of these games has never changed 
 and we see the same story applied here. You're an upstart band that finds out Metallica is looking 
 for a new band to open their shows. Of course, you get the great option of customizing your logo 
 and band name and after hours of work on that perfect rendition of a giraffe eating pandas in a 
 field of bamboo shoots you come to find out that the storyline will not incorporate it. In fact, 
 I have yet to see my band logo show up anywhere. The cutscenes only show a band known as 'tallica 
 Jr. You might as well name your band 'tallica Jr. and pretend you're in the game. Eventually, you 
 play as Metallica themselves and lead themselves through their various venues until the career 
 is over (and that was when St. Anger was released, right?) .
  
  Multiplayer: 6
  Problems, problems, problems. There are multiple multiplayer modes: Pro-faceoff, Faceoff, Battle, 
 2vs2 guitars (as in guitar and bass) , and Band vs. Band. I'll start with the ones that aren't completely 
 jewed up first. Band vs. band, this mode is just like it sounds; where you pit your band against 
 another band which is great feature. You don't get to see the other band's note charts but you 
 see their scores updating in sync with what they're playing (for the most part in sync) until you 
 both finish the song. Good stuff but good luck getting a full band together and another one to 
 face off without people quitting on you. 2vs2 Guitars isn't too shabby but Neversoft missed the 
 ball on doing guitar/drums versus guitar/drums battle. Or even any 2 instruments versus another 
 2 of the same instruments battle. Seriously, what if I want to sit at home playing Voxtar and see 
 how many other people could beat me at that? Moving on to Battle mode where not much changed aside 
 from the names of the power-ups. Amp Overload turned into Ride the Lightning, Whammy Freeze is 
 now Trapped Under Ice, and the old Death Drain has been replaced with Fade to Black where your 
 opponent's note chart turns black. That reminds me of the ink on Mario Kart! The Metallica references 
 are cool but with the power-ups and the achievements being named after Metallica songs and events 
 starts to get overdone. Face-off hasn't changed much since Guitar Hero 1. You battle ala Dueling 
 Banjos style on whichever difficulty you please trading off riffs like Hammett and Hetfield used 
 to do on stage. Or double Lars, depending on your weapon of choice. Now, this is where the problem 
 arises. Pro-faceoff. Up until GH: WT Pro-faceoff has always been a contest between two players on 
 the same difficulty setting to match up their true skills on a song or songs. Why would you change 
 this!? Why, as an expert guitarist, am I facing medium plays on War Ensemble!? Not cool, this should 
 have been fixed here. It's bad enough to have the multitude of unsportsmanlike players who cannot 
 finish a song if their life depended on it but now you have given them another reason to drop out 
 early. Rarely do I play with my microphone on (since I tend to insult the other player incessantly 
 and I get enough people quitting on me already) and I don't want to have to ask every player I 
 face on Xbox Live if they're playing expert or not. No, there is no option to check either.
  
  The basic offline options are there as well. Head to head seems to be a side factor in these 
 games though. Quickplay as a band tends to be the main choice for everyone since many of us enjoy 
 playing with a small group of friends in the effort to complete GH: Metallica as a full band. Of 
 course, Neversoft missed a major opportunity here and forgot to give us online tours! How disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica1214
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  First if anyone thinks that just because my screen name is Metallica dosen't mean I am going to 
 give this a good score. I am a Metallica fan but was not a real big fan of Guitar Hero. This game 
 made me a Guitar Hero fan for its additive gamyplay. First they is a wide selection on songs from 
 Metallica to Thin Lizzy. The songs all for the most part play real good and all sound like they 
 have been remastered. The look of the game is also very well done. Metallica looks the way the 
 do in real life. There are alot of extras including videos and a gallery of band photos. Also making 
 a return is the studio which includes some new tones for guitar and bass. I do wish they do improve 
 the studio some and mak it more easy to understand. The career is a improvement from Guitar Hero 
 4 but it does not compare to the Rock Band career. In all the game is a really good buy for Metallica 
 fans or metal heads. So don't be afraid of dropping 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projimg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Metallica fan almost my whole life and to see songs like orion and the thing that 
 should not be show up on a video game is amazing. But to be able actually play these songs and 
 sing along with them, goosebumps!!! This brings a little flavor to the Guitar Hero series and also 
 opens up a grand stage for more bands to step up and rejuvinate their careers through gamer interest. 
 Great game and wonderful stage sets!!! The other 20 songs are decent and bring a little bit of 
 substance to the game, but this will never get boring for me because I love the old school stuff 
 and it really gets the blood flowing!!! I recommend younger fans who do not know the Metallica 
 of old , to really listen to this music because it is the foundation of todays major metal base 
 and is awesome guitar players material!! I have enjoyed the whole Guitar Hero series, but this 
 one is god like!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DChewnutz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game! Neversoft did a great job of mixing up songs that are easy on all instruments, 
 and ones that can be insanely difficult. The expert + mode on the drums is great, letting you play 
 the actual drum part to some of the best metal songs ever! The only reason I could not give this 
 game a 10, is the fact that there are some songs that I feel seem real out of place. Having "Flirtin 
 With Disaster", "Turn The Page", "No Excuses", etc... on this game doesn't seem to make sense. 
 I bought this game to be able to play only metal. If I wanted to play songs like this, I would 
 have played my GH/WT. Not that these aren't great songs, but they just don't fit in. But there 
 are only 4 or 5 songs like this, while the other 40+ songs rock. Overall, this has the best tracklist 
 of ALL music games. This is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cusoker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is freaking amazing if you are a Metallica fan. Honestly I have been waiting 
 a long time to play Master of Puppets, as well as a number of other songs on this game. 
  
  I had a hard time putting a score to this game. On one hand I love most of the songs. The ability 
 to "step" into the band and play the songs I love is awesome. However, there were some issues for 
 me to get past. Nothing huge, mind you, but issues that affected my game play.
  
  One of the biggest issues I have is with the vocal track. For what ever reason I have the hardest 
 time following that stupid ball down it's tunnel. Visually it gets lost in the background on many 
 occasions. Also it seems really jumpy to me. I have had times where I am on pitch, but change the 
 volume I am singing at and the ball jumps around like i have changed pitch. I don't know if that 
 is just me or if anyone else has had that problem. I am also disappointed with the "awesome," "strong," 
 etc. rankings of phrases. I like Rock Bands gauge. It lets me know how close I am to completing 
 the phrase perfectly. I am also not a huge fan of the vocal solos. It just doesn't seem to fit 
 well in this game.
  
  I think the guitar part is pretty good for the most part. I still hate though how on some tracks 
 you play two guitar parts switching between them. This has always annoyed me about the Guitar Hero 
 franchise. 
  
  I don't have much to say about the drums, because i only have the RB kit, and don't want to shell 
 out for a new kit just to play Guitar Hero. 
  
  Visually the character models are freakishly lifelike. And they interact well with each other. 
 Maybe i should qualify the above, the Metallica characters look and act freakishly alive. However 
 the same can't be said for the generic in game characters. 
  
  It is hard not to compare Guitar Hero and Rock Band. Personally, I feel that Rock Band presents 
 itself better than Guitar Hero. It just feels cleaner and more refined. I like the way the note 
 tracks are on a plain backdrop and the guitar solo sections. I always have not cared for the Guitar 
 Hero "artwork" under the note tracks. 
  
  Overall I love this game because its motherf***ing Metallica. But as a franchise Guitar Hero lags 
 behind in many areas compared to Rock Band. I would have loved to have seen this game released 
 under Rock Band. But it is under Guitar Hero. Also, to pay the full price for what i essentially 
 a track pack is a bit much in my opinion. If not for the little flaws that added up, this game, 
 in my opinion, would have been an 8-8.5. As it is, I gave it an 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltonwhite
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to start off by saying I have enjoyed all of the Guitar Hero and Rock Band games. Guitar 
 Hero just feel more refined and this is no exception. Metallica is just the right fit and they 
 have some great songs from other bands ie Bob Seager, Lynard Skynard, and Alice in Chains just 
 to mention a few. The game play is pretty standard for Guitar Hero where it truly adds to it are 
 the little extras. There are many videos of Live performances, the motion capture, metallica fans 
 and the game videos. The metallifacts option on all of the songs is an awesome addition as well. 
 Its a great game with a great band but the extras really push this over the top. Its one of the 
 few times they really had me interested. I hope that they add some of these features to future 
 games. This game is a must have for any Guitar Hero or Metallica fan. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basskill2000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:16 am PT
Review:  So I was at the store at 9:00 AM to pick my copy of the game, got home with it by 9:10. Popped 
 it in my xbox, watched all the fantastic videos for the intro. then kicked off the game right on 
 Expert Bass. right from the start it started heavy and hard, I enjoyed the camera motions during 
 gameplay, add a new aspect to the game rather then the Static camera in previous games. the character 
 skins were cleaned up more so from the last edition. I especially love the surrounding audience 
 on the circular stages. I keep going down the list of songs and unlocking more and more stuff, 
 BTW Zombie metallica is the best thing ever. I fully enjoyed playing as Zombie Rob as soon as he 
 was available. The original layout of tracks in Tier format worked out well, much better then the 
 previous game. the difficult gradually raised as the game progressed, and with that, it got more 
 fun. usually i get frustrated when this happens, but I was having more fun when they got harder. 
 So then I get the end and play the last song and then it opens up the DLC i had for the previous 
 one (DM only) now i have to go and finish those. Overall this game is awesome, I love the band 
 and the series. This will be one i go back to over and over again. Good Job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HHH2009
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Well were do i start. Guitar hero: Metallica is offically the best guitar hero game ever. They 
 brought out the best metal band of all time, and threw them in this game and made the graphics 
 just amazing. The music choice rocks, but they could some DLC for some other missing songs like 
 Unforgiven II, ... And justice for all, and some other songs too. but overall great game. They went 
 off Guitar hero: World Tour and compleaty kept going in the right way with the game GREAT JOB Neversoft. 
 This game is a defenite must buy for metallica fans and Guitar hero fans alike. I hope to see some 
 DLC like maybe a Death Magnetic stage, and more songs, but if not still and amazing game way better 
 than Aerosmith, and UBER better than any thing Rock Band could ever produce. I hope guitar hero 
 keeps going in the right path with these games. and maybe in the next game add some Avenged Sevenfold 
 to the mix again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius8041
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today and I have got to say, I really enjoy it. First off, I am a Metallica 
 fan who throughly enjoys playing their music on both Guitar Hero and real guitar. The songs that 
 were chosen fit the 5 colored buttons and strum bar well. One of the biggest things I enjoy is 
 the challenge. The songs available for this game provide a big challenge to veteran Guitar Hero 
 players such as myself. Guitar Hero: Aerosmith was also good, but not hard at all. After a playing 
 session with Guitar Hero: Metallica, my hands were genuinely tired and sore. Inherently, the Guitar 
 Hero game mechanics haven't changed at all. Some fine tuning was done and the new band battling 
 feature is new. One thing I have noticed with the game (and I don't know if it's my Xbox, which 
 might die soon, or my copy) is that some of the audio for the songs is a bit inconsistent in terms 
 of volume. Seek and Destroy plays loudly while songs like Wherever I May Roam or All Nightmare 
 Long were fairly hard to hear. Overall, if you enjoy Guitar Hero or Metallica or both, this makes 
 a nice addition to your game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charization
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I can understand why people hated World Tour that much, but this game just fixes *ALMOST* everything 
 that made WT fail. And no, this game is not as terrible as Aerosmith - this is, by far, the BEST 
 GH ever made.
  
  __GAMEPLAY__
  It's Guitar Hero, it's Metallica - how can you go wrong? There's nothing much to say if you've 
 already played a Guitar Hero game. The thing that stands out in this edition is the inclusion of 
 a double bass pedal. This makes the game INSANELY HARD! The bass lines are also very cool compared 
 to most songs - what can I say, Cliff, Jason and Rob are fantastic! Online's better than previous 
 games too, and the new battle mode is awesome with Metallica based attacks - I just wished there 
 was a Kirk Guitar Battle.
  I also think there's too many guest artists - I mean, I buy the game for METALLICA. If I want anything 
 else, I buy WT or something like that.
  Still, awesome gameplay. Oh, and Death Magnetic is compatible!
  
  9/10
  
  __GRAPHICS__
 
  This part of the review isn't even that important, since you look at the note highway most of 
 the time in this game. I just want to say that the animations of Metallica are AMAZING! They resemble 
 them very well and I think this alone is enough to make the score high.
  
  8/10
  
  Bah, I'll stop here. There's nothing else to say. It's a Guitar Hero game - I mean, come on. Get 
 this game, it lasts for a very long time. One of the most difficult games I've ever played.
  
  This is an awesome experience overall. Neversoft finally got the grip of GUITAR HERO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoda_ownzorz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  When World Tour came out, I loved the addition of all the instruments. However, it is hard to enjoy 
 playing those instruments when you are lacking songs that make them fun. World Tour had a lot of 
 great songs, but defiantly not songs for guitar hero. Beat it? One way or another? ON THE ROAD 
 AGAIN? Very few songs were enjoyable on drums or guitar. Guitar Hero: Metallica changes that by 
 offering 30+ Metallica songs that are all fun to play. I can't see ever getting bored of drumming 
 it up to Enter Sandman, All Nightmare Long, and Sad But True to name a few. So overall, this is 
 what the Guitar Hero franchise needed. Also, they really improved the music studio. As we all know, 
 the music studio for World Tour was terrible. Making songs was fun, but who wanted to make a song 
 that had guitar sounds that resembled 8-bit sounds? Now when you play the Neversoft premade songs, 
 they sounds like real songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Seriously, i am really getting tired of rythm games. I used to be a fanatic downloader of new songs 
 and Rock Band (1 and 2) used to be regular staples for me and my friends during the weekend. But 
 lately (and not only because our livers couldnt handle it anymore) those button mashing sessions 
 haven't just declined, but they have stopped completely. I never picked up GH World Tour and after 
 GH Aerosmith I could definetly see myself never touching a rythm game again.... then came GH Metallica.
 
  
  Ok, so I am an admitted 'tallica fan and have been since I was young. I figured ahead of time that 
 this review was either going to be fanboy "omigod omigod, its awesome, best thing ever!" Or it 
 was going to be seen as just another rythm games that I couldnt stomach playing again. Looking 
 at my 10/10 score your probably thinking it went the fanboy route.. but actually this game did 
 everything right (aside from just having awesome Metallica tunes) .
  
  Let's not talk about the tracks right quick. Fanservice is here in full. Live videos from concerts, 
 behind the scenes filming, song lyrics and details are all extremely awesome. Adding to the plethora 
 of fun is the Metallifacts section. After you beat a song you can sit back and watch it pop-up 
 video style with facts about the song and the band popping up... very cool. Expert+ for drumming 
 is crazy hard, but really fun. And the ability to drum for yourself over Lars beats is extremely 
 awesome. 
  
  Now let's talk about the tracks. First off, thank god the all the songs are available for quickplay 
 right off the bat. The first thing I did was play the "old faithful" combo of Bells and Black (right 
 on back to the binge & purge days) and it instantly got me out of my declining mood for rythm games, 
 but back into the mood to play some seriously great music.
  
  I also really dig the song choices for the game. Not only are most of the Metallica staples here 
 (though every fan is going to have some ideas on the perfect Metallica track list) but the additional 
 artists songs really add to the game. Not only do they fill up the track list with great songs, 
 but you can tell that some of the songs were added because of what they meant to the band. Tuesday's 
 Gone and Turn the Page (which were on the Garage Days revisited) combined with Am I Evil (which 
 many people think is a Metallica song) and The Black River (The Sword being Lar's new favorite 
 band) really give you the feel for what influenced Metallica to play the way the do now. Throw 
 in Motorhead, Mastodon, Thin Lizzy, Queen (STONE COLD CRAZY!) , etc.. and you get an amazing experience.
 
  
  The Good - The total experience. Not just a great rythm game, but awesome fanservice as well. The 
 pains that the development team took with this game are seen all over, from menus to characters 
 to mo-capture, its all just awesome.
  
  The Bad - I can definetly think of some tracks that should have been in the game (but then again 
 so could any Metallica fan) .
  
  The Ugly - I wish there was an option to turn-off pop-ups during game play. Maybe I am just ADD, 
 but if note streak and star power messages wouldnt pop-up I would be a lot happier.
  
  PS - Because of GH and RB I have been introduced to my 2 new favorite bands (Mastodon and The Sword) ... 
 and this game has them both! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankes77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  guitar hero world tour with better songs, improved multi-player, and everything else better too
 
  i bought this at the midnight release and me and my friends didn't stop playing till about 6 in 
 the morning
  the star system to advance through the career is a very good attempt, and it does work, but they 
 went way too easy
  they'd give you five songs and say you had to get six stars to advance, come on that's a joke. 
 even later on in the game you have a ton of songs to advance through but still only need 11 stars.
 
  though this is my only main problem with gh: m. it is super fun and the songs were all well chosen, 
 despite the lack of a few of metallica's more famous songs (rtl, blackened) , i still loved the game
 
  the only flaw they didn't fix in the game from world tour (which sucked wiener) was the crappy 
 user interface, god forbid a songs name is too long, you might haveta go right to the screen to 
 be able to read it because the print gets so small.
  however, the drummer finally looks like hes hitting the drums, they portrayed metallica very well, 
 despite making them look jacked, and the game is quite metal 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
